
                               1 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 12, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Medical Care Is Focus of Texas Dispute

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Aug. 11


With other states grappling with the issue of providing services to illegal
immigrants, the Texas attorney general is clashing with many of the state's
largest public hospitals over whether the hospitals are permitted to provide
illegal immigrants with free or discounted nonemergency services like prenatal
care.

For years, public hospitals and clinics in Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, El Paso
and other Texas cities have offered preventive medical care to illegal
immigrants. These hospitals usually do not ask patients if they are citizens but
require proof only that they live in the county.

Last month, though, the attorney general, John Cornyn, declared in a written
opinion that federal law prohibited hospitals from using tax dollars to provide
such nonemergency services. The decision infuriated many hospital officials, who
called it both a misinterpretation of the law and bad public health policy. In
particular, the officials said, blocking access to preventive care will only
push patients into already crowded emergency rooms, where care is far more
expensive.

"We think the attorney general's opinion is in error," said Dr. Ron Anderson,
president of the Parkland Health and Hospital System, the public hospital
district in Dallas. Of nonemergency care for illegal immigrants, Dr. Anderson
said, "Our rationale is that not only is it the right moral thing to do, but
it's prudent fiscal policy."

The most recent estimate is that as many as 700,000 illegal immigrants live in
Texas. Hospital districts do not maintain precise information about how many
illegal immigrants receive care or at what cost to local taxpayers, but
officials say they spend millions of dollars. The 29 largest public hospitals in
Texas provide about 70 percent of all charity care in the state.

Several states are approving a range of benefits for illegal immigrants, like
laws in North Carolina and Tennessee making it easier for such immigrants to
qualify for driver's licenses. But the trend toward expanding benefits has drawn
criticism from groups who say it rewards people who break immigration laws.

The Texas attorney general's opinion on medical service is nonbinding and does
not carry the weight of law, but it opens hospitals to legal challenges and
seems likely to become a major topic for the Texas Legislature when it convenes
in 2003. Some lawmakers had suggested a special session should be called to
consider the issue, but Gov. Rick Perry declined to call one.

The issue is already eliciting conflicting responses from public hospital
districts in Texas. In Dallas, Dr. Anderson said the public hospitals would
continue providing the services. But in Montgomery County, a suburb of Houston,
hospital officials this week voted to cut services to more than 400 illegal
immigrants. In Nueces County, which includes Corpus Christi, hospital
administrators are cutting services to 311 people.

Officials in San Antonio said they would continue the services, though the
public hospitals in Fort Worth stopped in 1997.

The biggest conflict is in Houston, where the Harris County district attorney,
Chuck Rosenthal, has begun an investigation to determine whether the hospital
district has violated state laws against the misapplication of public money. Mr.
Rosenthal, who called it "a very complex issue," said he opened the
investigation in response to requests from residents and at least one county
commissioner.

"I felt it was my obligation to look into it to see whether there has been a law
violated," Mr. Rosenthal said.

Rusty Hardin, the lawyer for the Harris County Hospital District, said a
criminal investigation was not the appropriate response to a legal debate over
access to health care.

"It's one thing to have this policy argument," Mr. Hardin said. "It's another to
have somebody come in here from left field and say it's a criminal matter."

Mr. Cornyn issued the opinion in response to a request in January by hospital
officials in Harris County for a legal assessment of changes in welfare laws,
passed by Congress in 1996, before setting a policy on care for illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Cornyn said that federal law required that illegal immigrants receive
emergency room care, immunizations and treatment of communicable diseases. But
he said the law prohibited all other care unless states enacted laws to provide
it. He said that the Texas Legislature had enacted no such law and that state
hospitals could lose millions of dollars in federal aid if they continued
offering the services.

But Mr. Cornyn's opinion is coming under legal attack from the hospitals. The
National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems contended that Texas
enacted a law in 1999 that met the federal requirement for continuing care.

Meanwhile, Mr. Hardin argues that the federal law merely states that illegal
immigrants are not entitled to such benefits, not that states or localities are
not permitted to provide them.

Dr. Kenneth L. Mattox, chief of staff at Ben Taub Hospital, Houston's leading
public hospital, said that eliminating preventive care for illegal immigrants
was bad medicine and bad economics.

A patient who might be treated for asthma during a routine examination at a
hospital clinic would not get such care if service was stopped, Dr. Mattox said.
But eventually, he said, that patient's condition would worsen and require a
visit to the emergency room, where federal law requires treatment.

"They come into the emergency room and they are supersick," Dr. Mattox said,
"and I have to put them in intensive care and the cost is 4 to 10 times as
much."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 24, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Sept. 17-23;
Trading in Human Lives

BYLINE: By Susan Sachs

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 135 words


Federal prosecutors accused Robert E. Porges, a Manhattan lawyer whose Chinatown
firm has represented thousands of Chinese immigrants seeking political asylum in
the United States, of participating in the smuggling of illegal immigrants into
the country from China.

The Porges firm, with roughly 40 lawyers and paralegals, was also accused of
helping smugglers, also known as snakeheads, to "abduct" illegal immigrants and
of falsifying the applications of some 6,000 asylum seekers, who paid the firm a
total of $12 million. Mr. Porges's wife, Sheery Lu Porges, is accused of helping
smugglers kidnap 17 Chinese immigrants since 1997.

Mr. and Mrs. Porges and five of their employees pleaded not guilty to all the
charges, including racketeering, conspiracy and immigration fraud.   Susan Sachs



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ambivalence Prevails in Immigration Policy

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26


The United States spends as much as $2 billion a year to build walls, post
24-hour patrols and crack down on illegal immigrants streaming across its
2,000-mile border with Mexico.

Once inside the border, however, illegal immigrants who evade the Border Patrol
and survive scorching deserts and treacherous mountains find a nation that is
increasingly willing to ignore laws that forbid hiring them and to embrace them
in homes and workplaces.

Labor-strapped employers risk steep fines and even jail to hire undocumented
workers. Some lawmakers who have voted to increase the Border Patrol scream in
protest if raids by the Immigration and Naturalization Service upset businesses
in their districts. More states are issuing driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants for public safety reasons and in recognition that the immigrants are
here to stay.

"There's a fundamental ambivalence in our nation over what to do about illegal
immigrants who are living in our communities and who have become contributing
members," said Joseph R. Greene, the immigration service's assistant
commissioner for investigations.

To be sure, illegal immigrants still confront tough laws aimed at deterring them
from coming here. On any day, the I.N.S. detains 20,000 immigrants in government
facilities or county jails, most awaiting deportation.

But even as President Bush called President Vicente Fox of Mexico on Friday and
expressed "deep sadness and condolences" over the deaths of 14 migrants in the
Arizona desert this week, the incident has highlighted the country's conflicting
stands on immigration.

On the one hand, Mr. Bush has tried to live up to his pro-immigrant campaign
position. He has urged Congress to extend a deadline for illegal immigrants to
apply for legal residency in the United States without first returning to their
home country. He has also agreed to allow thousands of Salvadorans living here
illegally to remain in the United States for up to 18 months to help El Salvador
recover from several devastating earthquakes.

Yet there is no consensus on solutions for stanching the flow of at least
300,000 immigrants who enter the country illegally or overstay legal visas every
year.

Advocates of a more restrictionist immigration policy argue that tough border
enforcement must be coupled with tougher interior enforcement.  "We're
essentially dangling jobs in front of these people, but they have to run the
gantlet to get them," said Mark S. Krikorian, executive director of the Center
for Immigration Studies in Washington, an independent, nonprofit research
organization.

But in a sign of the priorities of the I.N.S. and Congress, there are 9,400
Border Patrol agents, compared with the equivalent of 300 full-time I.N.S.
agents to enforce workplace laws.

Because of the political repercussions, Mr. Greene said, the I.N.S. has
virtually abandoned large raids on employers, except for those suspected of
collaborating with smugglers or displacing native-born workers.

There are some tangible signs that American society is more willing to treat
illegal immigrants as de facto community members than as criminals.

In a step that immigration experts say would have been inconceivable a few years
ago, Utah, North Carolina and Tennessee are issuing driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants. Several other states, including Texas, Illinois, California and
Minnesota, are considering such a move.

This serves a public safety purpose by training and testing immigrants who are
driving anyway. But it also grants to foreigners who are breaking the law just
by being here a valuable piece of identification they can use in many ways,
including applying for a job and cashing checks.

At the same time, immigrants have become a powerful force that politicians are
loath to anger. For the first time since the 1930's, one of every 10 Americans
is foreign born. Both political parties are aggressively wooing Hispanics, who
have drawn even with blacks as the nation's largest minority.

While in some polls Hispanics have expressed ambivalence toward illegal
immigration, they have punished candidates -- Republicans in particular -- for
anti-immigrant positions.

"All of this has been a part of a new discussion to have policies match reality
rather than bend reality to match policies," said Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant advocacy group.

In many respects, the conflicting impulses today are a backlash against the
anti-immigrant backlash of the mid-1990's championed by Gov. Pete Wilson of
California. Mr. Wilson, a Republican, was re-elected on the back of Proposition
187, which put tough restrictions on services for illegal immigrants and their
children. Though voters overwhelmingly supported the proposition, it was later
voided by the courts.

Since then, a booming economy has made immigrant labor a coveted commodity. Were
the nation's estimated six million to nine million illegal immigrants expelled
tomorrow, thousands of hotels, restaurants, poultry-processing plants,
landscaping companies and garment factories would very likely close.

Mr. Bush's election signified the ascension of the pro-immigrant wing of the
Republican Party, which still has powerful anti-immigrant critics.

And other powerful forces that once were critical of open immigration are
courting the new residents. After years of viewing immigrants as a threat,
competing for jobs and depressing wage levels, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. last year
called for amnesty for all illegal workers, seeing immigrants as potential union
members.

While most experts agree that greater prosperity in Mexico is the ultimate
solution to keeping its people home, Doris M. Meissner, the I.N.S. commissioner
under President Bill Clinton, said cross-border cooperation could ease the
problem.

"The border needs to be a place where the flows of people and goods are
regulated," Ms. Meissner said. "What the U.S. has been doing in recent years is
bringing some order out of the chaos."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fence separating Nogales, Ariz., right, from Nogales, Mexico,
does little to discourage illegal immigrants. (Monica Almeida/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 11, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pataki Courts Immigrants, but His Ally Is Seen as Their Foe

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 10


Four weeks ago, Gov. George E. Pataki was in Puerto Rico, surrounded by Hispanic
politicians from New York, sprinkling his remarks with Spanish, denouncing the
Navy's bombing tests on the island of Vieques.

This week, on a fund-raising trip in California, the governor was keeping
different company. The honorary co-chairman of a fund-raiser for him Tuesday was
Pete Wilson, the former governor of that state, most famously known for his
efforts in 1994 to cut off state-financed services to illegal immigrants.

Mr. Wilson's stance earned him the enmity of Hispanic voters, by far the largest
immigrant group in California, and it contributed to the Republicans' failure to
hold on to the governor's seat. But as a former two-term governor of the
nation's largest state, he can raise enormous sums of money for Governor Pataki,
a fellow Republican. Mr. Wilson's track record, however, also offers the
governor's opponents the chance to denounce him as guilty by association.

Governor Pataki, who is expected to run for a third term next year, has cast
himself as an inclusive Republican. He has attached himself to issues like the
Navy bombing on Vieques, and he has spoken out in favor of extending the
deadline for immigrants to legalize their status. (Mr. Pataki opposed
Proposition 187, the California measure denying public services to illegal
immigrants.)

Today, his opponents did not pass up the chance to pounce. Andrew M. Cuomo, a
Democratic rival for the governor's seat, called Governor Pataki "a political
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," courting Latino voters with one hand and accepting Mr.
Wilson's support with the other.

"He stands with one of the most anti-Latino officials in the nation," said Mr.
Cuomo, whose own California fund-raisers last month were sponsored by movie
industry executives like Norman Lear and Rob Reiner.

State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, another Democratic contender, happened to be
in California today for a fund-raiser given by Mayor Willie Brown of San
Francisco, and his campaign did not pass up the opportunity to criticize the
governor either.

"Once again, George Pataki demonstrates that his move to the political center is
nothing more than an attempt to woo gullible voters," Mr. McCall's campaign
spokesman, Shawn Thompson, said in a statement. "Having a fund-raiser hosted by
Pete Wilson shows George Pataki's true friends, his true colors and his true
right-wing philosophy."

The governor's spokesman, Michael McKeon, shot back, saying, "This is the kind
of mudslinging that won't stick, because the governor has a strong record at the
state and national level speaking out on behalf of immigrants."

Also this afternoon, the state Republican and Democratic leaders squared off as
though it were high campaign season. The chairwoman of the Democratic Party,
Judith Hope, called a reporter to say that she found it astonishing that
Governor Pataki chose Mr. Wilson to help in fund-raising. The Republican Party
chairman, Alexander F. Treadwell, faxed a statement linking Mr. Cuomo to his
father, the former governor Mario Cuomo, that said, "We know the devastation
Mario Cuomo did to New York's economy." Governor Pataki spent three days this
week in California -- a state that Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at
the University of Southern California, calls "the A.T.M. for American politics."
Back-to-back fund-raisers were held at private homes Tuesday night: a reception
costing $1,000 a person, and a dinner, $2,500 a plate. Mr. Wilson did not attend
the fund-raisers.

If there are political costs to Governor Pataki for cozying up to Mr. Wilson,
Ms. Jeffe said, it is probably too early to tell. "My guess is the closer you
guys get to the election," she said, "the less close Pataki will be to Pete
Wilson."


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 20, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

CHANGE STIRS HOPE FOR LEGAL STATUS AMONG IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE:  By JANE GROSS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words

DATELINE: MOUNT KISCO, N.Y., Feb. 18


An obscure change in immigration law passed in the waning days of the Clinton
administration could lead to legal status for as many as half-a-million illegal
immigrants, but it could also lead to disappointment for millions more who have
misinterpreted the change as a general amnesty.

The crucial part of the law temporarily reinstates a provision, in effect from
1994 to 1998, that allows illegal immigrants with certain family relationships
or with the backing of some employers to petition for legal status without
having to go to the American consulate in their home countries. That is
significant because most illegal immigrants are prohibited re-entry -- for
anywhere from 3 to 10 years -- if they leave the country, dissuading those who
might otherwise legalize their status.

The change in the law also establishes a four-month window for qualified
immigrants to file the extensive paperwork necessary for the petitions. The
challenge now facing those who meet the requirements of the change is finding
scrupulous legal advice and a willing sponsor by the April 30 deadline.

That task has been made much more difficult as the nation's illegal immigrants
-- 5 million to 6 million, according to Immigration and Naturalization Service
estimates -- hear of the legislation in the ethnic news media, misunderstand it
to be a general amnesty and then herd into hastily scheduled community meetings
to find out who qualifies and what they must do by the deadline. The confusion
is compounded by advertisements from lawyers and non-lawyers alike in the ethnic
press, from East New York to East Los Angeles. The ads, in boldface type, and
containing multiple exclamation marks, trumpet "Immigration Amnesty Alert!!" or
"This Could Be Your Last Chance!"

In its advisories, the I.N.S. also uses boldface, underscored type to emphasize
that the law -- clause 245(i), which was intended as a mere tweak in a huge
budget bill passed last December -- is "not amnesty for all persons unlawfully
in the United States," like the broad federal amnesty of 1986. Of the 700,000
people -- most of them Latinos -- who could move toward permanent residency and
citizenship under this law, I.N.S. officials estimate that anywhere from 200,000
to 500,000 of those will benefit from clause 245(i).

To clarify the law, and to protect immigrants from fly-by-night promises,
advocacy groups, legal service agencies and religious organizations have been
scrambling to organize informational seminars. A sampling of those who have run
these forums suggests crowds beyond anyone's expectations and expectations among
those attending that bear little relation to reality.

This northern Westchester town, a magnet for Latino day laborers, is one such
place. The other night at the Mount Kisco Elementary School, dozens of men in
denim jackets and dirty work boots dashed to the front of the lunchroom,
shouting questions and grasping for business cards from Philip E. Berns, an
immigration lawyer who had just spent two hours explaining the technicalities of
245(i).

A janitor had started mopping the floor and stacking the folding chairs, but the
immigrants were oblivious, nearly trampling Mr. Berns in the rush to ask
follow-up questions. "They come to me totally desesperado," Mr. Berns said,
slipping from one language to the other as he described the hopelessness of his
potential clients. "It is muy, muy dificil."

Mr. Berns said this was the 20th of his presentations in northern Westchester
and Connecticut at churches, technical schools, Head Start programs and even a
commercial bakery. His office telephone has been ringing nonstop, his secretary
is hoarse and his waiting room is full of people without appointments.

The forum for immigrants here in Mount Kisco, and another down the hall in
English for interested employers, were put together by Carla Rediker, a
bilingual social worker, who plans additional sessions in Ossining, Peeksill and
Brewster. Catholic Charities, in New York City, with six attorneys and nine
paralegals, is running seminars every Thursday at its headquarters on First
Avenue in Manhattan, and is sending the equivalent of circuit-riders elsewhere.
The New York Immigration Coalition, with help from the borough presidents, has
similar sessions scheduled in the Bronx and Queens.

Most everyone who has run a forum reports huge crowds and widespread
misinformation. At the Southside Community Mission in the Williamsburg section
of Brooklyn, for example, 1,000 people showed up at 9 a.m. for an 11:30 meeting
last month. At a subsequent meeting, Sister Peggy Walsh, who leads the
immigration project, set up 30 folding chairs, had to add 20 more and let the 25
latecomers stand. But of the 75 immigrants who came, Sister Walsh said, only 3
had qualifying family members.

Mario Russell, director of immigrant services at Catholic Charities, reports
similar ignorance of the law, which says legal permanent residents can petition
for spouses and unmarried children, for example, but not for parents or
siblings, as citizens can.

The Southside Mission, like virtually all nonprofit agencies in the region, is
handling only family petitions, which are generally cut-and-dried. Partly
because of the extensive involvement required of employers, labor
certifications, as the employment petitions are known, are complicated and often
ambiguous. Catholic Charities tried to take on employment cases, along with
family petitions, using one part-time labor lawyer. The available appointments
filled within days.

"At a time like this lack of legal services is thrown into high relief," said
Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigrant Coalition, who warns
immigrants to avoid "notarios" -- which means "lawyer" in Latin America but
notary here -- as well as the travel and real estate agents who often take on
multiple roles in Latino neighborhoods.

In New York City, with an estimated 500,000 illegal immigrants, there are only
30 immigration lawyers working at nonprofit agencies, Ms. McHugh said, adding
that the ratio is even worse in the suburbs. The nonprofit agencies charge $200
to $1,000 to process a petition, Ms. McHugh said. Private lawyers, surveys show,
charge about $2,000 for a family petition and $3,000 to $7,000 for a labor
certification.

Experts agree that clause 245(i) is a more promising tool for those with
qualifying relatives than it is for those with employers who may be reluctant to
tackle the onerous paperwork or take on the risk, however remote, of being
sanctioned by the I.N.S. or the Department of Labor for hiring illegal workers.

Just a birth certificate establishes a family connection to someone who is
generally enthusiastic about petitioning. But employment cases, for unskilled
and semiskilled laborers, are messy. There must be proof, via concerted
advertising, that there are no Americans available for the job.

The position must be full time and at the prevailing wage, which means union
scale in certain building trades, far more than what most illegal immigrants
command. Then the job much be matched to another job that is listed in a
two-volume Department of Labor compendium to determine its skill classification.
Skilled jobs, like computer programmers or auto mechanics, have more visa slots
and thus shorter waiting periods.

The documentation must come from the employer. A landscaper from Armonk, daunted
by the seminar here, said he had one employee, out of dozens, he would apply
for. Mr. Russell at Catholic Charities said the landscapers and construction
workers in the suburbs had the worst chance because most employers considered
them replaceable "commodities." The best chance, he said, would be a small
business, like a florist or a deli, where the worker and boss had a "committed
personal relationship."

Close ties brought several women with trusted household help to the employers'
seminar in Mount Kisco. They were told by Michael J. Boyle, a private lawyer who
does labor certifications, that the wait for a visa for a nanny was now 10 years
with the backlog of applications growing. A groan rose in the room.

But all is not lost, Mr. Boyle told the crowd. A family with sufficient
resources and a certain set of needs could label the job of nanny as cook, which
has virtually no waiting list. Or an employer might petition for a nanny and
meet the April 30 deadline, thus giving a valued employee the ability to
transfer the petition to a more favorable category, say spouse, if during the
years of waiting the employee married a legal resident.

Experts say it is possible to submit a family petition without legal help, but
not a labor certification. Mr. Boyle said there were rare employers willing to
pay the expenses, usually wealthy professional families living in affluent areas
like Westchester or Fairfield Counties, whose households might founder without
the hired help.

Upgrading a job is perfectly legal, assuming an employer can prove need and pay
the prevailing wage, an I.N.S. spokesman, Bill Strassberger, said. Also legal is
using an immediate petition as a place-holder. If the hypothetical nanny who
later married a legal resident had not filed before April 30, Mr. Strassberger
noted, she would have to go to a foreign country after her marriage to apply and
would be denied re-entry for 10 years. Thus the urgency to file a petition.

"My job is to make a way when there is no way," Mr. Berns said. "I can't imagine
a case that is absolutely, guaranteed a failure. Long-shot applications are very
different than bogus ones. Unless the economy goes sour and people are lined up
to cut lawns and burp babies."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip E. Berns, in tie, an immigration lawyer, was deluged with
questions about changes in the immigration law at a forum in Mount Kisco, N.Y.,
last week. Many people are confused about what the law entails. (George M.
Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York Politicians to Urge Immigrants to Use Legal Status Law

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23


Three New York politicians have prepared public service announcements to
encourage thousands of illegal immigrants in New York to use a little-known
provision in federal law intended to help them obtain legal status while in the
United States.

Representatives Jose E. Serrano, Nydia M. Velazquez and Senator Hillary Rodham
Clinton, all New York Democrats, appear in 30-second announcements that will be
broadcast on television and on radio starting as early as Monday.

Mrs. Clinton will appear in one with Ms. Velazquez and in one with Mr. Serrano.

The announcements are intended to focus attention on a bill that Congress
approved in December that temporarily revives a provision of immigration law
that had allowed large numbers of people to obtain green cards while residing in
the United States.

Since this provision of the law expired in 1998, some immigrants have been
forced to leave the country and return to their homelands while pursuing their
visa applications.

That provision, known as section 245(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
was reinstated for four months, giving immigrants until April 30 of this year to
apply. It is expected to affect as many as 640,000 illegal immigrants now in the
country, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The provision applies only to certain people residing in the United States who,
although eligible for an immigrant visa, are barred from changing their status
while they are in the United States.

The group includes the immigrant spouses and minor children of permanent
residents and the immigrant spouses of United States citizens already living
here.

To be eligible, illegal immigrants must have a sponsor file a visa petition or
an employer file a labor certification on their behalf.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 2, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Proposes Giving Immigrants More Time to Make Status Legal

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1


President Bush urged Congress today to extend an April 30 deadline on
legislation that allowed many illegal immigrants to apply for legal residency
without first having to return to their country of origin.

Mr. Bush said that about 200,000 immigrants who had been eligible to file to
adjust their status failed to do so in time. He blamed, in part, the
government's failure to issue instructions until late March on how the provision
would be carried out.

Tens of thousands of illegal foreigners poured into immigration centers and
lawyers' offices on Monday to take advantage of the provision -- Section 245(i)
-- in the final hours before the deadline. Many left confused or frustrated by
paperwork or their encounters with immigration officials.

The provision allows illegal immigrants to apply for residency while remaining
in the United States, provided they pay a $1,000 penalty. Normally, immigrants
are required to apply at American consulates in their home countries. But that
poses a risk: illegal immigrants to the United States may be barred from
returning for up to 10 years.

Immigration officials predicted that more than 600,000 immigrants would seek to
take advantage of the provision. Applicants are required to be sponsored by an
employer or a close family member.

In a letter to Congressional leaders, Mr. Bush said his request for an extension
would aid families that had been divided by immigration barriers or fear of
deportation.

"I encourage the Congress to consider whether there was adequate time for
persons eligible under Section 245(i) to apply for adjustment of status before
the filing deadline expired yesterday," Mr. Bush wrote.

"It remains in our national interest to legitimize those resident immigrants,
eligible for legal status, and to welcome them as full participants of our
society," he added.

The president did not say how long he would like the extension to be. One bill,
which is sponsored by the New York Representatives Peter T. King, a Republican,
and Eliot L. Engel, a Democrat, seeks a six-month extension.

"I'm really delighted that he's requested it," said Mr. Engel, who estimated
that 75 percent of the work in his district offices -- which include the Bronx
-- involves immigration.

"There are so many families separated, and I think we should do something to
reunite them," Mr. Engel said.

Mr. Bush said his action had grown out of talks with Mexican officials on
immigration matters to "ensure a more orderly, legal and humane migration flow
between our countries."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Race Against Clock to Get Through a Small Window of
Opportunity

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 921 words

DATELINE: DENVER, April 30


Some arrived as early as Saturday night, with sleeping bags, reclining chairs,
even dining room chairs to make the wait more bearable. By today, when the
immigration office here opened at 6 a.m., the crowd had swelled to several
thousand, and many more were on the way.

With a midnight deadline approaching, the scene was repeating at immigration
offices all around the country as illegal immigrants scrambled to take advantage
of a program that allows those with family or employer sponsors to apply for
legal status in the United States without leaving the country.

"They tried to line up on Saturday when they heard the lines were starting,"
said Michael Comfort, acting district director for the Denver Immigration and
Naturalization Service office. "I suppose we all do that when it comes to taxes
and other deadlines," he added.

Known as 245(i), the program was passed by Congress in December, creating a
four-month window in which immigrants would be spared the cost and anxieties of
returning to their home countries to fill out the paperwork. Immigration
officials estimated that more than 600,000 people might be eligible for the
program, even though waiting for their applications to be approved could take
years, during which they could still face deportation, as several people in Ohio
recently discovered.

Acting on information provided in applications, immigration agents in Cleveland
arrested seven people at their homes and initiated deportation. Officials in
Washington have since stepped in to prevent such actions, instructing all its
districts not to arrest illegal immigrants on the basis of their 245(i)
applications.

The program has been so widely applauded by human rights groups that some have
urged Congress to extend the deadline. Bishop Nicholas Di Marzio of Camden,
N.J., chairman of the national Roman Catholic bishops' committee on migration
said, "Without immediate Congressional action, many immigrant families in the
United States face unnecessary upheaval and possibly lengthy separations."

Congressional officials said tonight that the White House was expected to
support a bipartisan bill to extend the program by one year.

Supporting the measure would be another step for President Bush toward
fulfilling the pro-immigrant positions he articulated during the campaign. Mr.
Bush has pledged to work closely with Vicente Fox, the new president of Mexico,
to improve border safety and working conditions for Mexicans living in the
United States.

The crowds of people seeking the change in status today were especially thick in
cities with large numbers of illegal immigrants. Luisa Aquino, a spokeswoman for
the immigration service in Houston, said nearly 2,000 people had applied by
midday and by midnight the number was expected to have doubled. Immigration
officials in Los Angeles said 2,600 people were standing in line when the office
opened at 6 a.m.

In New York this morning, the police said the line stretched from the entrance
of the Federal Building, winded its way through six rows of metal barriers and
around a corner.

Elba Contreas, 51, sat on the building steps this afternoon with her brother,
Jaime de la Fuente, 55, who is from Chile. "We're going to be very happy when
this is all over," said Mrs. Contreas, who is a citizen.

Walter Diaz, 22, and his wife, Maria, beamed after they dropped off Mrs. Diaz's
application. "I feel like a weight has been lifted from my shoulders," Mrs.
Diaz, who is from Honduras, said as she kissed her husband, who is a citizen.

By 3 p.m. in Chicago, officials at the Chicago Loop district had accepted nearly
600 applications, and in Boston, where the immigration office typically handles
paperwork from 35 to 50 people a day, officials said they expected to process as
many as 700 by midnight.

"The staff is mentally and physically exhausted," said Steven J.

Farquharson, the Boston district director.

An immigration service spokesman in Washington, William Strassberger, said
several offices around the country had reported lines snaking for blocks around
buildings. In Montgomery County, Md., he said, couples were being married every
15 minutes at county courthouses to enable them to beat the midnight deadline.
Denver and other cities also reported a recent surge in marriage license
applications.

Many immigrants said they had waited so long because of the difficulties of
raising the minimum filing fee of $1,000.

"It's the money, that's what we've been waiting for," said Gladys Duran, 20, who
stood in line in Chicago with her husband of one year, Carlos, 29, a painter.

The same was true for Jose Melendez, 23, a native of Chihuahua, Mexico, who
works as a drywall specialist in Sterling, in northeast Colorado. He is the
father of two of his wife's five children.

"We didn't have no money," he said, as his wife of two years, Stephanie, 24,
waited in line.

Like other immigration offices, the one here had been dealing with crowds
swelling by the day. Last week, officials said, they had arranged for two
portable toilets to be stationed outside the building. Today, they added two
more. A food truck selling only tacos and burritos pulled up and quickly had its
own line.

Roxanne Calderon, a 30-year-old cashier at a Safeway supermarket, sat on a curb
with her husband, Juan, 24, a drywaller from Zacatecas, Mexico. He joined the
line for the paperwork at 9 p.m. Sunday; she joined him at 6 a.m. today.

"I want liberty, not to be hiding from deportation," he said in Spanish. "I want
to go to Mexico and come back without being deported."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants waited yesterday at the immigration service office in
Chicago to apply for legal status. (Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Files Suggest Profiling of Latinos Led to Immigration Raids

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1947 words


Before immigration agents raided Al's Deli on Seventh Avenue in Midtown
Manhattan four years ago, they considered several factors. One was an anonymous
tip alleging simply that 10 of the 20 or so workers were illegal Mexican
immigrants. Another was their own surreptitious observations about the
employees.

An agent who conducted a surveillance of the delicatessen, between 34th and 35th
Streets, reported that some workers appeared to be of South or Central American
descent. Some spoke Spanish, the agent noted, and others spoke English "with a
foreign accent."

That was enough to prompt a raid of the deli in search of illegal immigrants.

The raid was a modest law enforcement success for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's New York district, which covers New York City and Long
Island. It netted three illegal immigrants from Mexico and one from India from
among the dozen workers present.

But the operation also followed a familiar pattern in the New York district, one
that senior immigration officials say may have violated the federal agency's
guidelines for avoiding ethnic or racial profiling. In this and other cases,
agents appeared to rely almost exclusively on Latino appearance or foreign
accents -- common attributes in New York and other American cities -- to reach a
conclusion that workers could be illegal immigrants.

A review by The New York Times of 37 I.N.S. work site raids in the district
showed that agents frequently cited skin color, use of Spanish, foreign accents
and clothing "not typical of North America" as primary evidence that workers
were likely to be undocumented.

Agents are required to have specific facts in hand or a reasonable suspicion to
question someone's legal status, like nervousness when confronted with the
immigration agency or unfamiliarity with the surroundings. Appearance may be one
factor, but courts and the agency itself have said it is discriminatory to stop
and search a person based on foreign appearance alone.

The files reviewed represent 20 percent of the district's 187 work site cases
during a 30-month period from January 1997 through June 1999. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service itself selected the cases as a random sample and
provided them to Unite, the garment workers' union, as part of a settlement of a
lawsuit alleging selective enforcement. The union provided them to The Times.

All but a handful of the 37 raids did result in the arrests of illegal workers
and, unsurprisingly considering the criteria used, nearly everyone arrested
during that period was Latino. And while some investigations grew out of
detailed accusations by an informed tipster, in 30 of 37 cases a raid was
carried out after agents made observations as simplistic as those at Al's Deli.

"Obviously, mere nationality and mere ethnicity by themselves, unsupported by
other facts, are absolutely no basis for us to determine a person is illegally
in the United States," said Joseph Greene, the assistant I.N.S. commissioner for
investigations in Washington. "There's a whole body of jurisprudence that has
heightened everybody's sensitivity to that," he added.

As the nation has become more diverse, largely because of an influx of legal
immigrants from Latin America and Asia, the role that ethnic profiling may play
in the enforcement of immigration laws has become an issue of mounting concern
for advocates and the agency itself.

Nationality is clearly an element to be considered when looking for illegal
immigrants: all illegal immigrants, by definition, are foreigners. But simply
looking or sounding foreign, civil rights groups have argued, is not a
sufficient basis for suspicion in a country where illegal immigrants may not
differ in race, ethnicity or national origin from everyone else around them.

And as in other instances of profiling -- whether on the New Jersey Turnpike or
the streets of Harlem -- there are costs to the innocent people swept up. In the
New York raids and others like them, fully legal people are subjected to the
humiliation of proving their status, sometimes after being jailed.

That happened to Maria Espinoza, a worker from Ecuador who was arrested during
an immigration agency raid on the SPD Molding factory in Long Island City,
Queens, in September 1999. She told agents she was a legal permanent resident,
but was detained with other Latino workers and told she would be deported.

"At that moment, I did not carry my green card, but the people did not believe
me," Mrs. Espinoza recalled this week. "They handcuffed me and arrested me." A
computer check eventually confirmed her innocence, and she was released after
spending three hours in detention.

A number of legal challenges have been brought recently in several states,
including Arkansas and California, accusing the authorities of singling out
Latinos for questioning about their immigration status.

A federal judge in Ohio recently ruled that state highway patrol officers,
acting as de facto immigration agents, violated people's rights by routinely
pulling over Latino drivers to question their immigration status. In one
instance, legal migrant workers were stopped and had their green cards taken by
officers who said they were fraudulent.

Courts have generally given I.N.S. officers themselves greater latitude to stop
people for immigration checks, particularly near the border, but still set
constitutional limits. The Supreme Court has ruled, for example, that I.N.S.
agents working near the Mexican border may use their suspicion of someone's
Mexican ancestry as one of the grounds for stopping that person, although it
legally cannot be the only grounds.

In three more recent cases in California, federal judges said immigration agents
committed "egregious" violations of the Fourth Amendment when they stopped
individuals solely on the basis of their Latino appearance or foreign-sounding
name.

"There may or may not be an argument for using ethnicity or national origin as
one of the predicates for enforcement actions along the border," said Charles
Kawasaki, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino group in
Washington. "But you just can't make that case in the interior of the country,"
he added.

In its own rules, the immigration service specifically warns its agents not to
assume that illegal immigrants can be identified by foreign appearance, language
or ethnic characteristics.

"This is not science," said Mr. Greene, the agency enforcement chief. "It is
art."

Edward J. McElroy, the New York district director, would not talk about the
enforcement program. The district issued a statement saying that all of its work
site raids are based on a "reasonable suspicion" that an employer is violating
immigration laws.

Reasonable suspicion, the statement said, "can include the officer's training
and experience, information from reliable informants and other communications,
and or any other factors that in their totality would validate the
investigation."

The immigration service, however, arrested almost no one but Latinos during the
30-month period covered by the random sample. According to a summary released as
part of the settlement, Mexicans, Ecuadoreans and others from Central and South
America accounted for 96 percent of the 2,907 people arrested in the district's
187 work site raids. That is a far bigger proportion than Latinos represent in
either the city's illegal or legal population.

The preponderance of Latinos stands out even more sharply when the type of
company that was raided is taken into consideration. Most of the businesses were
garment factories, where employers' groups, unions and the immigration service
all say that about half the employees are Asian, some of them illegal.

Yet in two and a half years of enforcement actions, the New York district
arrested only two Chinese people during any of its work site raids.

While it is not surprising that immigration officers found illegal immigrants
from Latin America working in the kinds of low-wage businesses they raided, it
is not clear why they found Latinos almost exclusively.

"They are playing a numbers game," speculated Wing Lam, director of the Chinese
Staff and Workers Association, which represents many undocumented Chinese
workers. "It's easier to arrest a Latino and send him back than it is to send
someone all the way back to China."

The New York files provided by Unite afforded a highly unusual opportunity to
analyze the conduct of the local Immigration and Naturalization Service
district, which fights to keep its operations secret. The tip sheets,
investigative memos and other documents -- with the names of agents and
immigrants blacked out for privacy -- provide at least a written record of how
agents built their cases.

In many files there is no evidence that agents based their decision to raid a
particular business on anything other than nonspecific tips and their own
deductions drawn from the workers' ethnicity.

Liverpool Industries in Brooklyn, for instance, was raided in August 1997.
Documents in the file showed that the company caught the attention of the
immigration agency when it applied for permission to hire foreign workers to
take jobs as brake operators. During a surveillance, an agent noted seeing
several "Latin individuals" speaking Spanish and wrote in a report that "it was
determined that some of these individuals were most likely undocumented aliens."

Two of the 70 employees were arrested in a raid.

In another case, the district received an anonymous tip that 15 workers at a
Midtown garment factory called BNA Fashion were illegal immigrants from Mexico
and Korea. The agent who conducted a surveillance at the factory reported that
some employees were heard speaking Spanish.

"Many individuals," the agent also wrote, "had dark black hair, medium skin
color and wore clothing typical of Mexican and Ecuadorean descent."

The factory was raided. Seven of the 35 workers were arrested, 3 from Ecuador
and 4 from Mexico.

An agent checking a tip about undocumented workers at H.C. Contracting, a
Midtown garment factory, noted that Spanish music was playing on a radio and 40
to 50 of the 70 employees "appeared to be of Central or South American descent."
Those workers, the agent added, may support the allegation of illegal
immigrants.

"The I.N.S. seems to equate Latino physical and cultural characteristics with
illegality -- that is, with being an undocumented immigrant," said Michael J.
Wishnie, a director of the Immigration Law Clinic at the New York University Law
School.

The clinic represents two union members who are fighting deportation on the
grounds that they and other Latinos were improperly singled out for arrest
during the H.C. Contracting raid in 1998.

In a few instances, agents made similar observations but hesitated to draw the
same conclusions. Observing a Manhattan garment factory in 1997, an agent said
that about 35 workers appeared to be of Mexican or Central or South American
descent. "There was no way of determining," the agent wrote, "the legal status
of any individual at this time."

Over the past two years, with labor shortages affecting many industries, the
immigration service has largely abandoned workplace raids as a means of finding
illegal immigrants.

Nationally, the number of raids dropped by half last year. In New York, only 125
work site cases were completed last year compared with 263 the year before.
Arrests by the New York immigration district from raids also declined sharply,
from 1,400 in 1997 to 166 in 2000.

Enforcement efforts, immigration officials said, are now focused on better
sealing the border with Mexico, snaring immigrant smugglers and catching illegal
immigrants involved in organized crime.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Case files and memos of Immigration and Naturalization Service
agents in the New York district suggest that work site raids are often based on
language or appearance. (pg. B1); A file from a workplace surveillance by the
immigration agency's New York office. Over 30 months, Central and South
Americans accounted for 96 percent of the 2,907 people arrested in the
district's 187 work site raids. (pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Suffolk Official Sponsors Plan To Sue I.N.S. to Spur Action

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y., Aug. 24


Blaming undocumented Hispanic workers for rising crime rates in Farmingville, a
Suffolk County legislator wants to bring court action to compel the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to move against illegal immigrants in the county.

The measure, sponsored by Joseph Caracappa, a Republican from Selden, says that
enforcement of immigration laws would reduce the public safety threat that
undocumented people pose in areas like Farmingville, where Hispanic men
congregate daily near street corners awaiting job offers as day laborers.

But the Suffolk police commissioner, John C. Gallagher, said that there was no
evidence linking an increase in crimes and arrests in Farmingville to
undocumented workers. "What I can confirm is that there has been an increase in
reported crimes and arrests of individuals in the area who are citizens of other
countries," Mr. Gallagher said. "But the numbers do not justify calling it a
serious crime increase."

Mr. Caracappa's measure, which cites "a recent spate of alleged criminal acts by
undocumented or illegal aliens," lists 28 arrests in a one-year period ending in
July, ranging in seriousness from one on a rape charge to three for driving
without a license.

Mr. Caracappa did not answer telephone messages left at his legislative office
on Thursday. But he has asserted that police records show about 10,000 arrests
of foreign nationals in the county from January 1998 to July of this year. That
figure is about 10 percent of total arrests in the county during that period,
based on police statistics.

His proposal, which would direct the county attorney to sue the I.N.S. in
federal court, is set for a vote on Thursday. An opponent of the measure, Maxine
S. Postal, a Democratic legislator from Amityville, said she was afraid it could
pass. "There is a lot of hysteria and fear out there," she said.

Nadia Marin-Molina, a lawyer with the Workplace Project, a Hempstead group that
assists immigrant workers, said there was no evidence that undocumented people
"commit more crimes than other people on Long Island."

"This legislation seems to be an attempt to tell the I.N.S. to pick up people
based on their skin color, and the I.N.S. can't do that," she said.

Paul Sabatino, the counsel to the Suffolk County Legislature, said the county
could bring a suit against the I.N.S. in federal court "based upon the county's
constitutional obligation to exercise the police power to protect the safety of
its citizens."

"To the extent that you can show the county's ability to do that is being
undercut by a federal agency's failure to fulfill its obligations under federal
law," Mr. Sabatino said, "you have the ability to get a federal court to hold
that agency responsible."

Mark Thorn, an I.N.S. spokesman, said the agency policy was to withhold comment
on "proposed or passed legislation." But, he said, "I.N.S. agents cannot simply
approach a group of people and ask for their documentation without probable
cause."

Mr. Gallagher noted that determining whether a person was an illegal immigrant
was not part of an arrest.

An earlier county proposal to make it illegal for contractors to stop their
vehicles to solicit day laborers was defeated last year. The Town of Brookhaven,
which includes the Farmingville hamlet, has passed an ordinance limiting the
number of people who may occupy a residence. Ms. Marin-Molia said the ordinance
was aimed at Hispanic workers.

But in Farmingville and other Long Island communities where informal shape-ups
of Hispanic men are common, residents have complained about traffic hazards, a
decline in quality of life and housing values, and perceived increases in crime.

Barbara J. Olshansky, a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights in
Manhattan, said that the Suffolk measure was "an effort to intimidate people who
are seeking a better life here."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 8, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ship Search Unsuccessful

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 71 words

DATELINE: UNALASKA, Alaska, Sept. 7


Coast Guard and immigration officials ended a search of a ship's cargo today for
stowaways after failing to find the source of a mysterious pounding sound.

The Manoa was diverted to this mid-Aleutians port after crew members reported
the tapping on Sunday. No signs of any stowaways were found in searches of 17 of
the 1,556 cargo containers late Wednesday and today. Officials were at a loss to
explain the noise.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Law Firm Charged In Aiding Smugglers Of Chinese to U.S.

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words


Federal prosecutors yesterday accused one of the city's busiest immigration law
firms of working hand in hand with the smugglers who bring illegal immigrants
from China and then keep them as virtual indentured servants in the United
States until the price of their passage is repaid.

In a 44-count indictment filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the
government described the Manhattan law firm of Robert E. Porges as a
racketeering enterprise and accused Mr. Porges, his wife and six current and
former employees of receiving $1.2 million in fees from unnamed smugglers over
the last seven years.

Mary Jo White, the United States attorney, said that in return for that money,
the firm acted as an adviser to smugglers, even suggesting the best points of
entry into the country to avoid detection and arranging transportation to New
York City for immigrants who succeeded in sneaking into the country by land or
sea.

She also said some law firm employees, mainly under the direction of Mr.
Porges's wife, Sheery Lu Porges, helped the smugglers seize the illegal
immigrants upon arrival in the city and hold them as "hostages" until the
$40,000 to $50,000 they promised to pay for their passage was paid.

After a brief hearing yesterday after the grand jury indictment was unsealed,
Mr. Porges, 62, was released and given two weeks to post a $2 million bond on
behalf of himself and his wife. She was ordered to be held until the bond was
posted.

No pleas were entered at the hearing, and Mr. Porges did not speak to reporters.
He appeared pale and shaken.

Nicholas Kaiser, his lawyer, said, "We're confident that after a speedy trial,
Mr. Porges will be shown to have represented his clients honestly and ethically
for over 40 years."

Although the law firm and some of its employees are accused of having direct
contact with smugglers and of helping them "abduct" illegal immigrants, no one
is named in the indictment as a smuggler. While there have been many cases
around the country of lawyers being charged with defrauding immigrants and
racketeering charges have been brought against lawyers involved in drug
smuggling or organized crime, the charge that a law firm aided immigrant
smugglers is highly unusual.

Ms. White said that at least one person already charged and convicted of
immigrant smuggling in the last few years in the Manhattan district was
connected to the Porges firm.

But she refused to provide specifics or explain the genesis of the case. She
would not say whether any more people would be charged with actually smuggling,
abducting or holding immigrants hostage in connection with the case.

Many of the Chinese men and women who enter the United States illegally end up
in New York sweatshops and restaurants, where they work long hours in sometimes
dangerous conditions for years to pay back the smugglers -- often called
"snakeheads" -- who brought them from their homeland.

Failure to pay the snakehead or attempts to escape from a smuggler's control,
according to social service groups and academics who work with Chinese
immigrants, can bring retribution against family members back in China.

The central figure in the indictment was Mrs. Porges, 47. Prosecutors called her
the "chief of staff" of the operation and charged her with aiding snakeheads in
the kidnapping of 17 Chinese immigrants since 1997.

Her husband, however, who has represented Chinese immigrants in many of the
country's most high-profile asylum cases, was not accused of participating in
the seizure of immigrants who owed money to the smugglers.

"Mr. Porges worked as much as possible from behind the scenes," Ms. White said.
"Porges's wife allegedly functioned as the enterprise's chief of staff and
liaison to the Chinese community."

Others charged with membership in the racketeering operation are Rity Sulan
Peng, 26, a paralegal; Heidi He, 34, office manager; June Liu, 37, a translator;
Jin Wen Shan, 37, a member of the support staff; and a staff member identified
only as Michael, whose last name was not known by the prosecutors.

A separate indictment charging two former law firm employees with aiding in
immigrant smuggling named Ms. Peng and Jeffrey Tse, 45.

Mr. Porges, while charged with racketeering, is accused mainly of directing his
staff to concoct stories of past persecution on behalf of clients who were
seeking asylum to remain legally in the United States.

The Porges firm, which employed about 40 lawyers and paralegal workers, has
handled thousands of such cases over the years. Mr. Porges represented many of
the Chinese who survived the Golden Venture shipwreck off the Rockaway peninsula
in Queens in 1993 in their asylum applications, as well as some of those who
were caught off New Jersey in 1998 after their smugglers' boat ran aground.

He also represented several Chinese teenagers abducted from foster homes in
Seattle in 1995 and held for ransom in connection with an unpaid debt to a
snakehead.

The grand jury indictment against the Porgeses, and a separate indictment
charging two former employees of the firm with aiding illegal immigrants,
followed a 30-month investigation led by the immigration service.

The commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Doris Meissner,
described the indictment as a significant blow to what has become a
multibillion-dollar business of smuggling illegal immigrants. The accused
lawyers and legal assistants, she said, may be "Manhattan attorneys in
three-piece suits."

"But the people indicted today," she said, "are just as ruthless and
unscrupulous as the snakeheads with whom they collaborated for profit."

In addition to direct payments from unnamed smugglers, the Porges law firm was
charged with receiving about $12 million since 1993 from about 6,000 asylum
seekers whose applications, according to the indictment, contained false
information.

That number does not represent all the asylum cases the firm handled, officials
from the immigration service said, and not all of the Porges cases are suspect.

But the issue of how lawyers help and even coach an asylum-seeker, as Mr. Porges
is accused of doing, to make a case is a difficult one.

Most immigration lawyers, as well as many charitable and social service
agencies, also handle large caseloads of asylum applications from Chinese
immigrants and others.

Some said that illegal immigrants are often prepared by the smugglers, even
before they see a lawyer, to offer a false or too-pat story of persecution and
that they do not know their rights.

That makes them doubly vulnerable, said Jacqueline Baronian, chairwoman of the
New York chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, who added that
she did not know Mr. Porges or the details of the charges against him.

"One of the biggest problems with these people who abuse immigrants and take
advantage," she said, "is that unfortunately there are times when some of these
aliens have very, very valid asylum claims. They are frightened, they don't know
what to say, they may have been told to say one thing."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Porges leaving the courthouse after his arraignment.
(Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B11)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices to Hear Cases of Deportable Inmates With Nowhere to Be Deported To

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10


The Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether the government can keep a
deportable alien behind bars indefinitely for lack of a country willing to
accept him.

Urged by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to resolve a growing dispute
over its detention policy, the justices agreed to review two cases that
illustrate the scope of the problem in both its personal and legal dimensions.

In one, the federal appeals court in San Francisco ordered a 22-year-old
Cambodian man released after two years in the custody of the immigration
service. The court ruled that detention so much longer than the 90-day "removal"
period set by federal law was so unreasonable as to be unauthorized by the
statute. The United States has no repatriation agreement with Cambodia, and the
appeals court said the man, Kim Ho Ma, who had already served a two-year state
sentence for a gang-related killing, now faced the prospect of being kept in
immigration custody "perhaps for the remainder of his life."

The second case presents directly the constitutional question that the first
only alludes to: beyond the framework of immigration law, does indefinite
detention beyond the 90-day period violate the constitutional guarantee of due
process?

Since first ordering Kestutis Zadvydas deported in 1994 for a narcotics offense,
the immigration service has been unable to find a country willing to accept Mr.
Zadvydas, whose birth in 1948 in a displaced-persons' camp in United
States-occupied Germany evidently left him a citizen of nowhere. Germany does
not consider him a citizen, and so will not accept him. His parents, who brought
him to the United States in 1956 under a refugee resettlement program, were
Lithuanian, but Lithuania told the immigration service it did not consider Mr.
Zadvydas to be its responsibility. His wife is a citizen of the Dominican
Republic, which also has refused to take him.

Held in an immigration detention center in New Orleans for much of the last six
years, Mr. Zadvydas was briefly released in 1997 after the Federal District
Court in New Orleans granted his petition for a writ of habeas corpus on the
ground that "the probability of permanent confinement" was "an excessive means"
of accomplishing the law's otherwise valid purpose of protecting the community
from aliens with criminal records who are awaiting deportation.

But the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, also in New
Orleans, overturned that ruling in a 1999 decision that found his detention to
be both authorized by law and permissible under the Constitution. The appeals
court's decision noted that Congress had made immigration questions "largely
immune from judicial control" and that once an alien was deemed "excludable,"
the constitutional rights he had enjoyed as a legal resident were substantially
constricted.

The appeals court said that while Mr. Zadvydas "may in a sense be stateless," he
would not necessarily be confined forever because the immigration service would
review his case periodically and would continue through diplomatic channels to
find a country that would accept him.

His appeal, Zadvydas v. Underdown, No. 99-7791, argues that as someone who
entered the United States legally, he still has "due process rights including a
fundamental liberty interest in personal freedom under the Fifth Amendment."

In its appeal in the Ma case, Reno v. Ma, No. 00-38, the Clinton administration
is arguing that the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit ordering the Cambodian's release "cannot be reconciled" with Supreme
Court precedents requiring deference to the executive branch on immigration
matters. As a result of the decision, the administration said, hundreds of
similar cases have been filed within the nine states of the Ninth Circuit by
deportable aliens facing extended detention.

Under federal law, the immigration service is required to detain aliens whose
convictions for "aggravated felonies" have rendered them deportable. In June,
the immigration service announced new procedures for handling such cases when
deportation cannot be carried out within 90 days. A "post-order detention unit"
has been set up in Washington to centralize authority over such cases and to
review continued custody on an annual basis.

On an unusually busy day at the court, the justices added nine cases to their
docket for the new term, filling their argument calendar through February. These
are some of the others.

School Bible Club

The justices accepted a case on the perennial subject of religion in public
schools. The case is an appeal by a Christian missionary organization that
supports Good News Clubs across the country and seeks permission for the clubs
to hold meetings in public elementary schools immediately after the close of the
school day. The children who attend study biblical verses and learn religious
songs.

The Milford Central School District in upstate New York denied permission to a
local minister and his wife to hold meetings at an elementary school, although
the school was open to "social and civic meetings" by community groups that did
not have a religious purpose. The Good News Club sued, on the ground that the
rejection amounted to unconstitutional discrimination on the basis of religious
viewpoint.

The club lost both in Federal District Court in Binghamton and, by a 2-to-1
vote, in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in
Manhattan. The appeals court said the school district was not discriminating
between viewpoints but rather had decided to exclude the program based on its
content of "religious instruction and prayer." This was a permissible
"viewpoint-neutral" reason, the court said.

The Supreme Court agreed to hear the case, Good News Club v. Milford Central
School, No. 99-2036, because the federal appeals court in St. Louis had reached
the opposite conclusion in a similar case brought by another Good News Club
chapter. The case also poses an important question about the scope of a 1993
Supreme Court precedent that required a Long Island school district to open a
school auditorium to the showing of films with a religious viewpoint on issues
concerning family life. To reconcile the cases, the justices may have to explore
the sometimes fine line that separates distinctions on the basis of content from
those made on the basis of viewpoint.

Property Rights

The court accepted a property rights case that could lead it to revisit the
question of when a land-use regulation becomes so burdensome that it amounts to
a "taking" of private property that must be compensated by the taxpayers.

In this case, a developer of waterfront property in Westerly, R.I., was barred
from building 74 houses on an 18-acre salt marsh that had been designated a
protected area by state agencies beginning in the 1960's. The Rhode Island
Supreme Court rejected the argument by the developer, Anthony Palazzolo, that
the refusal amounted to a taking.

In his Supreme Court appeal, Palazzolo v. Rhode Island, No. 99-2047, the
developer takes issue with various aspects of the state court's ruling. Most
significantly, Mr. Palazzolo, who took title to the property in 1978, is arguing
that the fact that the limits predated his acquisition should not categorically
bar him from claiming that the restrictions on his desired use were a taking.

Prior Custody

The court agreed to resolve a longstanding dispute in the lower courts over
whether a state prison inmate whose sentence has been increased due to a prior
conviction can use a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to challenge the
validity of the earlier conviction. The habeas corpus statute is limited to
those who are "in custody," and inmates in this situation are no longer in
custody on the earlier conviction.

This case, Lackawanna County v. Cross, No. 99-1884, is an appeal by a
Pennsylvania district attorney from a ruling by the federal appeals court in
Philadelphia. The appeals court granted a writ of habeas corpus to an inmate, in
custody for a 1990 assault conviction, whose sentence had been increased by an
earlier conviction that he said was tainted by his lawyer's faulty performance.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 15, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

At Rally, Suffolk Residents Protest Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 516 words


Waving American flags and red, white and blue balloons, 200 Suffolk County
residents opposed to illegal immigrants and day laborers in their communities
held a boisterous town hall meeting in Centereach, N.Y., yesterday and called
for tougher enforcement of immigration laws.

"We can either roll over and play dead, or take our flag and walk with it," said
Margaret Bianculli, the president of the Sachem Quality of Life Organization,
which sponsored the gathering at Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 4927. "This is
not a drill to us. This is the real thing."

The featured speaker was Glenn Spencer the president of Voices of Citizens
Together, a California group that advocates immigration law changes, and the
host of a weekly radio show called "American Patrol Report." He drew noisy
applause as he described efforts in California to oppose illegal immigration
from Mexico.

He showed videotapes portraying the Immigration and Naturalization Service as
too tolerant of illegal immigrants and warned that the government was not
aggressive enough in patrolling borders. "The power elite have decided we have
to be folded into the world village, we have to sacrifice our sovereignty," he
declared. "You are in the biggest fight you will have to face."

The gathering came on the same day that more than 1,000 Latin American
immigrants marched across Manhattan and held a rally in front of the United
Nations building to demand more rights for immigrant workers and general amnesty
for illegal immigrants.

On eastern Long Island, the racially charged debate over illegal immigrants has
been under way for several years, as more than 1,000 immigrants, many of them
from Mexico and Central America, have arrived each summer and taken work as day
laborers on landscaping or construction jobs. Many wait on street corners in
Farmingville each morning to be hired by drive-by employers.

Some homeowners accuse the newcomers of littering, selling drugs and molesting
women. The immigrants, who say they take jobs that residents do not want,
complain of harassment, abuse and overcrowded living conditions. The debate has
been especially tense since the beating last month of two day laborers who were
lured to an abandoned factory and attacked. One man has been arrested and
another is being sought in that case.

The Suffolk County Human Rights Commission and other groups are sponsoring a
candlelight unity rally in Hauppauge today to urge officials to address the
problems day laborers face.

Many of those at yesterday's meeting in Centereach said they planned to attend
the rally as a counterpoint, and they displayed signs reading, "Illegal aliens
are criminals, not immigrants," and "Peaceful solutions through deportation."

Ms. Bianculli, the leader of the group sponsoring the rally, said detractors had
misrepresented her organization and followers as promoters of hate. "We are all
accused of being angry and putting out hate," she said. "How do you not be angry
at those who are interfering with your right to hold the government responsible
for their job to enforce the law?"


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenn Spencer, head of a California group that advocates changes
in immigration law, spoke yesterday at a rally against illegal immigration.
(Kevin Coughlin for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 2, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

POLICY TO PROTECT JAILED IMMIGRANTS IS ADOPTED BY U.S.

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1584 words


After scores of complaints and lawsuits concerning the physical and mental abuse
of immigrants detained in county jails and other detention centers, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has issued national standards for the
treatment of its detainees.

The new standards, covering everything from visiting policies to grievance
procedures, will be phased in this month at all detention centers administered
by the immigration service. They will be phased in over the next two years at
state and local jails that house immigration service detainees.

Doris Meissner, the immigration commissioner until she resigned in November,
said the standards would help ensure that all immigration service detainees
received consistent and fair treatment.

"Our continued goal is to provide safe, secure and humane conditions of
detention for all aliens in I.N.S. custody," Ms. Meissner said, "and these new
standards will help us achieve that."

But critics say the agency has fallen far short of that goal, especially in
county jails in states like Louisiana, Texas, New Jersey and Florida, where
detainees and their lawyers say inmates are beaten, solitary confinement is
imposed for trivial offenses, and water and food are often inadequate.

And advocates for immigrants, like Judy Rabinovitz, the senior staff lawyer for
the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants' Rights Project, say that
conditions may not improve even after the standards are in place because they do
not have the weight of law and could prove impossible to enforce.

The advocates also argue that the standards do not address important issues like
the frequent transfers of detainees without the notification of their lawyers.

"Advocates have been pushing for national regulations for a long time because of
the horrendous conditions in I.N.S. detention facilities," Ms. Rabinovitz said.
"The detention system is ad hoc. It has been plagued with problems ranging from
arbitrary and inconsistent release policies to abusive conditions of confinement
to obstacles to representation by counsel. All these problems are exacerbated by
the rapid expansion of the I.N.S. detention system."

The detainees in the jails are undocumented immigrants and those in deportation
proceedings awaiting resolution of their cases. There are about 20,000 such
detainees in jails and prisons, up from an average of 8,200 in 1997. The
sweeping immigration act of 1996 and legislation enacted after the bombing of
the World Trade Center have contributed to the increase in the number of
immigrants detained either for past criminal offenses or for entering the
country illegally.

The I.N.S. started to use local jails to house long-term detainees after Cubans
held in Oakdale, La., rioted in 1987, burning down much of the prison. They were
dispersed to local jails to be held indefinitely, since Cuba does not accept
deportees from the United States.

The old guidelines allowed these jails and detention centers to use their own
standards for the treatment of immigration service detainees, generally in
accordance with state regulators or recognized accrediting organizations like
the American Correctional Association.

The new immigration service standards focus more on the specific needs of
immigrants detained for civil removal proceedings. The standards provide more
time for visits by lawyers, access to groups of detainees for legal rights
presentations and access to specific legal materials. They also provide free
phone calls to pro bono legal services, consulates and the courts.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., director of media relations for the immigration
service, said the standards were not imposed because of "some major systemic
issues in our own facilities" but were part of a nationwide effort to "provide
standards and specific guidelines in all facilities."

Few detainees are able to bring lawsuits over miserable treatment, in part
because the majority do not have lawyers and in part because most are eventually
deported. But human rights groups like Human Rights Watch, the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center, the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, the
Catholic Legal Immigration Network and the A.C.L.U.'s Immigrants' Rights Project
have issued reports documenting hundreds of cases of abuse.

Detainees held in county jails in Louisiana, for example, have said in
affidavits and interviews that guards beat and verbally abused them. They said
they had no job-training or school programs. The detainees complained they were
fed a monotonous diet, usually consisting of lukewarm grits for breakfast, rice
and beans for lunch and sandwiches for dinner. They said they had no access to a
law library, crucial since the majority do not have lawyers and must handle
their own cases. Most say they sit locked in their cells at least 18 hours a
day.

Thirteen Asian detainees filed a suit last year against the Orleans Parish
Prison in New Orleans accusing guards of beating them during disciplinary
hearings. A suit filed this year by detainees at the Passaic County Jail in New
Jersey alleges a host of abuses, including overcrowding, lack of working showers
and toilets and inadequate medical care. Detainees at the San Pedro jail in Los
Angeles, filed a similar suit, which was recently settled out of court with the
immigration service.

In August, some two dozen detainees from the Hudson County Correctional Center
in Kearny, N.J., sent a letter to the immigration service saying they were held
in cells "where human waste was clearly visible over the floors and toilets."
They said they had not filed a lawsuit because they did not have legal
representation. They also said that they missed court deadlines, often ensuring
their deportation, because of frequent transfers, and that when they try to file
a grievance "the officers in charge refuse to sign and accept it."

Suits have also been filed from jails in Chicago and the immigration service
detention center in Elizabeth, N.J. Detainees in the agency's Krome Service
Processing Center near Miami have also filed suits. Accusations of sexual abuse
at Krome are being investigated by the Justice Department.

Maria Cardona, an immigration service spokeswoman, acknowledged that the agency
was aware of lawsuits alleging abusive conditions for detainees in county jails
and detention centers, and said the agency "does not in any way condone or
accept such treatment of detainees." Ms. Cardona said the new guidelines were
intended to provide more humane treatment to undocumented immigrants and improve
conditions at the detention centers.

The 36 standards set by the immigration service cover a broad range of issues,
including visiting rights, grievance procedures, marriage requests, mail,
religious services, medical care, access to a law library, funds and personal
property, recreation and food. The standards dip, at times, into exhaustive
detail. For example, No. 9 stipulates that sheets, pillow cases and towels
"shall be exchanged at least weekly."

For all the horror stories, no one is suggesting that the immigrant prisoners
are treated any worse than the native-born prisoners in the county jails. But
with the immigration service now using some 225 jails around the country to
house detainees, immigrants account for the fastest-growing segment of the
country's prison population.

"We receive constant complaints from people who have been arrested and detained
about issues such as verbal and physical abuse and the denial of medical care,"
said Mary Howell, a civil rights lawyer in New Orleans who has brought lawsuits
against the sheriff's office. "There are chronic problems and they are not
limited to the I.N.S. detainees."

Despite the complaints and suits, the immigration service has continued using
county jails, including the Orleans Parish Prison.

"O.P.P. is one of the few facilities in the Eastern region that has a steady
supply of bed space," said Karen G. Kraushaar, another immigration service
spokeswoman. The jail has space for 6,448 inmates and currently houses 213
immigration service detainees, said Mary Baldwin Kennedy, director of the
federal division of the Orleans Parish Criminal Sheriff's Office.

Louisiana also charges the immigration service one of the lowest rates in the
country -- $48 a day per detainee, compared with about $165 a day in New York
City, according to the agency. Yet even charging lower fees, the Orleans Parish
Prison still makes a profit on every detainee, since it budgets $19.65 per day
to house each prisoner.

Immigration officials said they had had repeated discussions with Louisiana
officials concerning jail conditions. They said the new standards would be in
effect by 2003 and would improve the way detainees in Louisiana were housed.

The immigration service deported some 180,000 people last year, and an
additional 72,000, threatened with deportation, chose not to contest the order
and left the country. The incarcerations and deportations are expected to
increase. President Clinton's request for the 2001 budget for the agency is $4.8
billion, an 11 percent increase over last year.

Advocates say that the failure to enact regulations, which, unlike standards,
would allow legal challenges for lack of compliance, also raises questions about
the seriousness of the agency's commitment.

"Most of these jails probably never met A.C.A. standards to begin with," Ms.
Rabinovitz said, "and it is unlikely they are going to meet these current I.N.S.
standards either, even though they have a few years to do so."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Immigrants in Custody"Average daily
population of immigrant detainees, awaiting resolution of their cases. Graph
shows 2000 figures as of September.(Source: Immigration and Naturalization
Service)(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 23, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Smugglers, Too, Can Need a Lawyer's Help

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 844 words


To people familiar with the multibillion-dollar trafficking of human lives and
dreams, the operation described by federal prosecutors in Wednesday's indictment
of a Manhattan immigration lawyer sounded all too commonplace.

The lawyer, Robert E. Porges, along with his wife and some employees, were
accused of aiding the "snakeheads," or smugglers, who illegally transport
Chinese men, women and children to the United States.

Describing the Porges law firm in Chinatown as a racketeering enterprise, the
government also charged that it was so intimately involved in trafficking that
it knew the names of illegal Chinese immigrants before their smuggling ships
dumped them off the American coast.

For those Chinese who made it ashore undetected, the prosecutors said, the firm
arranged plane tickets to New York City and then notified the smugglers so they
could be sure to find the immigrants and ultimately collect their fees.

Mr. Porges, 62, and others in his firm who are charged in the case have pleaded
not guilty.

Other immigration lawyers and advocates said they could not comment on the
specific allegations against the Porges law firm. But they agreed that the cruel
and sometimes deadly smuggling of humans was big business and that like any
multinational corporation, it employed a many-tentacled network of lawyers,
financial institutions and subcontractors to operate smoothly.

As in organized crime or drug trafficking, experts say, part of the overhead of
doing business as a smuggler of immigrants is having a friendly law firm on your
side.

That smugglers have relationships with specific law firms is apparent from the
instructions given would-be immigrants from Fujian Province in southeast China,
the source of most recent illegal immigration to the United States.

"When you're in Fuzhou, before you leave, you get a phone number and you're told
that if anything happens, call this number," said Peter Kwong, a professor of
Asian-American studies at Hunter College, referring to the Fujian provincial
capital. "And that number is the lawyer's number, the one that the smuggler has
a deal with."

In anticipation that some percentage of smuggled immigrants will get caught and
detained as they try to enter the country, the smugglers in China even offer a
discounted rate to their clients for any necessary legal representation.

The reason is that the right lawyer can help a smuggler protect his investment.

For some immigrants, the contract with the smuggler may end upon arrival in the
city when their relatives here pay the remaining debt. But others sign up on
credit, promising to repay the $40,000 to $50,000 price of passage after finding
work in the United States.

If they are arrested before they can sneak into a city and begin to work in the
underground economy, they represent a potential loss of profits for the smuggler
unless they get released on bail or are granted political asylum.

Under both options, the smuggling operation needs lawyers to keep an immigrant
in its grip.

"The critical point about the lawyer," Mr. Kwong said, "is that they help keep
control of a cargo that the smugglers don't want to be mishandled or lost in
passage."

When an immigrant-smuggling operation comes undone and the immigrants are
arrested, a lawyer can also file an application on their behalf for political
asylum. But legal aid lawyers dealing with asylum said that they were constantly
faced with situations in which a Chinese detainee is too frightened of reprisals
from the smugglers to deal with anyone but a specific law firm.

Matt Walth, director of asylum and immigration issues at the Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Service, said his organization ran into that situation
last year when it tried to provide lawyers to 89 illegal Chinese immigrants who
were being held in a prison in Ullin, Ill.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service had refused to release
the group on bail, arguing that the Chinese were at risk of being abducted by
agents of the smugglers who had transported them from Fujian Province and forced
them into indentured servitude.

The Lutheran group, which is based in Baltimore and provides free legal help to
immigrants, first talked to the detainees.

"None of them were signed up with lawyers at the time," Mr. Walth said. "Within
a week or so, when we started sending teams of attorneys out there, all of the
sudden we saw that there were attorneys signed up to represent these
individuals. So we asked the asylum-seekers and they finally said, 'We didn't
hire anybody and our families didn't hire anybody.' "

"That's kind of a microcosm of what happens," Mr. Walth added. "But we wanted to
give asylum-seekers an option to what we felt were the smugglers' attorneys."

Eventually, Mr. Walth's group and other volunteer lawyers took the asylum cases
of several dozen of the Chinese and arranged for many of them to be released to
secret shelters in hopes that the smugglers would not find them.

A few have been granted asylum; the rest are awaiting hearings.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Shelter Seeks to Place Asylum-Seeking Families in More Hospitable
Surroundings

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1023 words

DATELINE: LEESPORT, Pa., June 12


Just off a tree-lined country lane nestled among lush rolling hills, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is trying to put a kinder, gentler face
on a piece of its oft-maligned system of jails and detention centers that house
20,000 undocumented immigrants every day.

Responding to a growing number of families who are entering the United States
illegally, the immigration service has opened a new shelter in a converted
nursing home here exclusively for asylum-seeking families fleeing persecution
and death threats in their strife-torn native countries.

Until now, the immigration service has routinely put hundreds of illegal
immigrant families in hotel rooms, posting armed guards outside, or split up
families, segregating men, women and children in different detention centers
across the country.

The dormitory-style Family Shelter Care center here, 60 miles northwest of
Philadelphia, allows as many as 40 mothers, fathers and children from Albania to
Yugoslavia to stay together while their claims for asylum are processed. While
they wait, school-age children attend classes.  Their parents learn the ways of
the United States, from cashing a check to running a washing machine. Family
members receive medical and dental care, and three meals a day.

"In my country, it is a question of your race, of where you came from," a
32-year-old businessman from Rwanda said, lifting his pant leg and shirt to
reveal scars that he said were inflicted when he was tortured in jail in his
homeland.

"Here, it's good," he said in an interview in French, speaking on condition that
his name and family details would not be disclosed to protect relatives in
Rwanda. "There is justice here and security."

As a pilot program, the shelter has worked well enough since it started in March
that officials plan to open others for all types of illegal immigrant families
in Texas and the Chicago area, and perhaps the West Coast, in the coming months.

The shelter stands out in a detention system that has gained notoriety from
scores of complaints and lawsuits alleging physical and mental abuse of
immigrants detained in 300 county jails and other detention centers nationwide.
The immigration service finally issued national standards for the treatment of
its detainees earlier this year.

At the one-story brick building here, there are no bars on windows.  Most doors
are unlocked. "Residents," as immigration officials call the immigrants, wear
photo identification cards around their necks, but no uniforms.

But the hospitality goes only so far.  Asylum-seekers are closely supervised and
are not allowed to leave the center without an escort.

And there have been growing pains with staff members who have training in law
enforcement, not family dynamics, and who speak few, if any, foreign languages.
Advocates for immigrants say, for example, that shelter officials are sometimes
reluctant to use a $160-an-hour interpreter-by-phone service to resolve
miscommunications.

The culture clash has led to some tense moments, the advocates say.  Shortly
after the center opened, a Lebanese woman went on a two-day hunger strike to
protest what she said was the staff's insensitivity to Muslims, said Charu
Newhouse al-Sahli, who was a program coordinator with the Detention Resource
Project, an advocacy organization in Philadelphia that assists asylum-seekers
here. Immigration service officials said they had no reports of any protest.

"When you have individuals in custody, issues will arise over and over again,"
said John J. Pogash, the agency's national juvenile coordinator. "But the
overall high rating of the program is tied to how quickly those issues are
overcome."

The agency has contracted with Berks County, Pa., which operates another shelter
for unaccompanied immigrant children in the same building, to run the family
shelter. It costs the federal government $168.48 a resident per day.

As of early June, the shelter had housed a total of 105 people, roughly half
children and half adults, with slightly more women than men. The families are
screened to ensure smugglers posing as loving couples with kids are not sent
here.

About 5,000 people taken in immigration service custody each year seek asylum.
The asylum seekers chosen for the family shelter were screened at the airport
where they entered the United States, and sent here if space was available.

The families' cultural diversity and range of sophistication have challenged
shelter officials. Asylum seekers have come from a dozen countries, from
affluent professionals from Colombia with cellular phones to uneducated
immigrants from other countries who had never used a flush toilet.

Most families are here for only two to three weeks. So far all the immigrants
here have persuaded asylum officers they have a "credible fear" they will be
persecuted or worse if they return home, and have been released to sponsors in
the community pending formal asylum hearings.

Residents' lives revolve around a 110-foot-long corridor decorated with hanging
plants and posters. Small group bedrooms and communal bathrooms -- one for men,
another for women -- flank the hallway.  Sleeping quarters are separated by sex
-- men and women and children older than 7, usually four to a room. Children
under 7 may sleep in one of their parent's rooms. At night, state law requires
shelter workers to check on all residents every 15 minutes.

In recreation rooms along the corridor, art supplies, chess boards, computers, a
pool table and stacks of toys await the children. But during a three-hour visit,
most of the younger children not in class joined virtually all of the adults on
couches watching television.

The immigrants' days are tightly structured: Up at 7 a.m., breakfast at 7:45,
classes for schoolchildren and adults. Then lunch at 1, an hour of outdoor
activity, and dinner at 5:15. Children must be in bed with lights out at 9:30;
adults at 11 p.m.

Children have aerobics classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and take an occasional
field trip to amusement parks and museums in Philadelphia, officials said.
Outdoor volleyball and basketball courts are under construction.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Pennsylvania highlighting Leesport. Chart: "New Shelter for
Asylum Seekers"The Immigration and Naturalization Service has opened a new
center for families seeking asylum. A look at one wing of the building. Diagram
of a wing of the new building for families seeking asylum. (Source: Immigration
and Naturalization Service)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
12 People Are Charged With Smuggling Aliens

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 112 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 24


Twelve people have been indicted on charges of smuggling more than 200 South
Koreans and Chinese into the United States via Canada.

Seven people from Canada and five from the United States were charged with
conspiracy to smuggle aliens and related offenses, the authorities said on
Friday.

The authorities said they believed that the smugglers took the immigrants across
the border in vans or small boats. Sometimes as many as 27 immigrants stayed at
a suburban Detroit apartment, United States Attorney Saul Green said.

The crimes carry up to 10 years in prison and fines of $250,000.

Unlike the United States, Canada does not require visas for South Korean
visitors.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2001 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Devastating Picture Of Immigrants Dead In Arizona Desert

BYLINE:   By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

DATELINE: WELLTON, Ariz., May 24


Local and federal officials painted a devastating picture today of a smuggling
operation that killed at least 14 young Mexican immigrants in Arizona, saying a
"coyote" had apparently abandoned more than two dozen men in one of the
country's most brutal and desolate stretches of desert on Saturday with little
water and no preparation.

A dozen who survived the ordeal, in 115-degree temperatures, were in a hospital
in Yuma today. One of them, a 16-year-old, was in critical condition.

Though dozens die every year trying to cross illegally into Arizona from Mexico,
this was the area's worst single incident in memory. In 1980, 13 illegally
immigrating Salvadorans died in Arizona.

Border officials said today that in years of patrolling this region they had
rarely found immigrants in such desolate surroundings, many of them more than 30
miles from any road or structure at a time when the heat had shot up. Every
year, more than 100,000 immigrants are caught crossing the border illegally near
Yuma but usually on better marked and less dangerous routes.

Some relief groups organized by churches have set up water stands at popular
crossing points, jugs of water marked by blue flags, but none were near the
place where the latest deaths occurred, Border Patrol officials said.

"It was dirt, some rock, just a few small trees," said Sheriff Ralph E. Ogden of
Yuma County, who added that the temperatures on the desert floor had risen to
close to 130 degrees.

"They did not appear to have any water when we found them," Sheriff Ogden said.
"Some had torn off some of their clothing. The bodies we found were already
decomposing."

The dead were found in clusters miles apart. The group had apparently split up
after traveling about 30 miles north from a Mexican truck stop just across the
border. This morning two more immigrants were found, one dead and the other
barely alive. Border Patrol officials said agents were tracking what they
thought was one more person heading east -- perhaps one of the coyotes, or
smugglers, or a guide.

Mexican consular officials said at a news conference in Yuma today that the
Mexican police were questioning a suspected smuggler in Mexico but had made no
arrests. The Mexican authorities said they thought other men had been involved
and were searching for them.

All of the latest victims were male, apparently between the ages of 16 and 35.
All were from Mexico, the officials said, and at least some had come from the
state of Veracruz.

They were found spread across an area that included the Barry M. Goldwater Air
Force Range and the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, southeast of Yuma.
Border Patrol officials said that they had not had a chance to question all the
survivors but that typically they would have paid their smugglers more than
$1,000 each. In this case they appeared to have been led to a remote stretch of
the fence separating the two countries and then told to head north to Interstate
8. The highway is about 70 miles from the border.

Twenty-six people died in the border sector near Yuma in the fiscal year that
ended Sept. 30, and four more died in the region before this incident, said
Maurice Moore, a Border Patrol spokesman.

The officials said this smuggling operation could not have produced any other
result.

"There's not much around there except the sand and bushes with thorns on them,"
said Glen Payne, the agent in charge of the Border Patrol office here, which
found the first of the dead and dying men during a routine patrol yesterday
morning. "There's nothing for like 30 miles in any direction."

The initial sighting was about 10 a.m. Wednesday, about 30 miles north of the
border. Four men were found badly dehydrated, and they told agents that 22
others were behind them. Just before 1 p.m., 17 people were found just to the
south by a Marine helicopter crew, which airlifted them to a hospital. Ten were
already dead, and one more died before the helicopter landed.

At 1:45 p.m. two more bodies were found about 11 miles farther south. Then, at
5.a.m. today, two more men were discovered, about four miles south of the first
sighting. One had already died. The other, the 16-year-old, was near death but
made it to a hospital, where he was in intensive care. Doctors at the hospital
said that even the healthiest of the men would probably be in the hospital at
least a week and that they all might suffer permanent kidney damage.

Many people involved in trying to ease the tough conditions at the border said
today that they were outraged at the loss of life, with some arguing that
federal policies to stanch the flow of illegal immigrants near urban areas, a
Clinton administration policy, Operation Gatekeeper, had led to such deaths by
pushing the illegal border crossers to more and more remote areas.

"We knew this was coming," said Isabel Garcia, a lawyer in Tucson and a
co-founder of the Arizona Border Rights Project, an umbrella group of 60
organizations that assists immigrants. "We've been forewarning, lobbying,
begging, cajoling, protesting, shouting, praying. We've done everything to bring
attention to this very deadly law enforcement strategy that has been used by the
border patrol of driving people into the most remote areas, where they have to
know this will occur."

Jay Michaels, a ranch manager in southeastern Arizona, said that people in his
region were shocked by the news and that he was putting water and relief
supplies at remote spots on his ranch for any immigrants who might be wandering
across the land.

"What you hear people around here saying is that these are not illegal
immigrants, they're humans, and we have to treat them that way," he said.

Johnny Williams, regional director for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said rescuers had searched an area the size of Delaware. "If you
haven't been to that area and you want to know what isolation is, go to this
corner of the desert," Mr. Williams said.

Over all, deaths along the United States-Mexican border have increased about
fivefold since the operation began in 1995. Last year, the deadliest on record,
more than 400 people died crossing the border with Mexico, and so far this year
there has been about one death a day.

"Today's headline in the Tucson paper said, 'Desert Kills 12,' " said the Rev.
Bob Carney, pastor of St. Luke's Roman Catholic Church in Douglas, Ariz., which
provides sanctuary to illegal immigrants and places water at remote paths used
by immigrants. "I believe that it is our policy that killed them, and that this
is a failed policy."

Mr. Williams rejected that assertion and said federal officials were doing
everything possible both to protect the border and protect the illegal
immigrants, particularly from ruthless smugglers.

"What is the common ground is smugglers," Mr. Williams said.

"It's one of the most horrible deaths that can occur for a human being," he
added. "It's a grisly, terrible, terrible death."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2001



CORRECTION: A map yesterday with a front-page article about the deaths of 14
illegal immigrants in the southwest Arizona desert misstated the location of two
bodies in some copies. A corrected map appears today, on Page A10.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Haynes of the United States Border Patrol's station in
Yuma, Ariz., showed where two dozen Mexican immigrants were abandoned.
(Associated Press)(pg. A16) Chart: "Death in the Desert"Fourteen illegal
immigrants died in the desert of southwest Arizona this week. As the Border
Patrol has increased its presence in urban areas, more immigrants have tried to
cross through the desert and died from dehydration and exposure. DAILY HIGH
TEMPERATURETacna, Ariz. Saturday: 98<0>FSunday: 101Monday: 104Tuesday:
110Wednesday: 112 Map of Arizona highlighting areas where bodies were
discovered. At least 28 people crossed the border between Mexico and United
States. Chart: "CAUSES OF DEATH" Chart tracks homicide, heat or cold, and
auto-pedestrian as causes of deaths for immigrants from 1986 to 1998 (Sources:
U.S. Border Patrol; National Weather Service; The University of Houston's Center
for Immigration Research)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Survivor Is Arrested In Smuggling Of Migrants

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 29


The Border Patrol has arrested one of the survivors of a botched smuggling
effort that left 14 Mexican immigrants dead in the Arizona desert last week,
charging that he was one of several "coyotes," or organizers of the illegal
crossing.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced today that the suspect,
Jesus Lopez-Ramos, 20, was arrested on Monday as he was being released from a
hospital in Yuma, Ariz., where he and the 11 other survivors were taken after
their rescue from a furnace-like stretch of desert about 30 miles north of the
border.

The 26 migrants who tried to make the crossing, all men, were discovered by
Border Patrol agents last Wednesday and Thursday in what they described as
particularly brutal conditions southeast of Yuma in the Cabeza Prieta National
Wildlife Refuge. The temperature had risen to as high as 115 degrees in a bleak
region where there is virtually no shade or water.

Mr. Lopez has made two appearances before a federal magistrate, one on Monday
and one today and is expected to be arraigned in a federal court in Phoenix this
week, said Maurice Moore, a Border Patrol spokesman in Yuma.

The law under which he was charged, bringing illegal immigrants into the country
or harboring them, was amended in 1996 in response to a number of other border
crossings that resulted in death, and it now carries a possible death penalty.

When the survivors were rescued last week, federal officials specifically said
that they would consider seeking the death penalty if they caught those
responsible.

Officials also made clear today that more arrests were expected, although they
would not say whether they would take place in Mexico or the United States.

"There are going to be others arrested," Mr. Moore said. "He was not acting
alone, we don't believe."

Mexican Foreign Ministry officials said today that they believed Mr. Lopez was a
guide, as opposed to one of the lead smugglers who actually organized the
crossing or took the men to the border. The Mexican Federal Police are
cooperating in the investigation.

The Border Patrol would only say that Mr. Lopez was from Sonoyta, in Sonora,
Mexico, and that he had already made several statements to investigators about
his activities.

The 26 young men crossed the border on May 19 in a remote area known as Los
Vidrios, apparently in the hope of going to North Carolina to work.

There is a truck stop near the Mexican side of the border, officials said, but
to the north the area is desolate, and the closest highway is 70 miles away.
Initially, the Border Patrol said, the smugglers abandoned the others after
charging them as much as $1,000 each, promising to get water and food. The
agents said the smugglers never returned, leaving the men to wander north with
no provisions, as temperatures shot up unexpectedly.

Several officials said temperatures on the desert floor might have reached 130
degrees.

The Yuma County sheriff, Ralph Ogden, said that those who died appeared to have
begun decomposing almost immediately, and one of the emergency room doctors who
treated the emaciated survivors said they were shriveled and wrinkled, like
mummies.

Mr. Moore said the 11 other survivors were also being taken to Phoenix, where
they would be interviewed by prosecutors in the United States attorney's office.
The last of the survivors was released from a hospital today, and all are
expected to recover fully.

Mr. Moore said that it was unclear what would happen to the survivors, and that
it was possible that they would be permitted to remain and work in the United
States if they wanted. Last week, the Border Patrol said they would all be
deported as soon as checks on whether or not they had criminal records in this
country had been completed. But Mr. Moore said that all options were open now.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 3, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: Florida: Two Rescued Cubans Face Charges

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 79 words


Twenty-two Cubans rescued after their speedboat capsized will be brought to
Florida, and two will be charged with smuggling illegal immigrants, the Coast
Guard said.

The other 20 are considered witnesses against the accused smugglers and will be
allowed to remain in the United States after they testify, an immigration
official said. The Cubans are scheduled to arrive in Key West early Friday.The
Coast Guard ended its search for a woman and three children presumed dead.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nursing Shortage

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 145 words


To the Editor:

"Nursing Shortage Is Raising Worries on Patients' Care" (front page, April 8)
did not mention one obvious solution that could have an immediate effect:
immigration.

Until 1995, there was a temporary visa category for nurses called the H-1A visa
that allowed health care employers to recruit foreign nurses.

The visa program worked quite well, but the program was allowed to expire as a
result of intense lobbying by nursing unions, which convinced members of
Congress that there was actually an excess supply of American nurses.

The H-1A visa program should be brought back on a permanent basis. This year,
legislation is likely to be introduced in Congress that would do just that. One
hopes that the unions complaining the most about double shifts will not stand in
the way.

GREGORY SISKIND
Cordova, Tenn., April 8, 2001

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

'A Tyrannical Situation';
Farmers Caught in Conflict Over Illegal Migrant Workers

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1835 words

DATELINE: GARDNERS, Pa.


The sun rose majestically over one side of Mark Rice's hilltop field, and a
brilliant harvest moon lingered over the other, as Mr. Rice warmly greeted the
70 Mexicans who had gathered to pick his 900 acres of apples. "The trees," he
said in a halting Spanish, "are heavy with fruit."

But by the time the workers had filled a few tractor-sized bins with golden
delicious apples, both the moon and Mr. Rice's optimism had disappeared. "I've
just got so much at risk here," he said as he anxiously surveyed a long row of
trees that quivered with his newly hired hands. While all had working papers,
experience suggested that most of the papers were falsified. "There's no way I
could get my crop picked if I was legal."

Another harvest, another year of playing a familiar game for Mr. Rice and
thousands of other American growers. From strawberry fields in California to
fruit orchards like these on the gentle slopes near Gettysburg, farmers say they
are being squeezed by a system that makes them feel like criminals.

"I'm an honest person, but if I want to stay in business, the only option I have
is to follow an illegal course," said Mr. Rice, the seventh generation to be
tied to this fertile land. An immigration raid would ruin his harvest, but it
has been years since he was regularly able to hire any help except Mexicans. So
he asks few questions, and keeps looking over his shoulder. "It's a tyrannical
situation," he said.

With the economy employing practically every American who wants to work,
dependence on Mexican immigrants -- fully documented or not -- is inescapable,
especially in agriculture. Recognition that something needs to be changed is
growing on both sides of the border, but so is the opposition.

In Washington, Republican lawmakers are pushing the biggest temporary-worker
legislation since the Bracero program, which brought in waves of Mexican workers
in the 1940's and 1950's. And Mexico's president-elect, Vicente Fox, says the
United States should allow Mexican workers to cross the Rio Grande as easily as
the products that make up the $196 billion in two-way trade.

The Clinton administration has rejected both proposals.

Still, Mr. Fox told Mr. Clinton it made no sense for the United States to spend
almost $1 billion a year to guard the border with Mexico if American businesses
need Mexican workers.

"I know many people in the United States want to see people as a burden, as a
problem, but people are an asset," he has said. "If we have talented people, not
only will Mexico progress, the United States will benefit and progress."

Mr. Fox knew he would make waves. But he seems to have miscalculated American
uncertainty about whether immigration helps or hurts. Despite record low
unemployment, the presence of so many migrants angers some Americans, from the
Arizona ranchers who have shot at newcomers, to the unidentified men in
Farmingville, N.Y., who severely beat two Mexicans looking for work.

More than three million undocumented Mexicans may be in the United States
working in low-paying jobs. Nowhere is their presence more keenly felt than in
agriculture.

The General Accounting Office recently estimated that 52 percent of the nation's
1.6 million farm workers are here illegally, a formidable army whose presence
openly violates American laws. They are not just in California and Texas, but in
places like this, in rural Adams County, Pa. Officials with farm-worker service
programs here say that as many as 90 percent of the 8,000 Mexicans who come into
Pennsylvania each year to help with the harvest may be illegal.

A nationwide amnesty in 1986 allowed 1.1 million undocumented Mexicans to gain
legal residency. Another piece of legislation being considered in Washington
would extend the amnesty and give more illegal immigrants legal residency. But
that will do little to alter the underlying circumstances. With the economy
booming, the United States is once again like a magnet, attracting over 340,000
new migrant workers a year -- most without proper papers.

Temporary field workers can cross the border legally, through a federal program
referred to as H2A, but few come that way. The paperwork is so cumbersome, and
some requirements so rigid, that last year only 41,000 agricultural workers came
in with these temporary work visas.

Richard W. Pombo, a Republican congressman from California, has introduced a
bill to revamp the H2A program to handle many more temporary workers and
accomplish much of what Mr. Fox proposed. But the bill faces serious opposition
from farm-worker advocacy groups and the Clinton administration, which has
threatened to veto it.

During hearings, opponents argued that the bill would remove some protections
already in the H2A program. Among other things, growers would be allowed to
offer housing vouchers instead of being required to provide free shelter for
workers. It would also force workers to return to Mexico for at least two months
a year, even if they have family here.

The Mexican government supports the current program, and says it can be more
widely used, but it says the proposed bill would hurt Mexicans.

"It sounds very good to say you are going to provide housing vouchers, but
housing is not always available," said Jesus Reyes Heroles, Mexico's ambassador
in Washington. American immigration officials have argued that there is nothing
temporary about temporary visas, but Ambassador Reyes Heroles urged American
lawmakers to take into account the success of a similar program run by Canada
since 1974.

This year, more than 6,000 Mexican field workers will go to Canada. They have
binding contracts and will go home when the season ends.

Critics oppose any attempt to expand H2A or normalize undocumented workers
because of the burden such immigrants may place on social services. Some even
argue that bringing in more Mexicans would ultimately hurt American agriculture
by removing incentives for farmers to become more productive. Relying on cheap,
plentiful Mexican labor, they say, has kept segments of American agriculture
from mechanizing.

"Interfering with the existing labor market is a form of protectionism and
agricultural subsidy," said Mark S. Krikorian, executive director of the Center
for Immigration Studies, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington.

Lee S. Simpson, a California raisin producer, also says the influx of workers
threatens American agriculture, and the proof is in his own unusual farming
operation. When Mr. Simpson started growing grapes in Madera County 13 years
ago, he relied on 100 Mexicans to pick his 160 acres of grapes, lay them in the
sun to dry, and then collect them. But immigration raids and the uncertain labor
supply drove him to find a new way.

Mr. Simpson, trained as an engineer, adapted a system used in Australia, growing
his grape clusters on top of trellises. Ten year-round employees do the work
formerly done by 100 farmhands. They cut the vines and leave the grapes on the
trellis to dry into raisins. Weeks later, a mechanical harvester shakes them
down.

"If they closed the border," Mr. Simpson said, "and they built a wall long
enough and high enough, and there was no more labor coming in, I would still
survive, probably with a smile on my face."

About a dozen raisin producers now use Mr. Simpson's method. But most growers
say they cannot foresee a mechanical picker handling something as delicate as a
bosc pear or an empire apple. Without Hispanic workers, "we would not be here,"
said William B. Lower Jr., a fourth-generation apple grower and president of the
Adams County Fruit Growers Association.

Mr. Lower said he would support Mr. Fox's proposal because legal workers are in
short supply. When not enough Mexicans come to the orchards, the results can be
devastating. Last year, Louy Kuntz, a nearby grower, let 30,000 bushels of
golden delicious apples fall to the ground because he was shorthanded.

Orchards are an important part of the Adams County economy, and their success
rests on the slim shoulders of men like Proceso Marquez, 50, who came from
central Mexico without legal documents to pick apples for less than a penny
apiece.

"There is a lot of work here," Mr. Marquez said at the end of an 11-hour day. He
made his way to the border last October and waited there until a smuggler
offered to take him across for $1,500. "He told me I could go to work right
away," Mr. Marquez said. "And I did."

Many farmers say they would never be able to stand in the shoes of a Mexican who
traveled 2,000 miles to pick apples in Pennsylvania. But Mr. Lower said he
understood Mr. Fox's thinking about using jobs in the United States to raise the
standard of living of Mexicans. One of the first Mexican farmhands Mr. Lower
hired was Arturo Bermejo, who crossed illegally at Tijuana in the 1970's and
then made his way to Pennsylvania. While working the Lower family's fields
starting in 1983, Mr. Bermejo saved enough to open a small store in nearby
Arendtsville.

Mr. Bermejo died in 1995, but today his widow, Teresa, runs La Mexicana Store
and restaurant, where local Mexicans gather after work. Her son Jesus is a
sophomore at Penn State University, studying business administration.

"My husband would have been very happy," she said recently. "He always said he
wanted his only son to have a better life."

The better life was what Samuel Contreras, 27, was seeking when he paid $1,300
to cross the border from Agua Prieta to Douglas, Ariz., where migrants had had
violent confrontations with American ranchers. He was turned back twice, but on
the third attempt he made it, and now expects to earn $4,000 or $5,000 in two
months driving a tractor.

"What Fox says would be good, because it would mean that we could cross legally
and people wouldn't suffer the way they do now," he said.

By midmorning on the first day of the apple harvest, Mr. Rice, the fruit grower,
was a frazzled bundle of nerves. He drove his dusty pickup from field to field
at stomp-the-pedal speeds and once ran out of gas. He smoked and worried
nonstop. He has already lost two stands of peaches to disease, and if it gets
worse he may have trouble attracting workers because peaches, which are picked
earlier, draw in apple pickers who want more work.

Without peaches, Mr. Rice said, he could end up like some of his neighbors who
lost parts of their crop. So he has investigated the H2A program, even though he
does not relish dealing with recruiters and corrupt Mexican officials. That is
one reason he, too, would have no problem with open borders.

"Fox is definitely going the right way," he said. Opening the border would not
be without problems, he acknowledged. And he realizes that plenty of people who
do not rely on migrant workers want to slam the border shut. But there is still
his fruit to harvest.

"His words just ring so true, around here anyway," Mr. Rice said. "But I guess
it's just not politically acceptable to say that we need these people."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A crew list, above, with apple tags. A temporary worker, right,
picks apples from trees grown by Mark Rice on 900 acres in Pennsylvania. Mr.
Rice says he is forced to rely on Mexican-born pickers to harvest his yearly
apple crop.; Mark Rice holds tags for his apples that are picked by Mexican-born
workers. "There's no way I could get my crop picked if I was legal," he says.
(Photographs by John Zeedick for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Lee S. Simpson, a
California raisin producer, has developed a system of growing gapes on trellises
and then leaving them there to dry in the sun. Ten year-round employees now do
the work of 100 temporary workers. (Gary Kazanjian for The New York Times)(pg.
C2)

Chart: "Don't Ask, Don't Tell"
Farmers in the United States are increasingly dependent on Mexican-born workers
to harvest their crops, with the majority of workers now believed to be illegal
immigrants with false working papers.

Graph compares the estimated number of Mexican-born workers to the estimated
number of illegal aliens working in the United States since 1989.
(Source: Labor Department)(pg. C1)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 16, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. and Mexico to Open Talks On Freer Migration for Workers

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 15


After they meet on Friday, President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico
are expected to announce the start of high-level discussions aimed at addressing
the web of immigration issues that have long bedeviled relations between the
neighboring nations.

American officials said that an "immigration working group" would discuss a
range of proposals including Mexican goals to open the border to a freer flow of
Mexican guest workers and to grant legal residency to hundreds of thousands of
undocumented Mexicans now working in the United States.

The formation of the group, to be led by Mexican and American cabinet members,
signals the importance of immigration issues to the newly inaugurated
administrations on both sides of the border. American officials said it
demonstrates that the Bush administration views immigration not only as a
domestic issue, but as a concern best addressed by both countries.

"We are compelled to take a deeper look at the whole question of migration," the
United States ambassador to Mexico, Jeffrey Davidow, said in an interview.
"There's going to be an interesting debate about amnesty" and the guest-worker
programs, he said.

The meeting on Friday will be Mr. Fox's fourth meeting with President Bush, but
their first encounter as presidents. The two men met previously, when Mr. Bush
was governor of Texas.

The setting for their latest encounter will be Mr. Fox's ranch in his home state
of Guanajuato, which ranks fourth among Mexican states in the number of people
who migrate to the United States each year.

The Mexican foreign minister, Jorge G. Castaneda, said that immigration issues
would be the focus of Mr. Fox's agenda during the meeting. Among the Mexican
government's goals, Mr. Castaneda said, is an easing of United States law
enforcement efforts along the border that have forced Mexican immigrants to try
to cross through isolated desert areas where they die by the hundreds each year
from exposure to the heat or cold.

He said that the Fox government is "closely monitoring" talks among members of
Congress and immigrant advocates over granting amnesty to undocumented
immigrants already living in the United States. Some 3 million of the 8.5
million Mexican-born people in the United States are living there without any
legal residency status.

And Mr. Castaneda said that Mexican Foreign Ministry officials have been
involved with discussions of proposals to reform United States guest-worker
programs so that more Mexicans would be permitted to seek jobs on American
farms.

"We think that the broad immigration and labor agenda includes humane, civil and
adequate treatment for Mexicans: Mexicans here, going there; Mexicans as they
cross the border; Mexicans when they start work and Mexicans who have already
been in the United States for a long time," Mr. Castaneda said.

"The best way to ensure this is for them to have papers," he said. "There is no
better way for Mexicans to defend themselves than for them to be legal."

Mr. Castaneda acknowledged that carrying out and enforcing many of the proposals
would depend almost entirely on the will of the United States government. But he
said that Mexico would be more vigilant in monitoring the enforcement of
immigrant protections and more involved in efforts to set new policies for the
benefit of Mexican immigrants in the United States.

"Every country, by definition has the prerogative to enforce its own laws inside
its own territory," Mr. Castaneda said. "But the fact is that a large number,
about half perhaps, of the people in the United States without papers are
Mexicans. This is something that concerns us, and we think it is something that
is legitimately on the negotiating table."

In a briefing on Wednesday, a senior Bush administration official said that the
United States government was eager to hear Mr. Fox's ideas on immigration
issues. The official stressed that high-ranking officials would be assigned to
address both nations' concerns.

President Bush, in an address today at the State Department, reiterated his
pledge to work with America's neighbors to build a hemisphere of "freedom and
prosperity."

"Some look at the south and see problems," Mr. Bush said, referring to Mexico.
"Not me. I look south and see opportunities and potential."

Immigration issues have been a priority for the Mexican government since Mr. Fox
won the presidency last summer from the Institutional Revolutionary Party after
70 years in power. The Mexican president has pressed the United States to begin
opening the border to more Mexican workers in the same way that it has been
opened to goods and services under the North American Free Trade Agreement.

He has walked along border crossings from Ciudad Juarez to Nuevo Laredo, to
shake the hands of immigrants and hail them as Mexican heroes. And he has
expressed outrage at the violence that Mexican immigrants have endured from
United States Border Patrol agents and ranchers in Arizona.

Aides to the Mexican president said that when he talks about the problems and
trends of immigration, he rarely refers to government studies. Instead, Mr. Fox
draws from the lives of the families around his ranch.

"This is not a guy who has to study about immigration," Mr. Castaneda said,
referring to President Fox. "This is a guy who comes from a state that has been
sending migrants to the United States for 100 years."

An estimated 150,000 undocumented Mexican immigrants enter the United States
each year. Their labor -- in Florida orange groves, Georgia onion fields, Las
Vegas hotels and Oregon nurseries -- has fueled growth in many parts of the
American economy. And remittances from Mexican immigrants -- between $6 billion
and $8 billion a year -- is Mexico's third largest source of foreign revenue,
behind oil and tourism.

Aides to President Bush and President Fox said that their meeting was aimed
mainly at building a personal rapport and would not produce new agreements. The
two are expected to be together for about seven hours, including a half-hour
visit by Mr. Bush to President Fox's mother, Mercedes Quesada.

Other than immigration, the presidents are expected to discuss a range of issues
including drug trafficking, possible energy agreements and ways to resolve water
disputes. Relations with Cuba and Washington's military aid to Colombia are also
likely to come up, aides said.

In the last few days, the two leaders have received dozens of letters from
advocacy groups urging that the governments consider human rights and family
needs when setting immigration policy. And on Wednesday, a panel of immigration
experts from both sides called on the two presidents to negotiate new ways to
manage the border.

The United States-Mexico Migration Panel was led by Andres Rozental, former
deputy foreign minister of Mexico, and by Mack McLarty, who was a special envoy
to Latin America for former President Bill Clinton.

Mr. Rozental said, "The U.S. and Mexican governments have never wanted to sit
down and say, 'Here is the reality of immigration.' Instead they have let it
grow into the chaos that it is."

In recent months, there has been increasing support among both Republican and
Democrats in Congress for measures that would increase the numbers of Mexicans
granted temporary agricultural work visas each year. One proposal, forged by a
Democratic Congressman from California and a Republican from Oregon, has won the
support of labor leaders and several American grower associations.

Rep. Howard L. Berman, an architect of the proposal, said that it would increase
the numbers of guest workers from around 40,000 last year to some 150,000 in
five years. The proposal would also allow migrants with a certain number of
years of agricultural service to apply for legal residency. And the proposal
calls for granting legal residency to undocumented agricultural workers already
employed on American farms.

A proposal by Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas also seeks to increase the number of
guest workers. However, he has said that the proposal does not allow the migrant
workers to apply for residency, nor does it call for any amnesty.

In a briefing on Wednesday, a Bush administration official said that the
president had expressed interest in the various guest-worker proposals.

However, the official said, President Bush has said that he did not believe that
amnesty agreements were the best way to address abuses against illegal
immigrants.

"While the president does not believe that amnesty is the only means by which
humane treatment and the status of migrants can be addressed," the official
said, "I can assure you that we believe that the issues of migration are going
to be an ongoing discussion between the two countries.

"I can assure you that it's going to be addressed at a sufficiently high level
that they can make some real progress on this."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: On a highway leading to San Cristobal de los Ranchos, Mexico,
signs saying "Prospering Together" awaited President Bush's arrival today for an
informal meeting with President Vicente Fox on his ranch. (Associated Press)(pg.
A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 6, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Suffolk, Bill for Day Laborer Center Is Vetoed

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., April 5


After two Mexican day laborers were badly beaten in Suffolk County in September,
the region's long-simmering racial tensions were laid bare -- residents waving
American flags clashed with brown-skinned immigrants, and a county legislator,
Brian X. Foley, wrote a bill to try to bridge the divide.

Now the Suffolk County executive, Robert J. Gaffney, has vetoed Mr. Foley's
proposal to spend $80,000 to create a community support center for the laborers
and sent it back to the Legislature with a message that county government should
not pay for anything that would foster the hiring of undocumented workers.

"Undocumented laborers work off the books and violate immigration, tax and labor
laws," Mr. Gaffney wrote to lawmakers late Wednesday. "It is a crime to assist
an alien who lacks employment authorization."

Supporters of the measure disagree, and many predicted that already electrified
race relations in Farmingville, where the center was to be located, would grow
hotter.

"Mr. Gaffney's action might have been politically popular, but at the very core
it is a failure to deal with a human issue," Paul J. Tonna, the Legislature's
majority leader, said of his fellow Republican. Mr. Tonna said he would push the
Legislature to override the veto in the next 30 days.

For years, immigrants have been lining up on busy Long Island roadways, where
trucks pick them up for work on landscaping or construction jobs. They are
called esquineros -- men of the corner -- and they come mostly from places in
Mexico or Central America. The proposed center would offer educational, legal
and referral services for the workers, as well as health insurance options for
children and a site where the men could wait for work each morning.

Mr. Foley's proposal, written in response to the Sept. 17 beating of two Mexican
day laborers, passed the Legislature on March 20 by a 12-to-2 vote, with three
abstentions. It sought to transfer $80,000 from the county's 2001 budget to the
Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rockville Centre to start the center.

Robert J. Cimino, the Suffolk County attorney, said the proposed center might be
seen as a place that would condone helping people skirt federal and state laws
dealing with immigration or the payment of taxes.

Ray Wysolmierski of Sachem Quality of Life Organization, a community group
opposed to the center, hailed Mr. Gaffney's decision, saying that the proposed
site would only encourage more illegal immigrants to come to Farmingville.

One of the men beaten portrayed it another way when he urged lawmakers to
approve the plan. "It will give way to healing the pain that we all feel in
knowing that there is so much hate against all of us day laborers."


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fear and Poverty Sicken Many Migrant Workers in U.S.

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1012 words

DATELINE: CUTLER, Calif.


Francisco Plaza, a 35-year-old farm worker from Mexico, made a rare visit to a
doctor last year after he suddenly lost a lot of weight. The doctor told him
that he had diabetes and ordered him to take two medications that cost $134 a
month.

But Mr. Plaza, who prunes fruit trees for $6.25 an hour, often skips his
medicine, saying he cannot afford it after paying for food and rent.

"Some months he doesn't get much work, so it's hard to afford," his wife,
Rosalva, said at their modest home in this Central Valley farm town. "When he
doesn't work, he doesn't buy his medicine."

Mr. Plaza, who has lived in the United States for four years, is in the same
bind as many other Mexican farm workers who live more or less permanently in the
United States.  While federal clinics for migrants are supposed to serve all
indigent farm workers, illegal immigrants shun them because they do not qualify
for state Medicaid coverage and fear discovery of their illegal status. (Almost
half of the migrant farm workers are in the country illegally.) Farm workers
often do not see doctors until their condition is so dire that they must go to
emergency rooms, which are not permitted to turn them away.

"A situation we see every day is a terrible diabetic who can't afford the $200 a
month for medicine, and that person ends up with renal failure," Dr. Oscar
Sablan, who runs a clinic for farm workers in Firebaugh, Calif., said. "Then
they're able to get a state health insurance card and dialysis. That's $1
million a year."

Diabetes, high blood pressure and anemia occur at higher rates among
California's 700,000 immigrant farm workers, mainly from Mexico, than among
Americans, and the workers' health worsens the longer they stay in the United
States.

A study to be released this month found that poor diet and infrequent visits to
doctors make the health of longtime migrant farm workers considerably worse than
that of those who have just arrived, even after accounting for differences in
age.

Preliminary findings by the California Policy Research Center in Berkeley
indicate that illegal immigrant farm workers, newly arrived from Mexico, have
far lower cholesterol, lower blood pressure and less obesity than do farm
workers who have lived here legally for a while.

"It's an appalling picture," said Robert K. Ross, president of the California
Endowment, a foundation specializing in health issues. "These are people who
help keep food prices low for American families, and I have a hard time figuring
out why their health status should be so poor."

Many things complicate the farm workers' health, including unfamiliarity with
American medicine and a lack of exercise in the long stretches they are
unemployed. A poor diet is a key to their high rates of diabetes, high blood
pressure and anemia, researchers say, and it gets worse as the migrants combine
American fast food with the staples of tacos and refried beans. Other factors
are the lack of money and insurance.

A study released last November found that the women, 36 percent of the migrants,
were far more likely than the men to visit doctors, largely because pregnant
farm workers, even illegal immigrants, qualify for state health insurance.
Indigent men here illegally do not qualify except for medical emergencies. The
median income of the 971 farm workers in the November study, sponsored by the
California Endowment, was less than $10,000 a year.

Many growers acknowledge that their workers' health is substandard, but they
blame an inferior health system in Mexico and the failure of the workers to take
care of themselves. Many growers say they cannot afford to provide insurance.

But many growers agree with advocates for the workers that the federal system of
community and migrant health clinics is inadequate.

"The situation is harder because there aren't enough health professionals in
many of these rural areas," Don Dressler, president of insurance services for
the Western Growers Association, said.

These concerns have made an impression on the Bush administration, which has
proposed a 10 percent, or $124 million, increase next year for the nation's
3,400 community health clinics, including its 400 migrant health clinics.
Advocates for the workers applaud that, but are unhappy that Mr. Bush has
proposed reducing money to train doctors in underserved rural areas.

Farm owners say they want laws that will make it easier to provide discounted
health insurance through grower associations for documented and undocumented
workers alike.

And like many farm workers, growers favor having more government-sponsored
mobile health clinics visit farms. For many farm workers, simply getting to a
clinic is an obstacle -- the clinics are often far away, the workers generally
do not own cars, and buses rarely run between farm communities.

Don Villarejo, founder of the California Institute of Rural Studies, which
conducted the November study, said the state, growers and workers should
contribute to a health program. He proposes assessing a few cents per bushel of
produce to help finance the program.

"For another nickel a head of lettuce, we could raise wages by 40 percent and
provide health insurance," he said.

Yovana Cisneros Espindola, 23, the wife of an undocumented farm worker from
Mexico, was fortunate, because of her pregnancy, to have state health insurance
last year when she suffered her first multiple sclerosis attack, which
temporarily blinded her. Her child was born last November, and she no longer has
insurance and cannot afford the pills needed to slow the advance of the disease.
They cost $10,000 a year.

Rosalinda Avitia, a worker with Catholic Charities, wrote to the Biogen
pharmaceutical company, which agreed to give Ms. Cisneros the medication for
three months and to consider renewing the gift.

Ms. Cisneros's husband, Francisco, hardly ever sees a doctor.

"It's too expensive," Mr. Cisneros said at their dark, crowded apartment in
Visalia, Calif. "Even if I have a bad fever, I go to work anyway. If I miss work
to go to a doctor, how am I going to pay for food for my family?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yovana Cisneros Espindola, with her husband, Francisco, and
children, from left, Cassandra, 6, Sarahy, 4, Melissa, 1 1/2, and Yovana, 5
months. Ms. Cisneros has multiple sclerosis, but the family has no insurance.
(Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Contributing to the Old Country

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 515 words


Recent immigrants from Latin America play an increasingly decisive role in two
economies at once -- in this nation's and in the one back home. Their impact
here is likely to drive the coming debate on immigration reform, as Mexico and
the United States discuss the possibility of legalizing the status of millions
of undocumented workers and creating new guest-worker programs. But the economic
significance of immigrants' remittances back home should be considered as well.

Not long ago capital flight from Latin America presented one of the region's
most pressing economic problems. It remains a concern in Venezuela and Colombia,
but over all, foreign direct investment and individuals' remittances sent back
home have reversed the flow of capital. Last year emigrants sent an estimated
$20 billion back to relatives in Latin America and the Caribbean region,
typically in installments of a few hundred dollars a month. This amount,
expected to total $300 billion over the next decade, vastly exceeds official
development assistance, and benefits some of the poorest communities.

In countries like Haiti, Nicaragua, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic,
emigrants' remittances add up to more than 10 percent of the gross domestic
product. In the case of Mexico, the inflow of roughly $8 billion in annual
remittances ranks with tourism receipts and oil exports as a major source of
revenue.

The Bush administration recognized the economic importance of remittances
earlier in the year when it allowed Salvadorans living illegally in the United
States to apply for 18-month work permits so that the money they sent home could
help their country recover from two devastating earthquakes. Likewise, the joint
declaration issued by hemispheric leaders at the Summit of the Americas in
Quebec City in April also highlighted the significance of remittances as a
source of development capital, and called on governments to lower their
transaction costs and seek ways to channel some of this money into productive
investments.

In addition to individuals sending money to their families, Salvadorans and
Mexicans are increasingly coming together in American cities to send back funds
for public infrastructure works, usually through a hometown association.
President Vicente Fox of Mexico has started some innovative matching programs
for such funds, and the Inter-American Development Bank is looking to do the
same elsewhere in the region. Other experimental programs are aimed at helping
migrants finance businesses they could return to, in an attempt to address the
absence of economic opportunity that drives emigration in the first place.

America's immigration policy cannot be dictated primarily by a desire to help
finance development in Latin America. There are certainly more self-interested
reasons for Americans to support healthy levels of immigration. But whatever the
course of that debate, both legal and illegal immigrants will continue to send
capital south of the Rio Grande for the foreseeable future. Maximizing its
impact as a vehicle for development is a laudable goal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH AIDES WEIGH LEGALIZING STATUS OF MEXICANS IN U.S.

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14


President Bush's top immigration advisers are weighing plans to allow the more
than three million Mexicans living illegally in the United States to earn
permanent legal residency, officials involved in the deliberations said today.

The proposal is the most politically charged part of a draft plan on border
safety and immigration that a panel led by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell
and Attorney General John Ashcroft is expected to submit to the White House in
the next few days. The legalization idea faces stiff opposition from
anti-immigrant groups and influential Republicans in Congress.

The options under consideration involve different ways in which millions of
Mexicans living in this country illegally could earn lawful status over the next
several years, though not immediately, administration officials said. The
options would quite likely be based on the immigrants'employment records, family
ties in this country and how long they have lived in the United States.

Any plan to legalize the residency of unlawful immigrants would be in a broader
agreement to expand guest-worker programs in the United States, the officials
said. Many details of the plan, including whether to permit new guest workers to
become permanent residents, are still unresolved and no final decisions have
been made. Any plan would be subject to approval by Congress.

But pressure is mounting on the administration to address the issue as
ground-breaking negotiations on immigration that Mr. Bush and President Vicente
Fox of Mexico started in February are about to accelerate.  Secretary Powell and
Mr. Ashcroft are to meet with their Mexican counterparts in early August. Mr.
Bush and Mr. Fox want to announce a major migration initiative at their summit
meeting in Washington starting Sept. 4, their aides say.

The review of policies toward Mexican immigrants is one of President Bush's
highest priorities, partly because as governor of Texas he gained more
experience in dealing with Mexico than with any other foreign nation. Mr. Bush
considers Mr. Fox, perhaps more than any other foreign leader, to be a personal
friend as well as a partner.

Legalizing immigrants who are, in the words of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, undocumented, has major domestic political and foreign
policy implications for the Bush administration. And on a human level, such a
plan would transform the lives of millions of Mexicans now toiling in the
shadows, including hotel maids in New York, nannies in San Francisco,
meatpackers in Nebraska and textile workers in Georgia.

Legalizing the status of undocumented Mexicans is a top objective of the Roman
Catholic Church and immigrant advocacy groups, especially Latino organizations,
whose constituencies Mr. Bush is courting in his strategy to expand his
political base and win a second term in 2004.

In a ceremony for new citizens at Ellis Island this week, Mr. Bush extolled the
virtues of immigrants. "America, at its best, is a welcoming society," he said.
"We welcome not only immigrants themselves but the many gifts they bring and the
values they live by."

Mr. Bush won about one-third of the Latino vote in the election last November,
but his pollsters say he needs to increase that share to at least 40 percent to
prevail in 2004.  Latino advocates for immigrants say a generous program for
adjusting legal status would win the administration new supporters.

"This administration has a tremendous opportunity to reshape migration policy,"
said Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a major
Latino human rights organization. "If this would happen, it would electrify the
Latino community."

At the same time, Mr. Fox has made conferring legal status on his undocumented
compatriots in the United States a top priority. Mr. Fox is very likely to raise
the issue when he makes a swing through mid-America -- Chicago, Detroit and
Milwaukee -- in the next few days to meet Mexican-Americans and seek support for
new American investment in Mexico.

"Mexicans who work in the United States should be considered legal," Mr. Fox
told a group of Texas journalists in late June. "They shouldn't have to hide in
the shadows."

Complicating the political equation for Mr. Bush is fierce opposition from
groups that favor tighter limits on immigration and influential Congressional
Republicans who say that granting legal residency to illegal immigrants is
tantamount to rewarding lawbreakers.

Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, supports a new guest-worker program but
has vowed that any program legalizing undocumented workers would have to pass
"over my cold, dead political body."

A coalition that opposes increased immigration, led by the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, ran more than $500,000 in radio and print
advertisements in 10 states in April and May condemning any new agreement with
Mexico that would expand immigration.

Mr. Bush opposes a blanket amnesty comparable to the 1986 law that granted legal
residency to several million immigrants who could show that they had been
working in the United States for at least 90 days.

Within the State, Justice and Labor Departments, aides say there are varying
degrees of support for allowing immigrants to adjust their legal status over
time. Secretary Powell and Mr. Ashcroft have so far avoided taking any public
position on the idea, but Mexican and Congressional officials who have been
briefed on the internal American discussions, say they are heartened by senior
officials' receptiveness to a variety of options.

"There is a realization that this is one of the most important, if not the most
important issue for the Mexicans," said an administration official on the
working group, "but it's also one of the most difficult, if not the most
difficult issue for the U.S.  Politically, it is extremely tough."

Despite the opposition, such a plan nearly succeeded in Congress last year as
part of an expanded agricultural guest-worker program. A bipartisan proposal,
backed by farm worker unions and several state grower associations, would have
increased the number of seasonal farm workers to as many as 250,000 a year, from
about 40,000 now, and granted many foreign workers legal residency.

Senator Larry E. Craig, an Idaho Republican who supported that failed proposal,
resurrected the plan as legislation this week, and included a provision that
would allow farm workers to adjust their status over six years.

But Democrats, labor leaders and Latino rights advocates criticized the bill
because it would lower the wages and raise the eligibility requirements for
legal status that were contained in last year's proposal.

Supporters of Mr. Craig's bill argue that the legislation could be an important
start in talks on Capitol Hill that would parallel the United States-Mexico
negotiations, and perhaps could give Mr. Bush political cover to advance a
legalization plan.

On both sides of the border, support is growing for an effective guest-worker
program. American farmers and landscapers, as well as hotel and restaurant
owners, want to stabilize their labor forces that are now highly dependent on
illegal workers from Mexico.

Mexican officials say a guest-worker program would help reduce the number of
workers who arrive in the country illegally -- more than 150,000 a year -- and
would save the lives of migrants who die trying to cross the blistering deserts
and harsh mountains of the Southwest.

Labor unions and immigrant advocates have long opposed temporary visa programs
as creating a class of low-paid workers vulnerable to abuse. But new proposals
with labor and wage protections have brought labor and growers closer together.

Mexican officials, as well as American labor and religious leaders, say that any
deal to increase the number of guest workers must first grant legal status to
unlawful Mexicans already in the country.

"You have to try to legalize people here first, before you bring more people in
from abroad," said J. Kevin Appleby, director of migration and refugee policy
for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops.

For their part, Mexico officials have stricken the politically charged word
amnesty from their vocabulary and now talk about regularization, a concept that
Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda says could allow Mexican immigrants to
obtain driver's licenses, Social Security cards and resident tuition at
colleges.

Mr. Castaneda seemed to up the ante in the negotiations when he told a group of
Latino journalists in Phoenix last month that any comprehensive agreement on
border safety and guest workers must include some adjustment of legal status for
illegal workers. "It's the whole enchilada, or nothing," Mr. Castaneda said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush on Ellis Island last week. His aides are weighing
a plan to grant legal status to the three million Mexicans illegally in America.
(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 2, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Tensions Persist After Suffolk Vote on Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y., Sept. 1


The afternoon came to a close on the streets of this small Long Island town much
the same way it does on any sunny summer day -- with white men in trucks
dropping off brown men on the corners, and the brown men walking home with cash
in their pockets.

Although the Suffolk County Legislature narrowly voted down a proposal Thursday
night that the county file a federal suit to force the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to move against illegal immigrants, the vote did little
to calm the tensions in this town of about 15,000.

And although the Legislature held an emotional public discussion on a proposal
to revoke the licenses of contractors that hire undocumented migrant workers
from street corners, the contractors were still out today trolling for help. The
proposal will be revisited at a later date.

"There is a booming landscaping and building business going on and there's
nobody to do the work," said a contractor who was drinking beer at a 7-Eleven
and would not give his name. "Of course I'm going to hire these guys."

At the heart of the proposed bill to sue the I.N.S. to enforce illegal
immigration laws was the claim that the 1,000 or so undocumented workers who
flock to Farmingville each summer to mow lawns and patch roofs have caused a
crime wave and that the Hispanic men standing on the street corners waiting for
work harass women and young children.

The bill, sponsored by Joseph Caracappa, a Republican county legislator from
Selden, asked that the county be reimbursed an unspecified amount by the I.N.S.
for the supposed crimes committed by the undocumented workers. Mr. Caracappa did
not return calls left at his office today.

The Legislature rejected his bill Thursday night by a vote of 9 to 8, with one
abstention, at a standing-room-only meeting at the county building in Riverhead,
where some Americans shouted, "Stop the crime!" and Mexicans held signs that
said, "Stop the Hate" and "We Cut Your Grass."

At the meeting, the Suffolk County police commissioner, John Gallagher, offered
statistics that showed the number of arrests in the precinct that includes
Farmingville had actually fallen to 436 in 1999 from 463 in 1995. Moreover, Mr.
Gallagher said, the number of noncitizens arrested during that period dropped to
29 from 40.

"There is no crime wave, period," said David Bishop, a Democrat lawmaker from
Lindenhurst who voted against the measure. "The police statistics just don't
bear it out. The real goal, I think, was to force the hand of the I.N.S. I see
some fear of people who are different than the established population in the
area."

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the I.N.S., would say only that "it is our policy
not to comment on any proposed or past legislation."

Drawn by wages that can top $15 an hour and brought into the village by
smugglers at a cost of $2,000, the workers tried to appear restrained today. But
when pressed, they expressed relief.

"We are not here to make crime," said Dionicio Urbina, 20, who comes from the
state of Michoacan in central Mexico. "We are here because we have money
problems at home. It would be nice to be brothers, but we have so many problems
here."

He talked about a county proposal, defeated last year, that would have made it
illegal for contractors to stop their vehicles on the streets to hire laborers.
This year, the Town of Brookhaven, which includes Farmingville, did pass a law
limiting the number of people who may occupy a rental house. To counteract the
potential fines, Mr. Urbina's landlord increased the rent by $50 a month for
each of the 30 men who live in his house, Mr. Urbina said.

The day laborers are also picketed every Saturday by a group of Farmingville
citizens, demanding that the men go home. The group, known as the Sachem Quality
of Life, had pushed Mr. Caracappa to sponsor his unsuccessful bill.

"I'm tired today," said a Sachem group member, Ray Wysolmierski. "We knew we
were up against it, the county suing the country. Our next move is not to let on
what we're going to do."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 1, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Raises Stakes in the Battle Over a Bigger Medicare Pot

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31


President Clinton escalated the fight over Medicare spending today, demanding
that Congress shift money to health programs for poor people, disabled children
and legal immigrants.

But Republicans rebuffed White House pleas to negotiate on the issue and said
they felt they had the upper hand.

The two sides are in broad agreement that the Medicare program should receive
more money -- about $30 billion, or 2.3 percent more over five years. But the
fight over how to distribute the money threatens to sink the plan, jeopardizing
the expected increase in payments to health care providers.

A Republican tax bill passed last week by the House would authorize new Medicare
benefits, for preventive care, and would increase Medicare payments to health
care providers, including health maintenance organizations, hospitals, nursing
homes, hospices and home health agencies.

The health care industry strongly supports the Medicare provisions of the bill.
But President Clinton has threatened to veto it, saying it includes huge tax
breaks for the wealthy and "an unjustifiable spending increase for H.M.O.'s."

Most Republicans and some Democrats say the increase is needed to prevent
wholesale defections of private health plans from the Medicare program.

Representative Bill Thomas of California, the Republican spokesman on health
care issues, said, "The president sees imperfections in this bill for political
reasons."

Republicans from the House and the Senate have agreed on the Medicare
legislation. Asked if he would negotiate with the president, Mr. Thomas said:
"This measure is done. All the president has to do is sign it. We don't need
another version."

Chris Jennings, the health policy coordinator at the White House, said tonight,
"We've tried to reach out to the Republicans, but have not had any
negotiations."

Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, a conservative Democrat, said:
"If this bill is vetoed, I'm not sure you'll get another bill. We'll be a long
way into next year before we get more money out to hospitals, nursing homes and
home health agencies."

Congress cut payments to health care providers in the Balanced Budget Act of
1997, but the savings have far surpassed what it expected.

Thomas A. Scully, president of the Federation of American Hospitals, which
represents 1,700 hospitals, said: "There has been an assumption all year, a 99
percent certainty, that Congress would fix the Balanced Budget Act. But if
Congress goes into a lame duck session, there's no certainty. I'm very worried
that we would lose the momentum for this legislation in a lame duck session."

The prospect of a delay has alarmed hospitals, which say they need immediate
financial relief.

About 6.2 million elderly and disabled people -- 16 percent of the 39 million
Medicare beneficiaries -- are in H.M.O.'s. But White House officials say that
H.M.O.'s would get 34 percent of the new Medicare spending.

Mr. Clinton will be president for only 12 more weeks, but he is not acting like
a lame duck. He is trying to force Congress to accept his priorities on a wide
range of second-tier issues, even as he acknowledges that two of his biggest
hopes, for Medicare drug benefits and a federal law defining patients' rights,
will probably go unfulfilled.

In documents circulated today on Capitol Hill, Mr. Clinton set forth his
demands. He insisted that Congress allow Medicaid coverage for pregnant women
and children who are legal immigrants, let working parents buy Medicaid coverage
for children with disabilities and make it easier for children to enroll in
Medicaid, at schools and homeless shelters across the country. (Under the 1996
welfare law, new immigrants generally cannot receive Medicaid until they have
lived in the United States for five years.)

The dispute over Medicare payments to H.M.O.'s crystallizes several years of
frustration. White House officials say it is simply unacceptable to increase
payments to health plans that have blocked bipartisan efforts to define
patients' rights.

For their part, H.M.O.'s say Mr. Clinton's latest proposals show that he has
little comprehension of how health care markets work: he would lock them into
Medicare for three years at a time, even though their contracts with doctors and
hospitals often last no more than a year.

Diana C. Dennett, executive vice president of the American Association of Health
Plans, a trade group for H.M.O.'s, said: "No responsible party would get into
such an arrangement. Health plans would be locked into Medicare for three years,
with no concept of how much they would be paid by the government in the second
or third year."

Mr. Jennings, the White House official, said: "We are not rejecting all H.M.O.
payment increases. The president simply wants accountability and a more
equitable distribution of resources to beneficiaries and health care providers."

Republicans say the president should sign the bill because of the new benefits
it would provide Medicare recipients.

The bill would, for example, expand coverage of mammography, Pap smears and
pelvic examinations for women, broaden coverage of colonoscopies to detect colon
cancer and pay for eye examinations to detect glaucoma, a major cause of
blindness.

The bill also promises to reduce the cost of outpatient hospital care for
Medicare beneficiaries.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 13, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Will Decide On Deporting Of Immigrants

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12


The Supreme Court agreed today to decide important questions about the harsh new
approach that Congress adopted five years ago to deporting legal immigrants.

Accepting two separate cases, the justices agreed to decide whether Congress
actually went as far as the Clinton administration argues it did in stripping
federal judges of the power to review deportation orders. Beyond that
jurisdictional question, the court also agreed to decide the retroactive effect
of a provision making aliens who have committed certain crimes categorically
ineligible for relief from automatic deportation, no matter what their personal
circumstances.

The order granting the two cases -- one an appeal by the Clinton administration
and the other an appeal by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of three
immigrants -- means that the long-awaited Supreme Court test of the actions
Congress took at the height of anti-immigrant fervor in 1996 has finally
arrived. They will be argued in April.

Despite the law's name, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act, its impact has been not primarily on illegal immigrants, but
on lawful permanent residents of the United States who at some time in the past
ran afoul of the criminal law.

Before the 1996 law took effect, noncitizens who committed drug offenses or
other serious crimes were deportable, but unless they had actually served at
least five years in prison, they retained the right to apply for a
"discretionary waiver of deportation." This form of administrative relief was
granted about half the time, usually to those who showed evidence of
rehabilitation, who had spouses or children who were United States citizens, or
because of other personal circumstances. If the waiver was denied, an immigrant
could appeal to a federal appeals court.

The new law made immigrants with convictions for "aggravated felonies"
ineligible for the waiver, making deportation automatic. It also severely
limited judicial review of deportation decisions; exactly how limited is the
question in one of the cases the court granted today, Calcano-Martinez v.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, No. 00-1011.

In this case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in
Manhattan, rejected the Clinton administration's view that Congress had
eliminated essentially all avenues of judicial review. While agreeing that the
courts of appeals had lost their jurisdiction to hear direct appeals from the
decisions of immigration judges, the Second Circuit held that Congress had not
eliminated the jurisdiction of the federal district courts to issue writs of
habeas corpus, the traditional means of federal court review over official
action depriving someone of liberty.

Interpreting the law to preserve habeas corpus jurisdiction, the Second Circuit
said, "avoids the novel and profound constitutional questions that would arise"
from a conclusion that Congress had eliminated habeas corpus. The Second Circuit
told the three immigrants that while it could not hear their direct appeals,
they should seek habeas corpus in district court.

At the same time, the Second Circuit applied its jurisdictional conclusion in a
second case and held that a federal district judge in Bridgeport, Conn., had
properly granted a writ of habeas corpus to a Haitian immigrant, Enrico St. Cyr.

Mr. St. Cyr was facing automatic deportation for having pleaded guilty to a drug
charge several months before Congress passed the 1996 law. The Second Circuit
said there was no clear evidence that Congress had intended the abolition of the
discretionary waiver provision to apply retroactively to people who had entered
guilty pleas to offenses that under the new law made them subject to automatic
deportation.

In the absence of clear Congressional intent, the appeals court said it would
not interpret the law to have such a drastic effect. Writing for the three-judge
panel, Judge James L. Oakes quoted Justice Antonin Scalia, who said in a 1990
opinion, "Elementary considerations of fairness dictate that individuals should
have an opportunity to know what the law is and to conform their conduct
accordingly; settled expectations should not be lightly disrupted."

In its appeal of the ruling, Immigration and Naturalization Service v. St. Cyr,
No. 00-767, the administration told the Supreme Court that the Second Circuit
was wrong both to find habeas corpus jurisdiction and to conclude that
immigrants whose guilty pleas predated the new law were still entitled to seek
waivers of deportation.

The administration said that because the attorney general's use of discretion to
waive deportation was "an act of grace," similar to the use of the presidential
pardon, the lack of a judicial forum to challenge the failure to receive a
waiver could not raise a constitutional question.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 10, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Rays Of Hope

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


In the federal courthouse in Atlanta yesterday morning Mary Anne Gehris raised
her right hand, swore to support the Constitution and became a citizen of the
United States. Thereby hangs a tale.

Ms. Gehris, who is 35 years old, was brought to this country from Germany as an
infant. She has lived in the South ever since, and sounds it. But she never got
around to applying for citizenship until 1997. She took the tests, passed them
and waited.

Two days after Thanksgiving 1999 she got a letter from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. At last, she thought -- my date to be sworn in as a
citizen. But when she opened the envelope, inside it was a notice that she was
to be deported.

Why? Because she had pulled another woman's hair in 1988 in a quarrel over a
boyfriend, was charged with a misdemeanor, pleaded guilty on the advice of a
public defender and got a one-year sentence, suspended for a year's probation.

The 1996 Immigration Act defined that misdemeanor as an "aggravated felony,"
calling for deportation. The Immigration Act was retroactive, making people
deportable for things done years before.

Thousands of immigrants have suffered harsh consequences from the 1996 act: been
torn from their families, deported after decades in America, sent to countries
where they know no one and do not speak the language. Some had committed serious
crimes; others, like Ms. Gehris, were marked for deportation for trivial
offenses committed long ago.

Ms. Gehris, happily, found a skillful and dedicated lawyer in Atlanta, Socheat
Chea, himself a refugee from Cambodia. Her story was told in this column and
then on various television programs. Mr. Chea went to the Georgia Board of
Pardons and Paroles, and last March it pardoned Ms. Gehris. The I.N.S. decided
that her deportation was no longer required -- and she could become a citizen.

Cases like Ms. Gehris's have been getting attention around the country in the
last few years, and arousing public outrage. The Congressional sponsors of the
1996 act responded by saying that the I.N.S. should use "prosecutorial
discretion" not to bring deportation cases of that kind.

Last November the I.N.S. issued guidelines for its staff on exercising
prosecutorial discretion. They were approved by the commissioner of immigration,
Doris Meissner, just before she left the job.

The guidelines point out that the I.N.S., like any prosecutor, is not bound to
start proceedings in every case. They direct officials to consider such factors
as the nature of the past crimes involved (like Ms. Gehris's hair-pulling), the
time the alien has lived here, his or her U.S. military service and family ties
here.

"As a general matter," the guidelines say, "I.N.S. officers may decline to
prosecute a legally sufficient immigration case if the federal immigration
enforcement interest that would be served by prosecution is not substantial."

Officials point out that prosecutorial discretion, if it is exercised, will
still leave an immigrant who has technically violated the 1996 act in a
vulnerable position. He or she will not be eligible for citizenship and will not
be able to travel abroad.

For that reason, the I.N.S. believes the 1996 act should be amended to soften
some of its harsh features. For example, it argues that judges are better
equipped than prosecutors to consider matters of discretion, so immigration
judges should be given back the power to do so -- which the 1996 act stripped
from them.

Last September the House unanimously passed a bill that would have moderated the
retroactive aspect of the 1996 act. The bill would have allowed aliens convicted
of "aggravated felonies" before the act passed to ask for a waiver of their
deportation -- a formal step that would not have left them vulnerable, as
prosecutorial discretion does. They could qualify for citizenship.

The bill died in the closing days of the Senate when Phil Gramm, Republican of
Texas, objected. Efforts will begin soon to get it through the new Congress.

Not many immigrants caught in the strictures of the 1996 act have been as
fortunate as Mary Anne Gehris. When I telephoned to ask how she felt, she said,
"I am on cloud 1,999,000."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 27, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Children Adopted Abroad Win Automatic Citizenship

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: HERNDON, Va., Feb. 26


More than 75,000 children adopted from abroad and living in this country will
automatically become United States citizens on Tuesday because of changes
Congress made in immigration law last year.

Until now, parents of youngsters adopted overseas were required to undergo a
costly and cumbersome naturalization process that sometimes took two years to
complete, one more burden on top of the already complicated international
adoption procedure.

In local ceremonies on Tuesday from Anchorage to Atlanta, capped by a large
salute in Boston's Faneuil Hall, thousands of adopted children from Cambodia to
Colombia will celebrate their newly minted citizenship with their families and
friends.

Marie Flynn, a 48-year-old office manager in this northern Virginia suburb, said
the new law confers citizenship on four of her five children adopted from
Romania -- Hannah, Brian, Danny and Maggie -- and puts the finishing touches on
officially uniting her growing family. Her fifth adopted child, Kevin, 10, is
already naturalized.

"It puts my mind at rest," said Ms. Flynn, a single mother whose children range
in age from 3 to 11. "It's been very easy for Kevin to travel on his American
passport, but the other kids had Romanian papers and needed a special visa when
we traveled."

The Child Citizenship Act, approved by Congress last year in an unusual display
of bipartisanship, grants automatic citizenship to most adopted children born
abroad, provided they are under 18 and at least one parent or legal guardian is
an American citizen.

About 20,000 such adoptions occur every year -- about 15 percent of the
adoptions in the United States -- and the average wait for citizenship
processing by the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been two years.

The new law, which takes effect on Tuesday, removes a bureaucratic and
psychological hurdle for parents who may well have waited years and paid up to
$25,000 for international adoptions.

"The adoption process is a maze and mountain of paper," said Deborah Cassetta, a
history teacher in Floral Park, N.Y., who adopted her 1-year-old daughter, Jamie
Leigh, from Kazakhstan last June. "To not have to go through a post-adoption
maze is a blessing."

The new law replaces one in which to naturalize children adopted from abroad,
the immigration service required paperwork on parents and children, including
birth and marriage certificates, photo identifications, alien registration cards
and certified English translations of documents written in other languages.  The
agency also charged $125 per application.

Brandi and Jeramy Ward of Hokes Bluff, Ala., know firsthand the frustration of
dealing with the federal agency. The young couple said they had been waiting
nearly two years for the agency's office in Atlanta to respond to the
citizenship application for their 3-year-old son, Jeremiah, adopted from South
Korea.

"They seemed unconcerned," said Mrs. Ward, a junior high school social studies
teacher. "It wasn't something personal to them like it was to me."

In a few isolated cases, many unnaturalized children face difficulties later in
life, ranging from inconvenience to deportation. Many of those deported have
been sent back to foreign lands to which they no longer have any ties.

In one instance, John Gaul was adopted by a Florida family at the age of 4 but
he was not naturalized immediately. Even though he was born in Thailand, Mr.
Gaul spoke no Thai, had no Thai relatives and had never been back to Thailand --
until the United States government deported him in 1999, when he was 25, as a
criminal alien who had served jail time for car theft and writing bad checks.

Proponents say the new law ends any stigma attached to children adopted from
abroad.

"It's at long last a recognition that a child of American parents, whether born
here or adopted overseas, is an American, and there's no distinction between the
two," said Representative Bill Delahunt, a Massachusetts Democrat and main House
sponsor of the bill. "That recognition is long overdue."

Mr. Delahunt knows from experience. He has an adopted daughter, Kara, now 26,
who became a citizen several years ago after leaving Vietnam as a baby.

Adoptive parents and their children said they were planning their own
festivities for Tuesday.

Belinda and Don Siperko of Fort Worth have been shopping for sweatshirts
emblazoned with "U.S.A." for their four children adopted from Russia: Andrei,
10; Bryan, 9; Nikolai, 4; and Zina, 3.

"This new law means one more thing we don't have to worry about," Mrs. Siperko
said. "Now we can concentrate on our children."

Sasha Matero, 11, of Cold Spring, N.Y., said in a letter he sent last month to
Mr. Delahunt that he has struggled to fit in with his American classmates ever
since being adopted from Russia two years ago. Most children his age, he said,
take their citizenship for granted.

"For most kids it doesn't mean anything because they have been American for
their whole lives," Sasha wrote.

"The hardest things are having a different passport and other papers than my
brother and sisters," wrote Sasha, who has three older siblings who are the
biological children of his parents. "I don't like being different and it makes
my brother and sisters mad because I'm getting extra attention."

Now all that is changing. "I will always be proud of my Russian heritage," Sasha
wrote, "but I am here forever now and ready to be an American citizen."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Belinda Siperko, with Nikolai, 4; Don Siperko with Zina, 3; at
desk in rear, Bryan, 9, and Andrei, 10, at their home in Fort Worth, Tex. The
Siperko children were all adopted from Russia and will become citizens. (Jerry
W. Hoefer for The New York Times); Marie Flynn with her five children, all
adopted from Romania, from left, Maggie, Brian, Danny, Kevin and Hannah,
standing in rear. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court to Take Up Deportation Rules

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1132 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21


Twenty-one years ago, Joe Velasquez was arrested for telling an undercover
police officer where to buy cocaine. Mr. Velasquez, a legal immigrant from
Panama, served three years' probation, paid a $5,000 fine and has not run afoul
of the law since.

But his offense and a twist in American immigration law came back to haunt Mr.
Velasquez when he returned from visiting his mother in Panama over Christmas in
1998.

Mr. Velasquez was arrested at Newark International Airport and held for four
months without bail at a county jail. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
ordered him deported to Panama, where he had not lived since he was a child. Mr.
Velasquez's wife, three sons and two grandsons are all American citizens.

"For me to go back to Panama at my age, to start over again, would be a great
hardship, more for my family than me," said Mr. Velasquez, 53, who owns a
sandwich shop in Philadelphia and is free on bail while appealing his
deportation. "That would be devastating."

On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in a challenge to the
actions Congress took against legal aliens at the height of the national
anti-immigrant fervor in 1996. The legislation Congress approved then required
the deportation of immigrants convicted of certain crimes, even if, as in Mr.
Velasquez's case, the crime was committed long before the statute was enacted.

At issue is whether Congress went too far in 1996 when it stripped the federal
courts of their authority to review deportation orders. The justices will also
consider whether legal immigrants can be removed automatically for offenses
committed before the provision became law.

Before 1996, noncitizens who had committed drug offenses or other serious crimes
were deportable. But unless they had served at least five years, they retained
the right to apply for a "discretionary waiver of deportation."

This relief was granted in about half the cases -- a few thousand a year,
immigration experts said -- and typically to immigrants whose family members
were American citizens, or who could show evidence of rehabilitation or other
compelling personal circumstances. If the waiver was denied, an immigrant could
appeal to a federal court.

But in 1996, Congress, newly controlled by the Republicans, set out to crack
down on immigrants convicted of aggravated felonies. These immigrants,
proponents of the strict new law argued, had forfeited their rights to live in
the United States, and should not be allowed to clog up the courts with appeals.

Immigrants' rights advocates protested that not even during the wave of public
hostility toward Chinese immigrants in the 19th century or the peak of
anti-Communist sentiment of the 1950's had the Supreme Court allowed immigrants
to be deported without legal recourse.

"Never in our country's history has an immigrant subject to deportation been
without the right to go to court to challenge the legality of the deportation,"
said Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's
immigrants' rights project.

The justices agreed to hear two cases, one on appeal from the Clinton
administration and the other from the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf
of three immigrants.

One case involves Deboris Calcano-Martinez, 32, a native of the Dominican
Republic and a mother of four children who has lived here legally since she was
3 years old. She pleaded guilty to selling an illegal drug in 1996.

In this case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in
Manhattan, rejected the Clinton administration's view that Congress had
eliminated virtually all avenues of legal review. The court ruled that Congress
had not wiped out a district court's ability to issue writs of habeas corpus,
the traditional means of federal court review over official action depriving
someone of liberty.

In the second case, a Haitian man, Enrico St. Cyr, entered the United States
legally in 1986 but was convicted of a drug charge early in 1996. The Second
Circuit ruled that a federal district court judge in Bridgeport, Conn., had
properly granted a writ of habeas corpus to Mr. St. Cyr. Moreover, the Second
Circuit said there was no clear evidence that Congress intended to make
retroactive the provision barring discretionary waivers to deportable aliens.

Lawyers for the immigration service argue that allowing judges to hear these
claims "could lead to significant delays in the removal of criminal aliens."

Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who was a leading architect of
the 1996 law, said the statute was working as intended. "These individuals who
committed serious drug-trafficking crimes are just the kind of individuals who I
feel should be deported," Mr. Smith said.

But Doris M. Meissner, President Bill Clinton's commissioner of immigration and
naturalization, said the statute must be changed. "The law was too harsh," she
said.

That is what immigrants' rights advocates have insisted for five years. They
plan to hold candlelight rallies on Monday night in Washington, Los Angeles, San
Francisco and Dallas to draw attention to the Supreme Court arguments and to
press Congress to change the law, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act.

Last year, the House approved a bill allowing legal immigrants convicted of
aggravated felonies before 1996 to avoid deportation. The Senate never voted on
the legislation. Lawmakers are expected to take up similar bills this year.

Thousands of permanent legal residents are affected. Charlie Jaramillo, 35, a
construction contractor in West Chester, Pa., has lived here since he was 8
months old. His wife and two teenage children are United States citizens. But he
faces deportation to Colombia for pleading guilty in 1989 to a minor drug
charge. He does not read or speak Spanish.

Zafar Iqbal, 45, a gas station supervisor in Carrollton, Tex., has lived here
legally since 1982. In 1994, he pleaded guilty to a fraud charge, and was
sentenced to 10 years of probation. In 1998, while still on probation, he was
arrested and spent 18 months in detention. Now he faces deportation to Pakistan.

Rick Siridavong, 25, of Springfield, Va., has been a permanent legal resident
since arriving here as a refugee from Laos in 1981. He pleaded guilty to
stealing a car radio with high school friends in 1995. He served probation and
did 50 hours of community service, but was arrested after applying for
citizenship in 1999.  He faces deportation to Laos.

"Deportation is exile," said Laurie L. Kozuba, founder of Citizens and
Immigrants for Equal Justice, an advocacy group in Mesquite, Tex., for legal
immigrants facing deportation. "These are people who are long past their
criminal convictions and have rebuilt their lives. Now this law has come back to
bite them."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Workers, and Bosses, in a Visa Maze

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3464 words

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J.


AT the Delhi Darbar restaurant, where the Indian expatriate community here comes
to eat, the talk is not about the food, but about the uncertainty of life in
America these days. Gathered around the table are four computer programmers,
born in India and educated at top schools there, who now work in high-technology
jobs in the New York area. Along with their wives and children, they came here
nearly six years ago, on the promise of a job paying 10 times more than they
could earn back home and the expectation of pursuing the American dream.

But they cannot. The four -- and up to 420,000 others like them -- are caught up
in a labyrinth of immigration laws, Congressional politics, the competing forces
of the high-tech industry and organized labor and a tortuous, dysfunctional
process of gaining "green cards" that allow permanent residency here. As a
result, while they write the Java computer programs or manage the C++ computer
projects that American business needs, they are never quite sure which end of
the earth -- the United States or India -- they should call home.

"All of us are in limbo," said Shailesh Gala, one of the four, as they munched
on chicken tikka and curries. "They created a false promise for us. Everyone who
comes here has worked hard. We are waiting. Waiting. Waiting. Waiting, and
nothing is happening." As heads nodded in agreement, another programmer, Bhushan
Sethi, said: "We are migrating through legal ways. We are here when the country
needed us. But when we need this country, it is not there. Give us the
opportunity to stay."

The companies that hire these workers, called H-1B's for the visa that lets them
work for six years while seeking green cards, say much the same. From Microsoft
to Intel, from Goldman Sachs to Merrill Lynch, from Deloitte Consulting to Ernst
& Young, H-1B's are being hired by the planeload to fill a gap in computer
skills, especially at higher levels, because Americans have been cool to the
computer science and engineering education that foreign students embrace.

The H-1B visa program has its champions. High-tech superstars like Bill Gates,
Andy Grove and Scott McNealy have lobbied Congress to expand it. And holders of
H-1B's, besides many faceless programmers, have included Linus Torvalds, 31, the
Finnish inventor of the Linux operating system, a software rival to Microsoft's
Windows, who recently traded his visa for a green card.

But as the program has grown, so have its problems -- as even its backers
acknowledge.

Both a guest worker program and a road to a green card, the H-1B visa system has
become a lightning rod of controversy over immigration policy. High-tech
companies say the program is so riddled with bureaucratic delays that they have
had to hire whole staffs to keep everything straight. The period for getting
green cards now stretches for years, keeping the lives of H-1B's -- and the
plans of corporations -- up in the air. After investing in and training an H-1B
employee for up to six years, a company may well see him sent packing on the
next airplane out.

Moreover, under pressure from organized labor, Congress enacted complicated
rules making it hard for corporations to promote H-1B workers or reward them
with more challenging assignments.

The government isn't happy, either. Three agencies -- the Labor and State
Departments and the Immigration and Naturalization Service -- administer the
program, leading to regulatory gridlock and, according to a blistering report
from the General Accounting Office, a breakdown in federal oversight.

As a result, nearly everyone involved with the program -- supporters and
detractors -- complains about its flaws, often using words like "disaster" and
"train wreck" as descriptions.

"The H-1B system needs to work for everybody and now it works for no one," said
Jenifer Eisen Verdery, manager of education and work-force policy at Intel, the
fifth-largest employer of H-1B's. "It doesn't work for the immigrant who has it.
It doesn't work for the employers who hire them. It doesn't work for agencies
that run it."

The H-1B program has its roots in temporary visa programs begun in the 1950's.
But it took off in the 1980's and, again, in the late 1990's, as high-tech
industries blossomed.

Late last year, with hefty campaign contributions and a lobbying juggernaut,
employers persuaded Congress to increase the number of H-1B visas granted
annually to 195,000. And estimates show that the total number of H-1B's here
could reach a high of 710,000 over the next three years. Compared with a
national work force of 140 million, that number is minuscule. But it is a
sizable and growing minority in information technology, where up to 20 percent
of the five million high-tech workers are foreign-born, with about half of those
coming from the H-1B program. It is too early to tell what impact, if any, the
current economic downturn will have on the numbers.

HIGH-TECH companies say they have no choice but to hire H-1B's. "Of course, we
make every effort to find skills within U.S. workers," said Zoanne Hennigan,
director of immigration at Intel, which hires H-1B's as software, network and
component design engineers. "But when there is a skill shortage, H-1B has been
absolutely instrumental to making sure our business goals are met. The H-1B
program is critical to the success of our company."

Such talk, however, holds little sway with organized labor and American-born
computer programmers who have thrown obstacles in the program's way for the last
decade. They contend that the program is just a way for high-tech companies,
which are largely not unionized, to get programmers on the cheap, hold them
captive in jobs where they have little voice over working conditions and
jettison them when they are no longer needed.

These groups have been among the most vocal in pointing out H-1B abuses -- cases
of underpayment, fraud and exploitation of a vulnerable, compliant work force.
But while waving the banner for worker protection, organized labor has succeeded
only in convincing Congress to enact measures that have made the system more
byzantine -- and unintentionally made it more open to potential abuse. For
example, the paperwork required of high-tech companies to show that they have
not replaced American citizens with H-1B's has become so onerous that, as a
practical matter, it makes it difficult for H1-B's to change jobs.

"There isn't anything I like about the program," said Paul E. Almeida, president
of the Department of Professional Employees at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "It looks to me
like it is just used to suppress wages. These employers don't want to invest in
workers if they don't have to. This opens the door to low-wage workers."

SOME American programmers, who have started Web sites opposed to H-1B, share
this fervor. One well-known site, created by John Miano, head of the Programmers
Guild, a trade group, features banner headlines like "Slave Trade Still Alive in
the U.S."

"Most H-1B's are blithering incompetents," said Mr. Miano, adding that he has
worked alongside H-1B's and has had to correct their mistakes. "They are
unbelievably bad. They are not highly skilled, it's laughable. This is not a
program for the best and the brightest. Anyone could be packaged by a lawyer and
get an H-1B."

Whether a shortage of high-tech workers truly exists -- statistics are
inconclusive -- H-1B visa holders are largely highly educated, government
reports show. Many are educated at India's well-established engineering schools
and, increasingly, at American universities.

Almost 98 percent of them have bachelor's degrees or higher, and 41.5 percent
have master's degrees or higher. The jobs generally pay $45,000 to $150,000 --
versus a more typical $6,000 for similar jobs in India, the biggest source of
supply. (While the vast majority of H-1B's are in high-tech industries, a small
number of the visas are issued for teachers, medical personnel, artists, fashion
models and others.)

About one-quarter of high-tech H-1B's were already here before getting their
visas, typically attending American universities on student visas. Government
data from 1998, the most recent available, shows that 35 percent of all
high-tech master's degrees at American universities went to foreign nationals,
as did about half of all high-tech doctorates.

In Silicon Valley, many companies recruit these foreign students -- many of whom
would otherwise have to leave -- right after graduation. Corporations also send
recruiters to India, find workers through Internet job postings or bring them
here from previous projects overseas. And some companies, both in high
technology and on Wall Street, hire H-1B's from consulting firms working as
subcontractors on specific technical projects.

"The H-1B program takes the creme de la creme," said Sheela Murthy, an
immigration lawyer in Owings Mills, Md., and a native of India. "These are not
people who are coming here to clean toilets. Many of them have master's degrees
and attended top-notch universities. They are coming with a dream and a desire
to do something with their lives."

Yet in accepting the visas, high-tech workers often walk into a nightmare. The
visa allows workers and their families to stay here for six years, but the lag
in getting green cards has grown to four, five or six years. As a result,
thousands of H-1B holders, many of whom filed for green cards immediately upon
receiving their H-1B's, are bumping against that six-year limit. Some may
receive one-year extensions, but others may be forced to leave.

Employers are equally anxious. "An employer has found a person and wants them to
stay, and what then, after six years you have to let them go?" said Theresa
Cardinal Brown, associate director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

The wait for green cards results not only from delays at the immigration
service, which now has 900,000 people in its green-card backlog, but also from
supply-and-demand imbalances. At a time when the United States is admitting up
to 195,000 new H-1B's annually, there are only 140,000 employment-based green
cards available annually for H-1B's -- and their spouses, who are usually
admitted on a different visa, an H-4.

There are few specific criteria for obtaining a green card -- an employer must
simply certify that the applicant has needed skills, and applicants must not
have criminal records. The I.N.S. keeps no statistics on the number of H-1B's
who eventually get green cards.

The squeeze is tightest for citizens of India and China, who represent 57
percent of all H-1B's. Until recently, those two nations were each allotted
9,800 green cards, the same number set aside for citizens of any other country
-- for instance, Iceland or Belgium. Late last year, Congress lifted those
quotas, allowing for the transfer of unused allocations from small countries to
larger ones. But regulations to put the changed law into effect are still in the
works.

"The H-1B program is mismanaged," said B. Lindsay Lowell, an immigration
specialist at Georgetown University. "People don't think through the connections
between the temporary visa program and permanent residency, and it leaves people
in these hazily defined roles. There is backlog on backlog. We are increasing
the numbers willy-nilly in a system that cannot process the paperwork, and it is
a disaster."

By contrast, other countries, particularly Canada, are actively wooing these
same workers. Starting in 1998, Canada began to speed up its processing of
high-tech workers, allowing them to gain permanent residency in a matter of
months if they score enough points on a ranking that considers their education
and the needs of the country. Australia and New Zealand have adopted similar
changes, and England, Ireland, Germany and Austria are relaxing their rules,
too.

THE I.N.S. is aware of the competition: "Canada has made it a national policy to
increase their market share of high-tech workers," said Jacquelyn Bednarz, a
special policy assistant at the I.N.S. "They are courting them with attractive
ads. They are welcoming them and aggressively pursuing them."

For H-1B's in the United States, the protracted process has practical
consequences: They must pay taxes, including Social Security, with no assurance
of ever receiving the future benefits. Their spouses are not allowed to work.
They raise children as Americans, even though they may, one day, have to go to a
country that is foreign to them.

Because the visa is issued for a specific job, many H1-B's fear that they will
hurt their chances of getting green cards if they try to switch employers,
despite new rules allowing them to do that. As a result, until they get their
green cards, many H-1B's remain tied to their first employers.

"The bond between me and my employer is stronger than between me and my wife,"
said Murali Krishna, who works in Silicon Valley. "Break the umbilical cord and
let me come and work for who I want to and negotiate what I can get. That way
employers can't exploit me. If you want to be legal, you cannot be ambitious and
grow."

Similarly, as a practical matter, it is impossible for H-1B's to become
high-tech entrepreneurs, no matter how much brain power and drive they may have,
because they would lose their green-card sponsors. "I have great business ideas,
but I cannot start a company," said Mr. Sethi, one of those dining at the Delhi
Darbar restaurant. "The environment in the U.S. makes you think about becoming
an entrepreneur. But this process cuts you down."

Many H-1B's say they live in a constant fear of being deported, should they lose
their jobs. The I.N.S. has said it plans to be lenient in the current high-tech
downturn, but if an H-1B worker is out of work for more than 10 days, he is "out
of status" and can be told to leave immediately. While the I.N.S. has had no
reports of deportations recently, serious life decisions, like buying a home and
car, having children, and firming up a career, are made more difficult by such
uncertainty.

Consider S. Samuels, an H-1B computer programmer who spoke on condition that his
first name not be used. He came to the United States to get an M.B.A., after
graduating from India's top engineering school, the Indian Institute of
Technology. That was more than five years ago. Now, with a pregnant wife and one
child who knows only of life here, he is worried.

"If a citizen or a green-card holder loses their job, they lose time or money,"
Mr. Samuels said. "For us, we can lose our whole life."

Moreover, the lengthy green-card process makes H-1B's much more vulnerable to
abuse and exploitation, like underpayment or a practice called "benching," in
which H-1B's working for computer consulting firms are not paid for time spent
waiting between assignments. Many of these consulting firms, also called "body
shops," act as middlemen, hiring H-1B's and sending them on temporary
assignments for Fortune 500 companies.

While reports of "body shop" abuse are common among H-1B's, it is hard to come
up with hard evidence, since workers fear being sent back to their home country
if they challenge their employer. But some have.

Earlier this month, in response to a suit filed by an H1-B worker, a California
superior court ordered a Silicon Valley consulting firm, Compubahn, to drop a
restrictive noncompete clause requiring H-1B's to pay the firm $25,000 if they
quit. The firm is appealing. H-1B's have complained in computer chat rooms about
this practice elsewhere.

Fraud in obtaining visas has also been found, including one tragic case in
Berkeley, Calif., in which three Indian girls were brought in on H-1B visas for
sexual purposes. The case came to light in November 1999 after one of the three,
a 17-year-old pregnant girl, died of carbon monoxide poisoning in the rented
apartment the girls shared. Last month, the landlord, Lakireddy Reddy, 63, a
native of India worth more than $50 million, pleaded guilty in federal court in
Oakland, as did two of his relatives. His two sons have also been charged in the
case, in which the group is accused of fraudulently bringing Indian nationals to
the United States for cheap labor and sex.

BEYOND the headlines, it is difficult to determine how much abuse has occurred.
By most accounts, it is a small but troubling aspect of the program. In the 2000
fiscal year, the Department of Labor received 140 complaints from H-1B workers
and ordered back wages of $1.6 million to 339 people. But the statistics may
understate the problem, because H-1B workers' dependence on their employers may
make them reticent. "There is a huge disincentive for H-1B's to complain," said
a labor department enforcement official. "They are very unwilling to come to
us."

One advocate of a speedier green-card process is Mr. Torvalds, the inventor of
the Linux computer operating system, who received his green card five months
ago. Mr. Torvalds, who lives in Silicon Valley and is chief scientist at the
Transmeta Corporation, which sponsored him for a green card, was luckier than
most -- he came from Finland, a country with no waiting list.

Yet even he faced the same difficulties as many other H-1B's. He paid cash for
his home to avoid problems in getting a mortgage; he was put in the "problem
queue" at United States Customs whenever returning from overseas trips, adding
hours to his journey; and it took him more than nine months to get a California
driver's license because of the need for immigration paperwork.

"People who end up coming on the program are pretty much at the mercy of the
system," Mr. Torvalds said in an interview by e-mail. "That makes people
nervous. It can cause total disruption in your life if the six-year clock runs
out and you have to go back to a life you've long since left behind. That
uncertainty is the nasty kind.

"Right now," he added, "the whole process is nothing but bureaucracy, with
nobody driving it, and nobody really responsible."

On the front lines of many of these problems are employers, who pay $1,000 for
the visa, an additional $3,500 to $5,000 in legal fees and untold dollars in
employee time to hire H-1B's. Under pressure from organized labor, Congress
enacted a cap in 1990 to limit the number of H-1B visas. And, in the mid-1990's,
labor pressed Congress to require that all H-1B employers file a "labor
condition application" with the Labor Department to protect American workers
from being displaced.

The paperwork for this application has grown; the regulations for it now run to
150 pages. At a minimum, an employer must show he has advertised the job to the
local work force, is not paying an H-1B any more or any less than comparable
workers, is not using H-1B's as strikebreakers and has sought to hire an
American citizen first. As a result, the hiring of an H-1B can take months.

One Wall Street firm has employees who are designated to process H-1B's,
including counseling for the bosses of H-1B workers to understand the
complications. "They have no idea of the intricacies of the process," said a
representative of the firm, which asked not to be named. "And explaining it can
last up to a couple of hours."

This mountain of paperwork also discourages companies from promoting H-1B
workers or transferring them to another job site.

"One of the major problems is that an employee is locked into a post," said
Sandra J. Boyd, a lobbyist for the National Association of Manufacturers, a
trade group. "If they want to move up the ladder, all this paperwork has to
start again."

SOME employers, especially those in small companies, have even adopted a no-H-1B
policy. A search of popular Internet high-tech employment sites like
www.Dice.com finds dozens of solicitations for software engineers with the
following designation: "U.S. citizens and green-card holders only." Calls to
recruiters placing these ads resulted in the same responses -- that many
employers do not want to face the costs, paperwork or delays that come with
hiring an H-1B.

"A lot of companies want someone right away," said one recruiter, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. "Time kills these deals."

So does money. Last December, Congress increased H-1B visa fees from $500 to
$1,000, to pay for government-sponsored job training programs for high-tech
workers. In the current fiscal year, the Department of Labor estimates that it
will receive $180 million for these training programs and $213 million next
year.

But will this money go toward training United States citizens to take the
highly-skilled jobs now filled by H-1B's? It is hard to say. The training
program is still in its infancy. So far, a large portion of the money is going
into basic programs to train disadvantaged youths, single parents and the
unemployed in entry-level computer jobs -- jobs not filled by H-1B's, but
largely by American workers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shailesh Gala, an H-1B visa holder, with his wife, Varsha, and
daughter, Rashi. The visa system "created a false promise," he said. (Nancy
Wegard for The New York Times); The Web site of the Programmers Guild, above,
condemns the H-1B program, which lets foreign workers fill U.S. jobs. Other
sites support the idea. (pg. 1); High-tech industries have attracted Indian
immigrants to places like Iselin, N.J. Women tried on wedding saris, above, at
Libaas, a local shop. Iselin, in Middlesex County, supports many other Indian
businesses, like a restaurant, left. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New
York Times)(pg. 12) Chart: "Bringing Expertise From Abroad"H1-B visas have been
rising steadily as more technology companies look abroad to find the specialized
workers they need. India, with its longstanding tradition of science and
engineering education, has been a ready source of systems analysts and
programmers. Graph shows number of H-1B visas granted from 1989-1999. VISAS
GRANTED, BY COMPANY, OCT. 1999 TO FEB. 2000 Motorola: 618Oracle: 455Cisco
Systems: 398Mastech: 389Intel: 367Microsoft: 362Rapidigm: 357Syntel: 337Wipro:
327Tata Consultancy Services: 320PricewaterhouseCoopers: 272People.com
Consultants: 261Lucent Technologies: 255Infosys Technologies: 239Nortel
Networks: 234 SHARE OF VISAS GRANTED, BY COUNTRY, MAY 1998 TO JULY 1999* Other
countries: 27.8Japan: 2.0Taiwan: 2.1South Korea: 2.3Philippines: 2.7Canada:
3.0Britain: 3.2China: 9.3India: 47.5% *Figures do not add to 100 because of
rounding(Sources: State Department; Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg.
12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Medicaid Curb For Immigrants Is Ruled Illegal

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 5


New York's highest court ruled today that the state had violated the state and
federal Constitutions by denying Medicaid benefits to thousands of needy legal
immigrants.

The state policy applied to immigrants who arrived in this country after August
1996. At that time, under a far-reaching new welfare law, Congress barred
immigrants who came after that from availing themselves of a range of federally
financed government benefits. It was left to the states to decide whether to
cover the cost of those benefits, including Medicaid, the health insurance
program for the poor. At the insistence of Gov. George E. Pataki, the state
decided not to, and state legislation was passed to conform to the federal act.

In a unanimous ruling today, the State Court of Appeals found that by doing so,
New York had violated its own constitutional provision to aid the poor. "Care
for the needy is not a matter of legislative grace; it is a constitutional
mandate," the seven-member panel ruled in its 26-page opinion.

Further, the court found, singling out poor New Yorkers on the basis of their
immigration status violated the equal-protection clause of the United States
Constitution. In effect, the court found, Congress had no power to authorize the
states to violate the federal Constitution. The Court of Appeals ruling
overturned an appellate court decision and sent the case back to the trial court
that had ruled in the plaintiffs' favor two years ago.

Today, lawyers for the plaintiffs hailed the ruling as the strongest affirmation
of the state's provisions for indigent care in more than a decade.

"The Court of Appeals says, 'You live here legally, you pay taxes, you
contribute like every other New York State resident,' " said Elisabeth Benjamin,
interim supervising lawyer for the health law unit of the Legal Aid Society.
"You are entitled to have the same kinds of benefits as any other resident." Two
other groups joined in the case: the New York Legal Assistance Group and the
Greater Upstate Law Project

The state court, of course, cannot compel the federal government to help pay for
Medicaid benefits for immigrants. So in practical terms, today's decision means
that the Pataki administration will have to pay to extend coverage for all legal
immigrants. Precise figures of the cost were not available today, but estimates
varied widely, from $2.5 million to hundreds of millions.

At a news conference here this afternoon, Governor Pataki pledged to comply with
the court order and repeatedly denounced the 1996 decision by Congress that
denied federal Medicaid benefits for post-1996 legal immigrants. At the time,
Congress reasoned that the change would slow the flow of immigrants who would
end up becoming a public charge.

"We'll certainly provide the services, and at the same time urge the federal
government to correct what I believe was the mistaken decision in '96 to cut off
these benefits," Mr. Pataki said. "I believed then the federal government made
the wrong decision in abdicating its responsibility. I still believe it was
wrong. And we're going to continue to make the case for them to pick up their
fair share."

Legal advocates said they hoped that the Court of Appeals decision would sway
other states and perhaps even Congress to consider repealing the restrictions.
They argued that in many cases, providing Medicaid coverage to patients with
chronic illnesses that require routine care, like diabetes, was far less costly
for states than incurring emergency-room bills through required Medicaid care.

Several other states with large immigrant populations, including California and
New Jersey, have decided to spend their own money to extend Medicaid to all
legal immigrants. Other states, like Florida and Texas, use state funds to offer
health benefits to poor immigrant children but not to adults.

Since 1996, several state governors have expressed frustration at having to bear
the full cost of immigrants' Medicaid benefits. Last month, the National
Governors' Association urged Congress to restore federal Medicaid matching funds
for immigrant children and pregnant women.

Still unresolved in New York is whether the court decision affects a related
health insurance program for the working poor called Family Health Plus. Until
now, legal immigrants who arrived after 1996 have been ineligible for the
program, which, like Medicaid, is paid for with a combination of state and
federal dollars.

The governor said today that he had not decided whether the ruling obliges the
state to extend Family Health Plus benefits to post-1996 immigrants. Democrats
in the Assembly insisted that it did. "People who are covered by Family Health
Plus have been designated as needy by the Legislature," Richard Gottfried,
chairman of the Assembly Health Committee, said this afternoon. "The Court of
Appeals has said if we designate a group of people as needy we cannot
discriminate because they are immigrants."

Legislation has been pending in both the Democrat-controlled State Assembly and
the Republican-controlled Senate to extend Medicaid and Family Health Plus
benefits to this group of legal immigrants using only state funds. Legislation
is not necessarily required to implement today's court order.

On the cost to the state, widely divergent estimates were offered today. The
governor said it would be significant, estimating that it could be in the
hundreds of millions of dollars -- "certainly in the nine figures," he said.

A recent report by the Commonwealth Fund, a nonpartisan health care research
group, estimated that 100,000 legal immigrants would be eligible for Medicaid
under the change. Roughly a third of them would use those benefits, the report
projected, at a cost of about $2.5 million a year to the state.

Although legally binding only in New York, the court decision potentially holds
important implications for immigrants' rights nationwide. Similar lawsuits in
other states are likely to seek state-funded medical coverage for needy
immigrants.

"The reasoning of this court decision may cause other states to come in line,"
said David Super, general counsel at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,
a liberal public policy research organization in Washington. "If enough states
are having to bear the full burden of paying for these immigrants, that could
bring political pressure on Congress to provide the usual federal matching
funds."

The court decision applies to only one piece of the complicated patchwork of
health care policy for immigrant New Yorkers. It does not apply to illegal
immigrants. They have never been eligible for government benefits, except in the
case of children and those who ended up in hospital emergency rooms. Pregnant
women who were in the country illegally had also been receiving prenatal care
that was paid for in part with federal funds, but a federal appeals court struck
that down last month, saying the federal Welfare Reform Act did not permit such
coverage. Legislation was introduced last week in the Assembly to use only state
dollars to pay for their care.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 21, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Judges Do Battle in an Immigration Case

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1026 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa.


Nearly one million Americans have typically been waiting six months or more for
immigration authorities to process a marriage visa that leads to permanent
residency for their noncitizen spouses.

Most have little choice but simply to wait. But since April, something
extraordinary has happened in the case of a 46-year-old man from Trinidad,
detained since last summer in a county jail here, whose wife seeks such a visa
for him.

First an immigration judge here, William Van Wyke, suspended an effort by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport the man, and pressured
officials to act quickly on the visa application.

Then, in an even more unusual twist, Judge Van Wyke's decision was overruled by
the nation's chief immigration judge, Michael J. Creppy, after what Judge Van
Wyke and his supporters call a series of improper contacts between I.N.S.
lawyers and Judge Creppy's office.

The reversal, and Judge Van Wyke's denunciation of his boss, are the talk of the
immigration circuit, whose union of administrative judges has filed a formal
protest against Judge Creppy and a top aide, accusing them of unethical
behavior.

"The actions of the office of the chief immigration judge raise profoundly
troubling questions about the integrity of the deportation process and the
independence of the chief immigration judge from the I.N.S.," said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's immigrants' rights
project.

Judge Creppy's spokeswoman says he was simply doing his job.

The legal maneuvering over an immigrant and a visa backlog offers a rare glimpse
into the world of American immigration courts, a network of more than 200
administrative judges who control the fate of hundreds of thousands of
foreigners.

And the detention of the immigrant, Ramesh Mohansingh, who remains in I.N.S.
custody here, hoping to rejoin his wife and eight children in New York City,
underscores the delays in immigration services that President Bush has vowed to
improve with $500 million over the next five years.

Mr. Mohansingh arrived in the United States in 1987 on a six-month visitor's
visa, and never left. He soon met his future wife, Stacey, an American citizen
now 37, with whom he lived for seven years before they married in 1997. He has
worked odd jobs, some in construction and landscaping; she is a $26,000-a-year
clerk for New York City's Department of Homeless Services.

The couple live in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn with their eight
children, ranging in age from 10 years to 6 months. Their union has been rocky.
Mr. Mohansingh has been convicted of domestic violence three times, most
recently in 1998 for hitting his 4-year-old daughter with a belt.

The immigration service wants to deport Mr. Mohansingh because of those
convictions and the expiration of his visa. His family says he has been seeing a
social worker for two years and deserves another chance.

"Our domestic disputes are in the past," Mrs. Mohansingh said in a telephone
interview. "That doesn't give them the right to rob children from their father
and me from my husband."

Judge Van Wyke, who declined to be interviewed, apparently agreed.  "He is not a
danger to his family but just the opposite, a crucial actor in making it
function," the judge wrote in a ruling on March 12.

But I.N.S. lawyers pressed Judge Van Wyke to deport Mr. Mohansingh before the
agency handled the petition for a marriage visa. They argued that the
application was a desperate move, having come four months after he was detained.
Mrs. Mohansingh said she had not applied sooner because the process was too
costly and complicated.

On April 16, Judge Van Wyke again ruled for the family, scolding the immigration
service for failing to meet its goal of processing applications within 90 days.

"This is at least the fifth case this judge has heard here in York," he wrote,
"where an imprisoned applicant is subject to long delays because the I.N.S. will
not address a visa petition or other application within a reasonably short
period of time."

So the judge suspended Mr. Mohansingh's deportation proceedings until the I.N.S.
acted on his "alien relative" visa application, a preliminary step toward his
winning a green card that would prevent his expulsion. All indications are that
the visa would eventually have been approved and that Judge Van Wyke would have
given him a green card.

Instead of seeking regular administrative review, I.N.S. lawyers in
Philadelphia, furious with Judge Van Wyke, privately sought relief from Judge
Creppy's office in Falls Church, Va. Eleven days later, Mr. Mohansingh's case
was back on the docket: Judge Creppy found that Judge Van Wyke's decision to
suspend the deportation process had been in error.

Judge Van Wyke then accused Judge Creppy of "an appearance of impropriety" and
of undermining the immigration courts' independence from the immigration
service.

Through a spokeswoman, Judge Creppy denied impropriety and said his contacts
with I.N.S. lawyers in Philadelphia were well within his duties.

Exasperated by the reversal of his ruling, Judge Van Wyke recused himself from
the case. Another judge will hear the I.N.S.'s request to deport Mr. Mohansingh,
at a hearing here on June 21.

The chief judge's decision stunned many of his admirers.

"I have a lot of respect for Judge Creppy, but there's no justification for what
happened," said Joseph A. Vail, a former immigration judge who heads the
University of Houston Law School's immigration clinic.

Immigration judges preside in 52 courts nationwide, handling more than 260,000
matters a year. The judges worked for the I.N.S. until 1983, when, in an effort
to make them more independent, they were placed in a separate Justice Department
agency, the Executive Office for Immigration Review.

Judge Van Wyke, a former law professor and staff attorney for the Central
American Refugee Center, is known in immigration law circles here as a friend to
immigrants and a bane to the immigration service.

"He bends over backwards for detainees," said Metty Vithayathil, director of the
Pennsylvania Immigration Resource Center, an advocacy group, "but the I.N.S.
hates him."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stacey Mohansingh with her eight children at her home in
Brooklyn. "Our domestic disputes," she says of an issue central to the
immigration authorities' efforts to deport her husband, "are in the past."
(Steve Hart for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 1, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation: Second Thoughts;
Cracking the Door for Immigrants

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1012 words


FIVE years on, it takes some effort to recall the full fury of the
anti-immigration hurricane that hit Washington in 1996.

It was a time of sweeping political declarations -- remember Newt Gingrich and
his Contract With America? -- and everyone seemed to agree that everything was
wrong with immigration policy. Critics said the system was so lax that
terrorists and freeloaders could slip by border guards with ease or stay in the
country undetected. They said immigrants abused political asylum, defrauded the
bureaucracy and burdened welfare programs.

The laws passed that year were just as sweeping as the oratory, restricting not
only benefits but also due-process protection for immigrants. And then,
suddenly, the storm passed. An abashed Congress and many states amended or
softened the legislation. Last week, the Supreme Court ruled twice in favor of
immigrants who had challenged aspects of the laws concerning the mandatory
detention and deportation of noncitizens who have committed crimes.

Even so, the 1996 overhaul of the nation's immigration policy has altered the
relationship between the government and immigrants. And while immigration has
ceased to be the polarizing issue it was in the mid-1990's, the landmark laws
enacted then have diminished the rights of legal immigrants and expanded the
classes of immigrants who can be deported without judicial review.

"Many of the most far-reaching aspects of all these laws remain on the books,
and almost all of them are exclusionary in nature," said Michael Fix, director
of immigration studies at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit policy research
organization in Washington. "There have been some striking rollbacks, but these
are very large, comprehensive laws and they remain mostly in force."

Some of the most dramatic results can be seen in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which has received huge infusions of money and manpower.
The added resources have not stopped illegal immigration, a problem that still
confounds policy makers. But the I.N.S. has become the biggest law enforcement
agency in the federal government, empowered and in many instances required to
jail and deport more people than ever before.

At the same time, the 1996 laws (the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act; the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act; and the
general welfare reform package) virtually eliminated the discretionary powers of
agency officials to grant exceptions to individual immigrants.

While their effects may have been unintended, those basic provisions remain
intact. "It's a question of the abstract versus the specific," said Doris M.
Meissner, the I.N.S. commissioner from 1993 to 2000. "In the abstract, of
course, people don't want to have illegal immigration. Of course people don't
want criminal aliens here who are a danger. It all seems very self-evident. But
when you really have to grapple with specific circumstances, it looks very
different."

MANY lawmakers didn't grasp the scope of the punitive measures they passed, said
Ms. Meissner. "The immigration policy debate shows how unsettled we are right
now about how we view immigration," she added. "And maybe that's to be expected
because looking back, we now know from the census that this has been the largest
decade of immigration in history in terms of numbers. Over 10 million people
came to this country in the 1990's."

The two Supreme Court decisions last week will provide limited relief to some
immigrants caught up in the harsh 1996 laws and may bring about broader changes
in some agency procedures. But immigrant advocacy groups said new legislation
would ultimately be needed. In the first case, the justices ruled that
noncitizens who pleaded guilty to crimes before 1996 should not be automatically
deported, as required by the new laws. However, the decision did not deal with
the many others who did not plead guilty but were convicted of crimes and still
face automatic deportation, even when the offenses were minor or committed
decades earlier.

In the second case, the court said the government could not detain immigrants
indefinitely, even if they had committed crimes. But that ruling, too, may be
limited in its immediate effect because it deals specifically with immigrants
whose home countries refuse to take them back.

Most of the activity aimed at easing the 1996 laws has focused on restoring
welfare benefits that were eliminated for legal immigrants and refugees.
Congress itself reinstated some benefits, but only to those who arrived in the
country before the welfare rules changed in 1996. Needy people who arrived
legally after 1996 have found little relief. One-fourth of the states provide
them with food stamps; only a handful pick up their Medicaid costs.

Earlier this month, the New York Court of Appeals ruled that the state may not
deny Medicaid benefits to immigrants, regardless of their date of arrival. It is
not clear whether that decision will influence other states.

"To be a legal permanent resident used to be a very secure status," said Joshua
Bernstein, a senior policy analyst for the National Immigration Law Center.
"People couldn't vote, but in most other circumstances they were treated fairly.
Now we've made it into a much more contingent status, where people can no longer
feel sure that fundamental rights won't be taken away."

THE sweeping changes in immigration law did not, in the end, resolve the problem
of illegal immigration, which was the issue, after all, that provoked all the
hue and cry in Washington five years ago. Nor do they address the concern of
those critics who see illegal immigration as a byproduct of the massive influx
of legal immigrants over the past decade.

"They took some baby steps toward fixing our dysfunctional immigration system,"
said Mark S. Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies
and an advocate of reduced immigration. "But they also made some things worse --
and the big reason for that is they consciously dodged the major issue, which is
the level of legal immigration."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 1996 overhaul of immigration policy has had a lasting
impact: Haitian immigrants in Florida. (Laura Kleinhenz/Saba)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 1, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Legal Breakthrough for Immigrants

BYLINE:  By David Cole;  David Cole is a professor at Georgetown University Law
Center.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Despite the promise of the Statue of Liberty, noncitizens have rarely been
treated as constitutional equals in this country. Yet in two surprising
decisions handed down last week, the Supreme Court has come close to recognizing
that immigrants are persons entitled to the same basic constitutional
protections that apply to citizens. In doing so, the court broke from its own
ignoble history of slighting immigrants' interests and may well have embarked on
a new era in immigrants' rights.

In the first case, Immigration and Naturalization Service v. St. Cyr, the
government claimed it could expel immigrants who had committed a wide range of
crimes without any court review, even where the deportation violated federal
law. In the second case, Zadvydas v. Davis, the government argued that it could
lock up immigrants who were ordered deported for indefinite terms if their home
countries would not take them back.

In both cases, the government maintained that because its power over immigration
is virtually absolute, immigrants' rights are left to the discretion of Congress
and I.N.S administrators. That position was not unprecedented. The Supreme Court
has often upheld actions taken against immigrants that would not normally pass
muster if taken against citizens. In the late 1800's, the court affirmed laws
that prohibited Chinese immigration and presumptively treated Chinese aliens as
unreliable witnesses. During the 1950's, the court upheld the deportation of
noncitizen Communist Party members, including individuals who had left the party
long before membership became grounds for deportation. And just two years ago,
the court ruled that immigrants could raise no constitutional objection to being
selectively targeted for deportation based on their political associations.

But apparently the government can go too far. In 1996, Congress enacted the
harshest immigration reforms of our generation. It made a wide range of
relatively minor criminal offenses grounds for automatic deportation, mandated
detention for some aliens, appeared to authorize indefinite detention for
others, and stripped federal courts of power to review many immigration
decisions.

The court wisely interpreted those 1996 statutes to preserve basic
constitutional protections for immigrants. In the St. Cyr case, the court said
that judicial review of deportation decisions "is unquestionably required by the
Constitution," even though the statute appeared to bar judicial review. Without
the right to go to court, all other rights are meaningless. This is especially
so for immigrants, who, lacking a political voice, cannot expect to find
protection from the political branches, and doubly so for those with criminal
records, a particularly unpopular bunch.

In the Zadvydas case, the court said that the Constitution protects the liberty
of "all 'persons' in the United States, including aliens, whether their presence
here is lawful, unlawful, temporary, or permanent." Indefinite detention of a
person who is not likely to be deported in the near future, the court ruled,
would likely violate due process. To avoid that problem, the court limited the
I.N.S.'s power to detain aliens to six months if prompt removal is not
reasonably foreseeable.

Underlying both decisions is the court's fundamental recognition that, as
"persons" living here, noncitizens are entitled to the protections of the Bill
of Rights not explicitly limited to citizens. Last week, the court was at last
willing to say that those protections limit the power of Congress and the
executive branch to do as they please with the lives and liberty of the millions
of immigrants who live among us.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 19, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Choice Pledges Kinder, Gentler I.N.S.

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18


President Bush's choice to be the nation's top immigration official distanced
himself today from a 1996 Republican-sponsored law that required foreigners
entering the United States without proper documents to be detained, often
alongside criminals in local jails.

James W. Ziglar, the nominee to be commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said he was especially concerned about the welfare of
the 4,600 unaccompanied immigrant children the agency held in custody each year.

"I'm not one who likes the idea of people being detained unless they're
convicted of a crime or a danger to society," Mr. Ziglar told the Senate
Judiciary Committee in his confirmation hearing.

Instead, Mr. Ziglar said, he favored developing alternatives to allow asylum
seekers and other foreigners lacking proper papers to live in the community
pending their immigration proceedings. Most of the 20,000 immigrants the agency
detains each year are held in shelters or jails.

It was a telling example of the kinder, gentler and more efficient I.N.S. that
Mr. Ziglar told senators he would establish if he was confirmed, which Democrats
and Republicans said today was a certainty. Mr. Ziglar's words echoed the
pro-immigrant sentiments that Mr. Bush has sounded.

In his prepared testimony, Mr. Ziglar said his chief goal would be to ensure
that every person who came into contact with the I.N.S. would "be treated with
respect and dignity and without any hint of bias or discrimination."

That is a lofty ambition for an agency that has been accused of shoddy and
sullen service and of abusing immigrants' rights. "You inherit an agency that's
a mess," Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, said.

In a folksy but firm voice, Mr. Ziglar said he understood the challenges facing
the agency, and outlined a battle plan to revamp the fast-growing agency that
was charged with the often conflicting goals of enforcing the nation's borders
and offering benefits and services to its newest residents.

Mr. Ziglar, the sergeant-at-arms of the Senate, urged senators to let him try to
fulfill Mr. Bush's goal of restructuring the dual missions of the agency without
the complication of unneeded legislation. "An awful lot of reform can be done
administratively without going to Congress," he said.

Mr. Ziglar, a 55-year-old son of a Mississippi shipyard worker, said another
priority would be to improve the sagging morale of the agency's 33,000
employees, and assert his control over the agency's 33 district directors.

Immigrant advocates like Wendy Young of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women
and Children gave Mr. Ziglar's comments cautious praise.  But, Ms. Young said,
"The devil is in the details."

Mr. Ziglar is a former assistant secretary of the interior in the Reagan
administration and, most important to his new job, enjoys broad bipartisan
respect on Capitol Hill.

In an extraordinary demonstration of that support, Senator Tom Daschle of South
Dakota, the majority leader, and Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican
leader and Mr. Ziglar's boyhood pal, showed up to vouch for the nominee. "All
that's left to be said is, 'Amen, let's vote,' " Mr. Daschle said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2001 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation: Separate and Unequal;
You Can Come In. You Stay Out.

BYLINE:   By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


UNITED STATES immigration policy is not fair. Never has been. Probably never
will be.

Ever since the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 barred Chinese laborers from the
country, American immigration history has been littered with laws and policies
that have favored some countries and discriminated against others.

Instead of adhering to consistent, evenhanded rules, lawmakers and presidents
over the years have withheld or doled out green cards, citizenship and other
immigration perks based largely on race, economics, domestic politics and
foreign policy. Immigrants fleeing Communist Cuba, for instance, are granted
permanent legal status faster than other foreigners.

The latest proposal for selective treatment is a recommendation from President
Bush's top immigration advisers to allow some of the estimated three million
Mexicans living here illegally to earn permanent legal residency over time.

Advocates for other illegal immigrants howled that other groups deserve equal
treatment. They may be here illegally, their advocates argue, but they hold
jobs, pay taxes and raise American-born children who are citizens, just as most
Mexicans do. Mr. Bush seemed to try to tamp down the growing furor last week
when he said he would ultimately "consider all folks here," but immigration
specialists say the president is on firm ground in singling out Mexico for
starters.

"The lesson to be learned is that U.S. immigration policy has to make choices,"
said Pamela S. Falk, a professor of international law at City University of New
York and a former top House Democratic aide on Latin American issues. "To choose
one group over another is a harsh reality, yet it's the fuel for the engine that
drives the American economy and American foreign policy."

In 1997, for example, Congress passed a law that made it easier for Nicaraguans
to gain permanent residency, but treated Salvadorans and Guatemalans less
generously.  Hondurans and Haitians were left out of the deal altogether.

"These were all people fleeing civil disorder in the 1980's, but we favored
people fleeing from former communist regimes," said T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a
former general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service who is now
a senior associate at the Migration Policy Institute, a new research and policy
group here.

It's not just foreign policy that makes the difference. Last year,
high-technology employers facing labor shortages persuaded the
Republican-controlled Congress to nearly double the annual quota for temporary,
high-skilled immigrants, to 195,000. Most of those visas go to immigrants from
China and India.

And this year, a broad coalition of employers from restaurant and hotel owners
to landscapers and meat-packing plants are lobbying to expand a temporary worker
program to include lesser-skilled laborers in their fields. "People complain
about interest groups," said Professor Falk, "but that's the American system."

In the case of Mexico, the legalization plan would be a crucial component of an
ambitious new "guest worker" program that would allow some of the Mexicans
living in the United States illegally to earn permanent residency, and give new
migrants the chance to apply for green cards over time. The program is part of
broader talks between Washington and Mexico City that tie migration to trade,
energy, human rights and the fight against drug trafficking.

"There are very good reasons for crafting a special immigration relationship
with Mexico, given its propinquity, its historical ties and Nafta," said Mr.
Aleinikoff. "That said, when it comes to the legalization proposal, it's very
hard to distinguish long-term undocumented immigrants from Mexico in the United
States from long-term undocumented immigrants here from other countries."

BUT let's open the history books. For a variety of reasons, not all them worthy
by contemporary standards, American immigration policy has always made
distinctions by race, ethnicity and socio-economic class.

In 1907, under the so-called Gentlemen's Agreement, the United States agreed not
to ban all Japanese immigration if Japan promised not to issue passports to
Japanese laborers for travel to the continental United States. (They were still
welcome to become agricultural workers in Hawaii.)

In 1921, the United States adopted a national-origins quota system that limited
admissions from each European country to 3 percent of the foreign-born
population here as of the 1910 Census. That had the effect of favoring northern
Europeans over southern and eastern Europeans for nearly half a century. Most
Asians were still excluded, but there were no limits on migrants from the
Western Hemisphere.

Three years later, President Calvin Coolidge signed an even more restrictive
bill governing ethnic quotas, saying, "America must be kept American."

Not until the McCarran-Walter Act in 1952 did Congress crack open America's door
slightly wider, maintaining the national-origins systems but for the first time
approving minimum annual quotas for all countries.

As part of the civil rights movement, the Immigration and Naturalization Act of
1965 eliminated racial criteria and replaced country-by-country quotas with a
system that awarded green cards based largely on family or employer sponsorship.
Until 1965, for example, the annual quota for Germans was almost 26,000 and the
Irish almost 18,000, while the quota for China was 105, for Japan 185 and for
the Pacific Islands 100.

Under the 1965 Act, which is still in effect, there is a worldwide ceiling on
the number of people who come in through the family-preference system (excluding
parents, spouses and minor children of refugees and American citizens). There is
also a cap on admissions for individual countries.

Only a handful of nations reach the annual limits -- Mexico, China, India, the
Philippines -- but their nationals wait the longest to get in. Siblings of
United States citizens born in the Philippines, for example, now face a 22-year
wait for a green card.

"There will never be an ideal, totally fair immigration policy," said Ellis
Cose, the author of "A Nation of Strangers: Prejudice, Politics, and the
Populating of America." "So the best we can aim for is something that's not
blatantly racially discriminatory."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2001 %AGE: 61 CAREER: Chief executive, Intel, since May
1998; joined Intel in 1974. Previously an associate professor of materials
science at Stanford; wrote "Principles of Engineering Materials" (1973).BOARD
MEMBERSHIP: Qwest Communications InternationalEDUCATION: B.S., M.S. and Ph.D.,
Stanford MITCHELL E. KERTZMANAGE: 50CAREER: Chief executive, Liberate
Technologies, which provides software for interactive TV, since November 1998.
Chief executive, Sybase, 1996-1998. Chief executive and founder, PowerSoft,
1974- 1995.BOARD MEMBERSHIPS: Handspring, CNET.EDUCATION: Attended Brandeis, but
left after two years to be a rock D.J. (pg. 11)July 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 5, 2001



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about the history of United States
immigration policy misidentified the 1965 law that eliminated race and national
origin as criteria for admission. It was the Immigration and Nationality Act,
not the Immigration and Naturalization Act.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Waiting in line at the Immigration and Naturalization office in
Portland, Ore. (Associated Press)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Immigration Policy

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 152 words


To the Editor:

The history of United States immigration policy is, indeed, rife with
discrimination on account of race, class and place (Week in Review, July 29).
But for the last several decades, particularly beginning with immigration law
amendments in 1965, Congress has sought to iron out some of these inequalities.

Differential treatment has proved particularly hard to sustain when it comes to
measures to deal with undocumented people already in the United States; witness
the twists and turns in policy associated with the debates of the 1980's
regarding the grant of status to unauthorized migrants. The force of this
emerging norm of nondiscrimination in immigration policy is why it will not be
possible politically for President Bush to limit a legalization program
explicitly to Mexicans.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
New York, July 30, 2001

The writer is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 15, 2001 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

When Asylum Requests Are Overlooked

BYLINE:   By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1546 words

DATELINE: LOS FRESNOS, Tex.


When Libardo Yepes, a soft-spoken Colombian cattle farmer, arrived at Miami
International Airport last November with an invalid visa, seeking asylum, he
told immigration officials that he feared for his life if he was returned to a
country where rival factions had killed or kidnapped at least six of his
relatives. But immigration officers deported him in less than 24 hours.

Mr. Yepes fled Colombia again and, after a three-month journey by land and sea,
he was seized by Border Patrol agents in Texas after he crossed the Rio Grande
in an inner tube in May. For more than two months, Mr. Yepes was held at a
federal detention center here as immigration officials sought to eject him for
good.

Immigrant advocacy groups say that Mr. Yepes's story offers a troubling glimpse
into how low-level immigration enforcement officers summarily deport tens of
thousands of immigrants without proper papers every year. Among them, the
advocates say, are many asylum seekers who are returned to dangerous situations
without the hearings to which they are legally entitled for review of their
claims of persecution.

"I asked for protection because I was very afraid of going back to my country,"
Mr. Yepes said in an interview here in Spanish, translated by his lawyer, Ilyce
Shugall, of the South Texas Pro Bono Asylum Representation Project.

Immigration officials in Miami dispute that assertion and say Mr. Yepes
(pronounced yeh-pess) came to this country to find work. But in early August,
Mr. Yepes was finally allowed to tell his story to a specially trained asylum
officer here, who found his account credible, and his case has been referred to
an immigration judge who will decide his fate in the next few weeks. On Aug. 13,
he was released pending that hearing from the bleak high-security compound here
that houses more than 600 detainees, many of them criminals, to a refugee
shelter nearby.

Before passage of a Republican-backed law five years ago, only an immigration
judge could order the deportation of someone who arrived without valid travel
documents. Now, an immigration officer can exercise that power, called expedited
removal, on the spot, a move intended to cut down on fraud.

Though the inspectors are required by law to refer any foreigner expressing a
fear of persecution to a specially trained asylum officer, a Congressional
report found that officers dealing with many possible asylum seekers often did
not follow proper procedures.

"These decisions should be entrusted to trained immigration judges, not to
enforcement-oriented inspectors at airports and border crossings," said Eleanor
A. Acer, an attorney for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, an advocacy
group in New York.

Of the nearly 182,000 people deported in fiscal year 2000, about 86,000, or 47
percent, were by expedited removal. And in general, of persons identified for
expedited removal, only 5 percent get beyond the on-the-spot interview and see
an asylum officer, according to agency statistics. Of those, 80 percent or more
persuade asylum officers that they have a credible fear and are given a chance
to make their case to an immigration judge.

In September 1999, representatives from the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees observed front-line officers at the Seattle-Tacoma International
Airport. Afterward, they expressed concerns about the officers' interview
techniques and the accuracy of information they gave to applicants.

The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, said in a
report last September that immigration officers "were generally complying with
requirements" of expedited removal. But investigators also found that in 21
percent of cases reviewed at Los Angeles International Airport, applicants were
not properly questioned about their fear of returning home. And 39 percent of
the cases examined at the Miami airport lacked a supervisor's required approval.

Even the new commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, James W. Ziglar,
has criticized the speedy deportation procedures. "We need to change the process
where asylum-seekers come here, to make sure that we know who these people are
and what their claims are and whether they're legitimate before we turn around
and put them on a plane back to an uncertain future," he said at his Senate
confirmation hearing.

Mr. Yepes's case has attracted attention on Capitol Hill. Senator Patrick J.
Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who heads the Judiciary Committee, voiced anger over
Mr. Yepes's plight in a speech on the Senate floor in early August. "This policy
is fundamentally unwise and unfair," Mr. Leahy said, citing Mr. Yepes's case as
reason to pass a bipartisan bill that would eliminate expedited removal.

Indeed, a quirk in the law bars Mr. Yepes from seeking asylum unless the
original deportation order is erased. Otherwise, Mr. Yepes could try to block
his removal, but he would be ineligible to become a permanent resident or to
bring his family here.

In the interview, Mr. Yepes discussed his life in a province outside Medellin
that has been a hotbed of violence between rival groups. He said he was
terrorized for two years by leftist guerrillas who extorted $250 a month and
threatened violence if he did not pay. Last fall, he said, right-wing
paramilitary fighters shot at him and vowed to kill him for paying the
guerrillas the fees. Trapped between the two factions, Mr. Yepes fled.

In referring the Colombian's case to the judge who will decide his fate in the
next few weeks, the asylum officer, Shannon O'Brien, concluded from a two-hour
interview with Mr. Yepes that his testimony was "sufficiently detailed,
plausible, and consistent," and "credible."

Mr. Yepes is hardly alone in seeking refuge from Colombia, a country convulsed
for the past four years by the kidnappings and killings that flourish in a
punishing civil conflict. Between October 2000 and June 2001, 1,983 Colombians
were granted asylum, or 58 percent of those who applied. In all of 1997, only 27
Colombians received asylum.

Perhaps not surprisingly, there is conflicting information around Mr. Yepes's
case. An internal memorandum from two immigration inspectors at the Miami
airport, Ignacio Ramos and Daniel Torres, on Nov. 30, 2000, the night Mr. Yepes
arrived from Bogota, concluded that, "Subject also stated a concern of being
returned to his country."

But in a sworn statement taken the next day by another immigration officer,
Manuel O. Reyes II, Mr. Yepes was recorded saying, "no," when asked if he feared
returning home.  When asked why he came to the United States, the response on
the form was, "I am looking for employment."

Mr. Yepes and his lawyer, Ms. Shugall, said that he did not fully understand the
inspector because Mr. Reyes spoke a mix of English and Spanish, and had a mouth
full of food during the questioning. The question-and-answer statement that Mr.
Yepes signed was written in English, a language he cannot read, they added.

Maria Elena Garcia, a spokeswoman for the agency in Miami, said that Mr. Reyes
is a native Cuban who speaks Spanish fluently. Ms. Garcia acknowledged that the
forms Mr. Yepes signed were in English for official purposes, but said that the
answers spoke for themselves. "I have no reason to dispute what's on the
question-and-answer form," she said.

Ms. Garcia said Miami officials had not interviewed the inspector about the case
because it was unrealistic to believe that Mr. Reyes could recall a situation he
handled eight months ago in a district that deports more than 1,200 people by
expedited removal each year.

But a spokeswoman at the immigration service headquarters in Washington, Karen
Kraushaar, said that senior officials were "reviewing the case to make sure all
procedures were properly followed."

From May 30 until he was moved to the refugee shelter, Mr. Yepes was housed at
the Port Isabel Service Processing Center here, a 347-acre, high-security
compound set in an isolated stretch of cotton and sugar cane fields.
Chain-linked fences are capped by barbed-wire or coils of razor wire. Armed
guards march detainees dressed in blue, orange or red jumpsuits around in single
file, as orders blare in Spanish from loudspeakers around the camp.

More than 600 immigrant men and women are held here, many of whom are thieves or
drug traffickers. Mr. Yepes, 34, who finished two years of high school, had no
criminal record and was a model detainee, immigration officials said.

At the detention center, Mr. Yepes said, he got up at 5 a.m., a habit from his
farming days, and read the Bible. In between meals, he played ping-pong or
dominoes with other detainees, or watched television. He earned $1 a day
sweeping out his dormitory.  Five dollars bought a telephone card good for a
four-minute conversation once a week with his mother, wife and four small
children in Colombia.

He said he had been treated well since his arrival. But when he pulled out tiny,
dog-eared pictures of three of his four children -- he lost a photo of the
fourth -- from a plastic wallet, he grew pensive, thinking about his upcoming
court hearing and the possibility he might be sent back to Colombia.

"I would have to go back. I can't sell my farm," he said. "I have too many
debts. I'd have to go back and face the consequences."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2001



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about a Colombian farmer's struggle to gain
asylum in the United States referred incorrectly to guards at the Port Isabel
Service Processing Center in Los Fresnos, Tex., where he was detained. The
guards are unarmed; the Immigration and Naturalization Service says it is
against policy to carry a weapon inside the compound.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Libardo Yepes headed to his room at the Port Isabel Service
Processing Center in Los Fresnos, Tex., last week. Mr. Yepes, a Colombian, was
first deported without an asylum review, but won a hearing before a judge. (Brad
Doherty for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Condemned Again for Old Crimes;
Deportation Law Descends Sternly, and Often by Surprise

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1560 words


At 21, Alejandro Bontia had a 16-year-old girlfriend whose mother was angered
that her teenage daughter was involved in a relationship. She informed the
police, and Mr. Bontia found himself charged with sexual contact with a minor
and given four years' probation. Mr. Bontia, a Web designer who is now 34 and
married and has a son, never had another brush with the law. The youthful
dalliance was, at least in his mind, chalked up to the foibles of adolescence.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service has a long memory.

Under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996,
Mr. Bontia, because he had a record, was a wanted man. Immigration service
officials stopped him at Newark International Airport on Jan. 30 as he and his
family came back from a wedding in the Philippines. He was imprisoned for more
than six months before raising bail of $25,000.

Even though his old girlfriend wrote a letter in his defense saying that the
relationship was consensual, he is now fighting to avoid being sent back to the
Philippines, where he was born and lived until he was 7.

"I was sitting with other detained immigrants in the Hudson County Corrections
Facility on July 4, watching the special on NBC with Katie Couric," Mr. Bontia
said. "She talked about how this was the land of opportunity, freedom and
justice. We howled with laughter. The motto of the Statue of Liberty in today's
America is: give me your poor, your tired and your hungry, because we still have
empty jail cells."

Although there have been many complaints from immigration lawyers and even
I.N.S. officials about the harshness of the 1996 immigration act, the United
States is continuing to deport immigrants who long ago committed crimes.

Like phantoms barreling down from a hazy, distant past, ancient crimes and
misdemeanors, sometimes decades old, have been dredged up by investigators at
the immigration service to condemn tens of thousands of immigrants to swift and
usually irrevocable removal proceedings.

The magnitude of the crime is irrelevant. If it is considered an aggravated
felony -- shoplifting can be an aggravated felony -- the immigrant must go.
Judges have little or no discretion to ward off the blunt results of the 1996
legislation, part of the Republicans' push to rewrite laws considered too
liberal.

The arrests, with immigration and police officers at times descending on the
homes of people on their list, have been widespread in recent months. And county
jails and detention centers are being packed in many cases with men and women
who were never sentenced to serve jail time for their original crimes.

Even I.N.S. officials concede that treating all immigrants with equal harshness
is unfair. "The law is sweeping, even overreaching," said Bill Strassberger, an
immigration service spokesman in Washington. "We have told Congress that changes
need to be made and some discretion needs to be returned to our immigration
judges. But as the law stands now, the ability of the immigration judges to look
at all aspects of the individual's life, including the crime committed, whether
they are members of the P.T.A., what their jobs are or if they have a family, is
no longer possible.

"If they are picked up, most are deported. And we are deporting people who at
the time of their conviction did not commit a deportable offense, but under the
new law can be removed."

There is a bill in the House to soften some effects of the law, including a
provision to remove the section that allows the immigration service to deport
people for crimes that were not deportable offenses and were committed before
1996. Many congressmen, including some Republicans who voted for the 1996
legislation, have formally asked the immigration service to ease up. But for
now, the steamroller effect of the law is wreaking havoc with lives across the
United States.

"The sponsors of the 1996 bill that told the I.N.S. it had no discretion tried
to get off the hook by then telling the I.N.S. to use the discretion they had
purported to take away from the I.N.S.," said Representative Barney Frank, a
Massachusetts Democrat. "That helped some, but the I.N.S. commissioner cannot
order law enforcement officers not to enforce the law."

Despite the complaints, the number of immigrants being deported for past crimes
has been rising every year since the bill was passed.

The original bill still has its supporters. Representative Lamar Smith, the
Texas Republican who is chairman of the subcommittee on immigration and who
sponsored the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, said
in a statement that before the bill was passed, Border Patrol agents were
"powerless against illegal aliens" who "knew how to exploit weak federal laws to
avoid deportation."

"The law provides the Immigration and Naturalization Service with unprecedented
resources and confronts illegal aliens with tough new laws," his statement
continued. "The benefits are evident. Crime has dropped in border communities.
Drug cartels have been hampered. Illegal immigration has slowed."

Immigration lawyers blame the bill for an increasing number of lawyers' quitting
immigration law. They also say the imposition of mandatory detention for those
who are picked up has crippled the ability of those lawyers who are left to
communicate and plan cases with their clients.

"The I.N.S. moves people, often in the middle of the night, to remote detention
facilities, such as the one in Oakdale, La.," said Regis Fernandez, an
immigration lawyer in Newark. "It is impossible to effectively represent someone
when they are 1,000 miles away and have limited or no access to a phone. It is
much harder for people detained to retain and pay for a lawyer. There are fewer
and fewer attorneys left willing to stomach the absurdity of this legislation."

Many families are rudely finding out that fathers or husbands had minor problems
with the law and are coping for the first time with prolonged absences.

Garibaldy Mejia, 54, a grandfather and livery-cab driver who founded a radio
dispatch company, has been a pillar of the Dominican community in Washington
Heights.

But on May 4, on his way back from finalizing the papers after his father's
death in the Dominican Republic, immigration agents at Kennedy International
Airport stopped him. His green card and Dominican passport were confiscated.

He was placed in a detention center, because 15 years ago he was arrested with a
small amount of cocaine and charged with a misdemeanor. He pleaded guilty to
possession, paid a $100 fine and received two years' probation.

Mr. Mejia is now being detained in Oakdale. Nearly all drug offenses, no matter
what the magnitude, are grounds for deportation under the law. And because he
was picked up coming into the United States, said his lawyer, Kerry Bretz, he is
not eligible for bail.

"We have not seen him since July 24," said his daughter, Teresa Mejia, 21. "It
was 15 days before we heard from him after they took him at the airport. He made
one phone call from Maryland. Then he called when he reached Louisiana. We are
devastated. My parents have been married for 30 years. I have two older
brothers, but I am the only one who can have a conversation about this without
crying."

For those who committed more serious crimes, served their time and have turned
their lives around, the government's refusal to consider their long pilgrimage
back to becoming productive members of society is viewed as disheartening. For
many, it is as if the effort to become a better person has been branded by the
state as futile and irrelevant.

Luis Freire, 43, said he fell in with gangs as a young man and was involved in a
fatal stabbing in 1975. He served 15 years in prison. Since 1990, shortly after
his release, he has worked for ZZZ Carpentry, starting out as a day laborer but
slowly mastering the craft of woodworking.

He started a family, never informing his wife of his past. He does not drink or
use drugs and in the words of his employer, Derek U. Huntington, is a model
employee.

But on April 30, scores of police and armed immigration service agents arrived
at Mr. Freire's two-bedroom apartment on West 174th Street at 5:30 in the
morning and took him away in handcuffs. His wife, Evelyn, 41, his son, Luis, 9
and his daughter, Jennifer, 5, watched a man they said was either at his home or
his job for the last decade punished a second time for his crime.

Mr. Freire is free on $10,000 bail and is waiting for his hearing with the Board
of Immigration Appeals in September. But Mr. Bretz, his lawyer, says that the
appeal will probably fail and that deportation, unless the law is changed, is
most likely inevitable.

"When I went to prison, my brother and sister were young," Mr. Freire said,
drinking coffee after finishing a day's work at a SoHo loft. "I missed watching
them grow up. I vowed not to miss this with my own children."

"I am not the man I was 25 years ago," he continued. "But how can I take my
wife, who is from Puerto Rico, and my children with me to Ecuador, a country I
do not know and have no connection with? This is my home. I am American. This is
my life. I have worked hard to create something good with my life, and now --
because of what I was, not who I am now -- it may all be taken away."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luis Freire, left, may be deported over a 1975 conviction. His
boss, Derek U. Huntington, right, calls him a model employee.; Garibaldy Mejia,
shown with his wife, Arisleyda, far left, and daughter, Teresa, is being
detained in Louisiana. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

Chart: " Criminal Deportations"
Two acts passed in 1996 -- the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act and the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act -- have
fueled an increase in deportation.

Graph compares the total number of illegal immigrants deported to those
identified as criminals since 1995.
(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. B3)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Frees Palestinian Held 3 Years on Secret Evidence

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15


Attorney General Janet Reno today authorized the release of a Palestinian
immigrant who was held for three and a half years in a Florida jail on the basis
of secret government evidence.

The release of the immigrant, Mazen Al-Najjar, a Tampa resident and a former
adjunct professor at the University of South Florida, is the latest in a string
of terrorism cases that have unraveled and exposed justice officials to charges
of bias against Arab or Muslim immigrants.

The case has also brought new scrutiny of the anti-terrorism bill approved by
Congress in 1996 after the World Trade Center bombing, which allowed the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to arrest or detain noncitizens, without
identifying either their accuser or the evidence against them.

Mr. Al-Najjar, 43, was born in Israeli-occupied Gaza and settled in Florida
after admittedly overstaying a student visa in the early 1980's, his lawyers
said. He raised three daughters, was active in a mosque in Tampa and had no
criminal record.

But suspicions were raised at the F.B.I. and among immigration officials because
of his involvement in the World and Islam Studies Enterprise, a research center
affiliated with the University of South Florida, and the Islamic Concern
Project, whose activities included sending money to orphans in occupied
Palestine, his lawyers said.

Mr. Al-Najjar, who denies any link to the Palestine Islamic Jihad, was arrested
in May 1997 and had been held in jail until today, though he was never charged
with a crime based on the government's evidence. Initially, relatives said, his
contact with his children was limited to once a year.

"Life was not really life," said Mr. Al-Najjar in a telephone interview after
his release today on $8,000 bond. "I was missing everything."

Ms. Reno ultimately backed a decision earlier this week by the Board of
Immigration Appeals to allow Mr. Al-Najjar's release. In May, a district court
judge in Miami ruled his detention violated due process and ordered a hearing in
which Mr. Al-Najjar would be able to confront the secret evidence against him.
Last week, an immigration judge ruled that a summary of the secret evidence
provided by the Immigration and Naturalization Service was not sufficiently
detailed to allow Mr. Al-Najjar to defend himself adequately.

David Cole, Mr. Al-Najjar's lead lawyer and a professor at the Georgetown
University Law Center, said he has represented more than a dozen clients like
Mr. Al-Najjar in recent years: Arab immigrants who were detained on weak
evidence and ultimately released.

"It's really an incredibly embarrassing record for I.N.S.," Mr. Cole said.
"Virtually all of the secret evidence cases I.N.S. has brought in the last five
years have all involved Arabs. If the I.N.S. used this tactic against a group
that was less subject to a terrorist stereotype, there would be a much broader
outcry."

Two cases based on secret government evidence fell apart for the Justice
Department last year after courts ruled that the suspects' detention was
unconstitutional. Authorities released Nasser K. Ahmed, an Egyptian man jailed
in New York for three and a half years, and Hany Kiareldeen, a Palestinian man
who was held for 19 months, despite classified F.B.I. assertions that they were
linked to terrorists.

In Congress, some lawmakers who had supported strengthening the hand of law
enforcement against foreign terrorists, are now seeking to repeal the 1996 law
allowing the use of secret evidence. President-elect Bush has expressed support
for such a move, and Representative David E. Bonior, the Democratic minority
whip, plans to fight for the change.

In May, the I.N.S. said 11 people were being held in the United States on the
basis of secret evidence, though critics of the process said the number is
higher.

"The case of Mazen Al-Najjar represents a shameful chapter in our nation's
history," Mr. Bonior said. "Unfortunately, there are others still held, despite
four federal judges' rulings that the practice of secret evidence is
unconstitutional."

Justice Department officials said that they would continue to seek Mr.
Al-Najjar's deportation.

"Mazen Al-Najjar is an alien subject to a final deportation order who has been
illegally present in the United States for many years," Ms. Reno said in a
statement. "I continue to believe that the nation has been well served by the
efforts of the I.N.S. to remove Mr. Al-Najjar expeditiously from the country."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mazen Al-Najjar greeted family and friends yesterday after his
release from jail. He had been held for three and a half years on secret F.B.I.
data. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 7, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe's Demographic Time Bomb

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 474 words


European leaders know that their nations' plummeting birth rates and aging
populations cry out for a major change in immigration policy. But they are
unwilling or unable to sell the need for greater levels of immigration to a
public that does not share Americans' more welcoming spirit. Their failure could
imperil Europe's economic vitality.

The combined population of the 15 nations of the European Union was larger in
1995 than that of the United States, by 105 million, but by 2050 it could be
smaller by 18 million. Spain and Italy will see their populations shrink by more
than a quarter in that period. These declining birth rates translate into aging
populations.

European policy makers are grappling with the implications for social welfare
programs. There is widespread concern, for example, over the future of the
social security system, as there is in this country -- how to sustain a
pay-as-you-go system with an ever-smaller number of workers supporting an
ever-larger pool of retirees. But in Europe the numbers are a lot starker, with
retirees projected to outnumber workers by 2050. As a result, late last year,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a grouping of the
world's wealthiest nations, warned that many of its member states may be unable
to finance their public pension systems in just a few years. In Germany,
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's government is negotiating with unions and employer
groups to reform the current pension system in response to the nation's aging
population.

Higher levels of legal immigration would certainly help, easing labor shortages
and increasing the number of taxpayers propping up pension systems. According to
some estimates, the European Union will need as many as 75 million immigrants
over the next half-century. But there is no political will to translate this
awareness into an overhaul of the Continent's restrictive immigration policies.
In a recent series of articles, The Times's Roger Cohen vividly chronicled
Europeans' struggle to make their societies more accepting of immigrants.
Distressingly, too many politicians are willing to capitalize on anti-immigrant
sentiments.

The result is a cynical, unacknowledged dependence on foreign labor that is not
formally welcome. Turkish immigrants in Germany have been referred to as "guest
workers" for a whole generation. A more recent reliance on illegal immigrants
deprives workers across Europe of basic rights.

The European Union's policy-making bodies are prodding member states to take the
lead in fighting racism and xenophobia. Late last year the European Commission
issued a policy paper stressing the need for more "proactive" immigration to
ensure the Continent's future economic growth and the viability of its social
welfare systems. It is time for the national governments to pay heed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation, and Family Ruin;
Immigrant Breadwinners Are Held Far Away for Years

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words


When Congress passed sweeping legislation in 1996 mandating that all immigrants
who had been convicted of crimes be deported, it said it intended to rid the
country of even legal immigrants who had committed crimes.

The implications for those immigrants were straightforward, but as the laws have
been enforced, the consequences for their families in this country have begun to
sink in, often with painful results.

Tens of thousands of the immigrants have been deported, and many others have
been sent to federal prisons or some 225 remote jails around the country used by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service because of low costs and available
bed space. They had been convicted of crimes both minor and major, some of which
had been committed long before 1996.

Many of those awaiting deportation do so without basic legal representation.
Before 1996, almost all the immigrants now in custody would have been allowed to
remain in the country.

Some families recognize that it is appropriate that their relatives are punished
for their crimes, while others maintain their innocence. But nearly all of them
say that the circumstances of their detention -- held in jails hundreds of miles
away and often without regular communication -- make the challenge of holding a
family together all the more difficult.

The effects of the laws on immigrant families have perhaps been felt most
acutely in New York, which has more immigrant residents than anywhere else in
the country.

In Brooklyn, Min Wen Zheng has been trying to hold her family together since her
husband was arrested in August 1997. Without the $2,000 a month her husband
earned as a kitchen worker in a Chinese restaurant, she has had to rent out one
of the rooms in her three-room apartment in Sunset Park to a boarder to help pay
the rent. She has borrowed cash from relatives over the last two weeks as she
waits impatiently for the garment factory where she earns $5 an hour to call her
back to work.

"Our life has collapsed," she said.

Her husband, Wei Yeung, 38, was convicted of helping to smuggle Chinese
immigrants into the country and served 12 months in prison. Since then, he has
been held nearly two years by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Oakdale, La., in deportation proceedings.

Although Ms. Zheng and Mr. Yeung are able to talk on the telephone, the last
time she saw him was in August 1999 when she traveled to Louisiana with their
sons.

During the visit in prison, Ms. Zheng and her husband told their two boys that
he was working in a factory. "They are young, only 6 and 7," said Ms. Zheng, 34.
"I tell them their father is working far away. When they grow up I will try and
explain."

Alone and unemployed, she worries most now that her husband will be deported.
Deportation, she said, will destroy her family completely, since China imposes
lengthy prison sentences on smugglers.

"If Mr. Yeung is sent back to China, he will be scooped up and sent to a labor
camp where he will bust rocks for years," said his lawyer, Craig Wilson.

The accounts of immigrants who have had their lives turned upside down by this
legislation are many. Antoni Runierc, an immigrant from Poland who arrived in
the United States in 1980, watched from a jail cell as all he had built -- a
stable home, a job and a place in American society -- vanished because of his
1995 arrest for driving a car with stolen plates. Mr. Runierc, 48, says the car
belonged to a customer of the auto body shop where he worked in Amherst, Mass.
But because he had been convicted of an aggravated felony, he faces deportation.

After his conviction, the bank foreclosed on his house. His wife filed for
divorce so she could receive public assistance. And his children have spent the
last five years without him.

He has shuttled between six I.N.S. detention centers and, when he last called a
reporter collect, was in the Hudson County Correctional Center in South Kearny,
N.J.

His wife supports their three children as a nurse's aide in Massachusetts, he
said. After spending $3,000 for a lawyer, he could not keep paying those fees
and lost representation. He is still awaiting a ruling.

"In the meantime," he said in an interview, "everything my wife and I built for
ourselves in this country has been taken away from us. We are ruined. My oldest
daughter is being treated for depression. My two younger children, at this
point, do not even know their father."

The immigration agency has asked Congress to amend the law. I.N.S. agents have
also begun to back away from a strict interpretation of the statutes in an
effort to temper the impact of the law on some of those convicted and their
families.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., the director of media relations for the I.N.S., said
the agency's field offices would begin "exercising prosecutorial discretion" in
certain cases where longtime legal residents have been deemed deportable and
where they can no longer expect relief in the immigration courts.

"While we hope the exercise of this discretion will reduce the incidents of
families' being separated under these circumstances," Mr. Bergeron said, "we
still believe that the best remedy is to amend the law so immigration judges can
once again review the cases of those individuals who are deserving of a possible
second chance."

An effort to rescind some of the harsher provisions of the laws collapsed when
the Republican leadership in the Senate decided to adjourn for the year without
passing the legislation, which unanimously passed in the House in September. The
new bill would have halted the deportation of immigrants who had committed
crimes in the years before the act was passed. The decision was a body blow to
many immigrant families.

"We have documented beyond any refutation the terrible harm that this bill has
done to people who, having once committed offenses, turned their lives around
and became responsible residents," Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts,
a fierce critic of the 1996 laws, said in a statement.

Many of the families have lost not only their primary wage earners, but also the
vital anchors that two-parent families provide to their children, who are
especially vulnerable because of financial, linguistic and cultural
difficulties.

The strain on the immigrant families left to make their way after their
relatives have been detained for prior offenses has not been eased by the fact
that there have been widespread complaints about the conditions in which their
relatives are imprisoned.

For years, there have been complaints and lawsuits alleging abuse and
deprivation at the often small county jails in which their relatives are kept.
Lawyers and other advocates for the detainees have asserted that many immigrants
held in the jails have been beaten, forced to live in unsanitary conditions or
denied access to lawyers.

Late last year, the I.N.S. said it was going to start to enforce uniform basic
standards at the institutions that hold the detainees, who number as many as
20,000 on any given day. The new standards cover everything from visitation
rights to grievance procedures.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The husband of Min Wen Zheng of Brooklyn has been detained
nearly two years in Louisiana in federal deportation proceedings. (Marilynn K.
Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gender Bias in Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 436 words


In case after case over the past several decades, the Supreme Court has held
that the constitutional guarantee of equal protection is violated when
government dispenses opportunities to individuals based on generalizations about
the different attributes of men and women. A case argued last week before the
court challenges the justices to extend that well-established principle of
gender fairness to an overtly discriminatory aspect of federal immigration law.

In this particular instance, the sex-discrimination disadvantages men. The
provision at issue -- one of the few gender-based federal laws still on the
books -- makes it harder for fathers than for mothers to transmit their United
States citizenship to out-of-wedlock children born overseas. If the mother is a
United States citizen and the father an alien, the child born abroad is
automatically deemed a citizen at birth on the theory that the mother bears the
child and is usually the caregiver, so no additional proof of their relationship
is needed. But if it is the father who is the citizen, the child has no
citizenship rights unless the father formally acknowledges paternity while the
child is under 18 and agrees to support the child until that age.

The case was brought by a Vietnamese-born man and the American father who raised
him but only acknowledged paternity when his son was in his 20's and facing
deportation from the United States after a criminal conviction. He established
paternity by DNA testing, but because his son was already past 18, the Board of
Immigration Appeals refused to consider the evidence and deemed the son a
non-citizen subject to deportation.

When the Supreme Court considered a similar case three years ago, five justices,
a majority, indicated their belief that the law reflected gender-based
stereotypes that the court had previously condemned. But the court failed to
resolve the issue because two of those justices saw procedural problems in the
way the issue was posed.

There may be some truth in the rationale behind the law -- that more American
mothers of children born abroad out of wedlock actually raise their children
than do the American fathers of such children. Moreover, Congress may be within
its rights to try to ensure that ties exist between the child, the parent and
the United States, and to provide protection against fraudulent claims. But, as
Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer noted when the issue arose in
1998, neither of these observations justifies reliance on overly broad gender
distinctions that assume all mothers behave in one way and all fathers in
another.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Biased Citizenship Laws

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 114 words


To the Editor:

Re "Gender Bias in Immigration Law" (editorial, Jan. 15): The time has clearly
come for the courts and Congress to address the inequities of an immigration
policy that makes it easier for a mother to convey American citizenship to a
child born out of wedlock than it is for a father.

The fact that a mother is more likely than a father to raise a child out of
wedlock is irrelevant and should have no bearing upon whether that child is
granted the benefit of citizenship. There is no clearer violation of the equal
protection laws than that represented by this antiquated policy.

CHRISTINE M. FLOWERS
Havertown, Pa., Jan. 15, 2001

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Examines Expulsions of Immigrants Guilty of Crimes

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24


Supreme Court justices heard oral arguments today on whether legal immigrants
convicted of certain crimes could be deported even if their convictions predated
a 1996 law that mandated their expulsion.

Also at issue was whether the Justice Department had the power under the law to
eliminate essentially all avenues of judicial review of these deportations.

The two cases heard today amount to a major challenge to the Clinton
administration's interpretation of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996. Contrary to the law's name, its main consequences
have been borne by legal permanent residents.

Before 1996, noncitizens who had committed drug offenses or other serious crimes
could be deported. But unless they had served at least five years, they could
apply for a discretionary waiver. But in 1996, a Republican-led Congress passed
the law making immigrants convicted of "aggravated felonies" automatically
deportable.

Attorney General Janet Reno had interpreted the new law to mean that it barred
her from granting relief, even for cases before 1996. And the Justice Department
contended that the courts had no authority to review that interpretation.

Edwin S. Kneedler, a deputy solicitor general arguing today on behalf of the
government, compared the waiver provision with the president's power to pardon
criminals.

"It's a matter of grace," Mr. Kneedler said.

Justice Antonin Scalia noted that a president's refusal to grant a pardon could
not be reviewed in court.

But Lucas Guttentag, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer representing
several immigrants facing deportation, argued that the courts had always had the
authority to review deportation challenges. "This is a question of whether any
court at any time will be able to review these claims," Mr. Guttentag said.

Throughout the hourlong arguments on each of the two cases, some of the justices
seemed to struggle with the government's interpretation that only the attorney
general, not the courts, had jurisdiction to decide whether relief could be
granted, and that immigrants whose convictions predated the 1996 law were being
swept up unfairly.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said some provisions of the new law were "pretty
awkward," while Justice Stephen G. Breyer added: "It reminds me of these brain
teasers in the newspaper. It's very complex."

Justice Breyer questioned whether it was fair to deport someone, without a
chance of waiver, for a crime committed at a time when a waiver was available.
Justice Kennedy added that some immigrants had entered guilty pleas knowing they
could seek a waiver. "That's a legal consequence that's been changed," he said.

The challenge to the 1996 law involved a Haitian man, Enrico St. Cyr, who
entered the United States legally in 1986, but was convicted of a drug charge in
1996; and Deboris Calcano-Martinez, 32, a native of the Dominican Republic who
has lived here legally since she was 3, and who pleaded guilty to selling an
illegal drug in 1996.

In each case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in
Manhattan, ruled that the immigrants could go to a federal district court for
review.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawyer Is Convicted of Murder in Rampage

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 149 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, May 9


A white immigration lawyer was convicted today of murdering five people in a
racially motivated shooting rampage last year in the suburbs of Pittsburgh.

The lawyer, Richard Baumhammers, 35, was convicted in Allegheny County Court of
five counts of first-degree murder and eight counts of ethnic intimidation in
the April 28, 2000, rampage that left a sixth victim paralyzed.

Mr. Baumhammers, who could face the death penalty, shot two men from India, two
Asian men, one black man and a Jewish neighbor, and vandalized synagogues.
Prosecutors said Mr. Baumhammers, the son of Latvian immigrants, was trying to
make a statement against nonwhite immigration.

Mr. Baumhammers's lawyer admitted his client did the shootings but said Mr.
Baumhammers was delusional and did not know the actions were wrong.

Jurors will return on Thursday to start hearing testimony in the penalty phase
of the trial.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2001 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

THE TERROR VERDICT: THE REVERBERATIONS;
South Africa Regrets Its Role in a Defendant's Extradition

BYLINE:   By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, May 30


South Africa's role in handing over one defendant in the American embassy
bombings trial was harshly criticized today in the wake of a verdict on Tuesday
that left that defendant, Khalfan Khamis Mohamed, facing a death penalty.

Law professors and editorial writers said the Federal Bureau of Investigation
had illegally spirited Mr. Mohamed out of the country in 1999 with the
connivance of overzealous immigration officials. Some suggested that President
Thabo Mbeki take the issue up with the American government and that South Africa
ask American prosecutors to drop their pursuit of the death penalty. But a South
African Justice Department spokesman said such high-level efforts were unlikely.

Capital punishment is outlawed by the South African constitution, and
immigration officials are forbidden to extradite suspects to countries that
might execute them. They failed to do what the German government did in the case
of Mamdouh Mahmud Salim: demand that American prosecutors promise not to seek
the death penalty before extraditing the suspect. Mr. Salim is now in custody in
New York awaiting trial on terrorism conspiracy charges.

The Constitutional Court, the highest in the land, ruled on Monday that Mr.
Mohamed's rights had been violated in several ways.

The court agreed with Mr. Mohamed's lawyers, who said he was never advised of
his rights to remain silent and have a lawyer. The immigration officials
disputed this and said he voluntarily departed with the F.B.I. because he wanted
"to join with his comrades in the glory of being tried for their heroic conduct
and, God willing, to die for the cause," the ruling quoted them as saying.

Also, Mr. Mohamed's landlord, who wanted to hire a lawyer for him, was told that
to do so would be a waste of money. "The inference is well nigh irresistible,"
the court wrote, that the landlord was "fobbed off to ensure that Mohamed would
continue to be denied access to a lawyer and would remain incommunicado."

And Mr. Mohamed was bundled onto a chartered plane within 24 hours of his
arrest, instead of being giving the usual 72 hours to fight an extradition
order. South African immigration and police officials said they treated his
departure as a simple deportation -- because he admitted entering the country on
a false passport -- rather than as a formal extradition. But the court held that
doing so violated deportation law, which would allow him to be sent only to his
home country, Tanzania.

Though they realized it came too late to do Mr. Mohamed any good, legal experts
applauded the court's reaffirmation of the rule of law. Immigration officials,
fighting a human tide from poorer African nations, are often accused of flouting
regulations as they ship trainloads of aliens back to Mozambique and Zimbabwe.

William Kerfoot, a lawyer for the Legal Resources Center in Cape Town, which
filed a friend of the court brief for Mr. Mohamed, said today that it appeared
that "immigration officials were not thinking constitutionally."

"They couldn't see past the fact that this chap defrauded them to get here and
was accused of committing a terrible act," Mr. Kerfoot said, "so they were only
too happy to cooperate."

A spokesman for the South African Justice Department, Paul Setsetse, said today,
"Our point of view was that we had done the right thing and the deportation was
done with good intentions." But his department accepted the scolding from the
court and forwarded a copy of the ruling to Judge Leonard B. Sand of the Federal
District Court in Manhattan, as the court ordered it to do.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 1, 2001



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about South Africa's role in handing over a
defendant to face the possibility of a death penalty in the embassy bombings
trial misstated the position of the country's Constitutional Court on whether he
had been advised of his rights. The court could not decide; it did not agree
with his lawyers that he had not been advised.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Medicaid for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 159 words


To the Editor:

Re "Legislators Seek Way to Restore Prenatal Care for Immigrants" (news article,
May 24):

The plight of undocumented women needing prenatal care should serve to highlight
the situation faced by thousands of legal immigrants of all ages who cannot
receive Medicaid, including the elderly.

Welfare reform prohibits legal immigrants entering the country after August 1996
from Medicaid coverage for the first five years after arrival.

Elderly immigrants, eligible only for emergency care, cannot receive primary
care, prescription drugs, home care and medical care in a hospital or nursing
home.

The nightmare this produces for thousands of elderly immigrants and their
families is obvious. Ten states, including New Jersey, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania and Connecticut, provide Medicaid for legal immigrants. It is time
for New York to do so as well.

IGAL JELLINEK
Exec. Dir., Council of Senior
Centers and Services of N.Y.C.
New York, May 25, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Offers Expedited Visas for $1,000

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 775 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will start charging foreign
scientists, athletes, corporate executives and other special workers an extra
$1,000 to speed the processing of their temporary work visas.

In a pilot program aimed at raising money to reduce the years of waiting for
other immigration services, the agency will process certain work visas within 15
days instead of in two months or more, the current standard.

Immigration officials estimate that once the service, which begins on Friday and
is called the Premium Processing Program, is fully in place this fall, 80,000
workers a year will use it, or about 10 percent of those eligible. Of the $80
million in fees expected, $20 million will be used to hire 450 workers to
process all types of petitions. The money will also be used to buy computers and
finance antifraud efforts.

"We want to use the revenue to make the investment in technology and
infrastructure to help eliminate the backlogs," William R. Yates, the agency's
top immigration services official, said in a telephone interview today after
reporting on the program to Congress. The program was first reported in The
Washington Post today.

Critics said the plan would create a two-tier system for rich and poor
applicants and worsen service for those unwilling or unable to pay for the
faster processing.

"Those who can afford it will go for it in a big way, and those who can't will
resent they can't," said Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer here who said he
represents both kinds of clients.

Congress last year approved the request by the I.N.S. to create the premium
processing, answering complaints from employers unhappy with waiting 60 to 90
days for work visas and agency officials who contend the service side of the
organization is given short shrift compared with the well-financed Border
Patrol.

The immigration service is one of the fastest-growing agencies in the federal
government, with a budget that has soared to $5.5 billion for the fiscal year
that begins on Oct. 1, from $1.5 billion nearly a decade ago.

But many of the critical services the agency provides -- including adjudicating
asylum cases and processing citizenship applications -- never see a penny of the
money. Instead, much of the budget goes to enforcing the border or detaining
immigrants who have committed crimes. Most of the agency's immigration services
are financed through user fees.

Even then Congress occasionally dips into those fees to finance other programs,
as it did last year when it shifted $135 million to help pay for more detention
space.

"Relying on user fees has never been a sensible approach," said Crystal L.
Williams, director of liaison and information for the American Immigration
Lawyers Association. "The I.N.S. can't raise its filing fees fast enough.
They're getting totally swamped. Their computer system is 10 years old."

Agency officials estimate that this year they will receive nine million
petitions of all kinds, including citizenship and temporary residency status,
nearly double the amount just two years ago. Immigrants applying for citizenship
can expect to wait, on average, six to nine months. Those waiting to change
their legal status can easily wait four years or longer.

President Bush has pledged $100 million a year for five years to reduce the
backlogs, but the agency has been left to devise its own plans to raise some of
that money. The quick processing program is just such a plan. The $1,000 fee is
in addition to the normal $110 charge for immigrants in about half a dozen
categories, including university professors and artists. By August, technology
companies will be able to file expedited visa requests for technology workers,
paying $1,000 on top of the current $1,110 fee.

The program will be open to immigrants seeking employment in the United States,
but not permanent residence. Mr. Yates said the agency had not decided whether
it would expand the program later to immigrants seeking to work permanently in
this country.

Immigration officials said they would waive the $1,000 fee for nonprofit
organizations that request expedited claims for emergency cases.

Some of the nation's biggest software and Internet companies, including Intel,
lobbied hard for the faster processing and are watching carefully what happens
next.

"It's a real barrier in global business to wait six to eight weeks for a visa,"
said Harris N. Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of
America, a consortium of 500 technology companies based in Arlington, Va. "But
we hope we don't get into a situation where better service for a few means worse
service for the masses."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE SUPREME COURT: SUPREME COURT ROUNDUP;
Justices Permit Immigrants To Challenge Deportations

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1846 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25


The Supreme Court ruled today that immigrants who pleaded guilty to crimes in
the years before stringent new provisions of federal immigration law took effect
in 1996 do not face automatic deportation, as the Clinton and Bush
administrations maintained, but can still seek exemptions under old rules that
gave relief to more than half the people who applied.

Beyond its immediate impact on thousands of legal immigrants who had run afoul
of the law, often in minor ways, at some point in the past, the 5-to-4 decision
was also an important statement by the court that federal courthouse doors
remain open to challenges to deportation policies adopted by the executive
branch. Consequently, other immigration policies are likely to come under
judicial scrutiny.

Both the Clinton administration, which brought the case to the Supreme Court
last year, and the Bush administration, which argued it two months ago,
maintained that Congress had stripped the federal courts of jurisdiction to
review the way in which the attorney general carried out immigration law.

But to "entirely preclude review of a pure question of law by any court would
give rise to substantial constitutional questions," Justice John Paul Stevens
wrote for the majority today. "Congress must articulate specific and unambiguous
statutory directives to effect a repeal," but it did not do so in the two laws
at issue, he said.

In a dissenting opinion, Justice Antonin Scalia complained that the majority was
insisting on a formula of "magic words" from Congress and that, in any event, it
was clear that Congress did intend to remove federal court jurisdiction.
Further, he said, removal of jurisdiction would not raise a constitutional
problem.

The majority opinion was joined by Justices Anthony M. Kennedy, David H. Souter,
Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist
and Justices Clarence Thomas and Sandra Day O'Connor joined the dissent,
although Justice O'Connor did not sign the portion of Justice Scalia's opinion
that discussed the constitutional issue.

The case, Immigration and Naturalization Service v. St. Cyr, No. 00-767, was a
product of the intersection of two laws that Congress passed and that President
Bill Clinton signed in 1996, an election year during which anti-immigrant and
law-and-order rhetoric reached a peak in Washington.

One of the laws, the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, specified a
broad range of offenses for which immigrants would be ineligible to seek a
waiver of deportation, a discretionary form of administrative relief that had
frequently been granted to deportable aliens with family ties in this country or
with a minor offense marring an otherwise good record. This law also restricted
judicial review for aliens placed in custody for various reasons.

The second law, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act,
made some basic changes in immigration law, not limited to illegal immigration
but also restricting the rights of people who had been lawfully admitted into
the country, the category the court dealt with in the case today. This law
provided that "no court shall have jurisdiction to review any final order of
removal" for aliens who had committed any of various crimes in the United
States.

Both laws are complex, with overlapping and to some degree inconsistent
provisions. The Clinton administration took the view that their combined impact
meant that no federal court had jurisdiction to consider the correctness of the
administration's determination that deportation was now automatic for a large
category of legal immigrants with criminal records, no matter how or when their
crimes had been adjudicated.

So the case before the Supreme Court today had two elements. The first was
jurisdictional: Was there a federal court that could review the policy
determination that waivers of deportation were no longer available? If the
answer was yes, the second question addressed the merits: Was the policy a
correct interpretation of the law?

These questions arose in federal courts around the country, with most deciding
them as the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit did last
September in a pair of decisions that the justices affirmed today. As a
preliminary, the appeals court, which sits in Manhattan, ruled that the
administration was correct to find that Congress had removed ordinary appellate
review of deportation policy in the courts of appeals. The Supreme Court today
affirmed this ruling, Calcano-Martinez v. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, No. 00-1011, in a brief opinion by Justice Stevens.

The appeals court then ruled, and the court agreed today, that because a
complete removal of judicial review would raise serious constitutional problems,
the laws should be interpreted to retain the jurisdiction of the federal
district courts to issue writs of habeas corpus, a determination that a prisoner
is being held illegally.

This second case, which became the vehicle for the court's ruling today, was
brought by a Haitian native, Enrico St. Cyr, who entered the United States as a
lawful permanent resident in 1986 and pleaded guilty in Connecticut 10 years
later, shortly before the enactment of the two 1996 laws, to a charge of drug
trafficking. Immigration officials began proceedings to deport him in 1997.
After his request for a waiver of deportation was denied, he filed a petition
for a writ of habeas corpus in Federal District Court in Connecticut.

Both the district court and the Second Circuit ruled that there was jurisdiction
to issue the writ, and on the merits held that an alien who had pleaded guilty
before the law changed was still entitled to seek a waiver of deportation
because such waivers were available, and quite likely to be successful, at the
time of the plea.

In affirming the Second Circuit today, the court gave Mr. St. Cyr the right to
seek a waiver; it did not order one to be granted. Justice Stevens noted that
habeas corpus review of immigration decisions was common before 1996. "To
conclude that the writ is no longer available in this context would represent a
departure from historical practice in immigration law," he said, and would raise
a serious constitutional question under the clause of Article I providing that
"the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended" in peacetime.

Addressing the merits of Mr. St. Cyr's case, Justice Stevens said that to remove
the prospect of seeking a waiver of deportation from those who had pleaded
guilty in the expectation that waivers would be available made the new law
impermissibly retroactive in the absence of a clear statement of Congressional
intent. The "potential for unfairness" was "significant and manifest," he said,
especially given that lawyers for immigrants facing criminal charges typically
factored the immigration consequences of any advice they gave their clients.

Rejecting the government's argument that a waiver of deportation was at best an
act of administrative grace, Justice Stevens said, "There is a clear difference,
for the purposes of retroactivity analysis, between facing possible deportation
and facing certain deportation," especially since more than half of requested
waivers had been granted.

Mr. St. Cyr was represented by the American Civil Liberties Union's immigrants'
rights project. The project's director, Lucas Guttentag, said today that the
decision was a strong endorsement of the principle of judicial review. A ruling
in favor of the government "would have completely insulated the attorney
general" from challenge in the formulation of immigration policy.

Pamela Falk, a law professor and immigration expert at the City University of
New York, offered a broad perspective on the ruling, which she said "reflects
the reality of the census in a new view that immigrants are part of the
mainstream of the U.S. political system." Ms. Falk predicted that new cases
would follow, including challenges on behalf of Cubans who are being kept in
prolonged detention on the basis of crimes committed outside the United States.

There were several other developments today as the court began the final week of
its 2000-2001 term. Chief Justice Rehnquist announced that the court would meet
again on Thursday and would conclude its term then by announcing its remaining
decisions. Four cases remain: another immigration case, a property rights case,
a challenge to restrictions on tobacco advertising, and a case on a habeas
corpus issue.

Affirmative Action

 Without comment, the court turned down an appeal brought by the State of Texas
from the latest ruling in the long-running Hopwood case, which five years ago
resulted in an appeals court decision barring affirmative action in admission to
the University of Texas Law School.

The justices had declined to review that earlier case, which then returned to
the lower federal courts for proceedings on whether the white plaintiffs who
brought the successful challenge were entitled to any damages. In a ruling last
December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New
Orleans, held that none of the four plaintiffs would have won admission to the
law school even if there had been no affirmative action program that favored
minority applicants. The court awarded them attorneys fees but no damages,
reiterating its earlier view, however, that consideration of race in admission
to a public university was unconstitutional.

In declining the state's latest appeal, Texas v. Hopwood, No. 00-1609, the court
today in essence deferred for at least a year any decision on affirmative action
in higher education. Cases from the state universities in Georgia and Michigan
are now before federal appeals courts.

Mushroom Growers' Rights

 The court ruled 6 to 3 that a federal law that requires mushroom growers to pay
assessments for a federal advertising program violated the growers' First
Amendment rights against compelled speech.

Justice Kennedy's majority opinion drew a distinction between the Mushroom
Promotion, Research and Consumer Information Act and another agricultural
assessment program for California fruits, which the court upheld in 1997.

The California fruit program was part of a broad federal regulation of that
industry, of which the mandatory advertising assessment was only a part, Justice
Kennedy said, while there was no such broad program with respect to mushrooms,
for which advertising was the government's only involvement. "We have not upheld
compelled subsidies for speech in the context of a program where the principal
object is speech itself," he said.

In a dissenting opinion, Justice Breyer said this analysis created an incentive
to increase government regulation. He said it called into question the
constitutionality of a government program to require tobacco companies to help
pay for advertising that warned of the dangers of smoking. Justices Ginsburg and
O'Connor also dissented in United States v. United Foods, No. 00-276, which
upheld a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in
Cincinnati.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Case of Detained Nigerian Girl Takes U.S. Agency to London

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25


United States immigration officials dispatched a deportation officer to London
over the weekend to interview a man they believe is the father of an 8-year-old
Nigerian girl who has been detained for more than 13 months in a Miami shelter
for unaccompanied immigrant children.

The Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, an independent group, is seeking asylum
for the girl, nicknamed Fega, on the ground that her parents abandoned her after
she arrived in the United States alone with false papers in May 2000.
Immigration officials have failed to find her mother, and her father had told
caseworkers in Florida that he did not want her sent back. The girl's case was
described on Sunday in a front-page article in The New York Times.

But in an interview with an immigration officer on Saturday, the father said he
never severed his ties to his daughter and asked that her maternal aunt be given
temporary custody until the girl's immigration status could be resolved, a
senior immigration official said today.

"He was asked point-blank if he had ever abandoned his rights to the child, and
he said he never had," said David J. Venturella, a senior deportation official
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "He said his intent was to get
his child to the U.S., a better country with better opportunities, and that he
would join her at some time."

If the father submits paperwork needed to transfer custody of his daughter, it
could bring Fega an important step closer to finding a home, either with him in
Nigeria, her aunt in New York City or a foster care family somewhere else.

Immigration officials were hard-pressed today to explain why it took them 13
months to intervene in Fega's case, which until now they had left to shelter
workers, even though the case was supposedly a high priority for the immigration
service here and in Miami, as well as the United States Embassy in Nigeria. The
average stay for immigrant children at the Miami shelter is 16 days.

Mr. Venturella said caseworkers at the shelter, Boystown, had been conducting
most of the investigation until a reporter for The New York Times inquired about
the girl last Wednesday after visiting the shelter.

Senior officials at I.N.S. headquarters hastily arranged a conference call with
their counterparts in Miami to evaluate the girl's status and "bring some
closure" to the case, Mr. Venturella said.

A deportation officer in Miami who was returning another immigrant to London
volunteered to try to contact the father, whom immigration officials learned was
living in England illegally.

Fega's father told the deportation officer that he had tried to give the
custody-transfer documents to the United States Embassy in London, but was
turned away because he did not have an appointment.

"Apparently, there was a disconnect there," Mr. Venturella said.

Christina M. Kleiser, Fega's lawyer, said she welcomed the news that the child
might be transferred to her aunt's custody, but said she would urge that a
juvenile court judge review the case to determine the girl's best long-term
interests.

The immigration service and Ms. Kleiser said that they had considered Fega's
aunt as a temporary home before but that the aunt was unable to provide enough
supporting documents from the girl's father. Immigration officials also said the
aunt and her family had expressed ambivalence about sponsoring their niece,
fearing that they could not shield her from deportation.

In any event, officials involved in the case as well as independent experts said
today that keeping Fega in the 32-bed temporary shelter was not the answer.

"It's very hard on a child's sense of trust and safety in the world to not have
a home to live in," said Kate Porterfield, a child psychologist with the
Bellevue-New York University program for survivors of torture, who works with
child refugees.  "Children need to feel they have a home, and detention is not
home."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
At the Heart of Liberty

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Enrico St. Cyr came to the United States in 1986 as a legal immigrant from
Haiti. In early 1996 he pleaded guilty to a drug offense, knowing that he could
avoid deportation by getting a waiver from the attorney general. Later that year
Congress passed a draconian immigration act that removed the waiver option. The
Immigration Service moved to deport him -- without the possibility of a waiver.

Mr. St. Cyr went to court, claiming that the waiver-ending provision should not
be applied retroactively to him. But the government argued that the 1996 act
also barred all judicial review of deportations against aliens convicted of
crimes, so his claim should not even be heard.

The case thus raised a haunting question of constitutional law: Can Congress
impose a penalty and then provide that no court may hear a challenge to it? The
idea is offensive to a basic American belief, that we can always test in court
the lawfulness of what officials are doing to us.

This week the Supreme Court grappled with the question. Justice John Paul
Stevens, writing for a 5-to-4 majority, said that removing all access to the
courts for Mr. St. Cyr to make his retroactivity argument would raise serious
constitutional doubts.

The court would not read the 1996 act to foreclose all judicial review, just as
Justice Stevens said, unless Congress made that intention "clear, unambiguous
and express." Finding no such clarity, he interpreted the act to let the legal
issue be raised by a petition for habeas corpus.

Justice Stevens went on to consider the argument against retroactive application
of the 1996 law to Mr. St. Cyr. There is a profound presumption in our legal
history, he said, against making laws apply to past acts. And so, again, he
found that Congress had not made clear an intention to apply the law
retroactively.

The court's approach, reading a law narrowly to avoid a serious constitutional
question of individual rights, used to be fairly common in the Supreme Court.
But it had not been seen lately, and its use in this case may indicate a shift.
Similarly, the case surely strengthened the general argument for a right of
access to the courts.

The decision was significant in another sense. It came in the wake of growing
public unease about harsh provisions of the 1996 Act, and may encourage moves to
reform it.

Individual cases have made people around the country aware of the cruel
consequences the law may have. The Georgia Board of Pardons and Parole, for
example, has pardoned 150 people who would otherwise have been deported for
trivial offenses. One was Mary Anne Gehris, who had come to this country at the
age of 2 and was going to be deported for the misdemeanor of pulling another
woman's hair in a quarrel over a boyfriend.

The Supreme Court addressed the 1996 Immigration Act in another case this week.
The issue this time was whether the Immigration Service could imprison
indefinitely -- perhaps for life -- someone who had been ordered deported but
whom no other country would accept.

Justice Stephen Breyer, for a different 5-to-4 majority, said a law allowing
indefinite detention would raise a serious issue under the clause of the Fifth
Amendment forbidding the government to deprive anyone of liberty "without due
process of law." "Freedom from imprisonment," he said -- "from government
custody, detention or other forms of physical restraint -- lies at the heart of
the liberty that clause protects."

Using the same approach as in the St. Cyr case, Justice Breyer found that the
1996 act did not permit indefinite detention without judicial review. Courts, he
said, should decide whether officials have shown strong enough reasons to keep a
deportable alien imprisoned longer than six months.

The harsh features of the 1996 act have an appeal to some conservatives that I
do not understand. Richard Samp of the Washington Legal Foundation, a right-wing
group, deplored the St. Cyr decision on National Public Radio. People convicted
of "serious crimes," he said, should not be allowed "repeated appeals." But many
of the affected aliens have been convicted of trivial offenses, and the issue
was whether they could get into court just once.

Not all conservatives feel that way. The anti-immigrant zealotry that was
evident in 1996 may have abated. I hope so, for the sake not only of the
affected immigrants but of American decency. It is time for Congress to reform
the 1996 act.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant In Prison Wins Right To Hearing

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 827 words

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 29


Enrico St. Cyr was lying in his prison cell Tuesday evening, thinking about
nothing at all, when the Roman Catholic priest who often led him and other
detained Haitian immigrants in prayer stopped to offer congratulations.

"Congratulations for what?" Mr. St. Cyr asked the priest. "He said, 'You won
your case.' "

The news stunned Mr. St. Cyr, 34, who legally immigrated to Connecticut when he
was 19. "Thank God!" he recalled saying. He could hardly believe it.

After years resisting the Immigration and Naturalization Service's efforts to
deport him, Mr. St. Cyr, a confessed former cocaine user, had won his case
before the United States Supreme Court.

In a 5-to-4 ruling that affects thousands of legal immigrants like Mr. St. Cyr
who have been convicted of serious crimes in this country, the court ruled on
Tuesday that the I.N.S., which had kept Mr. St. Cyr behind bars since his
release from state prison in May 1999, could not automatically deport him, as
the Bush and Clinton administrations had claimed. The court said that he and
other immigrants who were convicted of serious felonies before April 1, 1997,
when strict new immigration laws took effect, must be given a chance to appeal a
deportation decision before an I.N.S. judge.  Often those hearings result in an
immigrant's release.

Tuesday's ruling, however, does not free Mr. St. Cyr, who has permanent resident
status in this country. It merely forces the immigration agency to provide what
is known as a "212c," a hearing in which a noncitizen may demonstrate his
rehabilitation and suitability to re-enter American society, before the agency's
Board of Immigration in Falls Church, Va. There is no set time frame the I.N.S
must follow.

Mr. St. Cyr's hearing will probably not happen for nine months or so, said
Michael G. Moore, a lawyer from Springfield, Mass., who argued his case. Though
about half of these hearings result in rulings favorable to the petitioners, Mr.
Moore said that because his client was already in prison, "this is not a slam
dunk."

Still, it was a major reversal of fortune for Mr. St. Cyr, who said he wanted
only to return to Bridgeport, where his mother and sister live, as a
law-abiding, hard-working man freed, after six years in custody, from his small
prison cell, his cocaine addiction and his thuggish disposition.

In an hourlong interview from a small holding cell at the I.N.S. office here,
Mr. St. Cyr, dressed in a ragged white T-shirt, khaki trousers and black Nike
basketball shoes, described his life since he pleaded guilty in August 1995 to
selling about $100 worth of cocaine.

"Many times, I just sat in my cell and cried," he said from behind a thick glass
partition, in fluid but heavily accented English. "Tears rolled down my face and
I asked myself: 'Why is this happening to me? Why did I put myself in this
situation?' "

In state prison, he said, he lived beside hard-core criminals, many of them
violent. In 1996, he was transferred from a prison in Enfield to one in
Brooklyn, Conn., after three other inmates beat him and cut his scalp.

Since May 1999, Mr. St. Cyr has been incarcerated at Hartford Correctional
Center, where the immigration service placed him after assuming custody of him
from the Connecticut Department of Correction after he had served the sentence
for his cocaine conviction.

Asked how he felt, Mr. St. Cyr, a short, stout man not prone to bursts of
emotion, smiled wanly, leaned his head to the side and said, "Happy, for a
change."

"I consider myself someone that made a mistake," he added later. "I've been
paying for it for six or seven years.

"I've seen people who committed violent crimes do less time than I have," Mr.
St. Cyr said.

He said he was not bitter, and did not blame the I.N.S. for anything. On the
contrary, Mr. St. Cyr, a high-school dropout, said he owed the agency a small
thank you.

"Before, I was acting stupid," he said, referring to his drug use in the past.
"I thought I was acting cool, but I didn't realize at the time that I was
destroying my life. By keeping me in here, I studied and I got my G.E.D."

Today, in what Mr. Moore called "a severe blow," he said the United States
attorney's office in Connecticut told him that his client would not be released
on bond in the next few weeks and allowed to wait for his 212c hearing outside
an I.N.S. prison, as Mr. Moore had expected given the Supreme Court ruling.

"They're going to make it as painful as possible," Mr. Moore said.

Mr. St. Cyr, for the time being, must endure at least a few more months of
prison and its monotonous routines. Keeping his spirits up, he said, is the
thought of returning home to his mother, Marie Yvrose Simeon, whom he has not
seen in five years, and traveling to Dorchester, Mass., to see his father, Eric,
whom he has not seen in seven years.

"From what I've seen in prison, I don't want to come back to this place anymore,
for anything," Mr. St. Cyr said, slowly rubbing his bearded chin. "For
anything."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Enrico St. Cyr has been held by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service since he finished his sentence in a Connecticut prison in
1999. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 14, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Month After Court Victory, Immigrant Is Let Out of Prison

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., July 13


Enrico St. Cyr, the Haitian immigrant whose victory before the United States
Supreme Court last month changed the fate of thousands of legal immigrants
facing deportation proceedings, has been released from prison.

Mr. St. Cyr, 34, had been held at the Hartford Correctional Center by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service since May 1999, when he completed a
three-year state prison sentence for selling about $100 worth of cocaine.

Under strict federal laws enacted in 1996 regarding immigrants convicted of
certain crimes, immigrants like Mr. St. Cyr faced automatic deportation without
the right to seek a waiver of deportation from a federal judge.

Such waivers had frequently been granted to legal immigrants in the past,
particularly those who had family ties in the United States or had been
convicted of only minor offenses. Last month, in a 5 to 4 decision, the United
States Supreme Court gave Mr. St. Cyr the right to seek such a waiver.

One of Mr. St. Cyr's lawyers, Michael G. Moore of Springfield, Mass., had feared
that it would take weeks if not months for him to be released from prison, and
requested a hearing in Federal District Court to ask that Mr. St. Cyr be set
free.

But on Thursday afternoon, immigration officials authorized his release, and the
hearing, scheduled for this morning, was canceled. Instead, Mr. St. Cyr was
driven to the Bridgeport home of his mother, Marie Yvrose Simeon. He was
welcomed by jubilant relatives including his aunt, Rose Jean Baptiste.

"A lot of us stopped by to see him," Ms. Baptiste said today. "Everybody was
happy."

Ms. Simeon, who had not seen her son in five years, said he was so glad to be
free that he did not even eat. Mr. St. Cyr did not respond to telephone messages
today. But in an interview with The Hartford Courant shortly after his release,
he said he planned to enroll in community college and find a job.

Under the terms of his release, Mr. St. Cyr must report to immigration officials
on the first Tuesday of every month and abide by restrictions on his travel and
other activities.

It was unclear when he would actually be able to seek his waiver of deportation.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Enrico St. Cyr, a Haitian immigrant, won his fight to apply for
a deportation waiver last month in United States Supreme Court. (Thomas
McDonald)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thanks for Coming. Now Go.

BYLINE:  By ABHI RAGHUNATHAN

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2490 words

DATELINE: EDISON


THEY wrote many of today's computer codes, set up networks spanning millions of
miles, designed and built Web sites and databases. The role of Indian immigrants
in the development of the Internet has been likened to the contribution made by
earlier waves of immigrants who built the nation's railroads and subway systems.

Yet today -- as the ranks of dot-com companies continue to thin and businesses
pare their payrolls and put off costly projects -- many of these workers are
finding that the businesses that brought them to this country now consider them
expendable.

"People come here with very high hopes and then all of a sudden they find that
they don't have any options," said Ashok Dave (pronounced DAH-vey), a priest at
the BAPS Swaminarayan Temple here who over the last few months has spoken to a
growing number of Indian immigrants who are worried they will lose their jobs.
"When they come here they are hopeful, and then, without their fault, they are
forced to leave the job."

Interestingly, many of the thousands of Indians who came to this country and
settled in this technology-rich state did so only after the federal government
made it easier for them to come here. A new visa category, known as H-1B, was
established by the Immigration Act of 1990 specifically to bring specialists in
the high-tech industry and other fields to the United States. As recently as
last year, President Clinton signed legislation raising to 195,000 the number of
workers permitted to come to this country over a three-year period.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, about 134,000 such
workers came to the United States from May 1998 to July 1999 -- nearly 40
percent of whom were Indians who specialized in systems analysis and
programming. Overall, Indians accounted for nearly half of the H-1B visas issued
during this time.

But the new visa classification also required the immigrant workers to return
home if they did not have a job. Although there are no firm numbers, business
executives and consultants estimate that so far from 20,000 to 80,000 Indian
workers have been forced to return home.

Given the air of uncertainty, it is not at all surprising that more and more
anxious men are coming to the Hindu temple here to pray that the economy turns
around soon, so they are not forced to return to India, where the hours are
longer and the pay is lower.

The effect of the downturn has infested just about all aspects of their lives;
talk about green cards and layoffs dominates conversation at parties. Many
computer consultants say they spend their time at work browsing Web sites that
have immigration advice and job listings. Some, nervous that their particular
area of expertise will soon become obsolete, are scrambling to learn new
programming languages and networking skills.

There few places where the threat of returning to India loom larger than in New
Jersey, a popular destination for Indians with computer expertise. Indeed, the
Immigrants Support Network, an advocacy group for these workers that numbers
more than 20,000 nationally, has its second-largest state membership in New
Jersey, which is behind only California.

To be sure, there are still companies willing to hire such workers, and some
computer consultants who lose their jobs still manage to find work elsewhere.
But the feelings of hope and optimism that prevailed only months ago seem like
some distant dream in the current reality of layoffs and spending cuts.

"So many Indian nationals were getting into the mainstream U.S. work force and
doing well; that was a trend until early this year," said Cyrus Mehta, who has
been an immigration lawyer for 10 years and is chairman of the immigration law
committee of the New York City Bar Association. "What I'm seeing is these very
people are now getting laid off and benched. It's not a totally desperate
situation, but it's clearly a whole new ballgame."

For instance, the situation has dominated the agenda of the Immigrants Support
Network. What bothers members most is that their immigration fates are tied to
the fortunes of the companies that brought them here. A company can sponsor a
worker for up to six years on an H-1B visa, and can also sponsor the same
workers for a green card. Workers who are laid off immediately become eligible
for deportation if they cannot find another job in the high-tech industry.

Until recently, if a worker waiting for his green card left the company that
sponsored him, his application had to go through the entire system again, a
process that could take years to complete. The law President Clinton signed last
year allowed workers who were near the end of their green card process but moved
to another company to maintain their place in the application stack rather than
start all over. But many immigrants say this provision has been poorly
publicized and is not widely observed.

"Someone should not be rejected for a green card because they changed the job,"
said Shailesh Gala, president of the Immigrants Support Network. "I.N.S. has not
come out with any kind of guidelines or memo, so people are afraid of changing
jobs because they don't want to jeopardize their green card."

The frustration with immigration policy overshadowed all other topics during a
recent networking session organized by the Immigrants Support Network in a spare
room at the Edison Public Library. Instead of discussing promotions and stock
options, a frazzled group of 18 people spent much of the meeting denouncing
rumored job cuts and stalled green card applications.

"My company has been laying off workers," said one consultant waiting for his
green card who requested that he be identified as Mr. Ramesh. "And basically, if
I am laid off, then I don't know where I am."

Mr. Ramesh, 30, said he hated having his green card dependent on his employer's
graces. He has been working here on an H-1B visa for three and a half years and
has seen friends who were close to getting a green card lose their jobs -- and
with that their hopes for becoming permanent residents.

"It's all basically geared toward the employers," he said. "The employee has no
power. You have no rights. It's pretty much slavery if you ask me."

For its part, the immigration service says it sympathizes with workers who are
forced to leave the country abruptly, but maintains that the H-1B program was
never intended to be a steppingstone to a green card.

"The H-1B is something the employer submits, not the employee," said Bill
Strassberger, a spokesman for the federal agency. "It's an employer-sponsored
program; it's a type of nonimmigrant visa, and at the end of six years if they
don't have an immigration visa pending they are expected to depart and go home.
There is no guarantee, and there should be no expectation that a green card
should result in the end."

Mr. Strassberger did add that the agency was "looking at the situation" and
considering setting up a grace period for workers who had been laid off so they
could look for other jobs.

But the agency has not changed its policy, under which its individual officials
decide what happens to unemployed H-1B workers eligible for deportation.

"The only thing we can offer at this time is to take a look at someone's
application in the claim of extraordinary circumstances," said Mr. Strassberger.
"These are judged on a case-by-case basis."

Linking a worker's immigration status to his employer offers protection to
companies that spend money -- sometimes thousands of dollars -- to bring H-1B
workers here from another country because it discourages workers from jumping to
a competitor after they arrive.

In the current market, however, computer consultants who talk about having too
many job offers are usually being sarcastic, and employers are not too concerned
that their workers will be overwhelmed by generous job opportunities.

"All the money we spent on training people on the latest technology we would
lose if they joined somewhere else,' said Venkat Venkataramanan, who has been
working in the computer industry since 1985, most recently as a senior vice
president of MindTree Consulting, a computer consulting company with offices in
Somerset. "Now, with the downturn in the economy, the problem went away because
there is no demand for these guys. They're not getting offers from competitors
like they used to."

MindTree employs about 50 people in New Jersey, of which about two-thirds are
H-1B workers. So far, the company -- which has H-1B workers with very
specialized skills -- has not had to lay off anyone.

"It takes humongous human effort to do anything substantial on the Internet,"
said Mr. Venkataramanan. "We may not be good on the creative side, but once you
go past the interface we're very good at it. We're true engineers."

He said that workers with more common skills were most at risk. For example,
many who specialize in Java, a widely used programming language used to design
Web pages and other Internet applications, had once been able pick and choose
among companies and projects. Now, however, they are having trouble finding
work.

"Every Tom, Dick and Harry that could spell Java could get a job, but not
anymore," he said.

Indeed, executives said that Java had become the equivalent of a four-letter
word among computer consultants. A current joke in the community is that "B2B"
-- business to business -- now stands for "Back to Bangalore," a city in India
from which many of them have come from.

Many of the programmers, who were recruited to the United States to help combat
the threat posed by the Y2K bug, helped create a glut of computer consultants.

"For the Y2K the U.S. was short of programmers, and that's the time I believe a
lot of Indians helped American companies through the tough time," said Srini
Venkat, 29, a programmer in Hackensack who has lived here for four years on the
H-1B. "I know a lot of people who worked 12 hours a day, 16 hours a day to make
sure things are in place. Those were the times we really helped the economy, in
crunch time. Most people, what they want now here is to settle down, to have a
life."

But those times are over, and now many of these immigrants are trying to learn
new programming and technical skills. Yet they say the specialized nature of the
computer industry makes it hard for them to upgrade themselves.

"The computer market is a very, very, very fluctuating market," said Venkat
Parmeshwaran, 45, a computer consultant -- also here on an H-1B visa -- who has
set up software for several companies. "It's very difficult for me to jump into
programming or into e-commerce. They're all totally different. The expertise
required for one kind of computer job can be completely different from another."

Even companies that are doing well have less of a need for technical workers.
Moreover, as those companies expand, consulting firms say they are trying to
recruit potential employees with business and people skills, which H-1B workers
tend to lack because of the cultural differences.

"It's important to have higher level guys with technical know-how that can also
speak to customers," said Paul D'Souza, director of marketing and alliances for
Exinom Technologies, a computer consulting company with offices in Iselin.
"That's not a commodity you can get from India."

Mr. D'Souza added: "We tend to not bring anyone from India like we used to in
the past. Someone who floats off the boat with an I.I.T. degree from Madras has
absolutely no value to us."

And those who are already here -- particularly those holding H-1B visas -- are
of little more value. One computer consultant from Edison who worked with Java
and database programs before losing his job said that the interview process was
much more rigorous now than when he came here three and a half years ago.
Indeed, many job listings specifically ask for green card holders and American
citizens only.

The Edison resident, who requested anonymity so as not to jeopardize his job
prospects, said that he hoped to get another position because he now had
experience working in the United States.

Those who had worked here for just a year or two, he said, were having the most
trouble finding another job. "People are very choosy these days," he said. "They
go for more experience. Right now, we don't have jobs in the market."

By the same token, H-1B visa holders who still hold jobs say they have very
little work to do in this time of cost-cutting. Many of them work for consulting
companies, called "body shops," that farm them out to work on short-term
projects for corporations. But today many of those corporations have decided to
postpone or cancel plans to set up databases or telecommunications networks,
leaving many consultants without any work, or in their parlance, "on the bench."

Shobhit Rastogi, 27, has been on the bench for more than a month, ever since
Lucent decided to cancel a wireless networking project that he had been working
on. Since then, he has spent much of his time at work brooding over his future.

"I know a whole lot of friends who were working on different contracts, and when
they didn't have a project the companies told them to go back to India," Mr.
Rastogi said. "Those sort of things make everyone nervous."

He said that those forced to return to India could look forward to a job market
just as harsh as the one here. "They don't have jobs in India either," he said.

Mr. Rastogi is clinging to the hope that things will improve, though he is
skeptical. For now, he has moved out of his town house in Piscataway and is
living with an uncle in Philadelphia because he does not want to sign a
long-term lease.

"There's no point of putting up a one-year lease, which I might need to break
after 10 days," he said.

While the possibility of having to return to India looms over their lives, many
Indians who have been here for years continue to settle down and assert their
right to stay. They are buying houses, bundling up for New Jersey winters,
learning to drive. These H-1B visa holders plan to rear their families in the
United States, not in India.

A group of four such computer consultants talked heatedly about the Immigration
and Naturalization Service recently over soft drinks at an Applebee's in the
Woodbridge Mall, a popular weekend spot for the growing Indian community.

All four of them complained that as H-1B workers, they had to pay Social
Security and unemployment taxes that they will never get to benefit from if
forced to leave. And they said they resented the fact that companies were
dismissing them just when they were starting to think of this country as their
home.

"They lobbied for it, and now they are the first to lay off these people," said
Amar Veda, 37, who has been here for five years. "I believe I have a right to
stay here. I made my employers rich, paid $200,000 in taxes, $40,000 to $50,000
in Social Security."

He put it this way: "If you are like us, you have a car, a house, you have to
pay your mortgage. Are we gypsies?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shobhit Rastogi, idled since Lucent canceled a networking
project on which he was working, says those forced to return to India could look
forward to a job market just as harsh as the one here. (Nancy Wegard for The New
York Times)(pg. 1); "People come here with very high hopes and then all of a
sudden they find that they don't have any options," said Ashok Dave, priest at
the Swaminaryan Temple in Edison, above, who says immigrants often speak to him
of their fear they will lose their high-tech jobs. Shailesh Gala, left, stands
at a meeting of the Immigrants Support Network in Edison. Scene in Iselin, a
center of Indian culture in the state, above left. (Jill C. Becker for The New
York Times); (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ashcroft Seeks Return of Criminal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20


Attorney General John Ashcroft has warned that a recent Supreme Court ruling
could result in the release of thousands of immigrants with criminal records
into American cities and said he was considering steps to force nations to take
them back.

Mr. Ashcroft said he would explore asking the secretary of state to deny visas
to travelers from countries like Cuba, Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, which refuse
to accept deportation of their citizens after they are convicted of crimes in
the United States.

"The Department of Justice believes these criminal aliens must be deported
because their history of serious crime makes them a threat to our community,"
Mr. Ashcroft said in a statement on Thursday. "The court's decision, combined
with the refusal of some countries to respect their responsibilities to accept
the return of these dangerous criminals, clearly presents a great challenge to
our responsibility to ensure safety for the American people."

The Supreme Court last month ruled that the federal government could not detain
deportable immigrants indefinitely simply for lack of a country willing to
accept them. The decision cleared the way for the release of about 3,400 foreign
nationals who have served sentences for crimes including drug trafficking and
murder and have been held by immigration authorities who consider them a danger
to society.

In its 5-to-4 decision, the court said such convicts could not be held for more
than six months if their deportation did not seem likely in the "reasonably
foreseeable future" and the government failed to present compelling evidence for
holding them.

Immigrant advocates said today that some criminals in the custody of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service had been in limbo for years, simply
because their legal status did not offer them the same constitutional
protections as American citizens.

"All of these people have finished serving their time," said Jay W. Stansell,
who argued the Supreme Court case on behalf of a Cambodian refugee, Kim Ho Ma,
who was convicted of a gang-related killing and then held indefinitely. "We
should be celebrating the decision, saying we do not let law enforcement lock up
people" when there are no pending charges, Mr. Stansell said.

About 1,100 of the criminal immigrants are from Vietnam, Cuba, Laos and
Cambodia. Several hundred others are from Jamaica, where officials have long
resisted the return of detainees on the ground that their lives in the United
States made them hardened criminals.

Mr. Ashcroft has ordered the immigration service to begin preparing the release
of the detainees over the next three months.

Civil liberty advocates expressed concern that the attorney general appeared to
be seeking ways to avoid complying with the court ruling.

"We're very troubled by it," said Judy Rabinovitz, a senior staff counsel at the
American Civil Liberties Union in New York. "Basically, he's trying to find ways
to get around the Supreme Court decision."

But Richard A. Samp, the chief counsel for the Washington Legal Foundation, a
public interest group that emphasizes law enforcement, praised Mr. Ashcroft for
trying to compel nations to accept deported criminals.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ideas & Trends: Open Door, Open Questions;
This Way Up

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


ALLOWING the more than three million Mexicans living in the United States
illegally to earn permanent lawful residency is an idea packed with political,
economic and even foreign policy risks for both George W. Bush and President
Vicente Fox of Mexico.

The American courts are still sorting out legal challenges from an amnesty
program 15 years ago. The shaky economy could dump new visa-toting workers on
the street. And carrying out the complex details of such a plan would fall to a
neophyte federal immigration commissioner. Then there is the threat of a
rebellion by some influential conservative Republicans, as well as anger from
anti-immigrant groups, which could badly divide the party going into next year's
midterm congressional races and complicate Mr. Bush's re-election bid in 2004.

Given these hurdles, why are Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox trying to strike a deal over
what would be one of the biggest changes in immigration policy in the past
quarter-century?

At the heart of Mr. Bush's thinking is that America needs immigrants -- legal
and illegal -- who are hard-working, home-buying, tax-paying residents with
children who are United States citizens. And, by the way, so does the Republican
Party.

Mr. Bush is trying to recast his party's anti-immigrant image, put more
compassion into his own conservative theology and win over a bigger share of the
nation's fastest-growing demographic group: Latinos, 6 in 10 of whom are of
Mexican origin. In last fall's election, Mr. Bush won about one-third of the
Latino vote, the most since Ronald Reagan in 1984. But the president's pollsters
have told him he needs to increase that share to at least 40 percent in 2004 to
win a second term.

Currently, there is a small-scale, cumbersome plan that allows "guest workers,"
mostly agricultual laborers, to get temporary visas. Under the proposal being
floated, an expanded pool of new migrants could apply for temporary work permits
with the possibility of earning permanent residency over time. At least some of
the illegal Mexicans already in the United States would earn permanent lawful
status if they could certify they had been living and working in the country for
a certain amount of time.

Labor unions have proven to be a strong ally in this effort. After decades of
opposition toward immigrants, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. now backs a legalization plan as
a way to recruit new members and to prevent illegal immigrants from undercutting
American wages. Hispanic leaders say such a generous plan would win over Latino
voters and show that Mr. Bush can stand up to lawmakers in his own party who
oppose such a measure.

For Republicans have long been split over immigration. One wing has favored
immigration as an engine of entrepreneurial innovation and a means for
attracting global talent from Chinese computer programmers to Nigerian nurses.
The United States Chamber of Commerce solidly backs the new guest-worker
proposal, as do farmers and hotel owners.

But another bloc of Republicans urges limits on legal immigration to curb sprawl
and population growth, and opposes legalizing illegal immigrants (who tend to
vote Democratic if they become citizens) as a dangerous precedent. Senator Phil
Gramm, a Texas Republican whom Mr. Bush usually counts as one of his biggest
backers, calls the legalization proposal "very bad policy," saying "it rewards
lawlessness."

LEGALIZING immigrants could also pay foreign-policy dividends for Mr. Bush, who
has struggled on other important global fronts. As a former governor of Texas
who speaks Spanish, Mr. Bush has proclaimed Mexico his specialty and has sought
to strengthen the hand of his friend, Mr. Fox, by breaking new ground in talks
on trade, energy and drug trafficking. It is the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's
broader strategy to emphasize Latin American issues.

The stakes are equally high for Mr. Fox, whose election last year ended decades
of one-party rule in Mexico. Winning permanent legal status for millions of his
people would send the message that Mr. Fox, a wealthy former Coca-Cola
executive, cares about the rights and welfare of everyday Mexicans. (Not to
mention their votes, if he can win approval for Mexicans living here to cast
absentee ballots.)

Any legalization plan would be part of a broader agreement to regulate migration
and combat the immigrant-smuggling and illegal crossings that have left hundreds
of Mexicans dead in the harsh Southwestern deserts and mountains. "My goal with
full determination will be committed to looking for the most rights possible to
the maximum migrants possible, 100 percent of them, as soon as possible," Mr.
Fox told a cheering crowd of Latino rights advocates in Milwaukee last week
during a Midwestern trip to drum up United States investment in Mexico and
champion the legalization idea.

Mr. Fox's candor in addressing migration is a departure from his predecessors,
who turned a blind eye to cross-border traffic. "If Fox is able to convince Bush
to push through a legalization program, it will make him seem as if he's dealing
with the U.S. as an equal partner," said Tatcho Mindiola, director of the Center
for Mexican American Studies at the University of Houston.

Indeed, the two leaders have mutually reinforcing goals. If Mr. Fox can succeed
in stabilizing the border, the United States stands to gain a stronger trading
partner, a safer border and fewer problems with illegal immigration overall. "In
diplomacy, the adage is, if both sides can call it a win, you have a deal," said
Pamela S. Falk, a professor of international law at the City University School
of Law in New York and a former top House aide on Latin American issues.

The legalization issue has exploded in the past week. It is an outgrowth of a
meeting in February between the two presidents at Mr. Fox's ranch in Mexico, at
which the leaders created a cabinet-level working group to resolve border and
immigration issues. With Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox eager to announce broad measures
at their summit meeting here in early September, the calendar is suddenly
driving both sides to prepare proposals for their bosses to review.

The American group, led by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney
General John Ashcroft, is expected to send its recommendations to the White
House as early as this weekend. But many details are unresolved and any plan
would need the approval of Congress. In any event, it is probably too late to
push through broad changes this year, but the political forces aligning on
several fronts have improved prospects for a bill down the road.

Mr. Bush has said he opposes a blanket amnesty like the one President Reagan
enacted in 1986, which ultimately allowed about three million illegal residents
of all nationalities to adjust their status based largely on whether they had
been living in the country since 1982. The 1986 law sought to reduce illegal
immigration, first by granting the one-time amnesty and then by imposing
sanctions on employers who hired illegal workers. Just the opposite happened.

"The fundamental fallacy was thinking that if we change the law in Washington,
Mexicans would stop coming to find jobs," said Frank Sharry, executive director
of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant advocacy group. "Immigrants just
got false documents and unscrupulous employers hired them."

Mr. Bush's aides are weighing plans that would allow illegal immigrants and new
temporary workers -- just Mexicans for the moment -- to earn their legal status,
probably through a series of work or residency requirements. "Bush is talking
about a radical departure from the 1986 law, a bilateral foreign policy
initiative that attempts to regulate the orderly flow of people back and forth
in the globalized economy," said Mr. Sharry.

In 1986, immigration was a niche issue for a handful of lawmakers. But these
days politicians from Mr. Bush to Representative Richard A. Gephardt of
Missouri, the House Democratic leader, court the immigrant vote. No one seems
better positioned to capitalize on this sentiment than Mr. Fox. "The prospects
for a better life on both sides of our common border will be enhanced by what we
do and will be diminished by what we fail to do," Mr. Fox said last week. "The
time to act is now."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Widening the welcome mat: pointing north to the border from
Tijuana, Mexico. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Debate at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 146 words


To the Editor:

Any examination of changes to immigration policy (front page, July 27) should be
accompanied by an overhaul of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
processing methods and technology.

An upgrade of the agency's computer technology and a move to an electronic-based
filing and tracking system would help to decrease application-processing times,
which can take as long as five years for permanent residency approvals. As of
May, almost 3.5 million immigration applications were pending in the agency's
paper-based system. Before allowing millions of additional immigrants to flood
the I.N.S. with applications for permanent status, the federal government should
take the necessary steps to streamline its immigration processing.

ROBERT C. MELTZER
Chicago, July 27, 2001

The writer heads VisaNow.com, an online United States immigration services
provider.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 3, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats Counter Administration on Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2


House and Senate Democrats proposed today to overhaul American immigration
policy, raising the stakes in a political struggle with President Bush for the
hearts, minds and votes of the nation's newest citizens and their influential
advocates.

The Democratic plan calls for raising visa ceilings to reunite immigrant
families, allowing most immigrants living here unlawfully to earn permanent
legal status, and enhancing temporary worker programs with greater legal
protections. Many details must still be worked out.

With Congress about to leave for its monthlong recess, Democratic lawmakers and
their aides scrambled all week to draft a response to a recommendation last
month from Mr. Bush's advisers that the administration allow some of the three
million Mexicans who are here illegally to apply for permanent status.

Indeed, a leading Democratic ally, Andrew Stern, president of the Service
Employees International Union, has praised Mr. Bush's efforts and criticized
Democrats for being "late and reactive." Today, Mr. Stern, whose organization
has a substantial immigrant membership, praised both sides for addressing the
issue.

In a letter to Mr. Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico, Senator Tom Daschle
of South Dakota, the majority leader, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of
Missouri, the House Democratic leader, urged both presidents to incorporate the
Democrats' principles in negotiations between the two nations that will
culminate in a presidential summit here on Sept. 4.

At a news conference on Capitol Hill, Mr. Daschle offered to work with the
administration to translate the principles into legislation this year or next.
Mr. Gephardt, in a separate statement, took a more partisan tone, suggesting
that Mr. Bush's consideration of a legal-residency plan might have more to do
with courting Hispanic voters in 2004 than any heartfelt commitment.

"Democrats have been leading on the issue of immigration for many years," Mr.
Gephardt said. "We did not wait until it became politically expedient to answer
the call for fairness and justice in our immigration laws."

At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney
received their first detailed briefing from members of the cabinet-level working
group that made the immigration recommendations and that will resume talks with
Mexican counterparts here on Aug. 9.

A White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, declined to discuss details of the
briefing, but he responded to the Democrats' plan with a barb of his own: "We
welcome this new effort by some Democrats that follows President Bush's lead to
make America more welcoming to new immigrants. Better late than never."

In fact, administration officials and Congressional Democratic aides have been
privately trading ideas for months, and they appear to agree on many points,
including a revamped guest-worker program and even some form of legal residency
for unlawful immigrants who have jobs and pay taxes.

"The battle will be more over the details than the broad concepts," said Frank
Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
advocacy group.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 44 words


An article last Sunday about the history of United States immigration policy
misidentified the 1965 law that eliminated race and national origin as criteria
for admission. It was the Immigration and Nationality Act, not the Immigration
and Naturalization Act.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 7, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citing Costs, U.S. Seeks to Raise Fees for Immigrants' Applications

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6


The Immigration and Naturalization Service proposed to raise fees today by
nearly 20 percent for applications and services used by millions of immigrants.

The cost of applying for citizenship, for instance, would increase to $260 from
$225.

Two years ago, the agency raised that fee from $95. The application for
permanent residency would rise to $255 from $220. Replacing a green card or
citizenship certificate would cost $155, up from $135.

Immigration officials said the increases were necessary to cover the rising
costs of services paid for by user fees, not money appropriated by Congress. The
higher fees would also pay for services to refugees and asylum seekers, who are
not charged for benefits.

"These fees are badly needed to recoup the costs of adjudicating applications
and petitions," said William R. Yates, the agency's chief immigration services
official.

The fees are now subject to public comment, but if the Bush administration gives
final approval, they would take effect in January and raise $127 million a year
in additional revenue, Mr. Yates said.

Much of that money could be used to help prevent backlogs from growing.

Currently, someone applying for citizenship must wait an average of nine months,
but that delay can be much longer in some parts of the country. The wait for a
green card granting permanent residency is about 16 months, officials said
today, but that wait also varies widely by region.

Mr. Yates told reporters that the fee increases would not dissuade immigrants.

"Whenever you increase fees," he said, "obviously there's concern about the
burden on those paying the fees. But these fee increases are not huge."

Advocacy groups for immigrants criticized the agency today for proposing higher
fees at a time when many immigrants struggle with long lines, surly service and
bureaucratic delays.

"It's wrong," said Gustavo Torres, executive director of Casa of Maryland, a
nonprofit agency in Takoma Park, Md., that assists mainly low-income Hispanics.
"They say they're going to improve service with the fee increases, but their
focus has always been more on detention than on providing quality service."

Indeed, on his first official day on the job, the new commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization, James W. Ziglar, said he planned to get up early
one day this week to talk to the hundreds of immigrants who line up every
morning outside the agency's field office in Arlington, Va.

This week Mr. Ziglar is also likely to join other administration officials in
preparing for a meeting on immigration and border issues here on Thursday with
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Attorney General John Ashcroft and their
Mexican counterparts.

An administration working group headed by Mr. Powell and Mr. Ashcroft
recommended to President Bush last month that the United States allow some of
the estimated three million Mexicans who live here unlawfully to earn permanent
legal residency.

In recent days, administration officials have repeated Mr. Bush's assertion that
no blanket amnesty will be granted, but they have kept quiet about specifics
they will discuss with Mexican officials this week.

At a meeting at the White House last Friday, Diana Schacht, one of Mr. Bush's
domestic policy advisers, told a dozen advocacy groups for immigrants that the
administration was interested in a new model for immigration policy. Ms. Schacht
also emphasized Mr. Bush's public support for a new temporary-worker program
with Mexico, and possibly a plan that could be expanded to other countries.

But, participants in the meeting said, administration officials were
noncommittal on any program to allow illegal immigrants already in this country
or new temporary workers to earn permanent legal status.

Supporters of such a program have increased their lobbying. A new internal
conducted for Republican governors shows narrow support for a legalization plan
for unlawful Mexicans already here (50 percent of respondents approve; 45
percent oppose) and strong backing for a program that permits new immigrants to
earn permanent legal residency over time (57 percent approve; 39 percent
oppose).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Delays Asylum Hearing For Leader of a Chinese Sect

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18


Immigration officials have delayed until next month a decision on whether to
grant asylum to the leader of a Chinese spiritual movement after Chinese
officials appealed for his return and submitted detailed charges that he raped
followers, people involved in the case say.

The movement's leader, Zhang Hongbao, has been held in detention in Guam since
January after arriving in the American territory carrying a false passport, the
people said.

Last year, Beijing outlawed Zhong Gong, the quasi-religious group Mr. Zhang
founded in 1987, along with several other groups that practice the Chinese
meditation and exercise regimen known as qigong.

While human rights groups say that Mr. Zhang has a strong asylum claim, American
officials now have the delicate task of assessing the credibility of the Chinese
charges.

The Chinese authorities recently provided American officials with a list of
alleged crimes, specifying dates and places and including testimony from
followers who say that Mr. Zhang sexually assaulted them, people told of the
charges said.

The United States recently has tried to elevate cooperation with the Chinese
police to fight international drug trafficking, making it difficult to dismiss
Beijing's allegations without investigating them. Moreover, Mr. Zhang's group
has attracted little international attention and does not fit common definitions
of a political or religious movement.

China in the past has brought charges of rape against people whom it considers
seditious, and American officials and human rights groups say the charges have
in some cases proved unfounded.

Immigration officials requested that an asylum hearing that had been scheduled
for today be postponed until American officials weigh the validity of the rape
charges. A new hearing is set for early September.

The delay came shortly after Yan Qingxin, who says she is the No. 2 leader of
Zhong Gong, was granted asylum. Ms. Yan, who is now in Washington seeking to
generate support for Mr. Zhang, said she and Mr. Zhang arrived in Guam early
this year to escape a Chinese dragnet and were thrown into detention with
suspected smugglers. They waited six months to have their case heard.

"We came to America because we thought that this country protects human rights,"
Ms. Yan said in an interview. "But we are deeply disappointed to find that
American courts do not treat such cases with urgency. I also fear that American
officials are subject to pressure from the Chinese government."

Immigration and State Department officials said they do not comment on
individual asylum cases. People involved in the case said the State Department
was preparing an advisory opinion criticizing Beijing's suppression of Zhong
Gong as politically motivated and noting the risk to Mr. Zhang if he returns to
China.

China began a crackdown on spiritual groups a year ago after followers of Falun
Gong, another qigong group, organized a demonstration outside the Chinese
leadership compound in Beijing. The authorities then banned Falun Gong and Zhong
Gong, which are rivals.

Unlike Falun Gong, which operates through autonomous cells with no clear
hierarchy, Zhong Gong established an extensive organization with schools,
healing centers, factories and printing houses.

People who have studied the movement say it raised millions of dollars from
school fees and the sale of medical goods, books and clothing.

Mr. Zhang tailored his teachings to the needs of China's poorest people. He said
those who practiced Zhong Gong could fight cancer and heart disease more
effectively than by taking drugs or undergoing surgery.

Zhong Gong also says its leading practitioners have paranormal powers, including
a "thousand-mile eye" that works like an X-ray and a telescope.

Mr. Zhang first went into hiding in 1994 after criticism of his group grew. Ms.
Yan said Mr. Zhang decided to seek asylum in the United States late last year
after the Chinese authorities shut down Zhong Gong's schools and healing centers
and detained staff members. She called the charges against Mr. Zhang "sheer
fabrication."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 26, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Court Rules Cross-Dresser Can Stay in the U.S. on Asylum Claim

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25


A federal appeals court has ruled that a gay Mexican man who dresses and acts
like a woman is entitled to asylum in the United States, expanding the
circumstances that immigration officials must consider when foreigners ask to
stay in the country.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which covers the
Western part of the country, ruled on Thursday that Geovanni Hernandez-Montiel
should be granted asylum. A three-judge panel sitting in Pasadena, Calif.,
unanimously overruled an immigration judge and members of an immigration appeals
board, who had said he should be deported.

Mr. Hernandez-Montiel, who is in his early 20's, told of repeated assaults and
taunts by the Mexican police before he fled to the United States in 1995.
Testifying for Mr. Hernandez-Montiel, an expert on Latin American history said
gay men who dressed and acted like women were often singled out for cruel
treatment in Mexico.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has occasionally granted asylum to
foreigners who claimed they were persecuted because of their sexual orientation.
But Mr. Hernandez-Montiel's lawyer, Robert S. Gerber of San Diego, said he
thought this case was the first in which an appeals court held that sexual
orientation could be grounds for asylum because the applicant merits protection
as a member of a "particular social group."

The immigration agency has not decided whether to appeal, Bill Strassberger, a
spokesman, said today. But Mr. Strassberger said the agency usually did not
contest Circuit Court rulings unless government lawyers thought the judges had
committed a serious error.

The term "particular social group" comes from United Nations deliberations on
the treatment of refugees and refers to those who share common traits that have
caused them to be persecuted. These can range from fundamental characteristics
like sex, color and ethnic background to biographical details like military
service or land ownership.

Whether an asylum seeker is a member of such a group is decided by immigration
officials on a case-by-case basis. As the circuit court judges noted, the
definition of "particular social group" is evolving. Generally speaking, the
immigration agency says the traits that constitute membership in a particular
social group must be ones that a person cannot change, or should not have to
change because they are fundamental to a sense of identity or conscience.

"We conclude as a matter of law that gay men with female sexual identities in
Mexico constitute a 'particular social group,' " the court ruled in a decision
written by Judge A. Wallace Tashima.

An immigration judge and appeals board had found Mr. Hernandez-Montiel's account
of ostracism by his family and persecution by school officials, the Mexican
police and ordinary Mexicans to be sincere and credible.

But the judge and board rejected arguments that Mr. Hernandez-Montiel was
persecuted because of membership in a particular group. They also were skeptical
of his claims that his traits were "immutable." Perhaps, it was suggested, he
could just dress differently.

Circuit court judges rejected that reasoning. "This case is about sexual
identity, not fashion," Judge Tashima wrote in the ruling, in which he was
joined by Judges Melvin Brunetti and William S. Schwarzer.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 2, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Evidence Sought in Case Of Jailed Palestinian

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON, Fla., Sept. 1


A Palestinian man jailed as a security threat for more than three years without
formal charges will remain in custody as his lawyers seek to learn the evidence
against him.

The immigration judge holding a bond hearing for the man, Mazen Al-Najjar,
halted the proceedings at the request of his lawyers. The defense team for Mr.
Najjar, who is being held by immigration officials on secret evidence, says it
cannot prepare a defense unless a federal judge in Miami orders the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to provide an unclassified summary of the evidence in
the case.

Judge Joan A. Lenard of United States District Court in Miami, who ruled in May
that Mr. Najjar was entitled to the hearing, was expected to rule on the request
within weeks.

Mr. Najjar was second in command at an Islamic research organization at the
University of South Florida that federal officials have linked to terrorists.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

An Abusive I.N.S.

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 115 words



To the Editor:

Re "Besmirched 'Deportland' Wrestles With the I.N.S." (news article, Aug. 31):
The frustration in Portland, Ore., with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's draconian treatment of an arriving Chinese businesswoman is emblematic
of a broader national problem.

In 1990 Congress passed a new immigration law granting I.N.S. inspectors
unfettered discretion to turn away arriving visitors and stripping courts of
jurisdiction to review these I.N.S. actions. Until the law is changed again,
communities throughout the United States will experience Portland's frustration.


SUSAN J. COHEN
Boston, Aug. 31, 2000

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 15, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Beijing Lists Charges Against Sect Leader Who Fled to Guam

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 14


Chinese officials released details today surrounding the rape charges that have
been filed here against the leader of a besieged healing sect who sneaked into
American territory in January and is seeking political asylum in the United
States.

The asylum request, by Zhang Hongbao, founder of a large spiritual movement
called Zhong Gong, has posed a difficult choice for the American immigration
service: The United States wants to foster the mutual extradition of criminals
with China, and failure to turn over Mr. Zhang -- who arrived in Guam with a
fake Chinese passport -- would be deeply resented by Beijing.

But Mr. Zhang insists he is a victim of political persecution and American
officials know that given Beijing's campaign to crush his organization, he is
extremely unlikely to receive a fair trial. They also know that charges of rape
or other criminal activities have sometimes been trumped up by Chinese
authorities to silence dissidents.

Mr. Zhang, 46, is in detention in Guam, awaiting an immigration decision this
month.

Today, in an apparent effort to bolster their case, officials here took the
unusual step of providing copies to a small number of foreign journalists of
what they said were statements by rape victims, the victims' photographs (with
eyes blacked out), arrest warrants and other documents. These were a portion of
the evidence given to the United States government, a Chinese official said.

The materials were provided on condition that the supposed victims not be fully
identified, and that the office be concealed.

"We want to repatriate Zhang Hongbao because he broke the law, not because of
his work with Zhong Gong," said the official.

The crackdown on Zhong Gong and other independently organized "qigong"
societies, devoted to the cultivation of cosmic energies to enhance physical and
moral well-being, started last year after one group, Falun Gong, held illegal
demonstrations and was outlawed as an "evil cult."

The closing in recent months of hundreds of Zhong Gong businesses and the arrest
of several leaders, the official insisted, were because of tax fraud and other
illegal business activities.

Zhong Gong -- its full name translates as China Health Care and Wisdom
Enhancement Practice -- is one of the largest of many groups that arose in the
last two decades using traditional concepts of qi (energy) in gong (ritual
exercises) to promote health and enlightenment. Its Web site is www.ZGZG.net.

Mr. Zhang founded Zhong Gong in 1988, four years before the start of Falun Gong,
and by the early 1990's it claimed tens of millions of followers. Mr. Zhang set
himself up as the "master" and made extravagant claims that his followers could
attain supernatural powers.

As his organization and related businesses grew -- outside the control of the
Communist Party -- it clashed with local authorities.

According to the documents provided today, the authenticity of which could not
be verified, back in 1990, a Ms. Li accused Mr. Zhang of raping her on June 26
in his Beijing office, where he had summoned her for "special healing."

In May 1991, the materials indicate, the Beijing police issued a "notice of
detention" but Mr. Zhang was never picked up, according to the account, because
he had moved and had begun using a pseudonym and forged identity documents,
copies of which were provided.

But in the ensuing years, Mr. Zhang also set up a large, well-known healing
center in Sichuan province.

The two other signed testimonies provided today -- from a Ms. Guo and a Ms.
Zhang, describing events that supposedly occurred in Sichuan in 1994 -- were
recorded by the police only in November and December 1999, after the campaign to
destroy Zhong Gong was under way and Mr. Zhang had gone into hiding.

Ms. Guo's statement says Mr. Zhang had her come into his office, where he
"forced me to touch and play with his penis."

The woman named Zhang alleges that Mr. Zhang raped her in the same office,
claiming that "men and women had to complement each other, like yin and yang, to
cure disease." Her testimony describes features of Mr. Zhang's penis and his
pubic hair and other intimate details.

Mr. Zhang was formally charged with rape, and a warrant was issued on June 7
this year, five months after he had arrived in Guam seeking asylum.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An image of Zhang Hongbao taken from his group's Web site.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Oregon Immigration Official Resigns Amid Furor

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 19


After a wave of complaints about abusive treatment of foreigners by immigration
agents that gave Oregon's largest city the unwanted nickname of "Deportland" in
some Asian countries, the top immigration official in Portland said today that
he was retiring.

The announcement by the district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, David Beebe, followed calls for his resignation by the city's mayor,
the state's governor and several members of Congress.

The officials were incensed about some highly publicized incidents of
mistreatment of foreigners arriving from Japan at the Portland airport, and over
continuing reports that Portland immigration agents detained or deported foreign
travelers at much higher rates than at other West Coast airports.

A furor erupted last month over a report in The Oregonian, the state's biggest
newspaper, that agents had strip-searched and jailed a Chinese businesswoman for
two nights before concluding that her passport was legitimate and sending her on
her way to New York.

Portland's mayor, Vera Katz, described the incident as "monstrous."

Most of the official wrath fell on Mr. Beebe, 55, a 25-year veteran of the
immigration agency, whose defenders said that he operated his district "by the
book" and that there were several reasons to explain why Portland's deportation
rates might be higher than those in other big West Coast cities.

Some defenders said he was being used as a scapegoat for doing his job too well.

Delta Air Lines, citing low ridership and saying the immigration agency
situation was a factor, said earlier this month that it was discontinuing all
nonstop flights from Asia to Portland, beginning next April.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 23, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Sect Leader Wanted by China Can Stay in U.S., but in Custody

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 569 words


A federal immigration court in Hawaii has ruled that the leader of a banned
Chinese meditation group may remain in the United States, defying Beijing's
demands that he be returned to face rape charges, a rights group said yesterday.

The decision is sure to irritate Chinese leaders and complicate law enforcement
cooperation between the United States and China. It could also crimp relations
newly smoothed by the Senate's passage of a trade bill this week granting China
permanent normal trading rights.

However, the immigration court stopped short of granting political asylum to the
meditation group's leader, Zhang Hongbao, who remains in Immigration and
Naturalization Service custody at a prison on Guam, according to an attorney
familiar with the case.

Mr. Zhang's attorney, Charles Kinnunen, was not available for comment, but he
was quoted yesterday in a Guam newspaper as saying that Mr. Zhang would file an
appeal. The newspaper said the immigration service would also appeal the case,
apparently to have the withholding order removed so that Mr. Zhang can be sent
back to China.

Mr. Zhang, 46, founded the meditation and healing group known as Zhong Gong in
1987, but dropped out of sight in the early 1990's. Like the better-known Falun
Gong movement, Mr. Zhang's group promises to give followers supernatural powers.
In Zhong Gong's case these include the ability to fly, see the future and fast
for weeks at a time.

But China banned the sect last year as part of a crackdown on unauthorized
spiritual movements that the Communist Party perceived as a threat to social
order. The Chinese government has been hunting Mr. Zhang since then.

In a recent interview with Pacific Daily News on Guam, Mr. Zhang said that after
he left China, supporters helped him hide in Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam and the
Philippines. He used a fake passport in January to enter Guam, where he was
detained and requested political asylum. The island, a United States territory
covered by American immigration laws, attracts many Chinese seeking asylum,
often for fraudulent or flimsy reasons.

But Mr. Zhang appeared to have a very strong case. With Zhong Gong outlawed and
many of the group's senior adherents arrested, there was little doubt that he
would face harassment, if not imprisonment, even without the rape charges. It is
also unlikely that Mr. Zhang would be given a fair trial on those charges.

Even so, with law enforcement cooperation growing, China asked the United States
for help in returning him to face trial in China.

China and the United States have no extradition treaty, but a recent bilateral
accord affords the framework for the return of people wanted on criminal charges
by either side.

The United States has been trying to get two men now in Chinese custody who are
wanted for the 1991 execution-style killing of five people in Chinatown in
Boston. American officials may have decided against granting Mr. Zhang political
asylum to mute the damage that keeping him on American soil might cause to law
enforcement cooperation.

Mr. Zhang's attorney, Mr. Kinnunen, told the newspaper that the immigration
court had instead granted Mr. Zhang a request for "withholding of removal" and
relief under the United Nations' conventions on torture. The status will allow
him to stay in the United States indefinitely but without the possibility of
securing permanent resident status.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Decision Day Looms for 10,000 Liberians

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 190 words


Barring intervention by the White House or Congress, 10,000 Liberians in the
United States will have to return home when their special immigration status
expires on Friday.

In 1989, Liberia descended into a seven-year civil war that killed an estimated
200,000 people.

Many refugees were given visitors' visas, but soon received temporary protective
status, which let them live and work in the United States until the situation in
Liberia stabilized. Sporadic fighting over the years secured that status until
last year, when the State Department said it believed that Liberia was stable
enough for residents to return and ended the special status.

Shortly after that decision, however, fighting began again, and Liberians in the
United States were given the extension that ends on Friday.

The Liberians would have to leave by Friday unless they have applications for
asylum or refugee status that are pending, the I.N.S. said. The agency conceded
that it lacks the personnel to enforce the deadline. Outside the United States,
the refugees could apply for refugee status in the United States or residency in
other countries.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 30, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Retroactive Deportation

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words



To the Editor:

Like Anthony Lewis (column, Sept. 23), I am pleased with the House of
Representatives bill softening the 1996 Immigration Act's retroactive
provisions.

However, this bill fails to rectify the act's harsh treatment of immigrants
sentenced to probation or minor prison terms. It will provide no relief, for
example, for two immigrants you recently profiled ("Condemned Again for Old
Crimes," news article, Aug. 30), Garibaldy Mejia and Alejandro Bontia. Under the
bill, Mr. Mejia will remain in mandatory detention until the Immigration and
Naturalization Service hears his case, and Mr. Bontia must be deported. Neither
man has ever spent a day in prison.

The House is right to try to amend the 1996 act. But it should do so in a
systemic fashion that truly eliminates the act's retroactive provisions.

LAURIE KOZUBA
Director, Citizens and Immigrants
for Equal Justice
Mesquite, Tex., Sept. 27, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 20, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

An American Calculus: Immigration and Sprawl

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 162 words



To the Editor:

Re "Blaming Immigration" (editorial, Oct. 14):

The Federation for American Immigration Reform does not suggest that mass
immigration is the only cause of urban and suburban sprawl in the United States.
But nobody can dispute that immigration is an important factor.

Our population is projected to grow by 130 million people over the next 50 years
-- the majority of which, according to the Census Bureau, will be directly
attributable to our immigration policies.

There is also an identifiable phenomenon of secondary migration. In areas where
immigration has exceeded the capacity of social institutions to cope with it
effectively, Americans have sought relief by moving to outlying areas.

How can we discuss one of our most important public policies if every criticism
of immigration policy is equated with blaming immigrants?

DAN STEIN
Executive Director, Federation for
American Immigration Reform
Washington, Oct. 17, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Fight With Clinton On Immigrants Splits Party

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21


Congressional Republicans are locked in a battle with the White House over
easing immigration law that threatens to undercut Gov. George W. Bush's efforts
to court Hispanic voters and shed the party's lingering image as insensitive to
new immigrants.

As Congress draws to a close, among the last sticking points between President
Clinton and Republicans on a year-end budget deal are Democratic proposals to
grant limited amnesty to hundreds of thousands of longtime residents who came to
the United States illegally, expand permanent residency to certain Central
Americans and help certain other immigrants obtain green cards.

The provisions are in a spending bill that finances the State, Commerce and
Justice departments. Mr. Clinton has threatened to veto the legislation if it
does not include the immigration proposals.

The stakes appear much higher for Republicans than Democrats. Many conservatives
argue that bowing to Mr. Clinton would reward lawbreakers and encourage a new
wave of illegal immigrants. But rejecting the legislation could alienate
Hispanic voters just before Election Day, and resurrect the divisive fights of
the 1990's over immigrants' benefits that hurt Republicans in many immigrant
communities.

A coalition of business groups with ties to Republicans, including health care
providers, restaurant owners and landscapers, has also endorsed the changes as
necessary to retain badly needed workers.

"If the Republican Party is really serious about changing its image in the
Latino community, it's hard to understand their resistance to these proposals,"
said Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy of the National Council of La
Raza, the nation's largest Hispanic civil rights group.

Democrats say they are united behind the proposals, which Vice President Al Gore
has said are essential to "ensure fairness and equity for certain immigrants and
their families already in the United States."

But Republicans are split. House and Senate Republican leaders have balked at
the provisions. Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House Republican whip,
acknowledged that some immigrants' cases were mishandled in the 1980's, and
should be remedied. "But the president wants a blanket amnesty," Mr. DeLay said.
"He's playing politics. He's trying to buy votes through an amnesty."

Several other prominent Republicans, including Jack Kemp, the party's 1996
vice-presidential nominee; Senator John McCain of Arizona and Representative
Thomas M. Davis III of Virginia, the House Republican re-election chairman,
support the proposals. Mr. Davis said that one in five adults in his suburban
Washington district was born overseas.

"It is the right thing to do, and our leaders on both sides of the aisle should
find a way to bring it to a vote," Mr. McCain said on the Senate floor on Sept.
27.

Governor Bush, of Texas, sought to distance himself from the contentious issue.

"The governor has not gotten involved in the maneuvering or negotiations with
any specific immigration bills," said Ray Sullivan, a Bush campaign spokesman.
"The governor has said he does not support a blanket amnesty for illegal
immigrants at this time."

But another Bush adviser, speaking on condition of anonymity, expressed concern
that the issue could backfire on Republicans, adding, "We're trying to find a
way to do this without making it a political issue."

The legislation, called the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act, would make three
major changes in immigration law.

First, the measure would allow at least 400,000 immigrants who came to the
United States illegally before 1986 to apply for permanent residency, as people
who came before 1972 were already able to do.

Proponents say many of these immigrants were wrongfully denied amnesty under an
earlier law when the Immigration and Naturalization Service bungled their
claims. Critics say some of those cases should be reviewed by a court, but that
in many others immigrants are not entitled to a green card, which confers
permanent residency.

"If we keep granting amnesty to people who came to the country illegally, we are
in essence putting up a neon sign on all of our borders saying, Violate our law,
come into our country illegally," said Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas.

The second provision calls for granting legal status to 300,000 immigrants who
fled wars and political chaos in Haiti, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and
Liberia, and applied unsuccessfully for refugee status. Proponents say these
immigrants should be treated the same as those from Cuba and Nicaragua, who were
granted legal status in 1997.

The third provision would permit immigrants who are changing their legal status
to pay a $1,000 fee and complete the process in the United States, rather than
return to their home country and leave relatives here behind.

Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Utah Republican who heads the Judiciary Committee, has
countered the Democrats' plan with a proposal to adjudicate some of the amnesty
claims, and grant temporary visas to reunite spouses and children with legal
permanent residents here.

Most Democrats hailed Mr. Hatch's plan, but said it fell short.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 4, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Uses of Secrecy

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words


He has been in prison for three and one-half years, not charged with any crime
but held because the United States government said he was a danger to national
security. He was not allowed to see the evidence that supposedly proved him
dangerous.

Mazen Al-Najjar, who has lived in this country since 1984, is one of a number of
aliens detained as security threats by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service on secret evidence. His case has just taken a dramatic turn -- one that
raises damning questions about the use of secret evidence.

Mr. Al-Najjar was a Ph.D. student and then a university teacher in Tampa, Fla.
The I.N.S. sought to deport him for overstaying his student visa. Charging that
he was connected with terrorism, it asked an immigration judge, R. Kevin McHugh,
to imprison him. Judge McHugh issued the detention order on June 23, 1997.

Last week the same judge considered the detention of Mr. Al-Najjar again. This
time, in a stinging opinion, he said he found no "bona fide reasons to conclude
that Mr. Al-Najjar is a threat to national security."

Judge McHugh, a former marine and military judge, is not what conservatives
might call a bleeding heart. So what happened?

Due process happened, that's what. Mr. Al-Najjar's lawyer went to a federal
court, claiming that his detention on the basis of secret evidence denied him
the due process of law guaranteed by the Constitution. Last May District Judge
Joan Lenard held that he must be told enough about the evidence to have a fair
chance of responding to it.

Judge McHugh then held seven more days of hearings, ending in mid-October. They
included witnesses and material that the I.N.S. agreed to produce in open court.

For example, government agents had searched various offices and seized more than
500 videotapes of public conferences put on by an Islamic group. The I.N.S. made
a 13-minute composite tape of material gleaned from the 500. It was supposed to
support an I.N.S. charge that Mr. Al-Najjar had raised funds for a terrorist
organization, Palestinian Islamic Jihad. But it did not.

"The court finds it remarkable," Judge McHugh said, "that out of over 500
videotapes that were seized . . . not one excerpt of the composite depicted Mr.
Al-Najjar engaged in fund-raising for . . . the P.I.J. or any terrorist
organization. There is no evidence that he engaged in fund-raising for any
organization."

The lead witness for the government was an I.N.S. special agent, William D.
West. He "admitted," Judge McHugh wrote, that there was no evidence in the open
hearings that Mr. Al-Najjar "ever sent money to a terrorist organization or that
he ever advocated terrorism."

The I.N.S. could now, in closed hearings, show Judge McHugh secret evidence. It
would presumably be similar to what persuaded him three years ago to imprison
Mr. Al-Najjar. But this time, to meet the demands of due process, the I.N.S.
would have to give Mr. Al-Najjar a fair summary of its classified evidence -- if
it goes on trying to keep Mr. Al-Najjar in prison.

In 1996 Congress authorized the use of secret evidence in certain immigration
cases. (Amazingly, Attorney General Janet Reno supported the idea. Or perhaps
not amazingly, considering her support of the egregious anti-leak bill now
awaiting President Clinton's decision. She says she will write regulations to
limit its grossly over-broad scope, but of course those regulations could be
scrapped in the future.)

Two weeks ago the House Judiciary Committee approved a bill to require that
aliens charged with being national security threats be given fair summaries of
secret evidence. But the bill died in the adjournment rush.

In the absence of legislative correction, judges have been holding the
government to standards of fairness. Several detainees, Arabs like Mr.
Al-Najjar, have been released when secret evidence turned out to be worthless
when the government had to summarize it.

So there is a lesson in all this beyond the hard-won truth that secret evidence
is inherently unreliable. Even as we exercise the citizen's highest duty in our
democracy, voting for president, we should remember that we rely on judges to
keep us on the path of the Constitution.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 9, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Immigration Panel Keeps Palestinian in Jail

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON, Fla., Dec. 8


A Palestinian who has been jailed for three years without charges on evidence
that the government will not disclose has been denied his freedom again by an
immigration panel, which blocked an order releasing him.

Judge R. Kevin McHugh of federal Immigration Court had ordered the release of
the Palestinian, Mazen Al-Najjar, on $8,000 bond, saying the government had
failed to give him enough information to defend himself.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service successfully blocked his release
when the Board of Immigration Appeal in Washington said the case needed further
study by a three-judge immigration panel.

Mr. Al-Najjar is among about 20 immigrants, mostly Arab-Americans, held in
American jails without criminal charges on classified evidence.

Mr. Al-Najjar, who is married and has three daughters who were born in the
United States, was associated with the World and Islam Studies Enterprise, a
research institute affiliated with the University of South Florida, and the
Islamic Committee for Palestine, a group which said its mission was fostering
better understanding of Muslim issues.

The government maintained that the Florida organizations were fronts for the
Islamic Jihad, which has claimed responsibility for terrorist bombings. Mr.
Al-Najjar has denied ties to terrorists.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Curbs in Immigrants' and Inmates' Rights, Too

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 605 words


It was not only welfare recipients who had the underpinnings of their lives
reordered over the last eight years. The legacy of the Clinton administration
includes significant legal restrictions on the rights of immigrants and
prisoners.

In 1996, Mr. Clinton signed an immigration law providing for automatic
deportation for longtime residents who had been convicted of crimes, even if the
conviction was long ago, and the deportation would be to a country the immigrant
had not seen since childhood.

That same year, hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants lost federal benefits
when President Clinton signed legislation overhauling the nation's welfare.
Although Mr. Clinton has worked to restore some benefits to those who were
already in the country when the welfare law was signed on Aug. 22, 1996, that
effort has been slow and incomplete.

"We had tended to regard legal immigrants as entitled to equal protection of the
law," said Aryeh Neier, president of the Open Society Institute. "When you put
them in a separate class, with less rights, that fundamentally takes away from
their civil liberties."

Taken together, said Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil Liberties Union, the
laws passed in 1996 added up to "the most sustained attack on immigrants' rights
in modern times."

Other laws from the same year have sharply curtailed prisoners' opportunities
for federal court review of their conviction or the conditions of their
confinement.

Federal habeas corpus petitions were restricted by the 1996 counterterrorism law
to those cases in which a state court was not only wrong, but unreasonably
wrong. In many death penalty cases, federal habeas corpus petitions have been
where a prisoner raised, for the first time, claims of ineffective counsel or
other procedural issues. But under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty
Act, such claims no longer merit a federal hearing, because it would not be
unreasonable for a state court to have failed to take into account an issue that
was never raised.

While conservative groups say the law has done no more than cut back on the
overuse of habeas corpus petitions, liberal groups say it gutted a cornerstone
of constitutional law.

During the Clinton administration, new legislation has also cut back the role of
the federal courts in ensuring that state prison systems meet constitutional
standards.

Over the last three decades, federal courts have overseen dozens of state and
city prison systems where inmates have shown evidence of such brutality, abuse
and inadequate living conditions as to constitute cruel and unusual punishment.
The Texas prisons, for example, have been under federal oversight for 20 years,
since a federal judge ruled that the inmates were sleeping on floors, receiving
inadequate medical care and being abused by guards.

And with the huge growth in the nation's prison population during Mr. Clinton's
presidency, crowding in many prisons has become a more serious issue.

But federal oversight has become rarer, since Mr. Clinton signed the Prison
Litigation Reform Act in 1996, limiting the power of federal courts to require
improvements in state prison conditions.

The law limits prisoners' ability to have their cases considered in federal
court, and also provides that consent decrees requiring improved prison
conditions automatically expire after two years in the absence of a new trial
finding ongoing constitutional violations. Federal oversight has already ended
in several state and local prison systems, while others, including Texas, are
still in court seeking to free themselves from federal control.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Reaffirms His Confidence In Labor Choice

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and RAYMOND BONNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8


President-elect George W. Bush came to the defense of his choice for labor
secretary, Linda Chavez, today, saying he continued to have confidence in her
despite disclosures that an illegal immigrant lived in her home and did
occasional work for her.

"I strongly believe that when the Senate gives her a fair hearing, they'll vote
for her," Mr. Bush said of Ms. Chavez in Austin, Tex.

Mr. Bush rallied behind Ms. Chavez, a day after his campaign acknowledged that
an illegal Guatemalan immigrant, Marta Mercado, had lived in her home in
Bethesda, Md.

In an interview today, Ms. Mercado said she had told Ms. Chavez that she was an
illegal immigrant while she was living with her. She said she had stayed in Ms.
Chavez's home for about two years, beginning in late 1991, and did various
cleaning chores about once a week.

Ms. Mercado said that every few weeks Ms. Chavez gave her $100 to $150, money
that Bush transition team officials said was spending money, not wages. Ms.
Mercado, who is now a permanent resident and is married to an American, seemed
to have difficulty remembering the total amount she received from Ms. Chavez,
but she estimated that it was about $1,500, in addition to free room and board.
She said she also cleaned house for one of Ms. Chavez's neighbors, earning about
$120 a week.

Tucker Eskew, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said today that Ms. Chavez did not learn
that Ms. Mercado was an illegal immigrant until after Ms. Mercado had left her
home in 1993. Mr. Eskew said Ms. Chavez opened her home to a needy Guatemalan
immigrant out of charity. A Guatemalan friend of Ms. Mercado's who was living in
Virginia helped arrange their introduction.

Federal immigration laws make it a felony to knowingly conceal or harbor an
illegal immigrant.

In the interview, Ms. Mercado at first said she did not remember whether she had
told Ms. Chavez that she was in the United States illegally. But Ms. Mercado,
who now lives in Beltsville, Md., later said, "When I was in her house she
knew."

Ms. Mercado said that once Ms. Chavez knew her status, "she was very worried."

"I hope everything is going to be O.K. for Mrs. Chavez," Ms. Mercado said. "I
really appreciate what she did for me. I would feel very sorry if she is going
to have a problem because of that."

Ms. Mercado, 40, said she became worried in recent days when F.B.I. agents
sought to interview her. She contacted Ms. Chavez about what to do, she said,
adding that Ms. Chavez told her "it was very important that I talk to the people
from the F.B.I."

Ms. Mercado said in the interview, conducted in Spanish, "What I did in the
house really was not work."

"Sometimes I would clean the kitchen, iron, do the laundry," she said, adding
that she sometimes walked the dogs and fed them.

Mr. Eskew said there was no employer-employee relationship. "Ms. Chavez says she
didn't work for her," he said. The money Ms. Mercado received, he said, was a
charitable gift, and not a payment.

Mr. Bush continued to express support. "I do remain confident in Linda," he
said. "Good person. She will make a fine cabinet secretary."

Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, declined to say whether Ms. Chavez or
others chosen for the cabinet had been asked if they had ever harbored an
illegal immigrant.

"There is a whole series of questions that are asked about matters that in any
way need to be brought to the attention of the president and, as I indicated,
the process is ongoing," Mr. Fleischer said.

Bush transition officials said that as part of the the vetting process, they
have asked cabinet designees whether they paid Social Security and other taxes
for their household help. Mr. Fleischer would not say when transition officials
knew that an illegal immigrant had stayed with Ms. Chavez. Asked if the subject
had been raised with Ms. Chavez, Mr. Fleischer answered, "We, of course, do not
ask each and every one of our nominees to list all the many acts of compassion
that they may have carried out on behalf of people."

Labor leaders have seized on the disclosures about Ms. Mercado to step up their
attacks on Ms. Chavez. They say that someone who opposes the minimum wage and
affirmative action, positions Ms. Chavez has taken, should not serve as the
federal official in charge of protecting workers' rights and benefits.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s executive vice president, Linda Chavez-Thompson, said Ms.
Chavez's assertions that Ms. Mercado merely did occasional chores and received
spending money rather than wages were the typical statements used by people who
refused to acknowledge that they employed an illegal immigrant.

A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials said a person who would be administering the nation's
labor laws should be held accountable if he or she failed to comply with those
laws.

Under federal regulations, an employee is someone who provides services or labor
for an employer for wages or other remuneration. Regulations of the United
States Department of Labor say that domestic workers like housekeepers, baby
sitters and cooks are covered by federal wage and hour laws if they earn at
least $1,000 in a calendar year or they work more than eight hours a week for
one or more employers.

Maryland regulations state that "work is service performed by an employee at the
request and under control of an employer." The state's rules also say, "Work is
compensable -- that is, something for which an employee is entitled to be paid."

Ms. Mercado was living with Ms. Chavez at the time that President Clinton's
first two nominees for attorney general, Zoe Baird and Judge Kimba M. Wood, were
derailed because of disclosures that they had employed illegal immigrants. Ms.
Baird also did not pay the employee's Social Security taxes.

At the time, Ms. Chavez was critical of the Baird nomination. Appearing on PBS's
"MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour" in December 1993, she said: "I think most of the
American people were upset during the Zoe Baird nomination that she had hired an
illegal alien. That was what upset them more than the fact that she did not pay
Social Security taxes."

The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s 54-member executive council meets in Washington on Tuesday,
and the leaders of labor federation, which has 13 million members, are planning
to officially oppose the nomination. Although labor leaders say blocking Ms.
Chavez's confirmation will be difficult, they say they hope that they can
persuade a few Republicans to join the 50 Democrats in the Senate to vote
against confirming her.

James Manley, spokesman for Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the
senior Democrat on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee,
said: "These new disclosures are very disturbing. The cloud over her nomination
is certainly getting darker."

Mr. Kennedy, who is the committee's chairman until Jan. 20, said he planned to
hold hearings on Ms. Chavez's nomination next week.

A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials also referred to a 1986 General Accounting Office report
that suggested that Ms. Chavez, as staff director of the United States Civil
Rights Commission under President Ronald Reagan, had turned the commission's
staff into a political patronage operation.

In examining the commission's hiring of 31 consultants, the G.A.O. said "all 31
appointments contained indications of irregularities." The agency found that
none of the personnel files for the 31 had the required statement of duties and
responsibilities. The agency also said it was unclear whether many of the 31 had
the proper qualifications.

Mr. Eskew suggested that the G.A.O. report was a political document prompted by
Democrats in Congress who wanted to embarrass Ms. Chavez while she was
campaigning to be a United States senator from Maryland, in 1986.

Mr. Eskew said Ms. Chavez had determined at the time that the commission did not
have enough experienced researchers. "Ms. Chavez's leadership brought a fresh
approach that was shocking to those who had seen little change at the
commission," he said.

One union official who opposes Ms. Chavez pointed out that beginning sometime in
the 1970's she defaulted on several thousand dollars in college loans, stopping
repayments for 10 years. But Ms. Chavez said during her Senate campaign that she
repaid the loans when she became a federal employee and her nonpayments were
uncovered.

Mr. Eskew said he was largely unfamiliar with her student loan problem, although
he added that it had been fully aired 15 years ago when she ran, unsuccessfully,
for the Senate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marta Mercado, interviewed yesterday at her home in Beltsville,
Md., talked about living at the home of Linda Chavez, the labor
secretary-designate, during the early 1990's when Ms. Mercado was an illegal
immigrant. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Rush to Marry

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 189 words


To the Editor:

"A Rush to Say 'I Do' (Want a Green Card)" (news article, April 26) reports that
many undocumented immigrants fear they need to marry an American citizen before
an April 30 change in the law or they will lose the opportunity to apply for a
green card from within the United States. Actually, any illegal resident who
entered the country legally will continue to be eligible to apply for a change
in resident status upon marriage to an American citizen.

Still, some people will need to beat the new deadline, like those who plan on
being sponsored by employers or by spouses who are not citizens but who have
green cards. After the change, these immigrants will have to return to their
native countries to obtain green cards, and face a mandatory 3- or 10-year ban
on re-entry into the United States. To avoid needless hardship, Congress should
permanently restore the legal provision that allowed these immigrants to get
green cards without returning to their home countries.

CYRUS MEHTA
New York, April 26, 2001

The writer is chairman of the committee on immigration and nationality law, New
York City Bar Association.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Votes New Deadline For Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21


At President Bush's urging, the House overwhelmingly agreed today to extend a
deadline for many illegal immigrants to apply for legal residency in the United
States without first having to return to their country of origin.

In a bipartisan vote, 336 to 43, the House approved a measure to give some
200,000 illegal immigrants with family or employer sponsors four more months to
file to adjust their status. As many as 400,000 other immigrants met the
original filing deadline, April 30.

Action on the bill now shifts to the Senate, where the majority leader, Trent
Lott of Mississippi, favors a six-month extension, and a bipartisan bill, backed
by Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, both of New York, calls for
extending the deadline by a year.

The divergent views in the House and Senate will probably force the White House
to pick sides among competing Republican-backed plans.

The provision at issue, Section 245i, allows eligible foreigners to apply for
legal residency without first leaving their jobs and families here, provided
they pay a $1,000 penalty.  Normally, immigrants must apply for legal residency
at American consulates in their home countries.

Earlier this month, Mr. Bush asked Congressional leaders to extend the date for
eligible immigrants who missed the cutoff, blaming, in part, the government's
failure to issue until late March instructions on how the provision would be
carried out.

Other Republican leaders, including Gov. George E. Pataki of New York and Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, also urged Congress to reopen the window of
opportunity for illegal immigrants to seek the temporary benefit, in an effort
to help buff the party's tarnished image with immigrants. Mr. Giuliani has said
he would like to make the provision permanent.

In a sign of the bill's importance to Republicans, the House leadership rushed
the measure to the floor today, without committee hearings, under an expedited
procedure that limits debate and bars amendments but also requires a two-thirds
vote for approval.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 22, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

China's Migrants Find Europe's Open Back Door: The Balkans

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1462 words

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Croatia, Aug. 21


The chaotic lands of the Balkans have become the latest gateway to Western
Europe for tens of thousands of illegal immigrants from China, South Asia and
Middle Eastern countries like Iran and Iraq, according to Western diplomats,
local officials and the increasing number of refugees who get caught.

President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, in particular, has opened the gates
to thousands of Chinese intent on reaching Western Europe. Under Mr. Milosevic,
Yugoslavia has cultivated strong ties with China, which was Belgrade's ally
during the war over Kosovo last year.

Yugoslav consulates in China freely grant tourist visas to Chinese, and the
legal passage to Yugoslavia eases the way for illegal entry to the rest of
Europe. Typically, the Chinese arrive by plane in Belgrade, then travel to
Bosnia and on to Croatia. Then they head for the Adriatic coast and hope to
reach Italy.

Bosnia has its own flow of illegal immigrants from Iran, Iraq and other
countries with which the Muslim-led government in Sarajevo maintains strong ties
out of gratitude for the support of Iran and Arab nations during the 1992-95
Bosnian war.

But Croatia is experiencing a staggering increase in human traffic. Barely a
week goes by without a new report of dozens of Chinese or other migrants being
caught on the coast or inland.

The authorities here have caught 10,000 illegal immigrants trying to cross into
Croatia in the first half of this year, compared with 8,000 in all of 1999. On
Aug. 12, for instance, 52 illegal immigrants were sent back to Bosnia, with
which Croatia shares a 1,200-mile, largely mountainous and unpatrolled border. A
few days later, 36 more migrants were caught in the town of Varazdin, close to
the border with Hungary and Slovenia, said Miroslav Cindori, the head of a
detention center outside Zagreb.

In Mr. Cindori's center, a converted motel, young men in track suits and plastic
sandals wander around and, using sign language, beg for cigarettes through the
wire fence.

Mostly Chinese, these men are illegal immigrants caught by the Croatian
authorities, and they now await deportation. They represent a minuscule part of
Europe's latest headache caused by Belgrade.

The 85 men and 2 women detained here have mostly come through in groups,
organized by a shadowy but extensive criminal network of human traffickers, who
are suddenly using the Balkans for access to Europe, said Duc Tran of the
International Organization for Migration, in Zagreb.

None of the Chinese detainees wanted to talk or be photographed. "No, no
English, no, no," said one, smiling cheerfully but not stopping to talk. But
other detainees, from Bangladesh, Tunisia and Iraq, were eager to talk and
urgently asked for help. "We took the wrong road," Shahabuddin, from Dhaka,
Bangladesh, explained sheepishly. "We wanted to go to Italy, and they stopped us
and said, 'No, this is Croatia.' "

Their stories appear to confirm the growing alarm among Western diplomats and
migration officials that a sophisticated and far-reaching network of human
traffickers from Asia has switched its attention from the United States and is
now looking to Europe. The traffickers have found that the troubled and unruly
countries of the former Yugoslavia, with porous borders and a lack of
immigration laws and agreements, are an ideal gateway to the West.

Officials in Croatia recently signed an agreement with Bosnia in an effort to
halt the human flow, but they lack the diplomatic contacts needed to reach a
similar agreement with Mr. Milosevic's government in Belgrade.

Chinese gangs have switched the focus of their activities toward Europe, Mr.
Tran said. "There has been a change in the final destination since the clampdown
by the U.S. government, which has cut down illegal immigration to the United
States," he said. "Europe is now the specific destination of the Chinese."

In past years, Mr. Tran has dealt with waves of illegal immigrants from China
who passed through Central America in an attempt to get to North America. It is
estimated that as many as 500,000 Chinese tried to emigrate last year, he said.

In recent years, China has generally not shown the same concern over barring its
citizens from leaving as the old Soviet Union did. Furthermore, many emigrating
Chinese are from southeast coastal areas where illicit traffic, in people as
well as goods, is well-established.

A large number of these people are now coming to Europe, taking advantage of the
new Yugoslav route.

"What triggered it was the granting of visas by Belgrade," Mr. Tran said. "Two
DC-10's come in a week to Belgrade. You pay $500 to $900 for a ticket, and you
are in Belgrade."

The Serbian capital has a sizable Chinese community and an entire Chinese
section in the vast open-air market that grew up in Belgrade over the last
decade to circumvent sanctions and enable people in Belgrade to buy smuggled
consumer goods. The groups of Chinese arriving by plane "are not going to Serbia
for business," Mr. Tran said. "They may do some trade, but their final
destination is Europe."

The lucky immigrants who make it through Bosnia and Croatia head for Italy by
boat. Once there, they can travel freely within the block of European Union
countries that are bound by the Schengen agreement and have abolished passport
checks.

Belgrade is almost certainly making money out of the scheme, said Dr. Thomas
O'Rourke, acting chief of mission in Zagreb for the International Office of
Migration. Besides the visa and ticket sales, there is talk that the Chinese can
buy residency permits in Serbia for a few thousand dollars, Mr. Tran said.

Diplomats and immigration officials add that Mr. Milosevic, already indicted on
charges of war crimes and widely viewed as an international pariah, may enjoy
causing another problem for his foes. "He's irritating the West and making money
at the same time," said a European diplomat in Zagreb.

Yet the real concern is that the movement of illegal immigrants appears to be
highly organized and run by international criminal rings who have realized that
smuggling people for high fees is more profitable and less risky than
trafficking in drugs, Mr. Tran said.

The traffic in Chinese migrants in Western Europe came to light in June when the
bodies of 58 Chinese were found in an airtight container on a truck in Dover,
England.

The Chinese travel in groups, and are often shipped to prearranged employers,
who then recoup the cost from the immigrants' wages in sweatshops or restaurants
or in the sex trade. Passage to the West can cost up to $60,000, Dr. O'Rourke
said. In some cases, a whole village will join together to send the young men
abroad so they can then support the village with their foreign earnings, said
Mr. Cindori of the immigrant detention center.

The latest group of 35 Chinese men in his center were arrested in the coastal
port of Sibenik after they were returned from Italy. They had no passports and
said very little when they arrived, Mr. Cindori said, but after a few days a
phone call was made.

Then, he said, their passports started arriving in the mail, some from Belgrade,
some from Sarajevo and some from Zagreb. All the men are from the same place in
China, the coastal province of Zhejiang. They received tourist visas at the
Yugoslav Consulate in nearby Shanghai and flew into Belgrade, Mr. Cindori said.

The Muslims who come through Bosnia arrive on flights from Istanbul and Tehran.
A plane arrives from Iran every week and returns empty, Mr. Tran said. "As soon
as they get off the plane, there are buses waiting outside, and they are gone,"
he said.

                             --------------------


Smuggling Plot Investigated

BELGRADE, Serbia, Aug. 21 -- Reuters

The Yugoslav Army is investigating whether two of its soldiers were involved in
a plot to smuggle a group of Chinese illegal immigrants into Italy, Belgrade
news media said today.

The police in Montenegro, the smaller of two republics that constitute present
day Yugoslavia, arrested the two soldiers -- Cpl. Zeljko Modosan and Capt.
Aleksandar Todorovic -- on Saturday. Twenty-five Chinese people and another man
discovered in a van at a checkpoint were detained, the newspaper Blic said.

The other man with them, Dragoljub Vlaovic, was the organizer of the illegal
transport scheme, it said.
 The report said the two soldiers were suspected of having forged travel
documents and having put military license plates on the van transporting the
migrants.

Army units in Montenegro controlled by the Yugoslav president, Slobodan
Milosevic, and police officers loyal to the pro-Western Montenegrin leader, Milo
Djukanovic, have over the past few weeks been involved in a number of smuggling
incidents.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A pair of illegal immigrants from China await deportation at a
detention center outside Zagreb, Croatia. (Wade Goddard/Corbis Sygma, for The
New York Times)(pg. A1); At a center outside Zagreb, Croatia, illegal immigrants
from China, Romania, Turkey, Bangladesh and other countries are awaiting
deportation. (Wade Goddard/Corbis Sygma, for The New York Times)(pg. A4)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. and White House Are Near Accord on Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 931 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12


Congressional Republicans said today that they were nearing agreement with the
White House on legislation that would grant legal status to hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants.

After resisting the idea for months, the Republicans have submitted an amnesty
proposal to the White House, and they said they were inching toward an agreement
that could be included in a comprehensive budget deal, clearing the way for
adjournment of the 106th Congress.

The agreement falls far short of the comprehensive amnesty sought by President
Clinton, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, immigration lawyers and civil rights
groups. But the proposal goes further than most Republicans were willing to go
before the Nov. 7 election, offering benefits to tens of thousands of additional
immigrants.

Republicans said two factors contributed to their new stance. They want to be in
tune with Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, their party's presidential nominee, who
has tried to cultivate good relations with Hispanic Americans. And the
Republicans have been deluged with pleas from employers, who say they want to
hire immigrants because, with the unemployment rate at a 30-year low, they
cannot find the workers they need.

In assessing the latest Republican proposals, the White House has been
consulting Hispanic groups.

Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil
rights group, said: "The president's proposal would have helped 800,000 people.
This deal will help fewer than 400,000. That is probably better than nothing.
But there's real anger in the Latino and immigrant community that it has been
whittled down so far."

Representative Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois, a Democrat who is chairman of the
Hispanic Caucus's study panel on immigration, said the budget bill would include
some assistance for immigrants, but not enough.

"Unfortunately," Mr. Gutierrez said in an interview, "our bargaining position is
weakened. You have a recalcitrant Republican Congress that wants to provide a
paltry amount of justice for immigrants. And you have a president who, I
believe, does not really think immigrants are as important as Medicare, school
construction and other federal programs."

The emerging deal, which builds on legislation offered by Senator Orrin G.
Hatch, Republican of Utah, includes these provisions:

*The government would grant a new type of visa to the spouses and minor children
of certain lawful permanent resident aliens. This would help people who have
been waiting for visas for three years or more. They would be allowed to come to
the United States or to remain here, with the right to work, until they became
permanent residents, as most eventually would.

*Immigrant spouses and minor children of permanent residents and immigrant
spouses of United States citizens already living here would be allowed to apply
for the new visas without returning to their homelands, as they must do under
current law. The government would ignore the fact that many had illegally
entered the United States or had overstayed their visas.

*The government would reopen the cases of tens of thousands of immigrants
seeking amnesty in several large class-action lawsuits. These immigrants have
been here for more than 18 years and would have qualified for amnesty under a
1986 law but for errors by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Congress and the White House may also grant a special dispensation to certain
immigrants who are subject to deportation because they committed relatively
minor crimes before 1996. Under this proposal, lawful permanent residents who
have lived in the United States at least seven years could go before an
immigration judge to show why they should be allowed to stay here. Under a 1996
law, a large number of offenses, including misdemeanors, were retroactively
defined as aggravated felonies requiring deportation.

Republicans said they had rejected Mr. Clinton's effort to grant legal status,
under a separate proposal, to tens of thousands of Salvadorans, Guatemalans,
Hondurans and Haitians. Supporters of this proposal said it would give these
immigrants the same treatment authorized in 1997 for Nicaraguans and Cubans.

But Republicans resisted the idea.  Mr. Hatch said, "It would grant a blanket
amnesty to undocumented aliens and pick out specific groups of immigrants --
Central Americans -- for special treatment."

The Republicans also refused to renew a provision of immigration law that
allowed large numbers of people eligible for family and employment visas to get
their green cards in this country by paying a $1,000 fee. Employers, including
hotels, restaurants and other service industries, lobbied for reinstatement of
this provision, section 245(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

"If all the aliens working in these industries were forced to leave, the economy
would crash," said Bonnie B. Lanza, an immigration consultant in Boston.

Already, lawyers say, some immigrants have been forced to leave their jobs and
their relatives in this country while pursuing their visa applications. Elliot
J. Diringer, a White House spokesman, said, "We want to make sure that
individuals can remain with their families in this country while their
immigration status is resolved."

Congress passed a stopgap spending bill on Monday that provides money to operate
much of the government through Friday. By then, Congressional leaders said, they
hope to have reached agreement with Mr. Clinton on a budget for the rest of the
fiscal year, which runs through through Sept. 30, 2001.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Lived in Labor Designee's Home

BYLINE:  By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7


For at least a year in the early 1990's, Linda Chavez, President-elect George W.
Bush's choice for labor secretary, had an illegal immigrant from Guatemala
living in her home, Bush officials said today.

Tucker Eskew, a spokesman for the Bush transition office, said the woman, whom
he declined to identify, lived with Ms. Chavez for about one year, from 1991
into 1992.

Mr. Eskew said that the woman had performed chores around the house in Bethesda,
Md., on "an irregular basis" and that Ms. Chavez had "provided her with spending
money from time to time."

Mr. Eskew added that Ms. Chavez had driven the woman to job interviews and
English classes and had helped her learn to ride the subway in Washington.

Mr. Eskew and a close friend of Ms. Chavez denied that her relationship with the
woman had been one of employer-employee. "Ms. Chavez did not employ this woman
as a housekeeper or anything else," Mr. Eskew said.

Efforts to reach Ms. Chavez, who now lives in Virginia, were unsuccessful
tonight.

The situation, which was first reported by ABC News today, harks back to
problems that President Clinton had with two of his early nominees for attorney
general.

Democrats called today for an investigation into Ms. Chavez's relationship with
the woman and suggested that if she had in fact employed her, then the Bush
administration ought to reconsider the selection, which has already been opposed
by some Democrats and labor unions because of Ms. Chavez's opposition to the
minimum wage and affirmative action.

"The labor secretary ought to set the example, ought to be able to enforce all
of the laws, said Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, the majority
leader until Jan. 20. "If she hasn't been able to do that in the past, one would
have serious questions about whether she'd be able to do it in her capacity as
secretary of labor."

John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said he expected the
disclosures increased the chances of persuading Congress to block Ms. Chavez's
nomination.

"If these allegations are true," Mr. Sweeney said tonight, "then I think it's
really unfortunate that somebody who has been nominated to be secretary of labor
has violated the law in an area that has become so important, the area of
obeying the nation's immigration laws."

Mr. Sweeney said he was concerned that someone selected to head an agency
responsible for protecting workers' rights and benefits might not have paid
required taxes, including Social Security and unemployment insurance taxes, for
the work the immigrant did for her.

"I think that it adds to the negative record that she has on so many of the
issues that she's going to be responsible for enforcing," Mr. Sweeney said of
Ms. Chavez.

Ms. Chavez's defenders characterized her action as a humanitarian gesture in
keeping with what they say is a pattern of helping people in need.

"She did let a woman who was being badly abused live in her house," said Abigail
Thernstrom, an author and friend of Ms. Chavez. "She had other employment and
was not working for Linda. Eventually, she went back to Guatemala."

Mr. Eskew said Ms. Chavez was not aware of the woman's legal status at the time
she was sheltering her and only realized after the women had departed from her
home that she was here illegally. Mr. Eskew said Ms. Chavez realized the woman's
immigration status after the woman had returned to Guatemala and called Ms.
Chavez seeking her help to re-enter the United States.

But Ms. Thernstrom said it was her recollection that Ms. Chavez was aware that
the woman was not in this country legally.

"I'm pretty confident that Linda did know," Ms. Thernstrom said. "But the
Democrats are the first ones to say if a woman shows up at a shelter for
battered women, people shouldn't ask to see their green cards. I think this is
going to backfire on them."

The Washington Post reported tonight that the woman who had stayed with Ms.
Chavez was Marta Mercado, who had returned legally to the United States and was
living in Beltsville, Md. Attempts to reach her tonight were unsuccessful.

A number of Democrats today called for an investigation of Ms. Chavez's
relationship with the woman, asking whether she actually employed the immigrant
and, if so, did she pay Social Security taxes.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who, until Jan. 20 is
chairman of the Senate's Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, said
he would hold hearings on Ms. Chavez's nomination on Jan. 16-17 and expects the
issue of her relationship with the Guatemalan immigrant to come up.

"This is a very troubling new allegation which needs to be fully addressed at
the time of the hearings," Mr. Kennedy said through a spokesman. "It's already
an extremely troubling nomination because of her long-standing hostility to the
basic rights of American workers."

In 1993, the nomination of Zoe Baird, a corporate lawyer in Connecticut, for
attorney general was scuttled when it was revealed that she had employed illegal
immigrants and had failed to pay Social Security taxes on their wages.

Shortly after the Baird nomination died, another potential attorney general,
Judge Kimba M. Wood of Federal District Court in Manhattan withdrew her name
after accounts that she too had employed an illegal alien, even though it was
legal for her to do so at the time.

Mr. Eskew said today that Ms. Chavez had employed other women in her home as
housekeepers, and that she always paid Social Security taxes. The spokesman
declined to say whether the transition team knew of this situation before it
designated Ms. Chavez as its choice for labor secretary.

Seeking to underscore their point that Ms. Chavez has a history of helping
people, especially immigrants in need of assistance, friends and transition team
officials provided names of individuals whom she has helped.

One, Ngxia Bui, a computer specialist at the Justice Department who lives in
Maryland, said in an interview this evening that Ms. Chavez had taken him and
his brother, Nxan, into her home in 1979. Mr. Bui said he fled Vietnam in 1978.

According to Mr. Bui, he was placed in Ms. Chavez's home by Catholic Charities.
While he was there, she helped him learn English, become accustomed to American
culture and select an English name, Benson. He said he left after a year.

"She is a wonderful lady and also her whole family," Mr. Bui said. "I have
everything now because of her. She taught me many things to be happy."

Ms. Chavez also has provided help to the children of Ada Iturrino, a single
mother from Puerto Rico who has lived in New York for 26 years. Ms. Iturrino
said that for at least five years -- she cannot recall exactly when -- Ms.
Chavez took in her two children, Joshua, now 15, and Kristen, now 10, during the
summer. The children lived in Ms. Chavez's home for two weeks as part of the
Fresh Air Fund program that takes inner city children out of their environment
for a time.

Ms. Iturrino said Ms. Chavez grew close to her children and has for a number of
years paid their tuition in parochial school in New York. She added that the
children continue to visit Ms. Chavez during summer vacations.

"They've become very close to her and her family," Ms. Iturrino said. "They're
beautiful people."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The selection of Linda Chavez to be labor secretary faced more
questions after the disclosure that an illegal immigrant had lived at Ms.
Chavez's home for a year. Ms. Chavez is shown at a news conference last week.
(Associated Press)(pg. A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH CHOICE FOR LABOR POST WITHDRAWS AND CITES FUROR OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT ISSUE

BYLINE:  By STEVEN A. HOLMES and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 9


Linda Chavez, the conservative commentator whom President-elect George W. Bush
had selected to be secretary of labor, withdrew her name from consideration
today, saying that questions over her decision to shelter an illegal immigrant
in her home in the early 1990's had made her a "distraction."

"I do this with some regret because I think that it is a very, very bad signal
to all those good people out there who want to serve their government and want
to serve the people of the United States," Ms. Chavez said at a news conference.

Her decision to withdraw her name came two days after Bush transition officials
said that for two years, an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, Marta Mercado, had
lived in Ms. Chavez's house, did some cleaning for her and received at least
$1,500 from her.

Ms. Chavez said she had sheltered Ms. Mercado and gave her spending money out of
a sense of charity but did not employ her. Her critics likened the arrangement
to employment of a housekeeper and said it required further inquiry.

Federal law enforcement officials said today that F.B.I. agents had been
unsatisfied with Ms. Chavez's answers to their inquiries about her relationship
with Ms. Mercado. These officials said agents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation were also asking about contacts that Ms. Chavez had with a
neighbor who knew of Ms. Mercado's presence in the Chavez house.

Ms. Chavez acknowledged today that she had not initially told aides to Mr. Bush
that she had sheltered an illegal alien.

"I did come to tell them that," she said today in the news conference. "I did
not volunteer it in our very first conversation."

In an interview today, she said she informed Bush officials about Ms. Mercado on
Saturday.

In the interview, Ms. Chavez said the decision to withdraw was hers alone and
that officials from the Bush transition team did not urge her to step aside.

"They did not suggest that I step down," Ms. Chavez said.

Arriving in Washington tonight from Texas, Mr. Bush said he was "saddened" by
Ms. Chavez's announcement.

"I absolutely believe she would have been a fine cabinet secretary," he said,
"but I can understand her reluctance to move forward."

Among those being considered to replace Ms. Chavez, Congressional aides said,
are former Representative Jim Talent, a Republican who lost the governor's race
in Missouri, and Eloise Anderson, who was California director of social services
under Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican.

Mr. Bush's choice of Ms. Chavez had been criticized by many Democrats and union
leaders, who questioned whether she was right for the job because of her
frequent attacks against the minimum wage and affirmative action. They also
compared her situation to that of President Clinton's first two choices for
attorney general, whose appointments were derailed after disclosures that they
had employed illegal immigrants.

Ms. Chavez said again today that she had not hired Ms. Mercado to perform
domestic chores, but had taken her in to help her escape an abusive
relationship.

"What I did was not illegal, it was not immoral," Ms. Chavez said in a telephone
interview. "I thought what I was doing was an act of kindness."

Since Sunday the Bush transition team has repeatedly said that Ms. Chavez was
not aware of Ms. Mercado's illegal status until after the woman had moved out.

But today, Ms. Chavez said: "I will be very frank with you, I think I always
knew that she was here illegally. I don't check green cards when I see a woman
who is battered and who has no place to live and nothing to eat and no way to
get on her feet."

Ms. Chavez made her announcement at an unusual news conference in which she
presented several people who described how she had helped them over the years.
Their accounts supported the Bush team's contention that her decision to help
Ms. Mercado fit a pattern of her helping people, especially immigrants.

Among those at the news conference were Ngxia Bui, a Vietnamese refugee whom Ms.
Chavez sponsored in 1979. In an earlier interview, Mr. Bui said he had lived in
Ms. Chavez's house for a year.

Also speaking on Ms. Chavez's behalf were Ada Iturrino and her two children,
Joshua and Celenia. Ms. Iturrino, a single mother from Puerto Rico, said Ms.
Chavez had paid for her children's tuition to a parochial school for several
years.
In presenting those whom she had helped, Ms. Chavez, whose father is Hispanic,
described how her childhood was marred by financial instability and her father's
drinking problems.

"Family members took me in," she said. "Friends helped. There was financial
support and other kinds of support for me when I was growing up, and I needed
it. And I vowed to myself that no matter what happened to me in my life that I
would be there for other people."

In an interview on Monday, Ms. Mercado, who is now a legal resident, said Ms.
Chavez gave her $100 to $150 every few weeks. Saying she lived in the Chavez
home for about two years, she estimated that Ms. Chavez gave her a total of
about $1,500.

Law enforcement officials said that the F.B.I. had interviewed Ms. Chavez three
times and was about to meet with her for a fourth time when she withdrew.

In addition, these officials said that in Ms. Chavez's initial interview, she
did not disclose that Ms. Mercado had lived in her house.

The officials said the F.B.I. thought that her accounts were becoming muddier,
rather than clearer, about whether she knew that Ms. Mercado was in the United
States illegally and whether she employed her as a housekeeper.

Ms. Chavez portrayed herself today as a victim, accusing her critics of engaging
in the politics of personal destruction.

"So long as the game in Washington is a game of search and destroy, I think we
will have very few people who are willing to do what I did, which was to put
myself through this in order to serve," she said. "What has happened over the
last few days is quite typical of what happens in Washington, D.C."

On the other side, her critics noted that she often criticized President Clinton
in her newspaper columns and was fiercely critical of his first nominee for
attorney general, Zoe Baird. Ms. Baird's appointment was sidetracked following
disclosures that she employed an illegal immigrant as a nanny and had failed to
pay Social Security taxes.

Appearing on PBS's "MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour" in December 1993, Ms. Chavez said:
"I think most of the American people were upset during the Zoe Baird nomination
that she had hired an illegal alien. That was what upset them more than the fact
that she did not pay Social Security taxes."

Ms. Chavez said today that she felt Ms. Baird was treated unfairly.

For her part, Ms. Chavez blamed a compressed vetting period, caused by the delay
in certifying Mr. Bush as president-elect, for the confusion about her answers.

Law enforcement officials said a neighbor, Margaret Zwisler, had told them that
Ms. Mercado had lived in Ms. Chavez's house and had raised questions about
whether Ms. Mercado worked for Ms. Chavez.

In an interview tonight, Ms. Chavez said that several weeks before Mr. Bush
chose her to be labor secretary, she had spoken with Ms. Zwisler about Ms.
Mercado.

"I did call her and tried to refresh my memory of when Marta lived with me," Ms.
Chavez said. "I asked if she would go public with this. I said the F.B.I. would
probably be contacting her. I told her if they did, she should tell the truth."

Ms. Chavez added that, "if I knew it would cause a stir that would cause people
to react, I probably wouldn't have gone forward and taken the job."

Neil Eggleston, a lawyer representing Ms. Zwisler, said his client, who is an
antitrust lawyer, had no comment.

Mr. Bush's choice to head the Environmental Protection Agency, Gov. Christie
Whitman of New Jersey, disclosed in 1993 that she and her husband employed a
Portuguese couple, both illegal immigrants, for more than three years.

Governor Whitman acknowledged that she did not pay taxes on their wages for some
of that time, but said she subsequently paid the taxes.

The Portuguese couple helped care for the Whitmans' two children and did some
work on the family's farm. The two immigrants have obtained permanent resident
status and still work for the governor.

Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, defended Governor Whitman, saying her
employment of the Portuguese couple has long been known and has been fully aired
and that she has paid all taxes due for their work.

Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, praised Ms. Chavez's decision
to withdraw.

"The process relies on nominees being completely candid about every potential
concern in their backgrounds, and as Ms. Chavez indicated today, she made a
mistake," Mr. Voinovich said. "She did the right thing today by asking that her
name be withdrawn."

Like many Republican moderates, Mr. Voinovich failed to rally behind Ms. Chavez.

Several Congressional aides said many Republican lawmakers believed the Chavez
nomination was troubled from the start, largely because of her fiercely
conservative views and labor's vows to fight her nomination.

In recent days, labor leaders repeatedly attacked the selection of Ms. Chavez.
They questioned whether she would vigorously enforce the nation's labor laws,
pointing to her opposition to the minimum wage and affirmative action and to her
mocking of sexual harassment regulations by writing that they were producing "a
nation of crybabies."

Several labor leaders said they were surprised and angry that Ms. Bush, after
saying he wanted to unite America, had named a labor secretary who appeared more
hostile to labor unions and workers' rights than the labor secretaries who
served under Presidents Reagan, Ford and Nixon.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee until Jan. 20, said, "If there's
a silver lining to the events of recent days, it's the opportunity not to name a
labor secretary in the distinguished tradition of recent Republican presidents."

Ms. Chavez had been scheduled to appear before the committee next week for
confirmation hearings.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. also applauded Ms. Chavez's withdrawal.

Peggy Taylor, the labor federation's chief lobbyist, said, "We think it's
appropriate that she has withdrawn, and we hope that the next nominee will be
someone whose history would indicate a commitment to upholding the labor
department's mission in protecting workers and keeping their workplace safe."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Linda Chavez, second from right, at a news conference yesterday
with her husband, Chris Gersten, at right; her son, David Gersten; and two
people who spoke on her behalf, Margarita Valladares and Ngxia Bui. (Susana Raab
for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Members of the Bush transition team listened
yesterday as Linda Chavez withdrew as a cabinet designee. (Paul Hosefros/The New
York Times)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Linda Chavez, Victim of Politics?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 123 words


To the Editor:

Re "Bush Choice for Labor Post Withdraws and Cites Furor of Illegal Immigrant
Issue" (front page, Jan. 10):

"What I did in the house really was not work."

"Sometimes I would clean the kitchen, iron, do the laundry": these statements by
Marta Mercado were no doubt made in complete sincerity, as she came to the
defense of Linda Chavez, who had taken the Guatemalan woman into her home. Now
that Ms. Chavez has withdrawn from consideration as George W. Bush's labor
secretary, we may have lost an opportunity to look at what work means.

Until we recognize that the work women traditionally do is indeed work, we will
enter the 21st century crippled by a 19th-century mentality.

ELLEN J. REIFLER
Swampscott, Mass., Jan. 10, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Linda Chavez, Victim of Politics?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 110 words


To the Editor:

Re "Bush Choice for Labor Post Withdraws and Cites Furor of Illegal Immigrant
Issue" (front page, Jan. 10):

Instead of accepting personal responsibility for the circumstances that prompted
her abrupt decision to withdraw as George W. Bush's choice for labor secretary,
Linda Chavez tried to portray herself as a victim of the politics of personal
destruction.

To be sure, the atmosphere in Congress during Bill Clinton's years as president
grew far less collegial, but responsibility has to rest on the shoulders of
members of her party who set the harsh, unforgiving standard by which she is now
being judged.

CY SHAIN
San Francisco, Jan. 10, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Linda Chavez, Victim of Politics?

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 118 words


To the Editor:

Re "Bush Choice for Labor Post Withdraws and Cites Furor of Illegal Immigrant
Issue" (front page, Jan. 10):

As a proud supporter of organized labor and affirmative action, I strongly
opposed the selection of Linda Chavez for labor secretary. It is a sad day,
however, when supporters of working men and women must resort to attacking an
act of pro-immigrant kindness to defeat someone who was so objectionable on
other grounds.

I hope that Democrats and moderate Republicans in the Senate have the political
will to challenge John Ashcroft and Gale A. Norton for their problematic
policies and extremist positions without having to manufacture an extra issue.

JACOB REMES
New Haven, Jan. 10, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Linda Chavez, Victim of Politics?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 98 words


To the Editor:

Re "Bush Choice for Labor Post Withdraws and Cites Furor of Illegal Immigrant
Issue" (front page, Jan. 10): In fact, it was Linda Chavez's political views
that sounded the death knell for her selection as labor secretary. For all the
liberal huff and puff about how minorities need to be represented in greater
numbers in important positions in our society, only some kinds of minorities
need apply. We can rest assured that if Ms. Chavez had held more leftist views,
the ire of many Latino groups would have never been raised.

RODNEY GOMEZ
Brownsville, Tex., Jan. 10, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 14, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trapped;
Americans (a)Love (b)Hate Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THE case of Linda Chavez illustrates the conflicting impulses, some say
hypocrisy, many Americans face in dealing with illegal immigrants -- indeed with
the whole subject of immigration -- today.

Ms. Chavez, who withdrew from consideration to be Secretary of Labor last week
following reports that an illegal immigrant lived and did some chores in her
home in the early 1990's, said she was just helping a frightened woman in need.
But she has also called for tightening the nation's borders against illegal
aliens.

Under the politicized klieg lights of a presidential transition, it seemed a
jarring combination of attitudes. But it is a combination remarkably typical of
the way many Americans feel -- or at least act. Whether out of kindness or
economic necessity, they look the other way when it comes to checking the legal
status of immigrants in their daily lives, even as they encourage in principle
government efforts to crack down on immigrants who enter the country illegally.

Especially in today's tight labor market, America can't function without
immigrants -- and there aren't enough legal ones -- from its agricultural fields
to Silicon Valley to the apartments and houses where nannies care for their
children and clean their homes.

"The conflict is between the traditions of America as a nation of laws and as a
nation of immigrants," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration coalition. Put another way, Mr. Sharry
said, "If illegal immigrants are so scary, why do America's mothers turn our
children over to them every day?"

About 800,000 immigrants enter the country legally each year. An estimated
300,000 enter illegally or overstay their visas. For the first time since the
1930's, one of 10 Americans is foreign born.

Immigrants are increasingly coveted by corporate America; were the nation's
estimated six million illegal immigrants expelled tomorrow, thousands of hotels,
restaurants, meat-packing plants, landscaping companies and garment factories
would likely close.  At the other end of the salary spectrum, high-tech
employers persuaded a Republican Congress last year to nearly double the quota
for high-skilled immigrants, to 195,000.

And society grapples with conflicting impulses about immigrants every day.
Illegal immigrants' children may attend public school, but even the brightest
among them are ineligible for public loans for college. In Arizona, armed
ranchers patrol the border to stop immigrants from crossing the desert and
entering illegally, while other landowners leave food and water along the route
for the weary heading north.

Employers face penalties if they hire undocumented workers, but many do so
anyway, knowing they will lose out to competitors if they can't fill the jobs
that most legal residents won't take.

"We are encouraging a hypocrisy," said Senator Pete Domenici, a New Mexico
Republican. "At the border we arrest, but once they get here everyone opens
their arms and says we've got a job for you."

This political ambivalence is rooted in personal ambivalence. As Ms. Chavez
wrote in 1994: "So long as they stay out of trouble once they're here, most
Americans ignore illegal aliens. I've yet to see a customer walk out of a
restaurant because his dishes were being washed by an illegal alien."

And unless you are nominated for a top Government job -- particularly enforcing
the nation's labor laws, as Ms. Chavez was -- immigration experts say chances
are good that hiring illegal immigrants will go unpunished. (That, of course,
raises other concerns about employers exploiting undocumented workers.)

Not long ago immigrants faced a political firestorm. In 1994, Gov. Pete Wilson
of California was re-elected on the back of Proposition 187, which barred
illegal immigrants' children from public schools. In 1996, Congress approved
harsh bills that barred hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants from receiving
food stamps and federal disability assistance. Another required the deportation
of legal aliens convicted of a variety of offenses, some of them minor, and made
the statute retroactive.

Attitudes have softened since then. The big difference now, of course, is the
strong economy. In California, for example, at least half the 40,000 workers who
harvest the state's raisin crop are undocumented, said Senator Dianne Feinstein,
a California Democrat.

"In a growing economy, people are looking for low-cost labor with no questions
asked," said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which opposes increased immigration.

IN a Gallup poll last September, 44 percent of the respondents said immigrants
mostly help the economy, while 40 percent said they mostly hurt. Asked the same
question in July 1993, 26 percent said immigrants helped and 64 percent said
they hurt.

For years, American unions viewed immigrants with suspicion. The A.F.L.-C.I.O.
saw them as a threat to jobs and wage levels. But last February, it called for a
blanket amnesty for all illegal workers, arguing that in boom times, immigrants
were potential members.

Both political parties have scrambled to woo foreign-born voters. The election
of George W. Bush marked the ascension of the pro-immigrant wing of the
Republican party, which still has powerful anti-immigrant critics. Mr. Bush
speaks conversational Spanish, has a Mexican-born sister-in-law, and ran a
parallel Spanish-language operation during his campaign. "New Americans are not
to be feared as strangers; they are to be welcomed as neighbors," he told a
Hispanic group last June.

After all that, Mr. Bush drew 31 percent of the Hispanic vote, compared to 21
percent for Mr. Dole in 1996. But he still fell a few points short of what
Ronald Reagan drew among Hispanics in 1980 and 1984, and barely nosed out his
father, President George Bush, who registered 30 percent in 1988.

The issue's political sensitivity surfaced in the debate over Ms. Chavez's
selection. The situation echoed that of President Clinton's first nominee for
attorney general, Zoe Baird, whose appointment was sidetracked following
disclosures that she employed an illegal immigrant as a nanny and had failed to
pay Social Security taxes. Democrats, who opposed Ms. Chavez's appointment
because they strongly opposed her views on labor policies in general, dealt
gingerly with her case, sticking to legal issues and shying away from criticisms
that could appear anti-immigrant.

Even as many Americans accept illegal immigrants with a wink and a nod, Congress
has taken only halting steps to loosen restrictions. Lawmakers and the Clinton
administration struck a compromise last year to reunite 300,000 to 500,000
spouses and children with legal permanent residents. But Republicans rejected
Mr. Clinton's broader proposals, including granting legal status to immigrants
who fled wars and political chaos in Haiti, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala.

IMMIGRANT rights supporters vow to renew their fight in this closely divided
Congress, but experts say adjusting the law to life's realities may have to
wait. "It just hasn't been an item that's high on our priorities," Senator
Feinstein said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Along the border in Jacumba, Cal., a Border Patrol agent drives
past a spot where a man waits for sunset to try to cross illegally from Jacume,
Mexico. (Susan Sterner/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 17, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Dreams, For Immigrants, Too

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 154 words


To the Editor:

"Americans (a) Love (b) Hate Immigrants" (Week in Review, Jan. 14), pointing out
the hypocrisy of our attitudes toward illegal immigrants, is thought-provoking
and poignant, but just as easily could have been written about gays, blacks, the
poor, the homeless or even Congress.

This story is but one manifestation of a general principle, which is: "It is
quite easy to foster strong negative feelings and to support laws against any
particular group as a whole that is different from us.

However, when we get to know or come to need individual members of that
particular group, our attitudes quickly change."

The sooner we Americans learn to recognize this disconnect and hypocrisy in our
laws and our attitudes, the sooner we will be able fully to realize the promise
of freedom and equal protection in our Constitution.

DON GEORGE
President, American Civil
Liberties Union of Georgia
Atlanta, Jan. 15, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush and Fox Hope Nations Will Become Better Amigos

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 30


Americans have long seen Mexico as a river of illegal drugs and immigrants
flowing north. But if the nations' two new leaders have their way, it may soon
be seen as a fountain of energy, labor and trade.

Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox will meet on Feb. 16 at Mr. Fox's ranch, in Mr.
Bush's first border crossing as commander in chief. They have more in common
than a taste for cowboy boots and enchiladas. Both have ideas that could
transform the political and economic relationship between the superpower and the
striving nation to the south.

"Our common border is no longer a line that divides us, but a region that unites
our nations, reflecting our common aspirations, values and culture," the
secretary of state, Gen. Colin L. Powell, said today in Washington at his first
news conference, held jointly with the new Mexican foreign minister, Jorge
Casteneda.

Seeing the border as a symbol of unity, calling Mexico and the United States
next-door neighbors with common needs and intertwined fates, has been long been
Mr. Fox's political refrain. It is a fairly new tune for American foreign
policy, but the changes, symbolic and substantial, are already happening.

Mr. Bush wants to greatly expand trade across the border, calling commerce "the
long-term solution" for illegal immigration. Both presidents say that if
Mexico's economy becomes stronger, fewer Mexicans will head north looking for
work.

"The thing that really has to be done to solve this problem is to continue to
help the Mexican economy grow, so that jobs are in the south, so that the great
magnet is no longer just in the north, but it is also within Mexico," General
Powell said today.

Since Mr. Fox's election six months ago, illegal migration has fallen off along
the border, from California to Texas, if the plummeting number of arrests is any
sign.

But millions of Mexicans work illegally north of the border, and American labor
leaders and senior Republican senators, as well as the Federal Reserve chairman,
Alan Greenspan, say it is time to legalize them.

The goal should be to let them "come into America legally to work, have their
rights protected and accumulate human and financial capital to take back to
Mexico," said Sen. Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican.

Mexico is sending more than sweat and muscle: on Monday, it started selling 50
megawatts a day of electricity to California, enough to power 50,000 homes, to
help the state in its energy crisis. That Americans would turn to Mexico for
something so basic could be a harbinger of something big.

Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney have been talking for months about the
need for a hemispheric energy policy -- "an approach that looks at all of North
America as one giant market," as Mr. Cheney put it. If both sides agree, the
United States could invest in Mexican power plants and get cheap electricity in
return.

There is even talk in Washington of ending the annual rite of certification -- a
political process, which Mexico finds humiliating, in which the White House
weighs whether the Mexicans are doing their part in the war on drugs.

It did not hurt that Mexico's Supreme Court had just ruled that hundreds of drug
suspects may be extradited from Mexican jails by American law enforcement
agencies.

All this is music to Mr. Fox's politically attuned ears. He wants it all to
happen -- and more, much more. In time, he says, the two nations can be so
integrated, economically and politically, that the border would be more like the
common wall of adjoining homes and less like a militarized frontier.

It may not be that wild an idea. Mexico is "the house next door," Mr. Greenspan
argued at a closed meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee in 1995, when
Mexico's economy was near collapse and the Fed stepped in with a
multibillion-dollar bailout.

"The house catches on fire, and cinders going in our direction threaten to burn
our house down," he said, according to transcripts of the internal debates
released last week. "Can we say we are not going to help them put out the fire?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 3, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Agents Reporting Fewer Illegal Mexican Immigrants

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 638 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 2


The number of seizures of illegal immigrants crossing from Mexico into the
United States has ebbed in recent months, according to law enforcement agents
along the border.

After years in which just about everything had been tried to hold back the human
tide -- from high-profile paramilitary operations to emotional public service
campaigns -- the number of illegal immigrants taken into custody by the Border
Patrol in Arizona, California and Texas since Jan. 1 has dropped by one-third
compared with the same period last year. At the busiest corridor for illegal
immigration, between Douglas and Naco, Ariz., the daily average apprehension
rate has dropped almost 40 percent.

Law enforcement agents said it was too early to describe the decline as a trend,
and they offered different theories about why fewer people seemed to be trying
to cross. The number of agents posted along the 2,100-mile border has doubled
since 1993, and because of that, border patrol officials say, they believe that
they have been more effective at catching immigrants who try to cross the
border.

Reports of attacks against migrants by ranchers and smugglers may have scared
off many prospective immigrants. Others may have deemed the journey too risky
after having heard reports of the hundreds of immigrants who drowned or died of
exposure last year. The perils are not new, but in the past, they tended to
divert the flow of immigrants through more isolated border areas.

Mexican consular officers and researchers who regularly speak to immigrants
suggested that they were hearing about new forces at play. Hope, they said,
seems to be keeping Mexican people at home.

Last summer, Mexicans set their nation on new course by electing Vicente Fox, an
opposition candidate, as president. Mr. Fox, a former rancher and marketing
executive, became the first person in 71 years to take control of the presidency
from the Institutional Revolutionary Party. He enters office promising to create
1.3 million jobs and to grant additional loans to small business owners and
college scholarships to high school graduates. He has expressed long-term
visions of an open border between the United States and Mexico, one through
which workers pass as freely as merchandise.

In the short term, Mr. Fox aims to persuade the United States to expand workers'
programs so that additional Mexicans can legally seek seasonal work across the
border. With more than 150,000 immigrants illegally entering the United States
from Mexico each year, those ideas will be among the main topics when President
Fox meets President Bush in two weeks.

Roberto Rodriguez, the Mexican consul in Nogales, Ariz., said Mexican immigrants
seemed to believe that their new president would accomplish his goals. "After so
many years of offerings and promises by the government, for the first time they
are coming from a president who was elected freely and fairly," Mr. Rodriguez
said. "He has real credibility, and people are saying that they have decided to
stay in Mexico to give him and his programs a chance."

Jorge Bustamante, an immigration expert who is a founder of the College of the
Northern Border in Tijuana and is now on the faculty at the University of Notre
Dame, agreed with those views. People in Mexico, he said, have been increasingly
optimistic about their prospects for finding work in their homeland since the
onset of the North American Free Trade Agreement seven years ago. Unemployment
on the border, for example, is nonexistent in many major cities.

Mr. Fox's election and his commitment to increase economic growth have
"reinforced that optimism," Mr. Bustamante said. Injecting a note of caution,
Mr. Bustamante added that because the decline in the numbers of illegal
immigrants was so dependent on psychological factors, it was as unpredictable as
a crosswind.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 8, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Onetime Illegal Immigrant Sheltered by Chavez Recalls Painful Past

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT with RENWICK McLEAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1600 words

DATELINE: BELTSVILLE, Md., Feb. 7


The satellite television trucks that lined up outside her quiet suburban home
here have left. The reporters who once vied for interviews have stopped calling.
Life is slowly returning to normal for Marta Mercado.

But for 72 hours last month, Mrs. Mercado's ordinary life as a homemaker and
mother of four was swept up in a political tornado, which only Washington could
create, that engulfed the incoming Bush administration and laid bare to an
international audience a painful past she thought was behind her.

Mrs. Mercado's anonymity ended when President-elect George W. Bush picked Linda
Chavez, the conservative commentator, to be his secretary of labor. Soon after,
it became known that for more than two years in the early 1990's, Ms. Chavez
sheltered Mrs. Mercado, then an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, asked her to
do occasional chores and gave her at least $1,500 in spending money that Ms.
Chavez and Mrs. Mercado insist was charity, not wages.

Mrs. Mercado, now 40 and a permanent legal resident, was briefly caught in an
intense partisan cross-fire over a woman named to a cabinet job with whom she
said she had spoken only once in the last seven years. As Ms. Chavez was forced
to detail her long-ago relationship with Mrs. Mercado, so too did Mrs. Mercado
have to answer questions -- from reporters and the F.B.I. -- about a failed
first marriage, a 10-day stay at a battered women's shelter and a lonely
introduction to living in America.

While the media and public interest in her began to die the same day Ms. Chavez
withdrew her name for secretary of labor, Mrs. Mercado's life was upended in
ways that would take longer to dissipate. She says she is sometimes recognized
in public places, such as restaurants near her Maryland home and even in the
Miami airport. She said the disclosure of personal details about her troubled
early years in the United States made her the subject of gossip in her community
and even among her husband's co-workers.

"I was just living my life, and then suddenly I am surrounded by tons of
reporters, and I had to talk about things that I thought I would never have to
talk about publicly," Mrs. Mercado said in a conversation in her living room
here the other day.

Now, she welcomed the opportunity to recount her full personal history,
especially the part of her life that had nothing to do with Ms. Chavez and was
thus virtually ignored in the accounts that were written during the controversy
swirling around the labor nominee.

In recent years, Mrs. Mercado's life has centered on seeking economic
opportunity and a better life, a story that has been told and retold for
generations by immigrants to this country. She has married an American citizen,
settled into this middle-class neighborhood, had a son and was reunited with the
three daughters from her previous marriage that she had left behind in
Guatemala.

She was expansive and sometimes laughed during a two-hour conversation,
conducted in Spanish.

"I don't know why the things that have happened to me have happened, but in a
way I have to accept them," Mrs. Mercado said. "I don't want people to judge me
negatively, but if they do, they do. They can suit themselves."

"All of this caused me a lot of pain, a lot of tension, a lot of worry," added
Mrs. Mercado, a small, elegant woman with short, black hair and striking brown
eyes. "I don't know how politics works."

Her passage from obscurity to a footnote of Washington scandal lore wends from a
poverty-stricken childhood in Guatemala to a shelter for abused women in
Virginia to the fateful stay in Ms. Chavez's comfortable home in Bethesda, Md.

She was born and reared in Guatemala City, one of 10 children. Her father was a
woodcutter; her mother sold tortillas. The family lived in a wooden shack with a
sheet-metal roof. Mrs. Mercado said that when she was 9, she dropped out of
school to earn money baby-sitting. "There was nothing poorer than we were," she
said.

By 15, she was earning $100 a month working in an ice cream factory. At 19, she
had a baby out of wedlock. Two months later, the infant died of meningitis, she
said.

In 1986, at 26, she married Domingo Arrivillaga, a musician. Before long, the
couple had three young daughters, Marta Irene, Flor Alejandra and Andrea. But
the marriage foundered. Mrs. Mercado said her husband was an alcoholic prone to
jealous rages.

Faced with a failing marriage and the drudgery of a life that held little
prospect beyond her meager tortilla business, Mrs. Mercado fled to the United
States in April 1991. She said she paid $2,000 for counterfeit papers to fool
American immigration officials.

"I wasn't willing to let my daughters grow up in misery without me being able to
give them anything," she said, adding that her husband and other family members
cared for the girls in her absence.

She flew to Washington, where she had arranged to meet a former neighbor from
Guatemala who lived in northern Virginia. He offered his home as a temporary
sanctuary.

While cordial at first, the man soon became "deranged," she said. "I was
completely desperate because I didn't have anywhere to go," Mrs. Mercado said.
"After he hit me and threatened to kill me, I left the house for the streets."

An acquaintance called the police, who took her to a shelter for battered women
in northern Virginia, where she stayed for 10 days. A friend from Guatemala,
Erica DeLeon, eventually took her in. Through an American couple whose home Ms.
DeLeon cleaned, Mrs. Mercado met Ms. Chavez in October 1991.

At times, Mrs. Mercado said, Ms. Chavez's home was a refuge. She had an airy
basement room. Ms. Chavez helped enroll her in English classes and a women's
support group, where she met other Spanish-speaking women.

But life was still hard. She missed her children, ages 5, 3 and 1. Language was
a barrier: Mrs. Mercado spoke no English at first. Ms. Chavez, her husband and
two sons, spoke no Spanish.

"It was a very difficult time," she said. "I was living without my daughters,
and I missed them a lot, and I suffered a lot thinking about them, not knowing
if their lives were how they should be. I lived with good people but I couldn't
communicate with them, or share anything with them."

Mrs. Mercado said she did occasional household chores, but did not feel
exploited. "When Linda would go on a trip, she would ask me to do certain
things: take care of the kids, the dogs, things around the house," Mrs. Mercado
said. "Sometimes she would ask me to iron the suit she was going to put on,
things like that." Ms. Chavez knew of her illegal immigration status.

In December 1993, Mrs. Mercado returned to Guatemala. "I wanted to see my
daughters," she said. "I wanted to try to renew my relationship with my husband.
I missed my family and my country."

Six months later, she returned to the United States, this time on a legal
tourist visa. Her marriage was over, but not her stubborn desire to improve her
daughters' lives.

Mrs. Mercado said she contacted Ms. Chavez, but this time her former benefactor
said she could not help. Mrs. Mercado lived with friends and saved enough money
to rent a room.

In January 1995, she moved in with her current husband, Ismael Mercado, 48, a
bus driver whom she had met two years earlier when she took the wrong route one
day. She married Mr. Mercado, a native of Puerto Rico, in 1996. Soon after, as
the spouse of a United States citizen, she applied for permanent residency,
which was granted in October 1997. Two years later, her daughters in Guatemala
came to live with her.

Everything finally seemed to be working out. Then one night last month, Mrs.
Mercado heard about Ms. Chavez's selection on the evening news. The two women
had spoken only once since Mrs. Mercado's return to the United States, she said.
"I was happy for her," she said. Then came calls from reporters, beginning in
earnest on Saturday, Jan. 6, which eventually jammed her phone lines. They
wanted to know whether Ms. Chavez had paid her Social Security taxes. She called
Ms. Chavez to ask for guidance.

"I was tormented by this, and I wanted to know a little bit more about why this
was happening," she said.

Ms. Chavez told her to cooperate fully with the F.B.I., Mrs. Mercado said, but
left it up to her to decide whether to talk to the reporters.

Within three days, Mrs. Mercado said she had given at least 20 interviews, with
her husband supervising.  Television trucks clogged her street. "This place was
flooded with people, and I was terrified," she said. "One of the things I was
scared about was that I had to say how I got into this country, and I know that
it's not pleasant for Americans to hear about that, to hear that people have
entered the country like I did."

Then just as suddenly, it was over.  Ms. Chavez withdrew from consideration
saying she had been victimized by Washington's game of "search and destroy."
Mrs. Mercado did not appear at Ms. Chavez's withdrawal news conference, where
other immigrants gave testimonials to the way she had helped them.

Mrs. Mercado said she felt a twinge of guilt over what happened to Ms. Chavez,
although she said Ms. Chavez told her not to fret. "I feel sad for her, because
I think that she would be in the cabinet right now if not for having helped me
during a time when I was in need," she said.

But Mrs. Mercado said she was not angry or bitter, waxing philosophical about
the latest twist in her life voyage.

"I have lived through some difficult things," she said, her voice softening with
emotion. "I know I did things I shouldn't have done, and if I could change them
I would, but I can't. I am not ashamed of my life."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marta Mercado, a former illegal immigrant and now a permanent
legal resident, lived with Linda Chavez for two years and was swept up in her
confirmation controversy. Mrs. Mercado was in her Beltsville, Md., home. (Lauren
Shay for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 21, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Realities On the Rio Grande

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 132 words


To the Editor:

Pamela S. Falk ("Easing Up at the Border," Op-Ed, Feb. 15) recommends a mass
amnesty for Mexicans illegally residing in the United States, implying that it
is "the right thing to do, both economically and morally." Yes, a steady supply
of cheap foreign labor financially benefits some businesses.

And providing the world's desperately poor with the opportunity to move to our
high-consumption society feels morally right to many people.

But no debate on an amnesty is complete without reference to a new Immigration
and Naturalization Service study showing that amnesties encourage illegal
immigration. And a Gallup Poll this month indicated that only 5 percent of
respondents were "very satisfied" with current immigration policy.

LIN SUN
Middle Village, Queens, Feb. 15, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Small Border War Turns, but Is Not Yet Won

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1173 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz., Feb. 17


A year ago, this small town on the border with Mexico was in chaos.

Federal law enforcement officials had clamped down on other, more popular border
crossings, effectively funneling illegal immigrants, many with children, into
the Douglas area at a rate of hundreds of thousands a year. Angry ranchers
responded by arming themselves and patrolling their property. The Ku Klux Klan
showed up to lend support.

Today, downtown is quiet, and the number of illegal immigrants seized while
crossing here was 40 percent lower in the four months from October to February
than in the corresponding period a year earlier, among the steepest such
declines along the 1,952-mile border.

Stepped-up operations by the Border Patrol, as well as new economic hope in
Mexico, are responsible for the change, officials say. But while the flow of
immigrants across the border has been slowed, it has not been entirely stanched,
and the Border Patrol has earned only the slightest hint of praise from
residents here.

"They've decreased the flow of people across my property by maybe 40 to 50
percent, but they're just coming on everyone else's place," said Roger Barnett,
who owns a 22,000-acre ranch northeast of town.

Moreover, Border Patrol agents and local officials alike say the new efforts
have driven many illegal immigrants into the rugged mountains and arid desert to
the east and west, where there is a greater risk of dying of exposure and
thirst. Seventeen border crossers have died in the area around Douglas during
the last four and a half months, compared with 18 during the previous 12.

"The strategy is working in terms of keeping illegal immigrants out of the
community, but in essence all they've done is pushed them out to the
extremities," said Raymond A. Borane, mayor of Douglas, a town of only 17,000
across the border from Agua Prieta, Mexico.

As it had in San Diego and El Paso, two other cities inundated by illegal
migrants from Mexico, the Border Patrol bolstered security sharply here. Now
every few hundred yards for six miles -- along much of which lies a 12-foot-high
black metal wall that gives way on either end to a gnarled barbed-wire fence in
the desert -- armed agents are stationed in sport utility vehicles as
round-the-clock sentries against illegal crossing.

Before the wall went up, only a chain-link fence erected more than half a
century ago separated the two countries at this part of the border.

The Border Patrol also doubled the number of its agents here last year, to 600,
and rushed in seismic sensors, pole-mounted cameras and night-vision scopes.

All this helped bring a calm, however tenuous, to Douglas's streets.  But that
calm belies larger problems facing the Bush administration, which must now
grapple with an array of immigration-related challenges, including a border
strategy.

The White House has proposed cutting $1 billion from the 2002 budget of the
Justice Department, parent agency of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
which includes the Border Patrol. How the White House wants to distribute those
cuts has not yet been announced, but reductions at the I.N.S., immigration
officials say, would hurt its ability to deal with new responsibilities Congress
added last year to adjust the status of as many as 700,000 immigrants.

Then there is the immigration service's future shape. President Bush and
Attorney General John Ashcroft want to split it into two agencies -- one to deal
with law enforcement, the other to provide services to immigrants.

But Mr. Bush has so far offered no other details for revamping an agency
troubled by scandal and poor morale, other than to promise an additional $500
million over five years to improve services, a pledge that could be jeopardized
by the proposed budget cuts.

Further, the president has yet to appoint an I.N.S. commissioner, a choice that
will probably signal whether he bows to influential Republicans who want to
restrict immigration or hews to a mostly pro-immigrant position he took as Texas
governor.

The signal he sends is crucial to states like this one, where, according to a
recent University of Arizona study, four border counties spend $23 million a
year on law enforcement and health care related to illegal migrants. Those
counties -- Pima, Cochise, Yuma and Santa Cruz -- want the federal government to
reimburse them for those expenses.

In Santa Cruz County's largest city, Nogales, on the border 80 miles west of
Douglas, Border Patrol agents in helmets and short pants patrol downtown streets
on bicycles. The agents say they give chase daily to dozens of illegal
immigrants who wend their way through a maze of sewer tunnels and squeeze out
onto the streets from manholes and drainage grates.

One grate is across the street from Sacred Heart Church. I.N.S. policy bars
agents from pursuit into churches and schools, and migrants and those who
smuggle them across the border know it.

"There's a big cat-and-mouse game between the bike patrol and the smugglers, who
make a mad dash for the church," said Todd Jewell, a supervisory agent.

Here in Douglas, the step-up in operations last year was accompanied by a change
in tactics. Instead of roving around on patrol, some agents are now stacked
along the border, much as if it were the Maginot Line. Behind this generally
stationary line, plainclothes agents prowl in unmarked cars, while other, highly
visible squads also watch the roads.

On the 3-to-11 shift the other night, Supervisory Agent Ross DeLacy's radio
crackled with reports of people trying to slip through a hilly area east of the
main, legal crossing. "Want to go up there and do some battle?" another
supervisor ordered his agents.

A few miles to the west, two other migrants dashed across the border into thorny
mesquite brush. Mr. DeLacy's S.U.V. barreled through winding gullies, while two
other agents gave chase on foot. In the control room back at the Douglas
station, dispatchers monitored the chase on banks of televisions linked to
remote cameras and sensors.

The border crossers briefly eluded the agents but were captured within an hour,
adding to a night's statistics compiled by 100 agents on duty: 187 people
arrested, 182 deterred from crossing, 63 who turned back after crossing and 13
who got away on this side of the border. An average night, agents said.

Over in Nogales, at a Border Patrol detention center -- a stark holding area
with separate cells for men, women and children -- Efraim Mesquita, a
35-year-old laborer who had been picked up trying to sneak in on a truck, mulled
his next move.

Agents ran a computer check that showed he had no criminal record in the United
States, so he was to be fingerprinted and sent back to Mexico, a process that
would take a few hours, agents said.

But Mr. Mesquita seemed ready to try again. He said he had traveled nearly 1,000
miles from his home in the state of Guanajuato, where, he said, he could not
earn enough to support his wife and five children.

"Yeah," he agreed, "it's getting tougher to cross. But I will do whatever I
can."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Border Patrol agents in Douglas, Ariz., with a man who was
smuggled across from Mexico. Illegal crossings around Douglas have fallen.; As
in Douglas, a high metal fence in Nogales, Ariz., is a centerpiece of the Border
Patrol's efforts to discourage illegal immigration there. (Photographs by Monica
Almeida/The New York Times) Map of the Mexico/Arizona border highlights Douglas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
A Hue, and a Cry, In the Heartland

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1048 words


THE last of the state population figures from the 2000 census have been made
public, creating a new picture of the nation. Details are still fuzzy, but the
broad outlines are clear: Hispanic and Asian immigrants -- and more important,
their children and grandchildren -- are remaking small towns and big cities
across the American heartland.

This means explosive issues like public services for illegal immigrants and
bilingual education, which detonated over the past decade in California and a
handful of other states, now affect communities in Iowa and Nevada. The
exploitation of immigrant workers, once associated with New York City sweatshops
or West Coast agribusiness, is on the agenda of towns in West Virginia and
Georgia. And the question of how to integrate people from diverse backgrounds
and colors into the American mainstream is debated everywhere, because immigrant
families have settled just about everywhere.

In many states, there are already signs of public unease over the role of
immigration in crowding schools, burdening hospitals and depressing wages. It
may not take much to turn those worries into a nativist backlash. Paroxysms of
anti-immigrant fervor, after all, usually accompany recession. Historically it
starts with calls for a crackdown on illegal immigrants and sometimes, indeed as
recently as 1996, the backlash produces laws that take services away not only
from illegal but also from legal noncitizens.

The 2000 census figures have put illegal immigrants in the public policy
spotlight.

Larger-than-expected census figures for the number of Hispanics in the country
have led some anlysts to conclude that the number of illegal immigrants had also
been underestimated. The accepted view prior to the census was that about 6.5
million people, or one-quarter of the foreign-born population, were in the
country illegally. Experts now say the illegal population may range from 7.1 to
9 million people.

"At some level, the politicians and public will become intolerant of the
presence of so many undocumented immigrants," said Jeffrey S. Passel, an analyst
at the Urban Institute who recently revised upwards his estimates of the number
of illegal immigrants in the nation. With the number much higher than previously
thought, Mr. Passel added, intolerance could emerge far sooner.

Only a few years ago, resentment of illegal immigrants in California led to a
backlash that crystallized into support for Proposition 187, which barred the
children of illegal immigrants from public service and sought other
restrictions. Congress also took a crack at immigrants, passing laws in 1996
that eliminated benefits even for legal immigrants who had not become citizens.

California demonstrated that a backlash can become whiplash for politicians who
ride an anti-immigrant wave. Take the case of California Governor Pete Wilson,
who saw his support for Proposition 187 turn into a liability when Latinos
ultimately mobilized against him and other Republicans. George W. Bush, who did
relatively well with Latino voters in many states, had a disappointing showing
among California Latinos in the 2000 race.

While an anti-immigrant stand proved a liability for politicians in
heavily-immigrant states, immigration is becoming a tempting target again.

IN Texas, with its history of absorbing newcomers from Mexico and Latin America,
the lieutenant governor recently complained that illegal immigrants are
"clogging" schools and hospitals. He was roundly criticized by Latino activists.
But his demand that the federal government help pay the costs of illegal
immigration is a harbinger of how the anti-immigrant debate is likely to unfold.

So if officials in Texas raise questions about the burdens of immigrants, what
can be expected of politicians in places just getting used to immigrants? The
answer, so far, is ambivalence.

When the governor of Iowa started talking recently about creating incentives to
attract immigrants to fill factory jobs, the state legislature began considering
an English-only law that is seen by some as an attack on immigrants. A number of
governors have trekked to Mexico to find ways to bring in Mexican workers. At
the same time, however, officials in those same states are demanding that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service come and check all immigrants to make
sure they are legal.

A similar dynamic is at work in the labor market. Nationally, organized labor
has acknowledged its ranks must be replenished by immigrants and has embraced
immigrant causes. But, in individual cities and towns, unions can be fickle
allies. Bowing to union pressure, for example, West Virginia's governor barred
any company using illegal workers from getting state contracts.

It may not be that more people are entering the country illegally, but that more
are staying once they arrive. Stepped-up controls on the borders, stiff new
penalties for those who try to reenter the country after an illegal stay and
other restrictive laws may now have slowed the traditional shuttle between home
countries and the United States.

"There are clearly a lot more people staying and a lot less back and forth as
time goes by," said Frank D. Bean, the director of the Center for Research on
Immigration, Population Dynamics and Public Policy at the University of
California at Irvine.

But punishing immigrants -- legal or illegal -- does not bring clear-cut
results.

Consider the composition of immigrant families. More than half of the American
households headed by noncitizens -- that is, legal and illegal immigrants --
contain children, according to a 1999 study by the Urban Institute.
Significantly, three-quarters of those children are American citizens.

AN intertwining of immigrants and citizens can be found as much in the economy
as in society, said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, a scholar at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Washington. "They're becoming imbedded in
every labor market sector, in a mutual dependence so deep that you cannot
extricate yourself from it," he said.

And this is no longer a problem for just a few regions but for the entire
nation. "The dispersion of immigrants," said Dr. Papademetriou, "will be a
transforming event for the way we understand, study and talk politically about
immigration for years to come."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three Chinese illegal immigrants waiting to be processed in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service office in Albuquerque, N.M. (Associated
Press) Chart: "Where They Come From"In 1998, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service admitted 660,477 immigrants from the following regions. Total legal
immigrants admitted in 1998 (in thousands) Graphs showing the number of
immigrants from Europe, Asia and Oceana, Africa, North America and South America
admitted in 1998.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Phoenix Counts Its Many Challenges

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1154 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, April 6


Benito's small backyard has become his workshop, a dirt square filled with cars
to repair and parts to fix them. As he takes an afternoon cigarette break, his
wife, Carmen, tends to clothes hanging out to dry. Their barefoot 3-year-old
daughter, Fernanda, wanders about.

This is their life here, a tattered two-bedroom home and a thriving business in
a poor section southwest of downtown Phoenix. Inside a house across the street,
a man is selling crack to walk-in customers. A few blocks away, prostitutes
troll Van Buren Street.

"In 10 years, maybe Beverly Hills," Benito said wistfully, insisting that this
was better than life was in Mexico before he sneaked across the border three
years ago. He remains an illegal immigrant, which is why he would not give his
surname.

In record numbers, people like Benito are moving to the American Southwest. Here
in Maricopa County, which is larger in area than each of seven states, new
census figures show that from 1990 to 2000, the Hispanic population swelled by
108 percent, a rate fueled by a rising flow of illegal immigration as well as
higher-than-average birth rates and migration from other states. The county now
has 3.07 million people, of whom 763,000 are Hispanic.

Officials estimate that a third of the 1.3 million Hispanics now living in
Arizona, roughly 400,000 people, entered the country illegally. Five years ago,
according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the number was just
115,000.

The new illegal workers have helped sustain the state's buoyant economy, and
economists and demographers acknowledge that without them, that economy and
those of many other states could not have grown so fast.

At the same time, their growing numbers -- and their work in a shadow economy
that earns them cash income on which they pay no taxes -- have exerted pressures
on county agencies. Many schools, hospitals and libraries are struggling to
accommodate rising need.

"It has been a real challenge," said Luis Ibarra, president and chief executive
of Friendly House, a community service agency in Phoenix.  "All of a sudden
agencies are not adequately staffed to deal with the demands of the population
they are serving."

Of the four states bordering Mexico, Arizona had the greatest Hispanic
population increase, in percentage terms, during the decade: 76.7 percent,
compared with 46.1 percent for Texas, 33.4 percent for California and 23.5
percent for New Mexico.

Phoenix has become an especially strong magnet. The local economy remained
particularly vibrant through the 1990's, and legal and illegal migrants alike
say they were warned before arriving that Los Angeles and other larger cities
had grown too expensive and the competition for jobs there too intense.

"Here," said Ruben Marquez, a legal resident from Colombia who manages a shop
selling medicinal herbs, "it's easier to live, and there are greater
opportunities to work."

One result has been a regeneration of whole new communities, where rusting
manufacturing plants along thoroughfares like McDowell Street and Van Buren are
giving way to bustling strip malls. In another measure of change, nine radio
stations now broadcast in Spanish, compared with three in 1990.

Hispanics now account for two-thirds of all those attending the city's 13 public
high schools, compared with 42.7 percent a decade ago. Two-thirds of the
children in the county's Head Start program are Hispanic.

At city and county libraries, officials cannot keep up with the demand for
materials in Spanish. Toni Garvey, the city librarian, said her annual budget
for Spanish reading and listening material and for Spanish-speaking personnel
had increased fivefold, to $250,000, since 1996. Still, she said, "I can't hire
Spanish speakers fast enough."

The rising numbers have also strained the county health system, the safety net
for uninsured and under-insured residents. Since 1997, the county hospital in
Phoenix has required new employees to speak Spanish and has more than tripled,
to 10, the number of translators who help doctors talk to their patients. And,
said Paul Strauss, vice president for planning and development, the value of
uncompensated care to illegal immigrants and other uninsured county residents
has been steadily rising, reaching $49 million last year.

Francisca Montoya, executive director of Stardust House, a center that helps
Hispanic families, said many of those newly arrived, fearing immigration
officials, were reluctant to obtain municipal services. So, she said, doctors
who volunteer at free clinics in neighborhood churches sometimes see as many as
1,500 people a day.

Several new immigrants interviewed here through a translator said their illegal
status and a language barrier had left them feeling isolated and often preyed
upon, though some were not reluctant to give a full name.

Pedro Marin, who works for a pool cleaning company, said he hurt his left hand
when he worked for a lumber yard last year and yet was told by a doctor to whom
his boss sent him that he should go back to work the next day. Mr. Marin said he
agreed to work the next two weeks, using only his right hand "because I needed
the job." Then, he said, he was dismissed.

"If I was an Anglo," he said, "maybe this doesn't happen."

Damian Guadalupe, a construction worker, saw the difference this way: "If I had
papers, I could make $10, $12, maybe $14 an hour. I make $6 or $7, and it's
always, 'Hurry up, hurry up.' "

Many illegal immigrants said they were reluctant even to call 911 when they
needed help. A friend of Benito said they were afraid that the police would
arrive with immigration agents.

"That's why they are still selling crack over there," he said, pointing to the
house across from Benito's. "Nobody around here complains."

Still the immigrants come in waves that include people like Maria Camacho, who
was a lawyer in Mexico, and Luis Mario Moreno Gomez, who was a dentist in El
Salvador. They are attending a class in English, though they know that as
illegal immigrants, they will need years to have a chance for legal status.

Those without legal status have found hope in recent talks between the United
States and Mexico about a guest-worker program that would allow Mexicans to
register as they cross the border to fill jobs that keep the American economy
churning.

But even if the talks fail and the American economy sputters, government
officials and community leaders here say, the flow northward will continue,
easing only when wages and living standards in Mexico and other Latin American
countries improve.

"There has always been a pattern of economic migration," said Margie Emmermann,
Gov. Jane Dee Hull's policy adviser for Mexico and liaison to the Hispanic
community. "The only way this is going to slow down is with economic development
in their home countries. Meanwhile, there is at least now dialogue at a high
enough level for gradual change that would accommodate these things."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luis Mario Moreno Gomez, second from left, who was a dentist in
El Salvador, learning English in Phoenix.; Lucy Rios and her daughter Veronica,
who moved to Arizona legally from Mexico, at work in their family's food-truck
business. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) Chart/Map tracks
percentage-point change in the Hispanic portion of the population, 1990-2000
Blocks on the map are 10 by 10 miles.(Source: Census Bureau)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 28, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Door to Amnesty Closes, Immigrants Rush to Qualify

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 994 words


The door is about to close on the opportunity of a lifetime for many illegal
immigrants: the chance to become a legal permanent resident without first
leaving their families and jobs in the United States.

The deadline to apply for the benefit is Monday, and frenzy is in the air.

Legal aid groups, churches, law offices and community organizations that serve
immigrants have been swamped for weeks. So have marriage license bureaus in New
York City and across the country, as immigrants rush to marry in order to profit
from having a spouse who can sponsor them for a green card, which confers legal
residency.

A toll-free hot line run by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, (800)
375-5283, has been getting an average of one million calls each month for the
last three months, a big jump from the usual 750,000. And in March, the agency
received well in excess of 130,000 applications for family reunification visas
-- more than during any other month in its history.

The agency will not have exact figures on how many people applied to take
advantage of the special immigration benefit for several months, said Bill
Strassberger, a spokesman for the immigration service. At least 640,000 people
nationwide are thought to be eligible.

The law that has so many thousands in a panic was passed at the end of last
year, after advocates for immigrants were unable to convince Congress to extend
a general amnesty to the estimated 6.5 million illegal immigrants around the
country.

Instead, a more limited reprieve was offered to immigrants who would qualify for
legal status were it not for the fact that they broke the law by entering or
staying in the country without authorization.

Normally, American citizens and those with green cards can sponsor a close
relative in another country to come and live with them. Employers in the United
States can also sponsor a worker if they prove no American is available to take
the job. But the foreign relative or worker has to remain outside the United
States until a visa is issued.

The temporary benefit now on offer, referred to as 245(i), would permit those
foreigners with family or employer sponsors to pay a $1,000 fine and apply to
adjust their immigration status without having to leave the country. In most
cases, they will not be able to work legally while they wait for their visas to
be granted and, in theory, they remain at risk of being deported.

"We're telling people this is not a blanket amnesty," said Michael Amezquita,
executive director of the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrants Rights in
Washington Heights. "Getting in your application before the April 30 deadline
will not preclude your deportation if you are caught in a raid or something like
that."

Nevertheless, response to the 245(i) opportunity has overwhelmed most of the
organizations that provide immigrant services. And just as people wait until the
last minute to file their taxes, many immigrants dawdled and now are scrambling
to get help.

This week, Marvin Sacaza Ortiz, a 29-year-old Honduran immigrant, camped out on
the doorstep of the Northern Manhattan Coalition at 4 a.m., hours before it was
to open. That was the only way, he decided, to get an appointment with a
counselor who could help him file the paperwork to sponsor his wife.

Even so, he was the third in line.

Mr. Ortiz has a green card, but his wife, Greicy Castillo, is here illegally. If
she leaves, she would be penalized for staying without papers and barred from
re-entry for 10 years.

"At the beginning, we didn't want to go through all this trouble," Mr. Ortiz
said. "But then we started thinking that it would be worth it. When she has
papers she can go back to school and she can travel to see her mother in
Honduras."

Many public officials have argued that the 245(i) program should be offered for
a longer period or made permanent. At least four bills are now before Congress
that would extend the 245(i) filing period for up to one year.

Both Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki have urged Congress to
extend the deadline. Mr. Giuliani, in a letter to House Speaker J. Dennis
Hastert, said he would like to see the 245(i) option made permanent.

"With so many immigrants contributing to our society and economy," the mayor's
letter said, "the present requirement for those eligible for permanent resident
status to return to their countries of origin creates an unnecessary burden on
many businesses that depend on this work force."

But critics of national immigration policy said programs like this send the
message that immigrants do not really have to worry about breaking the law.

Dan Stein, director of the Foundation for American Immigration Reform in
Washington, which advocates a more restrictive immigration policy, called it "a
thousand dollar loophole."

"Laws like 245(i) encourage illegal immigration," Mr. Stein said. "The evidence
is all over the place."

Immigrants were offered the same benefit program a few years ago, with a
three-year period from 1994 through 1997 in which to apply. It proved a bonanza
for the immigration service, which collected more than $200 million through the
fines that illegal immigrants paid. About 545,000 immigrants filed applications
to adjust their status.

Advocates for immigrants maintain that most illegal immigrants are in the
country because they wanted to join family members or because they found jobs
that Americans did not want.

"The response to this law reflects an incontrovertible truth," said Mario
Russell, director of immigrant and refugee services for Catholic Charities in
New York. "We want these immigrants here to work, and we benefit from their
being here."

Requiring people to be in their home country to apply for a family reunification
visa, he added, has not driven illegal immigrants to leave the United States.

"Let's be frank," Mr. Russell said. "If you have someone who needs a job or you
have spouses who are separated, they are just not going to think that way."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marvin Sacaza Ortiz, left, sought help at the Northern Manhattan
Coalition for Immigrants Rights with the paperwork to sponsor his wife, Greicy
Castillo, for a green card before the Monday deadline. (Angel Franco/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2001 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Restricts Prenatal Care For Immigrants

BYLINE:   By DANIEL J. WAKIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words


Pregnant women who are in this country illegally have no right to prenatal care
under Medicaid, a federal appeals court decided yesterday in a ruling that
strengthened the cutback of benefits for illegal immigrants and raised anew the
issue of whether a fetus is a person with rights.

But the panel of judges on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, in Manhattan, also ruled that children born to illegal immigrants were
entitled to Medicaid benefits for the first year of life.

It was not immediately clear when the decision, which sent the matter back down
to a District Court judge, would take effect. In any case, New York State
officials said the Legislature could pass a law allowing state funds for
prenatal care, since the lawsuit involved only federal financing. The leanings
of the Legislature, and Gov. George E. Pataki's desire to protect such coverage,
mean that such a law would have a good chance of passing.

Yesterday's decision came in a long-running lawsuit that has pitted advocates
for immigrants' children, New York City and the state against the federal
government and its efforts to limit benefits to illegal immigrants.

In 1987, Judge Charles P. Sifton of Federal District Court in Brooklyn issued an
order requiring the federal government to provide prenatal care for illegal
immigrants. Yesterday's ruling overturned that order.

"We conclude that the denial of prenatal care is not unconstitutional," the
court said. "However, we also conclude, in agreement with the District Court,
that citizen children of alien mothers are entitled to automatic eligibility for
Medicaid benefits for a year after birth," just as the children of citizens are
entitled to benefits, it said.

To make sure that those children get their year of benefits, the judges proposed
an unusual procedure. The government should allow pregnant illegal immigrants --
themselves barred from Medicaid -- to apply for a Medicaid number for their
future offspring, the appeals panel said.

The court said a 1996 overhaul of welfare laws contained explicit language
barring prenatal care just for illegal immigrants. Although the court
acknowledged that eliminating prenatal care for infants would result in the kind
of cost savings that Congress intended to bring about with the welfare changes,
it said Congress was explicit in its intention to limit immigration by reducing
benefits for illegal immigrants.

The ruling means that more than 13,000 illegal immigrants a year will be denied
prenatal care in New York State, said Elizabeth Benjamin, supervisor of the
health law unit of the Legal Aid Society, which helped argue the case. She said
pregnant immigrants in New York were not eligible for other government benefits.

"What's happening here is that there are little unborn U.S. citizen kids who as
a result of this will not get vital prenatal care," Ms. Benjamin said.

She said that for two decades the state has been "a beacon for the rest of the
country" in its provision of Medicaid-supported prenatal care to all low-income
pregnant women, regardless of their immigration status. And in fact, the Second
Circuit's ruling is the first by a federal appeals court on the issue.

Under Judge Sifton's injunction, the federal government reimbursed New York
State for roughly 50 percent of its annual costs under the Prenatal Care
Assistance Program for poor women whose income is under 200 percent of the
poverty line, a little over $14,000 for a family of three.

Robert H. Hinckley, a spokesman for the State Department of Health, said last
night that the department needed time to study the decision.

"We would obviously have grave concerns regarding any action that abrogates the
federal government's responsibility to help fund vital prenatal care services,"
he said. "The bottom line is that immigration is a federal responsibility, and
we will be encouraging our Congressional delegation to take prompt action to
ensure New York receives its fair share for these important health care
services."

There is a precedent for New York State's offering health care services to
illegal immigrants that the federal government will not cover. A program known
as Child Health Plus insures poor children from families who earn too much to
qualify for traditional Medicaid.

Martha F. Davis, legal director of the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund,
called denying access to prenatal care for illegal immigrants "extremely
short-sighted."

"It just ends up harming innocent children and costing more in the long run,"
she said.

According to a study by the State Department of Health, which supported the
lawsuit, the cost of such prenatal care annually for 13,000 births was $15.5
million, out of a $30 billion state Medicaid program. But the study said that
while a healthy birth costs $1,200, the birth of a low-weight baby -- a risk
when women do not receive prenatal care -- costs $10,000 to $65,000, not
counting the cost of long-term disabilities associated with some birth defects.

But a Justice Department lawyer who worked on the case, Thomas M. Bondy, said
the decision merely put New York in line with many other states.

"It was the injunction and the District Court decision that was an anomaly," he
said, suggesting that the case would have little effect elsewhere. The opinion
noted that other courts had made rulings denying illegal immigrants the right to
food stamps, Supplemental Security Income and other public benefits.

When Medicaid was established in the 1960's, pregnant women were granted aid,
under the theory that a fetus qualified as a dependent child, the opinion said.
The federal government later dropped that definition.

The parties on both sides of the case did not raise the United States Supreme
Court's Roe v. Wade decision, which in guaranteeing a woman's right to abortion
said a fetus was not a person within the meaning of the 14th Amendment. But the
appeals court raised the issue, opening the door for the Supreme Court to
re-examine Roe v. Wade if the case ever gets there, lawyers said.

And indeed, Legal Aid lawyers said no decision had been made on whether to
appeal the case, in part because of the danger that such an appeal could allow
the Supreme Court to reconsider Roe v. Wade.

The appeals court noted that the lawyers for the illegal immigrant women argued
that once children are born in the United States, even to someone who is here
illegally -- and are indisputably citizens -- they are entitled to equal
protection under the law. Such a child, therefore, could argue that it was
unconstitutional for prenatal care to be denied.

The appeals court panel, made up of Judges Jon O. Newman, Amalya L. Kearse and
Ralph K. Winter, cited the landmark abortion ruling to reject that argument.
"If, as Roe v. Wade instructs, a fetus lacks constitutional protection to assure
it an opportunity to be born, we see no basis for according it constitutional
protection to assure it enhanced prospects of good health after birth," it said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2001



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about a federal
Court of Appeals ruling that denied prenatal care to illegal immigrants
misstated part of the court's reasoning. While the ruling said Congress had
sought to bar such a benefit for illegal immigrants, the court acknowledged that
providing prenatal care would reduce government costs. It did not say that
eliminating prenatal care would cut costs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

12 Illegal Immigrants Are Found Dead in Desert

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 466 words


Twelve illegal immigrants who crossed the Mexican border perished as they tried
to traverse barren Arizona desert in 115-degree heat and reach a highway, the
Border Patrol said yesterday. Eleven more were rescued, and the authorities were
searching for others.

It was the largest number of illegal immigrants to die at once in the Southwest
desert in recent years, and a stark reminder that as the Border Patrol has
cracked down on better-known crossings into California and Texas, more and more
people seeking to slip into this country are turning to the vast, unpatrolled
deserts and deserted mountains in Arizona.

The first contact with the group came when Border Patrol agents encountered four
people who had been wandering disorientedly in the Cabeza Prieta National
Wildlife Refuge, said Agent Cyril Atherton of the United States Border Patrol in
Yuma. The patrol began a search, and pilots spotted a group of 17 more 30 to 40
miles north of the border and as many miles from Interstate 8, he said. The
smuggler who brought them across the border in a vehicle and dropped them off
said the highway was only several hours away by foot, the Border Patrol said.

Nine were dead, and another died later at a hospital. Two more bodies were
spotted shortly after that, and Agent Atherton said the Border Patrol was
continuing to search for at least four additional people after nightfall.

Those in the hospital were in stable or good condition, he said. The survivors
were 17 to 35 years old.

The migrants who died most likely succumbed to heat exposure, he said.

The number of migrant deaths, many from exposure, along the southern border was
369 in the 2000 fiscal year, up from 261 in 1998, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service says. And the Tucson sector was one of the top two
sectors for migrant deaths, tied with El Centro, just east of San Diego.

"People are very, very ill-prepared to understand the distances and the dangers
and threats to their lives," the Rev. Robin Hoover, a Tucson pastor who sets up
water stations for immigrants in the desert, told The Associated Press.

"For many of the people who cross, they have no idea what they are
encountering."

The Border Patrol's tougher strategy has drawn criticism from some public
officials.

"This is the failed strategy of putting more and more people in harm's way,"
said Mayor Ray Borane of Douglas, Ariz., which is on the border in the eastern
corner of the state.

"The Border Patrol keeps saying that the numbers of people crossing the border
are down, but the migrants are going out so far they're not in an area where the
agents are," he said last evening.

"The federal government continues to think that the only way to solve the
problem is to put more agents on the border," he said. "But the strategy isn't
working."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legislators Seek Way to Restore Prenatal Care For Immigrants

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 23


The morning after a federal appeals court ruled that illegal immigrant women are
not entitled to federally financed prenatal care, New York lawmakers and health
care advocates today began reviewing ways to help restore coverage using only
state money.

The chairman of the Assembly Health Committee, Richard N. Gottfried, said that
he had begun drafting legislation that would use only state money to provide
such coverage for pregnant illegal immigrants.

At least eight other states, including California, which has the nation's
largest immigrant population, use only state money to pay for prenatal care for
illegal immigrants, according to a survey by the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, a research organization based in Washington. Several others,
including Texas, which also has many immigrants, provide prenatal care to
illegal immigrants at state-financed clinics.

The ruling, issued on Tuesday by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, in Manhattan, presents a delicate political situation for Gov.
George E. Pataki. Facing a potentially competitive race for his job next year,
Mr. Pataki, a Republican, has appeared at several events involving causes that
appeal to immigrants, and most recently has called on the federal government to
extend a legalization deadline for illegal immigrants.

Mr. Pataki's spokesman, Michael McKeon, and Health Department officials would
not comment today on whether the administration would back legislation to
restore prenatal care for illegal immigrants using only state money. Doing so
would cost roughly $15 million, according to Health Department officials;
according to their estimates, about 13,000 illegal immigrant women in the state
receive prenatal care.

A spokesman for Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican Senate majority leader, said
this afternoon that he could not comment until he had spoken to his colleagues
and heard what the governor had to say.

The latest court decision overturned a 1987 ruling by a lower court judge who
ordered the federal government to provide prenatal care for illegal immigrants.
The appeals court found that it was not unconstitutional to deny prenatal care
to women who are in the country illegally. Their children, who would become
United States citizens, would automatically be entitled to Medicaid benefits for
a year after birth, the judges found.

The three-member appeals panel sent the case back to a lower court to decide how
to carry out the ruling. Until that happens, illegal immigrants will continue to
get prenatal care, just as they have since the 1987 court order.

Lawyers with the Legal Aid Society, representing the immigrant plaintiffs in the
case, said today that they had not yet decided whether to appeal. To do so would
invite a thorny legal question of whether a fetus has constitutional rights. The
appeals court opinion explicitly opened that door, citing the landmark 1973
abortion rights ruling, Roe v. Wade, in rejecting the underpinnings of the lower
court's injunction that had allowed federal money to be used for the prenatal
care.

The appellate ruling also turned attention to the often confusing patchwork of
laws that govern health care coverage for immigrants in New York who have not
become United States citizens. For the most part, even legal immigrants who came
to this country after 1996, when the latest federal welfare laws were changed,
are currently ineligible for Medicaid. The state is facing a lawsuit over the
issue, with plaintiffs claiming that the state Constitution requires coverage
for the poor, regardless of immigration status.

Moreover, lawmakers in the Assembly and the Senate have introduced legislation
that would restore Medicaid benefits to legal immigrants. The governor has not
supported similar legislative efforts in the past.

Illegal immigrants in New York have never been entitled to government health
coverage, with three notable exceptions: uninsured children are eligible for
Child Health Plus, a state-financed program, and anyone who shows up at a
hospital emergency room is eligible for emergency Medicaid. Until the latest
court ruling, poor illegal immigrant women were eligible for prenatal care.

Public health and immigrant groups expressed alarm today over the prospect of
losing prenatal care for illegal residents. There are no reliable public health
studies on the health of babies born to illegal immigrant mothers. But the
city's own health studies suggest that several neighborhoods with a high share
of foreign-born mothers have infant mortality rates that are higher than the
city average. In Flatbush, Brooklyn, for instance, where 60 percent of mothers
are from other countries, 8 of 1,000 babies die before their first birthdays,
compared with the New York City average of 6.9 of 1,000.

Today, lawmakers and advocates began preparing for a legislative response to the
court ruling.

Dr. Luis R. Marcos, president of the New York City Health and Hospitals
Corporation, said he would urge the governor and the Legislature to enact a law
to extend prenatal coverage to women who are in the country illegally. "This is
yet another example of the city's public hospitals having to provide health care
that nobody wants to pay for," Dr. Marcos said.

The public hospitals run by his agency are the ones most likely to treat poor,
pregnant illegal immigrants; the agency, he said, does not keep figures on the
numbers of illegal residents they treat.

Assemblyman Gottfried, a Manhattan Democrat, said providing state money to
extend coverage to illegal immigrants was the most humane and fiscally prudent
option.

"You save a lot of money every time you save a low-birth-weight baby or a baby
born with complications," he said. "The economic advantage of good prenatal care
is stunning, quite apart from the human value. You're really shooting yourself
in the foot fiscally by not providing prenatal care."

His leader in the Assembly, Speaker Sheldon Silver, said through a spokesman
that he was not prepared to say whether he would back such a measure, and he
said he was disappointed in the court ruling.

The Health Committee chairman in the State Senate, Kemp Hannon, a Nassau County
Republican, stopped short of saying whether he would support similar
legislation. But he did not rule it out either. After all, he said, illegal
immigrants who are ineligible for Medicaid simply end up in hospital emergency
rooms, a far costlier proposition.

"What we should be doing is negotiating as part of the budget to see if there
are funds available to use resources of hospitals in a far more rational way,"
Mr. Hannon said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 136 words


12 Illegal Immigrants Die in Arizona Desert
As temperatures soared to more than 110 degrees, a dozen people in a group
crossing the border illegally died from heat exhaustion. The deaths are believed
to be the most among one group of illegal immigrants since July 1980, when 13
Salvadorans died of exposure in Arizona.   PAGE A14

New Talks on Kashmir
India and Pakistan said they were ready to reopen talks on Kashmir after a
two-year hiatus. But India also ended its cease-fire.   PAGE A12


Alarm Over Transplants
The use of healthy people as living liver donors is expanding too quickly and
without adequate study, a leading medical journal says.   PAGE A18

Yanks Beat Old Friend, 7-3
David Cone allowed 3 runs in 5 innings and lost his first game against the Yanks
since he signed with Boston.   SPORTSTHURSDAY, PAGE D1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 36 words


A map yesterday with a front-page article about the deaths of 14 illegal
immigrants in the southwest Arizona desert misstated the location of two bodies
in some copies. A corrected map appears today, on Page A10.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rights Groups Urge Change in Border Policy

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 634 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz., May 25


As doctors said that the condition of the 12 Mexican immigrants who survived
furnace-like conditions in the desert near here was improving, a number of
immigrant rights groups said today that the death of 14 other illegal border
crossers had caused them to consider stronger challenges to what they call
hostile United States border policy.

One group, the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation, held a march today
at a Southern California cemetery where some of the hundreds of immigrants who
die every year after illegally entering the United States are buried in unmarked
graves. The group, along with the local chapter of the American Civil Liberties
Union, also recently filed a petition with the Inter-American Commission on
Human Rights challenging federal border policy.

A vigil was held last night in Tucson for the hundreds of people who have died
in that region after illegally entering the United States in search of
better-paying jobs. Some groups in southeastern Arizona have said they are
expanding a program to place water stations at remote locations frequented by
illegal immigrants.

And an Arizona lawyer said her organization was considering legal action to
challenge the federal government's tough enforcement policy, known as Operation
Gatekeeper and initiated in 1995, that has cut back on crossings in urban areas
like San Diego and diverted hundreds of thousands of immigrants to rural areas,
like the remote desert here where the 14 died this week.

The operation has involved constructing miles of tall fences, increasing the
number of armed Border Patrol agents and using the military to stem the flood of
illegal immigrants.

Isabel Garcia, a lawyer in Tucson with the Arizona Border Rights Project, which
coordinates assistance for immigrants, said her group was so appalled by the
latest deaths -- the largest single disaster at the border here since 1980 --
that she was considering filing a complaint against the federal government in
some international human rights tribunal.

"It's time to look into legal liability for the government's policies, which
have caused these tragedies," Ms. Garcia said. "If this was happening in some
other country, our government would condemn it. American policy and the
militarization of the border caused these deaths."

Claudia Smith, a lawyer who is director of the border project for the California
Rural Legal Assistance Foundation, said the government strategy was one "of
moving the migrant foot traffic out of urban areas, and, coincidentally, out of
the public eye, to more and more remote areas just to create the appearance that
the border is under control."

"It's not," Ms. Smith said, "as this terrible case shows. It's just shifted the
traffic to areas where you maximize the risk to life."

A doctor who treated some of the survivors of the group whose border crossing
this week ended in death described how the soaring desert heat, reaching 115
degrees, had affected the young men.

The doctor, David E. Haynes, an emergency physician at Yuma Regional Medical
Center, said that when the men arrived at the hospital on Wednesday, "they
looked like mummies."

"They were all shriveled up," Dr. Haynes said. "Their eyes were rolled back in
their heads. They really couldn't speak at all."

He added, "They were probably the sickest people I've ever seen from exposure to
the environment."

Dr. Haynes said one young man told him that he had tried to survive by sucking
juice from a cactus and drinking his own urine.

The condition of the men has improved significantly, Dr. Haynes said, adding
that only the worst off of them would have permanent kidney damage because of
their severe dehydration.

One person remains in critical condition; the rest could leave the hospital
within a week. All are in the custody of the Border Patrol.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Death in the Desert"Fourteen illegal immigrants died in the
desert of southwest Arizona this week. Map of Arizona showing the locations of
the 14 dead bodies, the town where the 12 survivors are hospitalized and where
at least 28 people crossed the border last Saturday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE CROSSING: A special report.;
A Perilous 4,000-Mile Passage to Work

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3745 words


Midway through his second night in the Arizona desert, Eduardo Cervantes began
to hallucinate. The stars turned red and fluttered like moths. His stomach was
empty. His throat ached and his eyes burned with dust.

But he and the other Mexicans kept on across the desert, through the cactus and
nettles, toward an unseen highway where their guide said would be the ride that
would take them farther from the border and the poverty of home. So when the
highway could finally be seen in the distance, a joy came over Eduardo Cervantes
and the men.

They were on their way to Farmingville, a town on eastern Long Island with jobs
paying $15 an hour. They carried a grim view of Farmingville, where, they knew,
people took an unkind view of them. Still, they went. There was money there.

So they crawled under a cattle fence, crossed over the highway and under another
fence. There, waiting, stood two Mexicans with pistols in their waistbands. They
were not frightening to Eduardo Cervantes, who at 19, had been through this
drill before. Bandits who prey along the illegal immigrant trail are part of
Mexican life, like the police there who hold out their palms if you want to park
near your church.

"Take off your clothes," the bandits ordered in Spanish. They rifled through the
pockets and checked the linings for money. The air was biting and the near-naked
men clutched at themselves. One clever guy had his money taped to his scrotum.
Another had it hidden in his hair. The bandits told them to dress, leave their
bags, and walk back to where they came from. "Half an hour," the bandits said.

When the migrants returned, they gathered their belongings off the desert floor.
They had missed their ride, the guide told them. They would have to camp and
walk a third night, another 25 miles, to the next pickup spot. The men took
shelter beneath a spiny tree, wrapping themselves in garbage bags to hold in the
heat that never came.

"I'm so cold," said Eduardo. He was thin and frail and his teeth rattled. "I
told my father I didn't want to do this."

"You're a Mexican," said his friend, Mario Huerta. "What else can you do?"

Faced with that same question, hundreds of thousands of Mexicans attempt to
cross the border into the United States each year. Not all of them make it. Last
week, 14 people died of exposure on a desolate stretch to the west in the
Arizona desert, one of the deadliest illegal crossings in recent years.

The two friends making the crossing last month had come from San Lorenzo
Tezonco, a poor district in the southeastern section of Mexico City. They would
cover 4,000 miles before reaching Farmingville. There they would stand on street
corners with hundreds of other Mexicans, waiting for an American contractor to
give them a job building a house, or maybe landscaping a yard.

The people in Farmingville feel as if their town has been invaded. Some
videotape the migrants on Fridays and picket them on Saturdays. A proposal in
March to create a hiring site with a portable toilet was rejected by the County
Legislature after it turned neighbor against neighbor.

Last year, two white men hired two brown men on a Farmingville corner with the
promise of work. But instead, the Mexicans were taken to an abandoned building
and beaten with work tools. News of the attack made it all the way down to San
Lorenzo.

For their part, the Mexicans sneer at the Americans, call them lazy, point out
that Long Island has Mexican fingerprints all over it. The hedgerows in the
Hamptons are groomed with Latino hands. New houses in the nicer parts of town
are built by Mexicans. And down in San Lorenzo, you can count the houses being
built by Farmingville money. Mr. Huerta is building one. So is the Cervantes
family.

The villages are linked by dependence, resentment and a crooked obstacle course
of corrupt Mexican policemen, dusty border towns, gangsters, barbed wire,
immigration agents with infrared glasses, bandits, oily used-car salesmen,
interstate highways and New Jersey troopers.

They are also linked by a man named Lalo Cervantes.

A Clever Man Named Lalo

Lalo Cervantes, the father of Eduardo, is a slick man with the dark copper skin
of an Indian and a black mustache. He stands 5 feet 4, no more, and is 38 and
street savvy. He speaks English well and is directly responsible for bringing 50
men from Mexico City to Long Island. Those men, in turn, have brought perhaps
200 more. Mr. Cervantes knows the contractors on Long Island. He knows which
used car salesmen in Phoenix will speed the migrants on their way. He knows
where to get legitimate birth certificates for illegitimate purposes.

It was April, late in the season for a migrant worker. Farmingville was already
full up with them, some just 15 or 16 years old. The word of the good Long
Island money had drifted home and anybody coming after May could not be
guaranteed work.

Lalo Cervantes slammed down the pay phone at an Exxon station in San Antonio. He
was fed up with his son. Eduardo was supposed to be waiting at the Mexican
border town of Agua Prieta, separated by a 12-foot steel fence from Douglas,
Ariz.

"He's at home watching American movies on the VCR and making out with his
girlfriend on the bunk bed," Mr. Cervantes said. Then he peeled away in his
four-door Ford and headed south for Mexico.

In Comes Money, Up Go Houses

The barrio of Lopez Portillo in the district of San Lorenzo is a swamp filled in
with earth and stone. The streets are dirt; the people keep cows, or horses.

There are perhaps 25 new homes being built with money earned in America and they
are made of gray brick. Most of these houses are unfinished and they give the
barrio the look of an eroded sand castle.

The Cervantes home is impressive. It has seven support studs, is made of red
brick and has curved windows. There is a steel door, a half-finished chimney and
an unfinished roof. There is no plumbing yet and the family bathes from plastic
buckets.

"You know man, when I die they can't say bad things about me," Lalo Cervantes
said to himself more than anyone as he stood outside and smoked reefer, a deep
habit of his. "I built this. I did something good."

Angel Hernandez was drinking in front of his own house, a place haphazard with
chickens and cactus. He had been drinking all day and he would drink all evening
until he passed out. His children had no shoes. He still works at the car wash
that he and Lalo worked at as teenagers. He never made the trip north and he has
nothing.

"You really did something with yourself, Lalo, that's good." Mr. Hernandez said.
He had seen his old friend on television last summer when the two Mexicans had
been beaten on Long Island. Mr. Cervantes had told the television reporters
that, of course, the Mexicans don't pay taxes. But they don't cause problems, he
said, and the American economy could never function without them. People in the
barrio saw that interview and considered Lalo Cervantes some sort of freedom
fighter or human rights activist.

"Have a drink with me, cousin," Mr. Hernandez said. But Lalo Cervantes was
embarrassed for his threadbare friend. He waved him off and went to bed.

A Coyote and His Chickens

So many men from the barrio go to the United States every year that the
government has put a sign near the highway that reads: "Welcome Home Piasanos!"
Mr. Cervantes and his son, headed the other way, motored toward the border town
of Agua Prieta, 1,200 miles north.

With luck, the entire journey to Long Island would take two weeks. Lalo
Cervantes would not make the crossing on foot. He would drive over the border.
He has been in the United States, on and off, for the past 15 years. He has an
agricultural work visa that expires in 2003. It is his visa and his street
connections that make the smuggling endeavor possible. He usually does this for
what he calls a nominal fee.

As they pulled out of the barrio, he explained to his son that he was going to
show him the ropes, show him how to make a double life in America and introduce
him to the right people. Lalo Cervantes also planned to bring his sister,
brother, cousin and brother-in-law to Farmingville. They had already sneaked
over the border and were waiting for him in Phoenix.

"After this," he said, "I'm retiring."

The transmission of the car smoked and made a bad sound. "Whir, whir, whir."

Eduardo had blond streaks in his hair and wore a lazy expression. He was tall
and infirm, subject to nosebleeds. He had left school at 14 and had few
prospects besides the carwash. He had put on his best clothes the night before
and did not come home until morning. He looked tired and bored in the passenger
seat and had a hickey on his neck.

They stopped for Mario Huerta, a round 25-year-old with an easy sense of humor
and a pregnant wife. Between them, the men had the car and about $2,000.

Eduardo had been to Farmingville before. He came for a few months a few years
ago and didn't like it much. On the way across the border, he had gotten lost
when his group was attacked by bandits. He wandered for two days without water
before the smuggler came back and found him.

His brother had worked in Farmingville last year and he told Eduardo about the
poisonous feelings there, about the stinking life with 20 men in a house.

"My father told me someone up there is sleeping in my bed," he told Mario with a
face. "It doesn't sound too good up there."

After two days on the road, the Ford rolled into Agua Prieta around midnight,
the brakes squealing and the transmission burping thin smoke. The strip was lit
with neon beer signs and lined with skid row motels and men with new trucks and
cell phones and clean white shirts.

Agua Prieta is a dusty city that doubled in size, to 100,000 people, over the
last five years as American companies opened factories there, and the United
States Border Patrol, with an increased budget and a renewed sense of purpose,
all but shut down the routes along the traditional border jumping towns of San
Diego, El Paso and Laredo, Texas. Arizona is now the bottleneck where the most
illegal immigrants make their way into the United States. According to the
Border Patrol, there were 272,397 arrests of people crossing through the Tucson
sector in 1997. Last year, that number nearly tripled.

And roughly one person a day died last year trying to cross the border from
Mexico, 17 of them around the Douglas area, officials say. The 14 deaths in
western Arizona last week illustrated the fact that with greater police
presence, people are willing to try increasingly risky and more inhospitable
routes across the border.

All along the avenues of Agua Prieta were rundown guest houses that shelter the
hopefuls before they make their walk across the desert. There were also good
hotels and bars fed by the underground economy. Outside those bars, cocaine and
pills were sold and teenagers sniffed fumes from paper bags. Inside were
mean-looking women for sale and men dressed like cowboys.

The town is quiet compared to last year, when thousands meandered the streets.
So far this year, there have been about 25 percent fewer apprehensions by the
Border Patrol in southern Arizona than last year and nationally, arrests of
illegal immigrants are down 22 percent. The reasons, officials say, are varied:
from increased manpower and better technology, to high expectations among
Mexicans that their new president, Vicente Fox, will curb corruption.

But there is another reason that fewer people are crossing, said Frank D. Bean,
a demographer at the University of California at Irvine. Many of the 4.5 million
Mexicans working illegally in the United States are not going home.

"It seems to be that people are staying longer because the financial and
physical costs of getting in are going higher," he said.

Lalo Cervantes stopped at a seedy hotel and knocked on the door of room No. 4. A
man with a shaved head and boils on his neck answered. He was the coyote, the
kingpin of the smuggling ring. Pancho. He and Lalo had done business together
before.

The price for the trip to Phoenix had gone to $800 from $650 last year. The
border police had gotten tougher and the smuggler could no longer take 50 to 100
people at once. He had changed his game, taking 10 to 12 now. It is less
conspicuous, he said, but more sure. He promised Mr. Cervantes he would put his
best man on the job, his cousin Placas. "Your people will be safe," Pancho said.

There was a fight going on between the coyote and his guides. The guides do the
actual walking across the desert and they are paid $75 a head. With fewer
"pollos" -- chickens, as migrants are called -- there was less money for the
guides.

So the cartel was starting to crumble. Guides like Placas had taken to stealing
some pollos, hiding them in their own houses and selling them back to their
loved ones in the United States, Pancho explained to Mr. Cervantes. Since the
business works on a cash-on-delivery basis, this cut the coyote out of the
picture.

Pancho said the trip would be 50 miles and would take two evenings to walk. It
was the long way around the mountains.

Eduardo was scared. "I don't want to do this," he said to Mario outside the
hotel. "My heart is pounding."

They drove to a guest house with a dozen awful-smelling beds, a television, a
shrine to the Virgin and three toilets. Eduardo and Mario killed four days
watching television, sleeping and drinking chocolate milk. A small child kept
poking his head out of a room. His mother could be heard whispering to him,
"Come in and close the door."

They called her Salada, Hard Luck. She was homely, in her late 30's and had been
staying in the guest house for two weeks. Her money was nearly gone. It is bad
for women like that, Lalo said. Sometimes they stay so long, they never leave
and become a pillow for the revolving coterie of men.

She was not wanted on any trip by anybody. It was the boy. He was a burden. He
squawked like a crow. "She's a stupid old lady," said a short man named Noel,
who was trying to get back to his $10.50-an-hour job making sandwiches in
Bronxville, N.Y., and was busy erasing his fingerprints with sandpaper. He was
caught four times in the last month by immigration and another arrest could mean
jail time.

But he was unconcerned. His wife was safe in New York. He had bought copies of
legitimate work papers for his wife and his child for $5,200 and they had driven
over the border as easy as you please.

"Her man should do the same," he said of Salada. "You can't take a baby through
the mountains. Stupid old cow."

The night of the crossing, Mario and Eduardo shared a taxi with another man into
the desert about 20 minutes from town. The driver stopped at a turnoff, said
"Good luck," and disappeared.

Without a word, Placas, the guide, emerged from the weeds. The sun was setting.
There were perhaps 80 shadows there, and Placas commanded 10, including an
American reporter. They all carried plastic milk jugs filled with water. There
was a large, unruly group of women and children. Salada was among them, holding
the hand of her little crow.

They called him Placas, "Plates," because he looked like a criminal who holds up
plates for his mug shot. He was a tall, handsome man of 21, with white teeth and
a mop of hair tied up on the crown of his head like a feather duster. He was
lean and tough and tattooed. Placas ran his chickens hard, through the dark
desert, over railroad tracks, through cactus and thickets that ripped at the
skin. One man fell and his jug of water exploded. He turned back. He would never
make it without water.

There was no more steel fence this far out in the desert. There were no motion
sensors or cameras. The border itself was marked by barbed wire and an
eight-foot trench, nothing more. The men climbed through it and ran for the
hills. They walked 10 hours the first night over the mountains, groping and
injuring themselves and avoiding the spotlights of Border Patrol agents who
roamed the frontier in all-terrain vehicles. Eduardo was sure-footed. Mario
labored and stumbled, but never complained. The desert was cold. The moon rose
and sat in the clouds like a pearl in velvet.

Near sunrise, Placas thought he heard ranchers, men who a year ago held the
Mexicans at gunpoint until immigration officials could arrive to arrest them. He
told his chickens to take shelter under the scrub and wait out the sun. All
around was the detritus of mass migration: clothes, bottles, wrappers, cans. Two
paths headed north and you could walk to Tucson if you had to.

Six men were from the town of Puebla on their way to Roosevelt Avenue in Queens,
bound for restaurants and delis and corners. They said little. The air was hot
and still, the ground dry and baked. There were no birds, no wind. Only the sun
and the ants moved.

Eduardo sat under a sage bush and wondered when he would be coming home.
November? December? Mario thought about his wife. It's hard being a Mexican, he
said. Your own country is corrupt and in the other it is a life of solitude.
Mario laughed about the man who fell on his jug.

"That wetback would have made a terrible dishwasher anyway," he said.

Eduardo ate pineapple and stared across the mountains.

Men With Bad Haircuts Arrive

 The second night, after they had been robbed, the men took shelter in a cow
pasture underneath a spiny tree. There was little food or water. The flies were
terrible. There was a mutiny brewing under the tree. They were convinced Placas
had double-crossed them. "How could the bandits have found us in the middle of
the desert?" said a man named Felipe.

When Placas awoke from his nap, he helped himself to what remained of the water
and food. Then he clipped and filed his toenails. They were black with blood.

"Next time we'll get another coyote," Eduardo whispered. "With this guy it's too
much walking and too much talking."

Eduardo doubted the smuggler. It seemed like they were walking in circles. Over
the barbed wire fence, under the barbed wire fence. When Placas thought he saw
the blue lights of the Border Patrol, he took off, leaving the illegals behind.

Late into the third evening the moon rose, casting a bright light down upon
them. They crawled through an open field around the sleeping outskirts of
Benson, Ariz., and waited for their ride. The men lay on the desert floor,
shivering, cursing Placas. If they didn't make it tonight, it looked like jail.

But the truck did arrive. Its windows were painted black and the drivers were
Mexican. They had bad haircuts and they drove 100 miles an hour down the country
roads. They made it to the highway, avoiding the immigration checkpoints. The
men in back were battered, hungry and happy.

Eduardo nudged Mario. "Don't fall asleep," he said. "Keep your eyes open friend.
Be ready for anything." You could see his father's toughness in him.

The truck skidded into the parking lot of a restaurant in southern Phoenix. The
hatch flipped open. And there stood Lalo Cervantes, with tears in his eyes.

A Place on the Floor

Instead of paying the coyote $800 a head to drive his people to New York as many
do, Lalo Cervantes went to a used car salesman he knew in south Phoenix. Most
Mexicans do not work their way around the country like this, only the
sophisticated ones like Mr. Cervantes. It is men like him who are generally
responsible for the colonies of Mexican peasants and barrio dwellers who have
settled from Alaska to Alabama.

The salesman was a Mexican too, overweight, doing well for himself. Last year,
when Mr. Cervantes brought 25 people to Farmingville, the salesman sold him a
van and a four-door Ford on credit. The year before, when Mr. Cervantes brought
his first 25 people over, he paid cash.

This time, Mr. Cervantes chose a white Chrysler -- white is preferable, he said,
more pure-looking and family-like. The price was $900 cash, including the
license plates and a 24-hour head start before the salesman called the
Department of Motor Vehicles to cancel the plates. The tires were shot. It took
Mr. Cervantes a few days to scratch the money together. "Good luck," the
salesman said as Lalo pulled away.

The drive across the United States took three days, mostly because Lalo
Cervantes insisted on a circuitous route favored by the coyotes, avoiding
Albuquerque, Oklahoma City, and St. Louis because, he said, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had checkpoints in those towns. A half-day was spent
replacing two blown tires.

The most conspicuous in the group was Lalo's brother, Oscar, a scrawny peasant
with a sleepy expression that made him look drunk. He wore dirty clothes and
wandered stupidly around the gas stations. Lalo's brother-in-law drove
erratically and the others were too frightened to drive at all. There was little
money for food and Lalo screamed at any misstep.

It was dark in New Jersey, near the turnpike, when the car with Arizona license
plates overheated. Mr. Cervantes laid into his brother-in-law as they stood on
the side of the highway, staring at the motor. "I told you to keep an eye on the
temperature!" he said. "Listen stupid, New Jersey is the worst state in America.
The police don't like brown faces here!" With that they drove slowly into New
York, spending their last coin on the Triborough Bridge. Two smoking cars packed
with illegals.

They reached Farmingville at 2 a.m. Someone was sleeping in Eduardo's bed. The
house was full of men, who each pay $250 to the Portuguese owner. Most had
stayed the winter rather than try the risky crossing in spring. Christmas dinner
for them came in fast food bags.

Lalo's family slept on the floor.

The next morning on the corner started the way it always starts, at 7 a.m., with
200 men waiting for the chance at some work. The sign on the corner said:
"Welcome to Farmingville. Cultural Heart of Brookhaven."

Oscar kept his chin on his chest, his hands in his pockets. "Oscar!" Lalo
cursed. "I didn't bring you 4,000 miles to stand there looking stupid. Go earn
some money!"

"But this looks bad Lalo," Oscar said weakly, pointing with his shoulder at the
pack of men on the corner.

The cousin and the brother-in-law kicked pebbles with their toes and sucked
slowly on someone else's cigarettes. "What's the matter with you people?" Lalo
Cervantes said.

Eduardo and Mario Huerta already had prearranged jobs that would start on
Monday. They came to the corner to watch.

A landscaper pulled up. Lalo Cervantes negotiated a deal for his cousin and
brother-in-law: $10 an hour for a roofing job. By 9 a.m., there wasn't a Mexican
man standing on the corner of Farmingville, U.S.A.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crossing the Sonoran Desert in Arizona, Mexicans face a long
journey to Farmingville, N.Y., where they will wait on street corners for work.
(Charlie LeDuff/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Lalo Cervantes, left, surveying
houses in Lopez Portillo built with money sent from Long Island. Above, Mr.
Cervantes's wife bidding him goodbye. Top, a man who filed away his
fingerprints.; Lalo Cervantes, above, who brings many Mexicans to New York,
checking his car after it overheated in New Jersey. Immigrants in Farmingville,
N.Y., right, looking for work just hours after their arrival.; Lalo Cervantes,
left, his son Eduardo, and Mario Huerta at a motel on the Mexican border a day
before crossing into the United States. (Photographs by Charlie LeDuff/The New
York Times)(pg. B6) Map of United States and Mexico: Migrants entering the
United States illegally often begin at the border town of Agua Prieta.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Costs of Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 95 words


To the Editor:

Illegal immigrants benefit from working in the United States (front page, May
29), but the people who wait to enter the country legally are cheated.

Moreover, if we do not have control of our borders, we cannot screen people who
might transmit diseases or take advantage of our health care system. With no way
to recover the cost of services to indigent patients, some health care
facilities run the risk of closing. The huge number of immigrants, legal and
illegal, also contributes to the overcrowding in schools.

BYRON SLATER
San Diego, May 29, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Church Group Provides Oasis For Illegal Migrants to U.S.

BYLINE:  By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

DATELINE: ORGAN PIPE CACTUS NATIONAL MONUMENT, Ariz.


Eight church volunteers recently trudged across a dry creek bed just north of
the Mexican border hauling plastic jugs of water, taking care to sidestep the
deceptively named teddy bear cholla cactus, whose fuzzy needles can pierce a
leather boot.

They headed for two blue tanks marked "AGUA," where they heaved the jugs and
poured in the water. From a nearby ridge, the Rev. Robin Hoover called out to
ask how empty the 65-gallon tanks had been.

"This tank was about half down and that one was totally empty," said Stan Curd,
a volunteer.

Mr. Hoover and his posse of volunteers are part of a fledgling religious group
called Humane Borders that is building makeshift oases in the hope of keeping at
least a few illegal Mexican migrants from dying of thirst as they make their way
north in search of work. Fourteen Mexicans died in May in the wildlife refuge
just west of here in an incident that received national attention, but on
average every day the desert claims two more Mexicans whose bodies never make
the news.

Though the volunteers are helping to build a rudimentary overground railroad for
illegal immigrants, the Border Patrol has been remarkably cooperative. In many
ways, the patrol's response reflects the ambivalence in a nation of immigrants
about whether to keep out migrants -- or to let them in. Although they are
natural adversaries, Border Patrol officers and the ministers leading Humane
Borders are engaging in a wary collaboration because both say they must save
lives.

It is a far cry from the sanctuary movement in the 1980's, when the government
prosecuted church workers for transporting and sheltering refugees who had fled
wars in Central America. Mainline Protestants and some Roman Catholics began
offering sanctuary in churches after 12 Salvadorans died in this stretch of
desert in 1980, among them women wearing high heels.

When some of the ministers and church members from the sanctuary movement
founded Humane Borders last year, Border Patrol officers invited them to
meetings at their headquarters. The patrol's officers gave the ministers maps
showing the sites of migrant deaths to help them determine where to put the
tanks.

Judging by the depleted water levels in the tanks, Humane Borders is helping
some migrants. But the group says its real intent is to force the federal
government to ease restrictions on immigration. So members of Humane Borders say
they are debating among themselves how much to cooperate with the patrol.

For the "Border Patrol and Humane Borders, this is a new experience," said the
Rev. John Fife of Southside Presbyterian Church of Tucson, one of eight
sanctuary organizers convicted in 1986 of smuggling Central Americans into the
United States. "But we're both willing to be in conversation and see if there
are areas we can cooperate on, knowing at the same time full well that we have a
fundamental antagonism."

Rob Daniels, a spokesman for the Border Patrol's Tucson sector, said of Humane
Borders' founders and volunteers: "They deserve to be commended for their
actions. It is a humanitarian effort."

But the Border Patrol is not entirely comfortable with Humane Borders. Echoing
the official stance of the agency in Washington, Mr. Daniels said, "It's been
our biggest concern all along that giving too much publicity to something like
this is going to create a false sense of security for the migrants."

As Mr. Hoover drove toward the border in his Chevy truck weighed down with water
jugs, he spoke about the Border Patrol's motives: "They know they can't
encourage death. They're losing the P.R. war. Their only other option is to say,
'We like death. Let's have some more.' "

The volunteers' convoy started before 7 a.m. from the First Christian Church in
Tucson, where Mr. Hoover is pastor. Among those making the daylong trip were
four students, a professor of classics and a retired Air Force master sergeant.

The 140-mile route cuts straight as a runway west through the Tohono O'Odham
Indian Reservation, and proceeds south at a fork-in-the-road called Why. Dust
devils twirled like mini-tornadoes across plains where the stick figures of
saguaro cactuses cast only thin stripes of shade.

The Border Patrol vehicles appear every few miles. The patrol's Tucson division
has agreed that its 1,600 agents will not stake out the water tanks. But Mr.
Hoover said that he recently photographed a patrol helicopter circling a tank,
and that a few weeks ago the patrol arrested 44 migrants a mile from a water
station.

Mr. Daniels of the Border Patrol said: "It's more or less a gentleman's
agreement. We're not going to be camped out at a water tank, but if we get a
call about a large group of people in the general vicinity, we can't be expected
to turn our backs."

The convoy stopped at the visitor's center of Organ Pipe National Monument,
where Superintendent Bill Wellman shook Mr. Hoover's hand warmly. Mr. Wellman
said he wanted the National Park Service to document the migration and the
church group's activities and to preserve them for history.

"For a fair part of this population, in 50 years this is going to be their Ellis
Island story," he said. "That doesn't mean we support illegal immigration, but
we don't want people legal or illegal to die in the park."

Mr. Wellman said that when he was first stationed here four years ago, there was
little evidence of migrants passing through the roughly 750-square-mile park.
"Since then there are numerous well-defined trails," he said, "and it's become
common for park visitors to see illegal migrants headed north."

The change occurred when the Border Patrol began building walls and increasing
the number of agents at popular passages in urban areas like Nogales, Ariz., and
San Diego.  The Mexicans shifted their routes to the desert. Still, 617,000 were
caught last year in the Tucson sector, which covers much of southern Arizona.
And more than 600 people died on the whole border last year from exposure to
heat or cold.

The two water stations built by Humane Borders are 14 miles apart under power
lines that the migrants use as guideposts. Mr. Hoover climbed a ladder propped
against a power pole to adjust the blue flags flapping 20 feet up in the dry
wind, to alert the migrants to water.

"It's a Band-Aid operation," said Dorsett Edmunds, a member of Southside
Presbyterian Church who watched as her 14-year-old son and two of his friends
helped fill the tanks, "but maybe it will draw attention to the deeper issue,
and the policy we have around the borders would change. I know we have to have
borders, but I wish we could have a border that was more open and fluid."

Tim Holt, the retired Air Force intelligence officer, scoured the paths
radiating from the water tanks collecting the migrants' debris.

"Tuna can, water jug, socks," Mr. Holt said, dumping it all in a nearby trash
can that Humane Borders maintains. "We find a lot of socks. They tear them off
in the heat."

The jugs on the truck were only enough to fill the tanks at the first water
station, so Mr. Hoover steered his truck into the national monument's
maintenance area, where a smiling manager immediately brought out a hose.

"You're allowed to fill up here?" Neil Trujillo, a University of Arizona
student, asked from the back seat.

"Allowed?" said Mr. Hoover. "I'm invited."

Humane Borders has been negotiating with officials of other government agencies
that control land along the border to make more migrant water stations
available, including one where the 14 Mexicans died in the Cabeza Prieta
National Wildlife Refuge. The Pima County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously
on June 5 to donate $25,000 to the church group.

But the Border Patrol's tolerance may soon face a test. Some members of Humane
Borders are talking about bolder measures, including posting volunteers in the
desert at night to look out for and rescue migrants in distress.

The penalty for transporting an illegal immigrant can be up to 10 years in
prison and more than $250,000 in fines. The Border Patrol has instructed the
volunteers to summon a patrol agent who would take the migrant to a hospital,
where they would be treated before being deported.

But Mr. Fife, the minister convicted for his sanctuary work, said that he
recently told the Border Patrol chief in Tucson: "You know I'm not going to turn
over anyone I find to Border Patrol for deportation. He told me, 'If I find you
reverting to your old ways, I'm going to put the cuffs on you myself.' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Humane Borders aids illegal Mexican immigrants entering the
Arizona desert by providing tanks of water and flags to call attention to them.
(Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. 24) Map of United States/Mexico border
highlighting area surrounding Water Tanks: The two water stations built by
Humane Borders in Arizona are 14 miles apart under power lines that illegal
migrants use as guideposts. (pg. 24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Immigrants To Testify In Smuggling Case

BYLINE:  By James Sterngold (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 87 words


Eleven Mexicans who survived a trek across an Arizona desert that killed 14
other illegal immigrants last month will be temporarily permitted to remain in
the United States.

Michael Shelby, a federal prosecutor in Phoenix, said the 11 young men were
released from custody on Monday and given permits allowing them to remain in
Arizona, perhaps for several months, so they could testify against a man charged
with smuggling them. Once that case is resolved, they will be deported, Mr.
Shelby said.   James Sterngold (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Border Agents Find 2 Bodies

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 39 words


The Border Patrol has found two bodies in the past week in areas often
frequented by illegal immigrants. A spokesman for the agency, Rob Daniels, said
it was not known whether either person had entered the United States illegally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 4, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Found Dead in Desert Near Mexico

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 174 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, July 3


The Border Patrol found three men dead on Monday in the desert just north of the
Mexican border.

One male survivor was also found in the area after another man who said he had
been traveling with the group sought help from the authorities in Sonoyta,
Mexico, said Carlos Carrillo, assistant chief patrol agent for the Border
Patrol's Tucson sector.

The authorities did not specify whether the men were illegal immigrants, though
the bodies were found in a remote desert area popular with illegal border
crossers, the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument.

The site is just east of a national wildlife refuge where 14 Mexicans were found
dead in May. The authorities said the 14 died of exposure after they were left
by smugglers to cross more than 50 miles of desert in temperatures that reached
115 degrees.

A Pima County sheriff's deputy, Steve Easton, said the cause of death in the
latest cases was probably heat exposure and dehydration. Temperatures reached
114 degrees on Monday at the national monument, about 120 miles west of Tucson.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francisco Espinoza Sanez in a hospital in Sells, Ariz., on
Monday. Three companions died in a remote desert area just north of the Mexican
border. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Funds Stopped for Legal Programs Helping Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 750 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, July 5


A governor-appointed board has stopped financing four programs at law schools
that offer free legal assistance primarily to poor illegal immigrants, drawing
complaints from immigration rights advocates who fear that hundreds of people
will be left in the lurch.

The board, the Interest on Lawyer Accounts, known as IOLA, voted 5-to-4 last
month to discontinue financing the programs, whose budget had been cut to
$35,000 this year from $105,000 last year.

Each program had received money for "social justice fellows," created by the
state board in 1996 in response to federal legislation that prohibited federally
financed groups from representing prisoners or illegal immigrants.

Representatives of the law school programs said today that the fellows, all
practicing lawyers assisted by professors and student interns, have served
hundreds of clients since then, handling such things as asylum applications,
small claims court cases, landlord-tenant disputes and a few class-action
challenges to immigration rules. The vast majority of the clients have been
undocumented immigrants.

The four programs are the Hudson Valley Poverty Law Center at Pace University
here; the Touro Social Justice Project at Touro Law Center on Long Island;
Brooklyn Law School, and Syracuse University College of Law.

The state financing ended on June 30, but the programs are carrying on with
leftover funds that soon will be depleted. To keep the programs running,
advocates have begun asking politicians and others with influence to help find
other money or overturn the decision.

"We're kind of reeling from the decision," said Jennifer B. Brown of the Hudson
Valley Poverty Law Center, which has 40 to 50 cases a year.

Craig Siegel, associate counsel at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York
University, said that immigrants outside New York City might be hit the hardest
because there are few if any alternatives for free legal assistance in suburban
or rural areas. "There is going to be virtually nobody available to help them,"
he said.

The board, created in 1983, disburses about $12 million annually from the
interest derived from small, temporary escrow accounts private lawyers set up
for clients as part of their cases. The amount of money has decreased from a
high of $24 million in 1992 because of the decline in interest rates.

Supporters of the social justice fellows said they were puzzled by the decision.
The board put a total of six programs, including the four legal assistance
programs, on notice last December that they would receive financing for only six
months this year pending a review of their programs.Those evaluations came back
favorable. But, out of the six programs, only one was financed.

Supporters said they also found the decision of the board, made up of appointees
of Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, curious because Mr. Pataki has generally
taken a pro-immigration stance.

The 15 board trustees are appointed by the governor; seven through his own
discretion and the remainder on the recommendation of the leaders of the
Assembly and Senate and the chief judge of the Court of Appeals, the state's
highest court. All five who voted against the programs were Republicans and the
four supporters were Democrats.

William R. Nojay, a Pataki appointee and the chairman of the board for the past
two years, said in an interview that the board decided it could maximize its
effectiveness by financing other programs. The money that would have gone to the
five programs will be distributed among the other 85 programs that were funded,
he said.

Mr. Nojay, a Rochester lawyer, said board members made their decisions
independently, without political considerations, but he declined to discuss the
merits of any particular program.

"The question was, in our judgment were these the most qualified to deliver
these services in these geographic areas?" he said, adding: "It's a Hobson's
choice. There are no bad programs. We wish we could meet all the needs but we
simply do not have all the funds to do that."

The board may receive an additional $1 million in funding this year because of a
change in bank rules, but Mr. Nojay would not say whether any of the money would
be used for the discontinued programs.

Joseph Conway, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki said: "We're confident that the board
is committed to using its resources as effectively as possible and targeting
those resources toward groups that have demonstrated the clear ability to help
as many low income New Yorkers as possible."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2001 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Appeal Pending, Immigrant Mothers-to-Be Crowd Prenatal Clinic

BYLINE:   By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1023 words


It is Thursday, prenatal day at the storefront health clinic on Nostrand Avenue,
in the heart of Caribbean Brooklyn. So the narrow, brightly lighted waiting room
is packed with round bellies and aching backs, baby strollers and mothers-to-be
patiently listening to lectures on the virtues of milk and cheese.

Thirty-three women have appointments this day. The federal and state governments
pay for them to consult with a nutritionist, sign up for free milk and infant
formula and be examined by a midwife -- this one in a brown straw bowler.

As many as 80 percent of the patients here are illegal immigrants, the clinic's
social worker estimates, and according to a recent federal appellate court
ruling, they are not entitled to prenatal care financed with federal money.
Democrats in the State Legislature favor having the state pay for the total
cost, but the Pataki administration has yet to decide whether to go that route.

At least eight states, including California, the state with the most immigrants
in the country, provide prenatal care to illegal immigrants using only state
funds, according to a survey by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a
liberal research group in Washington. New York was the only state that had been
receiving a federal contribution for the program. For now, thanks to a pending
appeal, the federal government is continuing to pay its share.

So Thursdays are still bustling at the Community Healthcare Network's clinic,
which is sandwiched between shops selling collard greens, Haitian pop music and
plastic patio chairs.

In the morning, one young woman, an undocumented immigrant from Trinidad working
here as a part-time baby sitter, comes into the office of the social worker,
Josette Crefvecoeur. Were it not for the government program, the PreNatal Care
Assistance Program, or P-CAP, as it's known, she would not have seen a doctor
until she was close to delivery, she tells Ms. Crefvecoeur; she could not have
afforded it. "She said without P-CAP, she would have waited until the last
month," Ms. Crefvecoeur says.

For the state, the prenatal care ruling strikes at the heart of a legal
conundrum. Although as illegal immigrants the mothers are not eligible for
federal benefits of any kind, their babies will be citizens by birth.
Technically, the children are eligible for Medicaid as soon as they are born.
But in the ruling two months ago, the judges on the Second Circuit of the United
States Court of Appeals ruled that they were not entitled to anything before
birth. To assert otherwise would be to suggest that a fetus had certain rights,
they said, and would thus invite tampering with the Supreme Court's 1972
abortion rights ruling, Roe v. Wade.

For Bush administration officials, this is a delicate legal issue as well.
Earlier this month, administration officials proposed extending federal
child-health insurance coverage to an "unborn child," thereby offering prenatal
care to a mother who would not be eligible otherwise. In that context, federal
officials argued that the fetus should be seen as a person entitled to certain
benefits. (The proposal did not address the mother's immigration status.) In
this case, however, lawyers for the federal government have argued that a child
is only entitled to government aid after birth.

Meanwhile the Legal Aid Society representing the immigrant mothers are seeking
another hearing with the federal court. Prenatal care, they say, is in large
measure intended to ensure a child's healthy future. To deny benefits from
children on the basis of their mothers' immigration status, they add, is to
violate the equal protection clause of the Constitution. Only rarely does a
court agree to rehear a case that it has already ruled on, and it is unclear
whether the Second Circuit will take up this appeal.

For lawmakers in Albany, the request for a rehearing has effectively postponed
having to make a politically tricky choice: spending state money to provide
services for illegal immigrants or severing aid for pregnant mothers.

"If they don't do it, they're going to take away benefits from pregnant women in
the middle of their pregnancy," said Peter Slocum, a lobbyist with Family
Planning Advocates, a group urging the Pataki administration to extend benefits.
"I can't imagine anyone running for re-election would want that hanging around
their neck. I'm quite sure they're going to figure out a way to fix this because
it's a politically untenable thing."

Kemp Hannon, a Republican state senator from Long Island and chairman of the
Senate Health Committee, predicted that a political solution would be forged as
well. To provide prenatal care to the estimated 13,000 pregnant illegal
immigrantsin New York, he said, would cost less than $10 million a year, a
relatively small sum in health care terms.

"My prediction, based on past experience, is, we will work something out," Mr.
Hannon said. "You can make a case that if you don't pay for the prenatal care,
you're going to be paying far more later on."

The state has a far bigger price-tag on another health care item, under another,
more recent court ruling. Last month, New York's highest court effectively
ordered the Pataki administration to restore Medicaid benefits to tens of
thousands of legal immigrants.

The state had cut off health coverage for immigrants who came into the country
after August 1996; Congress had barred legal immigrants from using a range of
federal benefits, including Medicaid, and it had been left to the states to
decide whether to pick up the cost. New York decided not to. The state Court of
Appeals found that by doing so, the state had violated its own constitutional
mandate to care for the poor.

The Pataki administration decided not to fight the Court of Appeals ruling. On
Tuesday, state health officials sent a notice to local city and county
officials, ordering them to extend Medicaid benefits to all post-1996 legal
immigrants.

"We're abiding by the court order," said Bob Hinckley, a state deputy health
commissioner. He said the health department believed the court ruling would cost
the state an additional $200 million a year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 2001



CORRECTION: An article on Sunday about a prenatal clinic in Brooklyn that treats
immigrant women misspelled the surname of its social worker. She is Josette
Crevecoeur, not Crefvecoeur.

GRAPHIC: Photo: During prenatal day, every Thursday at the Community Healthcare
Network's clinic on Nostrand Avenue in Brooklyn, illegal immigrants can receive
prenatal care, including examinations by the clinic's midwife, at right. (Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Grant Amnesty

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 133 words


To the Editor:

Re "Bush Aides Weigh Legalizing Status of Mexicans in U.S." (front page, July
15):

Illegal immigration by any other name is still a criminal offense punishable by
deportation, and finding "different ways" to grant legal status to three million
Mexicans here illegally is still an amnesty that would reward such behavior.

President Bush's proposals are also calculated to raise his standing in the
Hispanic community and breathe new life into a rickety Republican Party.

When Congress in 1986 granted a "one time only" amnesty to nearly three million
illegal immigrants, it only encouraged others to break our laws, so that now we
have as many as 11 million illegal aliens within our borders.

DAVE GORAK
Exec. Dir., Midwest Coalition
to Reform Immigration
Villa Park, Ill., July 16, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rethinking Mexican Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 743 words


The evolving partnership between George W. Bush and Vicente Fox, the president
of Mexico, makes this a favorable moment for both countries to revisit the
difficult immigration and border issues that have long vexed relations between
the United States and Mexico. Indeed, Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox are working on an
ambitious set of proposals that they hope to unveil during Mr. Fox's visit to
Washington in September. On the American side, the package under consideration
includes legalizing the status of some three million undocumented Mexican
workers here and embracing a more ambitious temporary-worker program for future
migrants.

In the past, this page has opposed the idea of a new amnesty for Mexicans who
have immigrated illegally to the United States in recent years. We expressed
concern that legalizing their status would undermine the integrity of the
country's immigration laws, which were reformed in 1986, and depress the wages
of the lowest-paid native-born workers. We now believe that growing
interdependence of the American and Mexican economies and the installation of a
reform government in Mexico permit the adoption of new border policies,
including a limited form of amnesty. If properly designed, these changes could
sharply reduce illegal immigration and would present no threat to the economic
welfare of native-born workers.

The American economy relies heavily on the three million undocumented Mexican
workers already here and the 150,000 new arrivals who cross the border illegally
each year. They help pick America's harvests and do other types of arduous but
essential work for which local labor supplies are inadequate. The Mexicans, in
turn, send an estimated $8 billion a year back home to Mexico, an important
boost to the Mexican economy.

Past border initiatives have foundered because of lack of cooperation from the
Mexican government, long under the control of the Institutional Revolutionary
Party, or PRI. Mr. Fox's election last year shattered the PRI monopoly on the
presidency, and his government offers the realistic hope of a new partnership on
migratory policy. President Fox is willing to work with Washington to crack down
on criminal smuggling bands and otherwise enhance security along the border.

Under the 1986 reform law, several million illegal immigrants who entered the
country before 1982 and had lived here continuously since then were granted
legal status. Illegal aliens who had done at least 90 days of farm work from
mid-1985 to mid-1986 were also covered by the amnesty. A different approach
seems warranted today. Undocumented Mexican workers currently in the United
States should be given temporary worker status, which would allow them to remain
in the country legally. Over time, those who qualify by length of residency and
employment history could apply to become permanent residents. Eventually, they
could apply for full citizenship. This phased approach would funnel migration
that is of benefit to both countries into legal channels, instead of
criminalizing it. Concurrently, Washington would expand the number of
temporary-worker visas available to Mexicans who want to cross the border
legally. That would help discourage illegal immigration.

President Bush must ensure that any new temporary-worker program contains strong
workers' rights provisions. Even temporary agricultural workers should get a
decent wage, have the right to organize and not be bound to one employer.

Granting temporary visa holders meaningful rights is also important to
low-skilled American workers. This is one reason labor unions have reversed
their past opposition to legalizing the status of undocumented workers. They no
longer worry about illegal immigrants displacing American-born job seekers as
much as they worry that Mexican workers here will drive down wages for all
low-skilled workers. It is in no one's interest that undocumented workers,
assuming most are here to stay, be relegated to an underground economy.

The deal being negotiated with Mexico must be as concerned with managing
realistic levels of future migration as it is with the status of people already
in this country. This entails not only an expanded temporary-worker program but
also raising the quota on other visas available to Mexicans, such as for
relatives, to more realistic levels. America's economy is becoming more closely
linked with that of its southern neighbor. Its immigration policies should
reflect that fact.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH PANEL BACKS LEGALIZING STATUS OF SOME MIGRANTS

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 23


A cabinet-level panel has recommended that President Bush endorse a limited plan
allowing some of the estimated three million Mexicans living in the United
States illegally to apply for permanent legal status, a White House spokesman
said today.

Some administration officials and outside experts said that perhaps one million
to two million of the illegal Mexican immigrants might ultimately meet
eligibility requirements, based on their job history and how long they have been
here. The exact terms have not been determined, administration officials said.

Even so, such a program, if adopted by Congress, would be one of the largest
attempts to legalize the status of illegal residents in American history. A 1986
law granted legal status to about three million illegal immigrants from several
countries.

In a confidential one-page memorandum sent to the White House late on Friday, a
working group headed by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General
John Ashcroft addressed, at least for now, only unlawful Mexicans, who make up
the bulk of the estimated seven million to eight million illegal immigrants in
the United States.

Democrats and immigrant groups have urged the administration to expand any
legalization plan to include illegal immigrants from other countries.

A White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said no decisions had been made on
that issue or on many other details of the proposal.

The stakes are high for Mr. Bush. He is trying to remake relations with Mexico
and at the same time court Latino voters who would be crucial to any re-election
bid in 2004.

The legalization plan is the most sensitive result of broader discussions on
border and migration issues that Mr. Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico
began in February. Secretary Powell and Mr. Ashcroft, and their Mexican
counterparts, were delegated to develop recommendations before the two
presidents meet in Washington in early September.

Allowing illegal immigrants to change their status would be a central component
of a new, ambitious temporary-worker program that American and Mexican officials
are discussing. It would let some unlawful Mexicans living in the United States
legalize their status and also permit future migrants to earn legal residency.

"The panel recommends consideration of a new temporary-worker program that would
allow for some of the workers to achieve permanent residency status over a
period of time," Mr. McClellan said.

Congress is already considering legislation to expand and streamline a temporary
farm-worker program that would let undocumented laborers of any nationality earn
permanent residency under certain conditions. It is estimated that 50 percent to
80 percent of the 1.6 million farm workers in the United States are illegal
immigrants, most from Mexico.

Building on that effort, Secretary Powell and Mr. Ashcroft recommended that the
White House, for now, consider legalizing the status of illegal Mexican workers
in sectors other than agriculture. They include a diverse array of workers, from
health-care aides to meatpackers, and together could be three to four times the
number of farm workers.

The White House would work closely with Congress on pending legislation for a
new agriculture guest-worker program, Mr. McClellan said. That program,
administration officials said, might serve as a model for a larger
temporary-worker initiative.

Indeed, two leaders of a bipartisan guest-worker program, Senators Gordon H.
Smith, Republican of Oregon, and Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, met with
Elaine L. Chao, the secretary of labor, on Thursday to discuss their ideas.

In the week since the first outline of a legalization plan for Mexicans emerged,
more details of the internal deliberations of the administration's working group
have become known, like the range of how many Mexicans may qualify.

"The president is pleased with the progress we are making through the high-level
working groups," Mr. McClellan said. "We're working toward a shared goal of a
more orderly, safe and humane border."

Proponents said that such a guest-worker program, with labor and wage
protections built in, would allow Mexicans to travel back and forth across the
border without fear of arrest. It would also acknowledge the growing
interdependence of the Mexican and American economies.

Mr. Bush's initiative caught Democrats off guard. Championing immigrants' rights
has long been one of their most potent issues, especially with Latino voters,
and Democratic leaders, while commending the White House's efforts, have sought
to up the ante.

"We believe it's time to pass a broad legalization program for undocumented,
longtime workers -- not just Mexican workers, as some in the administration have
suggested," Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader, said last
week.

Other immigrant groups have demanded inclusion, but they also acknowledge
Mexico's special border status with the United States.

"We would wish the administration would legalize everyone, but we're mindful
that Mexicans are the largest immigrant group in the U.S.," said Oscar Chacon,
president of the Salvadoran-American National Network, an advocacy group, who
estimated that about 400,000 of the 1.5 million Salvadorans here are
undocumented.

Mr. Bush faces a challenge from Republicans who oppose any legalization plan and
support new limits on legal immigration. But the pro-immigrant bloc within his
party is applauding a temporary-worker plan that includes legalization.

"The president's goal is to eliminate to a great extent the black market in
labor that now exists," said Senator Sam Brownback, a Kansas Republican. "That
can save lives and improve the marketplace by providing legal and orderly
mechanisms for U.S. employers to hire available workers."

Some Republicans, like Senator John Ensign of Nevada, said that Mr. Bush had to
publicly support the legalization plan.

"Nobody has the bully pulpit that the president has," said Mr. Ensign, whose
aides are scheduled to go to the White House on Tuesday to discuss the proposal.
Nevada's Latino population jumped to 349,000 in 2000 from 121,300 in 1990,
according to the latest census figures.

Senior Bush administration officials have been reluctant to comment publicly on
any plan which still has so many loose ends.

But on Friday, Secretary Powell, while ruling out any blanket amnesty, seemed to
embrace a temporary-worker program that would allow for legalization.

"We're proud of the fact that we offer opportunities for people to come to this
country and to make a living, some to go back, some to ultimately become
American citizens," he said.

And then Secretary Powell added, "We want to regularize this. We want to make it
less dangerous, less threatening to become a citizen, if that is where your
destiny takes you."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new immigration plan would let Mexican farm workers, like
these in a Virginia field last year, gain permanent residency status faster.
(Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 26, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Other Immigrants, Envying Mexicans, Demand a Break, Too

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., July 25


A proposal from President Bush's top advisers to let more than one million
Mexicans living here illegally earn permanent legal status has stirred envy and
some anger among millions of non-Mexican immigrants, many of whom are now
demanding equal treatment.

Nowhere were those views more evident today than outside the federal immigration
office here in suburban Washington, where hundreds of immigrants from Albania to
Zambia stood in the muggy heat in a line that snaked around the block.

Many said that Mexico's 2,000-mile border and special relationship with the
United States should not allow Mexicans living illegally in this country to
leapfrog an unyielding American bureaucracy that has been endured for years by
those who have played by the rules.

"It's not fair," said Guillermo Pena, 35, an auto technician who emigrated from
Bolivia 14 years ago and earned United States citizenship.

This morning, Mr. Pena sought a work visa for his mother. "I know the Mexicans
need a lot of help," he said, "but we've been doing this step by step, like
we're supposed to."

Mr. Bush and his top aides are weighing the legalization plan as part of broader
negotiations with Mexico concerning border safety, trade and energy, and they
have defended this approach as an outgrowth of the groundbreaking talks.

Of the estimated seven million to eight million illegal immigrants in this
country, about three million are Mexicans, by far the largest single group and
the one that can be dealt with directly in the bilateral talks.

As news of the administration's proposal broke last week, the plan, assembled by
a working group led by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General
John Ashcroft, received largely favorable reviews for taking the initiative on
an issue usually associated with Democrats at a time when both parties are
courting the Latino vote.

But now White House aides are startled by the intensity of the reaction to the
details of the proposal, and they say that everything, and everyone, remains on
the table with no decisions yet made.

Either way, since Congress must eventually approve any legalization plan,
lawmakers would most likely broaden it to reflect their diverse constituencies.

"Our biggest immigration problems are on the border and that should command our
immediate attention, but we need to go beyond just Mexico," said Senator Chuck
Hagel, Republican of Nebraska.

Meanwhile, immigrant advocates, including those for unlawful residents from
other countries, are scrambling to position themselves for what everyone
involved believes will be a bruising, summerlong political fight to remake the
nation's immigration policies.

"Mexicans are certainly deserving of an amnesty of some kind, but it's extremely
divisive to give benefits to one group and not another," said Cheryl Little,
director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami, which defends the
interests of Hondurans, Guatemalans, Haitians and other immigrants.

Karen Narasaki, president of the National Asian Pacific American Legal
Consortium, an advocacy group in Washington, said cabinet-level talks with
Mexico, which resume next month, should be a starting point for a more inclusive
legalization program.

"The president is to be commended for doing what needs to be done and for a more
humane policy," Ms. Narasaki said. "But if they truly believe it's a good idea
to regularize the flow of immigrants, they need to look just beyond Mexicans."

Many details must be resolved, but under the plan, some unlawful Mexicans would
be permitted to earn permanent legal residency if they had lived and worked here
a set amount of time. It would also let future migrants attain legal residency
through a new guest-worker program.

News of the plan has galvanized immigrant groups across the country. Haitian
groups in New York and Miami are bombarding lawmakers with e-mail messages.
Salvadorans in California and Texas are gearing up lobbying efforts. And Asian
and Central American groups in the Midwest are girding for late-summer rallies
in Washington.

"The reality is, we do have a lot of illegal immigrants and legalizing them
would, for example, allow many to receive health benefits they need," said Mee
Vang, executive director of the Hmong United International Council of Minnesota,
which serves the state's Southeast Asian communities.

In Washington today, Representative Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat who
heads the immigration task force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, met with
more than 30 immigrant-rights groups from Chicago, New York and Houston to plot
legislative strategy and organize rallies.

At a news conference on Capitol Hill, other groups urged the administration to
broaden its scope.

"We realize this doesn't just affect Latinos, but also Asians, Africans and
Middle Eastern communities, regardless of where they come from," said Angelica
Salas, who emigrated from Mexico as a child and heads the Coalition for Humane
Immigration Rights of Los Angeles.

Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, has
assigned three lawmakers to develop a rival plan and intends to introduce it
next week.

"We believe that we have to look at the idea of earned legal adjustment," Mr.
Gephardt said today. "The president's suggestion to us seems incomplete and not
grounded in a comprehensive policy."

Democratic lawmakers, including Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the
majority leader, have said they were caught flat-footed by the administration's
initiative, and are hustling to regain the momentum.

But White House officials and their congressional allies say Mr. Bush must now
walk a political high wire. Mr. Bush hopes to score a foreign-policy triumph
with his friend and geopolitical partner President Vicente Fox of Mexico, but he
does not want to alienate any particular group of Latino voters, who will be
crucial to his re-election bid in 2004.

"The president has a record of making America more welcoming to immigrants," a
White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said today.

For example, Mr. Bush agreed in March to let as many as 150,000 Salvadorans
remain in the United States for up to 18 months to help El Salvador recover from
a series of devastating earthquakes.

The views from immigrants in line at the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office and in Washington's Adams-Morgan neighborhood, a hub for immigrants,
ranged as widely as their accents.

"Maybe at least some people who are down will get something they deserve," said
Sylvia Navas, 34, a legal assistant who has held a work visa here since coming
from Guatemala in 1989. "After all, these are people who have jobs and pay
taxes."

American immigration history is rich with examples of excluding or favoring
specific immigrant groups, from laws in the early 1900's that barred Chinese
immigrants to cold-war-era legislation that granted permanent residency to
Cubans.

"It doesn't bother me at all what the Mexicans might get," said Shirley Bala,
24, a restaurant manager from Malaysia, who was first in line here at 4 a.m. to
pick up the green card that ended her five-year quest for permanent residency.
"They are from a large neighboring country. I'm from a small country far away.'

Hanu Komaragiri, 31, a computer software designer from India who was about to
end a three-year wait for a green card this morning, said a Mexican-only
legalization plan could serve as a model.

"If this can be done for Mexicans," Mr. Komaragiri said, "it can be done for
others, too."

But some immigrants were suspicious of the administration's motives, noting that
Republicans scuttled a deal late last year that would have let some illegal
farmworkers earn legal status as part of a guest-worker program.

"Bush is doing this because he wants the Latino vote in the next election," said
a 34-year-old airplane mechanic from Nigeria, who declined to give his name.
"You think any politician does anything for any other reason than
self-interest?"

Bassam Al-Bizri, 37, an engineer who emigrated from Lebanon 16 years ago and is
now an American citizen, joined his wife this morning to get her green card
stamped.

Mr. Al-Bizri predicted that the bickering over legal status might eventually be
moot. "In the global economy, this is just a small fix," he said. "The real fix
is open borders."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HEAD COUNT: Illegal Immigrant Population"The government
estimated the number of illegal immigrants in the United States to be 5 million
in October 1996. That number is now believed to have increased to 6.5 million to
7 million, though no new estimates by country of origin are available. Mexico:
2,700,000El Salvador: 335,000Guatemala: 165,000Canada: 120,000Haiti:
105,000Philippines: 95,000Honduras: 90,000Dominican Republic: 75,000Nicaragua:
70,000Poland: 70,000Bahamas: 70,000Colombia: 65,000Ecuador: 55,000Trinidad and
Tobago: 50,000Jamaica: 50,000Pakistan: 41,000India: 33,000Ireland: 30,000South
Korea: 30,000Peru: 30,000Other countries: 721,000 (Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service)(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Debate at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 130 words


To the Editor:

Re "Open Door, Open Questions; This Way Up" (Week in Review, July 22): President
Bush wants to legalize the status of many undocumented Mexican workers, in part,
it seems, to gain votes for Republicans. President Vicente Fox of Mexico seems
to be hoping that grateful Mexicans who move to the United States will be able
to vote for him by absentee ballot.

Who knew there could be so many opportunities to vote?

As a Canadian living in the United States as a resident alien, I cannot vote
here, even though I have been paying American taxes for eight years. Nor can I
vote in Canadian elections, since in order to obtain a ballot, I would have to
sign a form stating that it is my intention to move back to Canada someday.

DAVID SHAMBLAW, M.D.
San Diego, July 22, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Desert Stations To Help Migrants

BYLINE:  By James Sterngold (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 83 words


The Border Patrol is moving ahead with plans to place six emergency stations in
the desert so migrants who have crossed the border can summon help.

When a red button is pushed on the stations, a strobe light will flash on top of
a 30-foot pole and a radio will signal the Border Patrol office in Yuma. The
stations will carry instructions in English and Spanish. The measure is one of
several taken after the death of 14 illegal immigrants in the Arizona desert in
May.   James Sterngold (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Debate at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 81 words


To the Editor:

Re "Rethinking Mexican Immigration" (editorial, July 23), about plans to
legalize the status of some Mexicans working here: Illegal immigration continues
unabated from many other countries.

Many people come as tourists and stay, and many sneak in across the Mexican
border.

There should be a comprehensive policy, aimed not just at Mexico. Together,
illegal immigrants from other parts of the world constitute a huge number.

RANJIT S. BAROT
Livingston, N.J., July 23, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Debate at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 146 words


To the Editor:

Re "Rethinking Mexican Immigration" (editorial, July 23):

We applaud your new openness to amnesty for undocumented workers. The latest
amnesty proposal, however, is clouding the real issue: the need for a
comprehensive, just and forward-thinking immigration policy that treats all, not
some, newcomers with the utmost fairness and respect.

We welcome President Bush's suggestion that undocumented immigrants from
countries other than Mexico might be able to earn permanent legal status over
time (front page, July 27).

Haitians and others should not be relegated to an underground economy because
they do not have a President Vicente Fox advocating for them.

Only a policy that acknowledges the contributions of all immigrants can bring
order to a chaotic system.

JOCELYN MCCALLA
Executive Director
National Coalition for Haitian Rights
New York, July 27, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Debate at America's Door

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 136 words


To the Editor:

Re "Bush Says Plan for Immigrants Could Expand" (front page, July 27):

As both political parties try to one-up each other on who can grant legal status
to the most illegal immigrants, the quotas on legal immigration passed by
Congress grow more meaningless.

The effect will only intensify as a possible new wave of amnesties for illegal
immigrants spurs stepped-up illegal migration.

Immigration of all types is a leading driver of the United States' rapid
population growth. As a citizen concerned about the environmental effects of
that growth, I'd like to see politicians stop these backdoor extensions of legal
status to illegal immigrants and engage the public in an open discussion of what
an ideal and sustainable level of legal immigration might be.

GLENN CAMPBELL
Lakewood, Ohio, July 27, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 31, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Health Care Inquiry

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 139 words


A criminal investigation was begun after a complaint by the Young Conservatives
of Texas that the Harris County Hospital District is forcing the public to pay
for nonemergency health care for illegal immigrants. Chuck Rosenthal, the
district attorney, said he agreed with an opinion issued by John Cornyn, the
Texas attorney general, earlier this month interpreting a 1996 federal law to
say that states could not provide such care to illegal immigrants unless the
state legislature had authorized it. Mr.

Cornyn said Texas had no law authorizing spending for such care.  Marc Levin,
vice chairman of the Young Conservatives, said his group might file complaints
in Bexar, Dallas and El Paso Counties. The Harris County district has spent $330
million to treat and immunize illegal immigrants in the last three years, Mr.
Levin said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 31, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amnesty for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 136 words


To the Editor:

It should be no surprise to the Bush administration that non-Mexican illegal
immigrants are asking for equal consideration for amnesty (front page, July 26).

While I disagree with blanket amnesty for illegal immigrants, if you grant such
a favor to one immigrant group, you must grant it to all.

In addition, by showing favoritism to one immigrant group, you create animosity
among the immigrant population as a whole.

By granting blanket amnesty, we would encourage illegal immigration and divide
our country further by pitting legal immigrants against illegal immigrants. We
must look beyond Election Day when we make decisions affecting the future of
Americans and those who might become Americans.

MAURO E. MUJICA
Washington, July 27, 2001

The writer is chairman and chief executive of U.S. English.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Smuggling Charged

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 3


Two men were charged today with trying to smuggle 26 illegal immigrants to the
United States in a speedboat that capsized, killing six people.

The men, Osvaldo Fernandez Marrero and Roberto Montero Dominguez, both of
Miami-Dade County, were charged after investigators interviewed them and 20
other survivors pulled from rough seas early on Wednesday south of Key West.

Mr. Fernandez and Mr. Montero charged the immigrants up to $8,000 each for the
trip from Cuba, the Border Patrol said in an affidavit.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fellow Human Beings

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 65 words


To the Editor:

Referring to undocumented workers as "illegal immigrants" ("Far From Mexico,
Making a Place Like Home," front page, July 30) perpetuates a negative image of
hard-working fellow human beings whose only sin is to seek a better life for
their families and whose presence in the United States is a positive
contribution to the economy.

TOM MILLER
Oakland, Calif., July 30, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Few Local Issues at Anti-Immigrant Gathering

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS and AL BAKER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: CENTEREACH, N.Y., Aug. 4


An anti-immigration gathering drew only about 100 people here today for an
educational conference that included speeches condemning illegal immigrants as
invaders and criminals who are destroying suburban neighborhoods.

The turnout was a disappointment to members of the Sachem Quality of Life
Organization, a Farmingville group that wants the government to deport illegal
immigrants and end what it calls the "atrocities" the immigrants have brought to
the suburbs.

About 30 minutes before the meeting was scheduled to begin, Ray Wysolmierski, a
Sachem spokesman, was ebulliently predicting a rousing event.

"It's going to be a great American moment," he said. "We're going to change
history today."

An hour later, he dismissed the small showing as unimportant.

"People are symbolic," Mr. Wysolmierski said. "I don't care if I get one or
1,000."

Several years ago, the Sachem group started pressing municipal officials for
help in controlling the day laborers who congregated on the streets of
Farmingville waiting for work. It has since forged links with a number of the
groups that led California's anti-immigrant movement in the mid-1990's and have
been seeking a national platform ever since.

The main speakers at the meeting represented the John Birch Society and several
of the California groups, which describe Mexican immigrants as the front line of
an occupying force.

The groups have been struggling to revive the same passions about immigration
that once fueled California's Proposition 187, which denied public schooling and
other services to illegal immigrants. The 1994 proposition was passed by voters
but was later rejected as unconstitutional by a federal court.

Now the anti-immigrant forces are focusing on proposals under discussion in
Washington to allow illegal Mexican immigrants a chance to become legal
residents. Several speakers, including members of the Sachem group, described
the ideas as treason.

"They are willing to sell our sovereignty to the highest bidder, and we all know
who the highest bidder is: Mexico," said Barbara Coe, president of the
right-wing California Citizens for Immigration Reform.

She went on to refer to illegal immigrants as robbers and rapists.

Estimates by demographers and the Immigration and Naturalization Service put the
number of illegal immigrants in the United States at 6 million to 11 million.
The majority of those are believed to be of Mexican descent.

Most of the speakers here today, all veterans of the California immigration
battles, framed their comments about illegal immigrants in terms of their
state's politics. One, admitting that he knew little about New York, complained
about the Los Angeles City Council to an audience that dwindled, over the course
of the day, to about 30 people.

Critics of the Sachem group said the attempt to make Farmingville a rallying
point for a national anti-immigration movement would probably fail.

"If you're talking about 1,500 Mexicans in Farmingville as a national issue,
it's insane," said Edward Hernandez, who heads a group called Brookhaven
Citizens for Peaceful Solutions.

The concerns raised initially in Farmingville were legitimate, he said, but the
Sachem group forfeited its place in any community dialogue by allying itself
with contentious figures like Mrs. Coe.

"You have to take them out of the equation because they've taken an extreme
position that says there is no alternative but deportation," Mr. Hernandez said.

The conflict over illegal immigrants that has roiled Farmingville over the past
three years -- encapsulated in a bitter fight to block the building of a hiring
hall for laborers -- reflects the demographic shifts occurring across the
country as Hispanics settle in communities long unaccustomed to immigrants.

While the numbers in places like Farmingville are not large, the influx of
Hispanics has had a dramatic effect. In 1990, according to adjusted census
figures, Hispanics made up just 6.7 percent of the Farmingville population. Ten
years later, they represented 8.1 percent.

Farmingville remains overwhelmingly white, but the changes have clearly
unsettled many residents. The booming economy helped exacerbate the tensions by
attracting an influx of illegal workers who ended up crammed into small
apartments in residential neighborhoods.

Tthe local issues played only a marginal role in the gathering today in a
Veterans of Foreign Wars hall in Centereach. Sachem leaders and their guest
speakers instead framed the day-laborer dispute as a reflection of a government
conspiracy to abandon the suburbs to an immigrant invasion and forfeit American
sovereignty through globalization.

Members of the John Birch Society sold pamphlets and books warning of a
communist threat and a United Nations "crusade against God and family."

Many speakers blamed the media, "ethnic special-interest lobbies" and liberals,
among others, for the modest attendance.

"When there's been a campaign to depict us as hatemongers and racists, it scares
away a lot of people," said Glenn Spencer, director of the California-based
American Patrol and one of the most outspoken proponents of the view that Mexico
wants to invade the United States.

"They don't want to be associated in any way. I wouldn't be surprised if that
had an effect on our turnout."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fewer than 100 people attended the Sachem Quality of Life
Organization's conference on illegal immigrants yesterday in Centereach, N.Y.
The group wants to see illegal immigrants deported. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico's Open Southern Border Lures Migrants Headed to U.S.

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

DATELINE: CIUDAD HIDALGO, Mexico


For illegal immigrants the world over, the narrow river that marks Mexico's
southern border has long been a backdoor to the United States. All it takes to
understand why is an afternoon view of the homemade rafts that swarm across the
lazy currents.

At the river's edge in Guatemala, immigrants board the rafts along with
housewives and day laborers going across the border to shop or work. The
passengers get off less than 10 minutes later on the banks of Mexico, and never
pass a single checkpoint or customs station.

The crossing is as easy as a ride on the Staten Island Ferry, and is in stark
contrast to the northern crossing, where immigrants brace for the inhospitable
deserts of Arizona and the military-style patrols along the Rio Grande.

Still, the end of the raft ride marks the beginning of a 1,500-mile journey
fraught with peril.

Government officials report that hundreds of immigrants -- who come from as far
away as Ecuador, Somalia and China -- are assaulted and raped by bandits, robbed
by corrupt police officers and immigration officials, or abandoned by
high-priced immigrant smugglers within the first legs of their journey. And
according to government statistics, a soaring number of them are dying.

The number who died along the border last year rose to 136 from 29 the previous
year, according to officials from Mexico's National Migration Institute. Close
to 50 deaths have been reported so far this year.

An overwhelming majority of immigrants who cross via Mexico are from Guatemala,
El Salvador and Honduras, and consular officials from those nations report even
higher numbers of dead. They said more than 260 of their people had died along
this border last year.

And in cemeteries around the southern border capital of Tapachula, Salvadoran
officials said, there are dozens of unmarked graves of immigrants who have never
been identified and whose deaths are not counted by any nation.

Local human rights advocates, whose shelters are often overrun with immigrants
battered by crime, said the numbers reveal only a fraction of the horror.

Immigration officials said that among the migrants killed along the border this
year was Milton Garcia, 28, a Honduran who died from a machete blow to the head.
In February, the dismembered body of Dany Vladimir Espana, 18, of El Salvador
was found on the train tracks that run through Tapachula. And in May, officials
found the body of a 48-year-old Guatemalan named Jose Otilio Navarro that showed
signs of torture.

Survivors of the harrowing journey offer testimony to the violence.

In a shelter in Tapachula called Casa del Migrante, Raul Vicente recounted how
immigration agents forced him and several other migrants off a train that had
stopped near the the state of Veracruz, fired shots over their heads, and then
robbed them before releasing them back in Guatemala. Erick Martin of Honduras
said that state judicial police officers had beat him and stolen his last 500
pesos.

The Rev. Florencio Rigoni worked for several years in Ciudad Juarez and Tijuana,
along Mexico's border with the United States, before coming to run Casa del
Migrante. He said that extreme temperatures and overflowing canals at the
northern border are not the biggest dangers to those immigrants who enter Mexico
from the south.

Most immigrants are killed in accidents. They fall beneath moving trains,
suffocate in sealed rail cars or drown in accidents at sea. But the more
sinister forces, Father Rigoni said, are human predators. Many of them, he said,
carry guns and badges.

Others, according to Mexican immigration officials, are members of international
networks that have turned immigrant smuggling into a criminal enterprise
comparable in profits and ruthlessness to those of the drug trade.

The smugglers entice immigrants by offering to navigate their passage but they
have been known to abandon their human cargo at the first sign of a run-in with
the law, often leaving the immigrants cooped up and in deadly peril. Smugglers
also have demanded months of work to pay their fees.

"Here, we are fighting a war with no fronts, against a uniformed Mexico and a
Mexico marked by tattoos," Father Rigoni said. "The uniformed Mexico includes
the various police agencies that pursue immigrants -- not to detain them, but to
exploit them. And the tattooed Mexico consists of the gangs of delinquents."

He added, "Bodies are found almost every week."

Jose Domingo Guillen, a high-level local official who coordinates the government
council that monitors migration enforcement efforts in this border region, had a
similarly bleak opinion.

"The migrants who come here are treated like cattle," he said. "Everyone feeds
off them."

The chaos and violence at the 600-mile southern border has captured the
attention of President Vicente Fox. A firm advocate for the rights of Mexican
immigrants in the United States, Mr. Fox has been pressing the Bush
administration for reforms that would make the American border safer for the
waves of Mexicans who cross illegally there each year.

Mr. Fox has acknowledged that he cannot credibly campaign for a safer northern
border unless Mexico addresses the widespread lawlessness in the south. He does
not speak of limiting the flow of immigrants into Mexico, and on to the United
States, but greater regulation at the border would have that effect. He says he
would like to reduce the smuggling of drugs, guns and other contraband that is
endemic there.

Exact numbers of immigrants transiting through Mexico are not known, but the
greatest number crossing into Texas and other southern states, by far, are
Mexican.

For instance, the United States deports 1.5 million people each year. Of those,
only 30,000 are from Central America. Perhaps twice that number, 60,000, made it
safely to the United States.

Attacks by corrupt officials have been a point of contention between Mexico and
its southern neighbors in much the same way that violence in the north has
strained United States-Mexico relations.

In a speech before the Salvadoran legislative assembly last September, Mr. Fox,
not yet inaugurated at the time, apologized for Mexico's mistreatment of the
tens of thousands of Central Americans who enter Mexico each year.

"Their journey north is a dangerous adventure that all too frequently ends in
deaths and violence," Mr. Fox said. "I know well that during their passage
though my country they are victims of uncountable abuses and humiliations
committed by bad authorities."

"This brutal reality," Mr. Fox added, "will disappear under my government."

In a widely discussed effort called Plan Sur, or Southern Plan, Mr. Fox's
government promises to root out corruption among immigration officials, expand
the number of agents assigned to defend immigrants from attack, and impose order
at the tumbledown, poorly guarded checkpoints throughout the Isthmus of
Tehuantepec. At that point, 200 or more miles in from the southern border, the
land narrows to just about 100 miles across. And from that area, trains and
highways connect to the north.

Government officials said the isthmus had been overrun by nearly 100 operations
that smuggle immigrants. A deputy in the Mexican attorney general's office said
the agency would create a special office for the investigation of immigrant
smuggling. Officials at the Federal Preventive Police reported that they had
dismantled at least six big trafficking operations from Chihuahua and Coahuila
in the north, to Mexico City and to Chiapas in the south.

Felipe de Jesus Preciado, the commissioner of Mexico's National Migration
Institute, said he had made 400 personnel changes since taking up his post last
December. Among them, he said, he has removed 55 officials responsible for
migration enforcement in international airports across the country.

On a tour of two newly refurbished checkpoints along the southern border in
July, Mr. Preciado inaugurated a series of workshops for Mexican agents assigned
to defend the rights of immigrants -- an unarmed squad known as Grupo Beta.
Dozens of complaints of abuse and corruption have been filed against members of
Grupo Beta, Mr. Preciado acknowledged, and said the workshops were aimed at
training the agents not only in rescue techniques and basic immigration law, but
also in human rights.  As for those found guilty of abuses, he said, "we will
take drastic action against them."

The immigration commissioner said that Beta's presence in the south would be
expanded from the current 47 agents working from two area offices to more than
130 officers posted along five main immigrant routes between the states of
Chiapas, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, Tabasco and Veracruz.

To make it harder for deported immigrants to return to Mexico, the governments
of Mexico, Guatemala and the United States have joined to send Central American
immigrants back to their home countries, rather than dumping them all on the
Guatemala side of the border -- a project that Mr. Preciado said costs Mexico an
estimated $1.2 million a month.

The Southern Plan has already met opposition among immigrants and their
advocates. Interior Minister Santiago Creel indicated at first that the plan
would include increased military and police patrols along the border, stirring
concerns that the effort, like the Border Patrol buildup in the north, would
cause smugglers to begin charging higher prices.

And, critics charge, a crackdown on immigrants along the highways and train
crossings will force immigrants to cross in areas that are less hospitable than
the steady Suchiate River. Much of the border with Guatemala for instance is in
dense jungle.

People who live and work along the river wonder whether the plan can work in any
form. Nelson Cordoba, who owns four of the rafts that carry people across the
Suchiate, said the flow of migrants would remain as constant as the river's
waters.

"If the United States, with all of its money, cannot stop migrants from crossing
their border," he said, "how can Mexico stop them?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Soldiers checking for illegal immigrants aboard a bus in
Tapachula in southern Mexico. An overwhelming majority of those who make the
trip across Mexico are from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras. (Jorge Nunez
for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A group of Guatemalan men who had entered Mexico
illegally were held in a government building in Tapachula before they were
deported.; Guatemalans embarking on a 10-minute river crossing to Mexico.
Passengers entering the country illegally mix with those going to shop or work.
(Photographs by Jorge Nunez for The New York Times)(pg. 10) Map of Mexico
highlighting Cuidad Hidalgo: The Cuidad Hidalgo crossing attracts Central
American migrants. (pg. 10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 11, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Illegal' Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 160 words


To the Editor:

According to a South Carolina legislator quoted in "In U.S. Illegally,
Immigrants Get License to Drive" (front page, Aug. 4), so-called illegal
immigrants are "criminals."

That is not true.

Unlike criminals, foreigners facing removal from the United States are not
entitled to counsel except "at no expense to the government." Federal courts
refuse them protections like the Speedy Trial Act and the constitutional
prohibition against double jeopardy, because deportation cases are civil, not
criminal.

Legal or not, millions of undocumented workers are here to stay. They need us;
we need them. Common sense suggests that these members of our community be
brought out of the shadows, be extended the protection of laws they are now
afraid to invoke, and be properly taxed.

JEFFREY HELLER
Cranford, N.J., Aug. 4, 2001

The writer, who teaches immigration and asylum law at Brooklyn Law School, is on
the New Jersey Council on Undocumented Aliens.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cash Tempts Mexican Truckers to Haul Migrants

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1577 words

DATELINE: HUIXTLA, Mexico


Immigration agents say that when they began to search Samuel Medina's
18-wheeler, it was the smell of human sweat that revealed that he was hauling
more than bananas.

The agents found 94 men and women hidden behind the crates of fruit. All were
from Central America. And all, with Mr. Medina's help, were hoping to reach the
United States. Moving migrants from many countries through Mexico to the United
States has become a huge enterprise.

The next day's newspapers, featuring photos of Mr. Medina with a wad of 500-peso
bills, called the veteran truck driver a "pollero," using the term for an
immigrant smuggler that stirs images of greed and ruthlessness.

But two weeks later, with his ragged clothes and trembling hands, the
37-year-old Mr. Medina, the father of three, seemed anything but a callous
border bandit.

"I was willing to take a risk because I wanted to make a better life for my
family," he said in an interview from a jail here, describing the same sort of
desire that drives the illegal migrants themselves. "That is why I agreed to
take the money." But from whom he took it, he was too afraid to say.

His son Ricardo, 18, who accompanied his father on most trips, recalled how
powerfully his father had been drawn to what seemed a huge windfall -- $11,000
-- for a man used to making $400 a week.

"He told me that when they put 100,000 pesos in his hand, he realized he had
never dreamed of holding that much money," Ricardo said. "It all seemed so
easy."

Mr. Medina is typical of the more than 4,000 prisoners serving time in Mexican
jails on charges of immigrant smuggling, a sophisticated yet informal $1 billion
enterprise that the authorities say has become comparable in profits and
violence only to the illegal drug trade.

Like so many other drivers, Mr. Medina says he was not a formal part of the
smuggling operation that hired him, much less the ringleader. Instead, he said,
he finally gave in and agreed to smuggle illegal migrants after being approached
repeatedly with offers that were too tempting to ignore. Many other drivers, he
and his son said, did the same.

In the end he became a small cog in smuggling's vast machinery -- as expendable
as the guides who walk migrants across the desert into the southern United
States or the lookouts posted in airports and bus stations -- but one that makes
the illegal operations run.

"It's a phenomenon that is very similar to the drug trade," said Alejandro
Cossio, the director of the National Migration Institute in the state of
Veracruz, which has become a major transit area for immigrant smuggling. "The
guys who transport the drugs across the country are not the real drug
traffickers. But they are the ones who get caught and pay the penalties for the
traffic.

"The people at the top of the organization almost never fall into jail."

Officials at the institute say the enterprise has boomed since the United States
began dramatically boosting its border patrols in the mid-1990's.

Currently, they said, at least 100 criminal rackets run operations that extend
from Central America through Mexico and into the United States.

In a crackdown over the last year, undercover investigators in Mexico's Federal
Preventive Police said they had arrested 73 high-level members of some
half-dozen smuggling organizations.

Among them is Carlos Cesar Ferrera, whose operations were centered here in the
southern state of Chiapas. Known as the "King of the Trailers," Mr. Ferrera
contracted hundreds of truck drivers to carry immigrants across the country in
ventilated and temperature-controlled containers.

For fees ranging from $5,000 to $10,000, investigators said, Mr. Ferrera made
sure his clients were well fed and comfortable. And he appointed a "kindergarten
lieutenant" to watch over mothers traveling with children.

Another smuggler among those arrested, Jorge Manuel Ibanez Castillo, was himself
a former immigration agent. He used his own position, along with paid assistance
from at least 20 of his colleagues and rogue police officers, to help protect
his operations in Mexico City's bus stations and airports.

Officials said that because of a wiretap, the police had been able to monitor
Mr. Ibanez's operations without using low-level agents, who might have been
corrupted.

When the police raided one of Mr. Ibanez's five mansions to arrest him, the
officers found $250,000 in a safe. One intelligence officer said, "He told us
that the money was kept as a 'gift' for the first police officer who showed up
to arrest him."

Similarly, when immigration officials discovered the human cargo in Mr. Medina's
truck at a checkpoint near Mexico's southern border, Mr. Medina offered them
half of his $10,000 fee, immigration officials said.

When they searched the truck in July, they said, they suspected Mr. Medina, a
resident of Mexico City who had no previous criminal record, because he seemed
nervous and groped for answers when asked about his load.

Two weeks later, during interviews at the Center for Social Rehabilitation No.
3, Mr. Medina was in a weepy state of shock.

Mr. Medina comes from a family of more than 15 truck drivers, he said, including
his late father, his three brothers and most of his cousins and uncles. Like his
father before him, he was grooming his eldest son, Ricardo, to drive trucks too.

Six months ago, Mr. Medina said, he began making regular trips to Mexico's
border with Guatemala. It was not long, he said, before he began getting offers
to make what seemed like an easy fortune.

"People would approach me and ask if I would be willing to carry a 'heavier load
of bananas,' " Mr. Medina said. "I knew what they were really asking, and I
refused."

His son said it was impossible to be oblivious to the offers. They came all the
time. "I even asked my father once why he didn't take a couple of immigrants to
make extra money like everyone else," Ricardo said. "But he said he didn't want
to get in trouble."

In July, Mr. Medina said, he gave in. "The last time they offered extra bananas,
I told them, 'Fine,' " he said. "That was it."

Mr. Medina said he had been instructed to pick up his truck outside a ranch
called Ejido Libertad, near the Mexican border city of Ciudad Hidalgo. It had
been loaded hours before, and so Mr. Medina did not initially meet the
immigrants he would transport. He said he could not stop imagining their faces.

"I had never had an accident, but I wondered what would happen if my truck
overturns this time," Mr. Medina said. "I had been told that they would have
enough air and that the temperature would be 60 degrees Fahrenheit. But I still
worried whether they would survive the trip."

Driving, he thought of the time 13 years ago when he crossed illegally into the
United States in search of work. He said he had no money to pay a smuggler. So
he crossed the border alone near Tijuana, hitchhiked to Los Angeles and worked
odd construction jobs for two years until his wife made clear that she would
never risk her children's lives to join him.

"Many things went through my mind when I decided to do it," Mr. Medina said of
his decision to smuggle immigrants. "I remember thinking that maybe I was
helping to make the trip easier for these people."

He met the illegal migrants only after immigration officials discovered his
cargo and unloaded them, one by one, from the truck.

"One of them thanked me for trying to help them and gave me a rosary," he said.
"Another one gave me a clean T-shirt."

Officials said most of the immigrants had been deported home. Meanwhile, Mr.
Medina was seeking ways to cope with the notorious corruption of Mexico's prison
life.

The prison, built to hold 600, today houses some 1,200 prisoners. At least 10
percent are truck drivers accused or convicted of immigrant smuggling.

Mr. Medina said he had paid the "prison government" more than $650 for a
concrete cot in a cell, and another $100 to be excused from lawn work and from
cleaning bathrooms. Other inmates, who cannot afford to pay, often sleep in
stairwells and empty corners, he said.

His wife and mother visited and spent three days living with him in the prison.
It is not uncommon, lawyers working at the prison said, for wives and children
to live with convicted spouses during their entire incarceration.

A human rights lawyer, Irma Vasquez, said she estimated that nearly 100 minors
were living with their families in the jail.

"It's like a village here," Mr. Medina said. If you have money, he added, "there
is freedom on the inside."

Ms. Vasquez, who conducts regular visits to the jail to check on living
conditions, calls smugglers the prison's middle class. They do not have the
finances of the drug dealers and kidnappers, she said. But often, she said, the
smugglers will receive monthly payments from people interested in keeping their
allegiance.

"I have talked to some prisoners whose payments come from as far away as
Belize," Ms. Vasquez said.

Long after his arrest, Mr. Medina said he had been formally charged and ordered
held without bail. But he had not spoken in depth with the public defender who
had been assigned to his case. If convicted, he faces a 5- to 10-year sentence.

So far, Mr. Medina has not offered to identify the people who hired him. His
silence, he insisted, has not been bought.

"The last thing they told me was that I either had to make it to Mexico City or
one day they would see me back in Ciudad Hidalgo," he said, referring to the
tumbledown Mexican city across a calm river from Guatemala. "It scares me."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samuel Medina, who is in prison charged with smuggling migrants.
(Jorge Nunez for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Huixtla: In
Huixtla, agents found 94 hidden migrants, all bound for America.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Visas for Mexican Workers

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 471 words


Mexico's president-elect, Vicente Fox, has some provocative if premature ideas
about cross-border immigration. His ultimate goal is free movement of labor
across an open border. But that is not practical anytime soon. With the more
than tenfold gap between United States and Mexican wages, the migration would be
all one way, as low-wage Mexican workers competed with the poorest, least
skilled Americans. So for now, Mr. Fox would like to see Washington
significantly increase the number of temporary visas available to Mexican
workers. In exchange, Mexico would strengthen policies to discourage illegal
emigration to the United States. That is an experiment worth discussing.

America's current border enforcement policies are not working well. The nearly
$1 billion a year Washington spends to police its southern border has not
measurably reduced the flow of illegal immigrants from Mexico. Around 340,000
Mexicans enter the United States every year, well over half of them illegally.
Traditionally, illegal immigration has provided a safety valve for Mexican
governments and low-wage labor for American employers. But it has also been a
source of diplomatic tension, particularly when would-be immigrants are killed
by border agents or unscrupulous smugglers or die from the effects of heat and
dehydration.

Mr. Fox proceeds from the realistic assumption that the number of Mexicans
entering the United States each year, either legally or illegally, will not fall
below 340,000. But he would like to see a significantly larger proportion of
that total given legal status, through the issuance of tens of thousands of
additional work visas annually. He would also like legal status granted to many
Mexicans who entered the United States illegally in the past.

In return, Mexico could crack down on Central Americans who cross its territory
to enter the United States illegally, and enforce racketeering laws against
smuggling syndicates. Any increases in the number of American visas should be
linked to evidence of improved Mexican border enforcement.

Some Americans fear that adding temporary visas for Mexicans will drive down
wages of low-income Americans, and that any amnesty for those here illegally
will only invite future illegal crossings. But the border is already highly
porous. Some experts believe that a well-conceived program along the lines Mr.
Fox suggests could produce a long-term drop in illegal crossings. Legalized
immigrants also have greater ability to unionize and demand decent conditions,
making them less likely to undermine the status of low-wage Americans.

Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush will both meet the new Mexican
leader during his current visit to the United States. Both candidates should use
the opportunity to learn more about his immigration ideas.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 14, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Day-Laborer Issues Prompt Opposing Rallies

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 729 words


As the Suffolk County police continued to search yesterday for a second suspect
in the beating of two Mexican day laborers last month, groups on both sides of
the debate over illegal immigrants planned weekend events to rally public
support.

A group that protests the presence of illegal immigrants in Farmingville, called
Sachem Quality of Life Organization, invited an anti-immigration advocate from
California to speak today at a Veteran of Foreign Wars post in Centereach.
Tomorrow, the Suffolk County Human Rights Commission and other groups are
sponsoring a candlelight unity rally in Hauppauge to urge officials to address
the problems of day laborers.

The events stem from concerns in Farmingville about the day laborers, most of
them Mexican, who gather for work daily at a busy intersection and live in
overcrowded conditions, and from the Sept. 17 attack on two of them.

In that incident, two white men posing as contractors picked the Mexicans up in
Farmingville and drove them to an abandoned factory in Shirley, where they
attacked the laborers with construction tools and a knife, the police said. Both
victims were wounded and are unable to work. On Tuesday, a 19-year-old Queens
man was arrested and charged in the beating; a second suspect remains at large.

Glenn Spencer, president of Voices of Citizens Together, a California group that
pushes for immigration reform, is scheduled to speak at a meeting today from 11
a.m. to 2 p.m. at V.F.W. Post 4927 in Centereach.

A woman tending the bar there yesterday said the post did not condone the
speaker's views. "We didn't know what it was going to be, and we're kind of
stuck with it because we have a contract," said the bartender, who would not
give her name.

The rally tomorrow will be held at 6 p.m. at the H. Lee Dennison Building, a
county building in Hauppauge.

Ray Wysolmierski, a member of Sachem Quality of Life, said his group planned to
ask for the resignation of Paul J. Tonna, presiding officer of the Suffolk
County Legislature and one of the organizers of the rally.

"They'll be marching with the illegals, which to me is treason," he said of the
public officials and others who planned to attend the rally.

Mr. Wysolmierski said the 1,500 immigrants estimated to be living in
Farmingville were there illegally, dwelling in overcrowded conditions and not
paying taxes.

"Just because they're status crimes, we're expected to wink at them," he said.
"We want them deported, very softly and gently," he said of the illegal
immigrants.

But the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church, who has
been acting as an adviser to the victims of the Sept. 17 attack, is concerned
that tomorrow's event will only increase tensions in the community.

"The concern is that it continues to create a climate, an atmosphere, in which
we look at a certain group of people, in this case the Latino community, as a
group towards which we can direct our rage, our anger, and even violence, as we
have seen," he said. "And it appeals to the worst of instincts in people."

But he added that Mr. Spencer's speech might show the larger community what kind
of views the Sachem group really supports. "We know the kind of hate rhetoric
that is spewed from individuals like him, and perhaps in some odd way it will be
good," Mr. Ramirez said.

Mark Potok, a spokesman for the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala.,
said Mr. Spencer had delivered videotapes to Congress that purported to prove
that Mexico was trying to reimpose its sovereignty on the American Southwest.
"They live in a paranoid fantasy world," Mr. Potok said. "He has done his best
to poison the atmosphere along the border."

Inspector Kenneth Rau, commanding officer of the Sixth Precinct of the Suffolk
County police, which includes Centereach, said officers would be assigned to
each event, and patrols there would be increased.

"The intense rhetoric from the far left and far right on both sides of this
situation has been inflammatory," he said.

Mr. Tonna said the goal of the Sunday rally was to encourage elected officials
to deal with the laborers' problems. "Any solution has to start with affirming
the dignity of all human beings," he said.

"My sense is a few extremists doesn't speak for the general community," Mr.
Tonna said. "The contrast will be very interesting."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 16, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Radio Alerts Immigrants To Roving Border Patrols

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 155 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Oct. 15


A Spanish-language radio station is providing undocumented immigrants with daily
alerts on the locations of Border Patrol agents working the streets.

The "Matty y Ramon en la Manana" program broadcasts shortly before sunrise, and
listeners call in sightings of "limones verdes," or green limes, a code mocking
immigration agents and their uniforms.

"They are green and they will sour your whole day," Matty Arreola, a disc jockey
with 92.9 KROM-FM, told The San Antonio Express-News.

A native of the Mexican state Michoacan, Ms. Arreola came illegally to the
United States in the 1980's and became a permanent resident under a amnesty
program.

Immigration officials told The Express-News that they had never heard of a radio
station broadcasting agents' activities. They predicted Ms. Arreola and her
co-host, Ramon Loo, who have about 106,000 listeners at any time, would be
hard-pressed to derail their efforts.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 20, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Family Law Collides With Immigration and Welfare Rules

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2155 words


It was 2 a.m. in a hospital emergency room in Brooklyn one night in August 1999.
To the doctor on duty it was unimportant that the sick woman was an undocumented
alien, and that her American-born child, the frightened 9-year-old boy clinging
to her side, was healthy. The doctor admitted them both, because the mother
urgently needed hospital treatment, and the child had no one else.

The city's child welfare authorities had a different perspective.

The mother's poverty and recurrent hospitalizations had forced her several times
to turn her son over to the New York City foster care system. Getting the child
back and providing adequately for his care at home was always difficult for her,
because, as an illegal immigrant, she did not qualify for most government
financial and medical help, and what help her son was entitled to was often not
enough.

To child welfare caseworkers, the hospital was no place for the boy, and within
days they charged that the mother's failure to make more suitable arrangements
amounted to child neglect.

A Family Court judge disagreed and ordered the city to provide help. But a year
later, with efforts to get aid for the mother still frustrated by her illegal
status, she was again in the hospital, the boy was back in the custody of child
welfare workers, and the case was once again before the Family Court judge in
Brooklyn.

As the lawyers argued over responsibility and neglect, the judge tried to tackle
the problem directly, with added vigor. He did not care about citizenship or
benefit rules, he stressed, because his own overriding legal duty was to help
families safely get back together. He placed the child in foster care for nine
more months, but ordered the city to provide the mother, despite her immigration
status, with a full range of public aid to help reunite them.

The city defied the order and appealed it, and now the conflict at the heart of
the case is before an appellate court: how to reconcile apparently contradictory
governmental aims, the state's constitutional duty to help families stay
together no matter their citizenship, and new welfare laws that deny benefits
not only to illegal immigrants, but also to any parent unprepared to work or
prove disability.

Lawyers for the city contend that the mother, who came here from Trinidad 15
years ago as a teenager after her own mother died, is not entitled to the public
assistance, Medicaid or emergency housing services ordered by the judge because
she is here illegally.

Furthermore, they argue, the judge has no authority to order such aid outright
for anyone, because it is now controlled by rules set under the federal welfare
overhaul of 1996 -- rules intended to improve family well-being by moving
parents from welfare to work.

But the Family Court judge, Philip C. Segal, and lawyers separately representing
the mother and the child counter that the state's Family Court Act authorizes
the court to order public aid to help reunify families, regardless of
immigration status. More than the boy's American citizenship, which entitles him
to the same benefits as any child born here, they cite the mother's fundamental
constitutional right to raise her child as the basis for state laws that require
help to prevent or repair family breakups.

"You're dealing with a human drama that is being replicated thousands of times,"
said Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, a professor of human development who is a
co-director of the Harvard Immigration Project, a leading study of immigrant
children. "The idea that has driven U.S. immigration law and family law is that
these kinship bonds are over and beyond other legal or policy practices. What
this captures is the ambiguities and contradictions being generated."

The Issues
Immigration Goals Take Precedence

The long legislative history of aid to families in New York State was born of
bitter experience from 1875 to 1935, when parents too poor or sick to support
their children routinely had to relinquish them to orphanages, to be cared for
at public expense. Legislators there and in many other states eventually
concluded that children raised by the state cost more, and were less likely to
become productive citizens, than those raised by their own parents with aid.

Though the problems in this case may be unusually stark, poverty lawyers and
immigration experts around the country say the fundamental issues it illustrates
have been percolating behind the scenes nationwide as health care and poverty
programs discover how hard it can be to help children separately from their
ineligible parents.

"The orderly immigration goals have trumped all the other goals," said Joshua
Bernstein, senior policy analyst at the National Immigration Law Center, a
nonprofit advocacy organization for immigrants. "And that's going to come back
to haunt us."

Nationally, hundreds of thousands of an estimated two million to four million
undocumented immigrants have children who are United States citizens, experts
say.

Proponents of tough restrictions on public aid to immigrants argue that handouts
will only draw more illegal immigrants. But under the 1997 Adoption and Safe
Families Act, foster care cannot serve as a long-term solution for parents
unable to raise their children without help. The law requires that children who
have spent 15 of the last 22 months in foster care be put up for adoption.

"The systemic tolerance for illegal immigration provides precisely this
dilemma," said Dan Stein, director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which favors more restrictive immigration policies and strict
enforcement. "How do you balance the humanitarian goal that citizen children get
the care they need to grow and be nurtured as human beings, without encouraging
illegal immigration by allowing parents to use children as a grappling hook?"

But the mother has a far different perspective.

"What about the child?" she asked recently from her bed at Kings County
Hospital, where she was being treated for sickle cell anemia, an inherited blood
disorder marked by tissue damage and bouts of extreme pain. "My son is suffering
so much in foster care."

In an Oct. 13 opinion that refers to the boy and his mother by the pseudonyms
Sean and Millie Kittridge because he is a minor, Judge Segal cited New York
State's "clear, concrete and absolute constitutional commitment to provide
assistance to needy residents," as spelled out in a 1938 provision of the State
Constitution that is more ironclad and sweeping than any other in the nation.

"If Ms. Kittridge does not receive public assistance, Medicaid and treatment for
her sickle cell anemia, it is likely that she will never be reunited with Sean,"
he wrote. "New York State law and public policy require that Ms. Kittridge be
given the opportunity to raise her child, notwithstanding her immigration
status."

The Family
A Catch-22 Of Aid Denials

The story of the Kittridges is marked at every turn by the difficulty of
reconciling family needs and social goals. Over the years, the family struggled
not only with illness and poverty, but also with a web of rules that alternately
gave and withheld aid, and with a child welfare system that often seemed to
bring more harm than good.

Ms. Kittridge came to New York in 1984, already suffering from the blood
disorder that had led to her mother's death. In her early 20's, she fell in love
with a man who took off for good as soon as she became pregnant. She tried to
apply for public assistance, but was turned away because of her status, and to
get by, she worked in a dry cleaner's, sickened by the fumes and fearful for the
health of her fetus.

At 2, her son was determined to have learning disabilities, and as a citizen, he
qualified for $471 a month in Supplemental Security Income and $115 in food
stamps. With the help of those benefits, Ms. Kittridge was able to make a modest
home for them both in a $250-a-month apartment in Brooklyn. But her own poor
health and lack of medical coverage were becoming critical problems, and in
1994, when her son was 4, she began to turn to the foster care system to provide
a place for him when she had no alternative.

None of his stays in foster care went well, and Sean often complained of
physical abuse. Each time, he emerged from the system more frightened of being
separated from his mother; each time he went back, the system found him harder
to handle. He was sent through a dizzying succession of expensive evaluations in
institutions where he was medicated to control disruptive behavior and night
terrors -- typical symptoms of traumatic separation.

Yet Ms. Kittridge's requests for modest government help to keep him at home were
typically denied by city agencies. She asked for a part-time homemaker beginning
in 1994, for example, and in 1998, child welfare caseworkers themselves tried to
get her one. But the city ultimately rejected the request because of Ms.
Kittridge's immigrant status.

Over her objections, Sean's stay in foster care dragged on after a caseworker
wrote that he should not go home until his mother was able to care for him
"without becoming ill and having to go into the hospital."

Ms. Kittridge, unable to control her intractable illness, saw no way to reach
that goal. She now had no source of income, since her son's S.S.I. check
automatically stopped going to her while he was in foster care, and her only
source of medical care was through hospital emergency rooms.

But in June 1999, just as arbitrarily, her son was sent home again. His latest
foster placement had expired.

After months in foster care at a cost of tens of thousands of dollars, he had
become a truly troubled child, refusing to leave his mother even to go to school
and disruptive when he was not with her. But Ms. Kittridge, still sick and
without help, was no closer to being able to care for him alone. Now, though,
she was resolved not to place him in foster care again.

The crisis came within six weeks. When mounting agony drove her to the emergency
room at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn, she took her son along. Two
days later, as Sean clung to her and begged her not to let child welfare
authorities take him away, caseworkers classified her failure to do better as
neglect.

But Judge Segal denied their petition for custody, and instead ordered
supervision and support at home, including a homemaker.

This solution proved stillborn. A new set of caseworkers tried to help, even
bending rules to buy Ms. Kittridge groceries. As they fruitlessly contacted
charitable organizations, tried to change her status as an illegal immigrant and
took her around to government offices to apply for the aid the judge had
ordered, they, too, became discouraged.

Eviction proceedings loomed, yet they were unable even to get her an emergency
rent grant, a city benefit not restricted by immigration status. It was denied
by officials at the city's Human Resources Administration, who did not feel
bound by Judge Segal's order. The officials said Ms. Kittridge had received the
same kind of grant only a year earlier, and they wanted to discourage
dependency.

The endgame soon began. Sean was suspended from school, and officials faulted
his mother for failing to keep him on medication. When she went to the hospital
again last January, the boy then 9, fell apart. "I want to be with my mommy,"'
he cried, running away from the neighbor who had agreed to care for him, and
threatening to kill her when she stopped him.

The boy has been in the custody of the child welfare system ever since, moving
through an array of diagnostic centers and private foster care agencies with
city contracts.

Ms. Kittridge last saw him in July. Once again, they were together in a
hospital. He had been taken to Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx after
suffering a broken thighbone in a foster home. Ms. Kittridge was allowed to stay
overnight on a chair in his room. Then, because her own illness was flaring,
doctors admitted her as a patient, and in kindness, assigned her to a room near
his.

But the boy and the case moved on. Eventually, the city amended the neglect
petition with an allegation that Ms. Kittridge was addicted to the painkillers
administered by hospital doctors. She and her lawyer, Steven S. London, call the
accusation offensive and misleading. Experts on sickle cell disease say that
patients should not be blamed for dependency on needed painkillers, and that
unrelieved pain leads to more complications and more deaths.

It was the amended petition, however, that Judge Segal finally granted in
August, agreeing that Sean was neglected and had to be kept in foster care, but
insisting that the city help his mother prepare to take him back.

Now, with the family officially broken, begins the long legal battle over the
scope of the judge's authority and the city's duty to try to put families
together again.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "What about the child?" the mother of a boy in a tug of war in
Family Court asked recently from her hospital bed. She has sickle cell anemia.
(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba and U.S. Open Talks About Immigration

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Dec. 11


With the Elian Gonzalez case still a delicate subject in both countries, Cuban
and United States officials began talks today on immigration issues, including
the growing practice of smuggling illegal immigrants into the United States.

Cuba charges that United States policies encourage the practice, particularly
the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, which allows Cubans who reach American shores to
avoid deportation.

The United States, meanwhile, accuses Cuba of putting up barriers to "legal and
orderly" migration to the United States -- obstacles that have prompted
thousands to risk the dangerous passage trip through the Florida Straits on
rickety boats.

The two countries have been holding periodic talks on migration since 1994. That
summer, Cuba briefly lowered its barriers and allowed more than 30,000 people to
leave for the United States on boats and rafts.

The last round of talks was held in New York in September. It followed an
interruption caused by the international custody dispute over Elian Gonzalez,
the boy who was rescued in the waters off Florida after the boat he was in sank,
killing his mother and nine others.

Cuba attributed the resulting tug-of-war between the child's father in Cuba and
some other relatives in Miami to the Cuban Adjustment Act, which initially
allowed the child to stay in the United States.

Ricardo Alarcon, the Cuban National Assembly president, who is leading the Cuban
delegation, has said the law "denigrates Cuba" by giving the impression that all
emigrants are escaping political persecution.

In Washington last week, a State Department spokesman, Philip Reeker, said the
American delegation would voice concerns over the "disproportionately high fees"
that departing Cubans must pay.

Another issue, he said, is Cuba's refusal to give exit permits to certain Cuban
citizens even though they have valid United States entry documents. The
Americans are also troubled by cases involving the separation of families and by
limits put on doctors who want to leave the island, he said.

American officials also are worried about the rise in organized smuggling of
Cubans, often in flimsy boats. Both sides have pledged to crack down on the
practice.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 25, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Migration Rises Sharply in European Union

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1722 words

DATELINE: ISTANBUL


As European countries batten down the hatches against immigration, seen as a
burden on welfare and a threat to national identities already blurred by
globalization, illegal immigration is soaring.

The European Union estimates that 500,000 illegal immigrants have arrived this
year alone, up from an estimated 40,000 as recently as 1993.

"Welcome to Europe," says a sign on the western side of the bridge over the
Bosporus in Istanbul, but the Europe of countless migrants' dreams, that of high
incomes and generous welfare benefits, is hundreds of miles west of here. For
many the road to it runs through the seething Istanbul quarter of Laleli.

Here, the seedy hotels are full of Russian prostitutes -- known locally as
"Natashas" -- and the traffic in false passports that might afford entry to the
European Union is brisk. Amer Erriad of Morocco can arrange one for you.

An Iranian passport, for example, goes for $250 with the original photograph in
it, or $350 with your own photo inserted and a forged official Iranian stamp
applied to it. Western passports are far more desirable and expensive -- a
Danish one costs $9,000 and an American one $14,000 -- but the Iranian document
has its uses.

For the migrants gathered here -- from northern Iraq, from North Africa, from
central Asia, all of them desperate to get into the European Union -- an Iranian
passport offers visa-free travel to Bosnia. From there, illegal access to
Western Europe is available in the backs of trucks headed to Austria from
Sarajevo.

Poverty, high birth rates and the new routes from Asia to Europe opened by the
fall of the Berlin Wall all encourage the tide of human traffic through Turkey.

So, too, does global communication. Here in Istanbul, as in much of the
developing world, Western cable television eradicates distance as it conveys
images that seduce: plush homes, scrubbed children, gleaming cars, faces soft
and pouting. Their lure to the unwashed, living on $200 a month or less, is
irresistible.

Certainly, Mr. Erriad, 27, could not resist. He came here from Casablanca two
months ago in a roundabout attempt to reach Italy, where four of his brothers
work. An Italian visa was denied him, despite invitations from his brothers, who
moved to Italy in the 1980's. Like most European countries, Italy is trying to
curb the so-called "family unification" that brings more immigrants.

The fastest illegal route from Morocco to Europe is the nine-mile sea journey in
small boats from northern Morocco to Spain -- Europe's Rio Grande. But it is a
perilous passage to the promised land that has already cost more than 100 lives
this year and led to the arrest of 15,000 immigrants, four times as many as in
1999.

Mr. Erriad was not tempted. "I can't swim," he explained.

So this young Moroccan, a driver who reckons that he will quintuple his salary
in Italy, flew to Istanbul and bought himself an Iranian passport, preparing to
fly to Bosnia and then make his way to Italy overland. But at the last moment he
lost his nerve and burned the document.

Now he sits in a small hotel room with a droning television and offers a visitor
another Iranian passport, on which he will earn a $30 commission. A few hours
later, the document is handed over in the street by a young, bespectacled
Palestinian, who says good evening but asks no questions.

The passport, complete with new photograph, was that of one Jassem Saiahi
(father's name, Ejbari), born on Sept. 25, 1965 in the southwestern Iranian town
of Dasht-i-Azadegan. A resident of Kuwait, according to the passport stamps, he
entered Turkey on Nov. 12.

"The passport was either sold by its owner, lost or stolen," said Ahmed Sulun,
the manager of a small Laleli hotel who has long observed the trade surrounding
migrant attempts to move westward. "This kind of thing goes on all the time."

Mr. Erriad has a friend, a Tunisian woman named Noura Feyala, age 22, who is
also trying to get to Europe. She says simply: "I am proud to be Tunisian, proud
to be a Muslim, proud to be an Arab. But I am not proud of my passport. I cannot
even see my uncle in Paris or my cousin in Madrid."

Everything is mobile -- images, capital, information -- so people see no reason
why they should not be too. Immigrants seep into Turkey, seen as a bridge to
Europe. "The political instability and turmoil that marks our neighbors makes
Turkey a desirable transit country for those who want to reach Western Europe
through illegal means," Hikmet Sami Turk, the Turkish justice minister, said
recently.

He noted that the number of illegal immigrants captured in Turkey had leaped
from 28,439 in 1997 to 47,518 last year. In just the first six months of this
year, a further 40,245 were captured. Most were deported.

But thousands more are never caught and many, like Mr. Erriad or Ms. Feyala, are
in Turkey legally looking for a less-than-legal means to move to the West.
Turkish organizations specialize in that business.

Bjorn Clarberg, an expert on illegal immigration at Europol, the European
Union's fledgling united police force, said the most prominent groups active in
people smuggling were Turkish and Albanian. The gangs are generally small,
ranging from 5 to 20 people, and are often made up of extended families or
clans.

Charging between $1,000 and $4,000 to move people to Western Europe from Turkey,
those organizations quickly build up large amounts of cash that are invested in
stolen luxury cars, property, restaurants and illegal activities including drug
smuggling. The Turkish authorities contend that a "terrorist organization" -- an
oblique reference to the Kurdistan Workers Party -- is active in these areas.

Many borrow money to pay such crime rings to move them. A 37-year-old port
worker who would give only his first name, Sukru, paid $2,500, all borrowed, to
a gang last year to be taken to Germany. "I am nearly 40," he said. "It was not
for myself that I decided to go, but for my children. I wanted to give them an
education." He has a son and daughter, ages 11 and 7.

Along with five others, he was provided with transit visas for Bulgaria and
Romania and put in a bus that went to Ukraine. There, the group was hidden in
the back of a truck and taken over the border into Poland before being put on a
train to the Polish border opposite the German town of Frankfurt an der Oder.

Two gang members accompanied them along the banks of the Oder River at night
before leaving them with instructions on where to swim across into Germany. But
as they prepared to enter the water, they were arrested by a Polish patrol.

The Polish police took the group -- four Turks and two Arabs -- back across the
country and handed them over to the Ukrainian authorities. "Then," said Sukru,
an angular and anxious man, "we were thrown in prison and I spent a month in
hell."

The Ukrainian police beat the illegal immigrants regularly, fed them on bread
and water, held them all together in a single underground cell, allowed them no
exercise and stole anything of any value -- including watches, cell phones and
even clean underwear, Sukru said. Eventually, they were thown penniless onto the
streets of Lviv.

After making contact with a Turkish company there, he was able to borrow some
money and make his way back to Turkey. "If I had seen members of the gang in
Ukraine, I would have killed them," he said. "But in the end you realize that
you have no recourse and that like heroin traffickers, they are ready to kill
you at any moment."

But why risk so much to try to get to Europe? "Europe is life, humanity,
everything," Sukru said. "You feel you are a human being in Europe. In Istanbul
I feel hardly more valuable than an animal. But Europe is like a fortress." He
earns about $180 a month carrying loads in the port.

His plan was to seek asylum in Germany -- his family, he said, has been the
victim of a blood feud in his village in eastern Turkey -- and then bring his
wife and children. He will try again, perhaps using another route. A nephew
recently got into Western Europe from Bosnia, paying $2,000 to be taken in the
back of a truck from Sarajevo.

"He was in a group of about 150 people," Sukru said. "You must realize that
these gangs are making enormous amounts of money. More than in a factory." And
while the rewards are great, the punishments are much lighter than for drug
smuggling.

Mr. Erriad from Morocco is also considering other means to reach Europe. He
recently bought a plane ticket from Istanbul to Casablanca via Zurich, with the
idea of trying to alight during the Swiss stopover. But again he succumbed to
fear and abandoned the idea. "Everything is being tightened up," he said.

Turkey has recently added extra border posts at its frontiers, increased the
number of border guards, tightened inspections in various Aegean ports, started
sharing intelligence on human smuggling with other countries including Italy and
Bosnia, and begun new training for guards.

Eager to become a member of the European Union, the country is determined to
show its law enforcement credentials.

The European Union, meanwhile, is reviewing whether a policy that seems only to
push more and more people into seeking illegal entry needs to be changed,
especially as the Union's estimates suggest that as many as 35 million
immigrants may be needed by 2025 to offset an aging population.

But any suggestion that the doors may be opened is sure to be seized on by
center-right politicians across the continent. In Italy, Silvio Berlusconi
suggested this year that coast guards should be allowed to open fire on the
boats bringing illegal immigrants from the Albanian and Turkish coasts.

Of course, the people on those boats and in the backs of trucks are there
because of their desperate conviction that only in the West does a decent future
beckon.

"If a child is born in France," asked Ms. Feyala, the woman from Tunisia, "does
the child automatically get French citizenship?" She was told that this was no
longer the case but seemed determined to get there anyway.

Then she confided that she was three months pregnant by an estranged husband and
had decided that "my baby must be born in Europe or Canada or the United
States." Asked why, she said only, "I want my child to live well." Her wan,
helpless half-smile said the rest.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amer Erriad, left, from Morocco, and Noura Feyala, from
Tunisia, have been trying to get into the European Union by various means. New
transportation routes that have opened since the end of the cold war make doing
so easier, though some countries are trying to crack down. (Photographs by Roger
Cohen/The New York Times)(pg. A8)

Map of Europe highlighting Istanbul: For many migrants, the road to Western
Europe runs through Istanbul. (pg. A8)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 15, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Africa: Ethiopia: U.S. Asylum Bid

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 79 words


The speaker of Ethiopia's upper house of Parliament, Almaz Meko, said she was
seeking political asylum in the United States to escape what she called the
persecution of the Oromo, Ethiopia's largest ethnic group. Ms. Meko, who stopped
in the United States after attending a convention of women who are members of
Parliaments in the Caribbean, said she had been harassed as a vocal supporter of
the Oromo people, who make up at least 22 million of the 65 million population.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 15, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The Big City;
Accountability At Prisons Run Privately

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 745 words


WHEN inmates rampaged in 1995 at a privately run detention center for immigrants
in Elizabeth, N.J., many critics said it demonstrated the dangers of letting
corporations run prisons. In retrospect, though, you could draw a quite
different conclusion.

The conditions at the center, run by Esmor Correctional Services under contract
from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, were deplorable, but so were
the conditions at other detention centers run by the federal government itself.
The uprising, which destroyed property but produced no serious injuries, was
mild compared with riots at public prisons.

What made the story unusual was what happened after the rampage. Several of the
guards and supervisors were promptly fired by the company. Then, barely a month
after the uprising, the whole company was fired by the government.

The I.N.S., while declining to discipline its own bureaucrats for what it called
mistakes in oversight, ended the contract with Esmor and closed the center. The
site was overhauled and reopened a year later by a more experienced company, the
Corrections Corporation of America, which is still running it to the
satisfaction of the I.N.S.

Can you think of any public prison where the entire staff was fired? Can you
think of one where anybody was fired? After a typical scandal, at best you see a
blue-ribbon commission report that might lead to some policy changes in a year
or two.

At worst, you see the response of New York officials to the prison scandal that
came to light last week. State officials acknowledge that they wrongly
imprisoned Kerry Sanders, a homeless, mentally ill California man, from 1993 to
1995 because he was misidentified as an escaped convict, but they have yet to
discipline anyone or announce any reforms.

Private companies can't afford the luxury of inaction, and not merely because
their contracts can be canceled. Any scandal has immediate consequences on their
reputation (the price of Esmor's stock plummeted after the uprising in
Elizabeth) and their prospects for getting future business.

A scandal also has an immediate effect on their premiums for liability
insurance, a special concern for private companies. Public officials enjoy
immunity against many lawsuits by inmates, and even if they lose, the money
usually doesn't come out of their budgets. Private executives can be sued more
readily and must pay the consequences. Private firms also typically indemnify
the government against any lawsuits involving their facilities.

THOSE incentives have led to better conditions at private correctional
institutions than at public ones, as researchers have found by analyzing records
and interviewing residents and staff members.

Richard F. Culp, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, who
compared more than 200 juvenile correctional facilities across the country,
reported significantly less crowding, better morale and fewer problems at
private institutions. His 1998 findings jibe with those of earlier studies,
including one by the Urban Institute and another by Charles H. Logan, a
sociologist at the University of Connecticut, who compared federal prisons.

After reviewing the academic literature, Dr. Culp suggested that private
prisons, often justified mainly to reduce operating costs, might be more
important for the improved treatment they provide. In the long run, he
concluded, the most important savings may be in "reduced prison reform
litigation and improved rehabilitative outcomes."

Adrian T. Moore, an economist at the Reason Public Policy Institute, reached a
similar conclusion after surveying research on private prisons.

"There's no evidence that conditions in private prisons are worse than in public
ones, and there's growing evidence that conditions are better," he said. "People
like to say that private prisons aren't accountable, but they're actually more
accountable than public ones."

Mr. Moore was not surprised to hear of the casual reaction by New York prison
officials to wrongfully imprisoning a man for two years.

"It reminds me of the Los Angeles County Jail, which until last year still kept
inmate files on paper, not computers, and continually held inmates past their
release date," he said. "As in New York, no one was ever held accountable. There
was another scandal at a California prison where guards were staging gladiator
fights among prisoners, but the only person to lose his job was the
whistle-blower."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 5, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Sexual Abuse Reported at an Immigration Center

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 546 words


The Justice Department is investigating complaints from women held at an
immigration detention center near Miami who said they had witnessed or were
victims of sexual assaults by Immigration and Naturalization Service guards.

While the latest investigation of the center, the Krome Service Processing
Center, began last month, lawyers and advocates for immigrants, as well as some
employees of the center, have been expressing concerns about abuse of detainees
and corruption for years.

The more recent accusations came in a report released on Tuesday in New York by
the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, an international advocacy
group.

Basing its conclusions on statements from former guards and female refugees, the
commission said the immigration service had effectively lost control of Krome,
allowing it to become a place where many women lived in constant fear of sexual
violence or harassment.

Some women told the commission in interviews last month that guards had promised
to have them released in exchange for sex or to have them deported if they
resisted. Some who had complained said they were punished or threatened.

The Justice Department inquiry involves the United States attorney's office in
Miami, the Bureau of Prisons and the department's inspector general.

"This is an ongoing assessment of Krome, looking at what's wrong down there and
what we can do to improve the situation," said Gretchen Michael, a Justice
Department spokeswoman.

Ms. Michael said the investigation would focus on possible criminal activities
as well as management of the center.

Maria Cordona, an immigration service spokeswoman in Washington, said
immigration officials welcomed the investigation.

"The assessment was initiated," Ms. Cordona said, "because of all these
allegations and because we realized that, while we tried to the extent we could
to address them, we needed help."

Those detained at Krome -- 472 men and 97 women -- include immigrants who are
seeking political asylum as well as those who are fighting deportation.

The investigation has already led to some arrests and disciplinary actions
against Krome employees.

A federal grand jury in Miami last month charged a guard with raping a
transsexual detainee who was being held while her asylum request was being
considered. A second employee has pleaded guilty to accepting a $1,000 bribe to
let a detainee use a cell phone.

Several other employees have been moved out of the Krome center, immigration
officials said. But the women's commission report said many others accused of
abusing women were still at their posts.

The 20-year-old detention center, about 25 miles south of Miami, has been the
subject of numerous investigations and Congressional inquiries over its
treatment of immigrants.

Wendy Young, director of government relations at the women's commission, said
she was skeptical of the government's commitment to cleaning up Krome.

"I am concerned, partly based on the track record thus far at Krome, where we
have seen abuses reported and very little if anything done in terms of
disciplinary or legal action," Ms. Young said. "The Justice Department has to
make detention a priority, and one way is to hold guards responsible."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 15, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Detainees Begin Hunger Strike, Advocates for Immigrants Say

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 786 words


Dozens of detainees at a federal immigrant detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.,
have started a hunger strike to protest conditions and what they call an unfair
parole process, friends and a lawyer who have spoken with detainees in the last
two days said yesterday.

The strike started in several men's dormitories of the Elizabeth Detention
Center on Tuesday and was quickly joined by some of the female detainees, which
is rare, said Joyce Antila Phipps, a lawyer for El Centro Hispanoamericano, an
advocacy group for immigrants that is based in Plainfield, N.J. As many as
two-thirds of the 300 or so detainees could be participating in the strike, said
Ms. Phipps, who has four clients in the center.

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said it had received
reports that some detainees were not eating, but was not sure whether a hunger
strike was taking place.

The center, which has been managed since 1997 by the Corrections Corporation of
America, houses refugees who are applying for asylum in the United States. Many
come from war-torn regions of Eastern Europe, West Africa and the Indian
subcontinent, and are applying for asylum for reasons that include political
persecution and fear of genital cutting. The center comprises more than 20
dormitories and about a dozen solitary confinement rooms, and more than 80
percent of the detainees are men.

In 1998, nearly 100 detainees staged a hunger strike to protest what they
considered tough criteria for getting parole. That strike ended on its third
day, after immigration officials promised to review the parole requests of 50
detainees and study ways to increase the quantity of food and lower the prices
of telephone cards used by detainees.

Ms. Phipps said she received telephone calls on Thursday from two of her
clients. They told her that a hunger strike had begun, she said, and that they
were demanding reinstitution of canceled English classes, a more liberal parole
policy, an end to abusive behavior by guards and other improvements to living
conditions.

"Over the last couple of months, there has been increasing frustration over
several issues," Ms. Phipps said. "People are really worked up."

Kerry Gill, an I.N.S. spokesman, said the agency received reports on Friday
morning that "some people had missed meals." But he said he was not sure how
many people were involved or whether a hunger strike was actually taking place.

"At that point, the managers were looking at it to see if this was in fact the
case," he said. "It is difficult to say this event is taking place."

There was no response to messages left for a spokesman for the center on Friday
evening and last night.

In addition to Ms. Phipps, several people said they had received frantic calls
in the last few days from detainee friends telling them there was a strike. John
Vanier, who has been visiting people at the center for two years on behalf of
Riverside Church in Manhattan, said an Algerian man he sees every week left a
message on his answering machine on Friday. Mr. Vanier played back the message
to a reporter.

"A lot of problems here," the Algerian detainee said. "Last night, something
happened. A lot of people on strike."

A former detainee from Ghana, Stella Asamaniwa, said she received a telephone
call on Friday morning from a woman she had befriended at the center. The woman
said the guards disconnected the telephones and television sets for several days
after the strike began, Ms. Asamaniwa said.

The same reports were received by Baaba Andoh, another former detainee from
Ghana who won asylum in July based on a fear of genital cutting if she was
deported to Ghana. Ms. Andoh said she received a call on Friday from a friend
saying he was participating in the strike.

Yesterday morning, Ms. Andoh and Mr. Vanier, who know each other from the
center, took a bus to Elizabeth to see their friends. Visitors are allowed on
weekends. The two said that when they arrived shortly after 9 a.m., guards told
them they could not immediately go into the men's visiting area because
"something was happening back there."

After a half-hour wait, they said, they were allowed inside and spoke separately
to more than a half-dozen detainees who confirmed that a hunger strike was
taking place. Two men said none of the detainees in the two dormitories where
they lived were eating, while Mr. Vanier's Algerian friend said only a handful
in his dormitory were participating in the strike, Mr. Vanier and Ms. Andoh
said.

"I was really scared that they were going to starve to death," said Ms. Andoh of
four women with whom she spoke. "They told me they feel so dry and dehydrated. I
told them they should try to eat."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Immigrant, Detained for 3 1/2 Years, Emerges From Labyrinth

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1768 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Nov. 3


Patrick Mkhizi said he was awakened at 2 a.m. Thursday in his jail cell in York,
Pa. He remembers guards handcuffing his wrists to a chain that was wound around
his stomach. Then they marched him out into the chilly autumn darkness and
ordered him into a waiting van.

He said the guards did not tell him where he was going, so he did not know that
this was the end of more than three years of detention by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, that within a few hours he would be free, standing
without a cent outside the I.N.S. detention center in the warehouse district of
Elizabeth, trying hard to keep his emotions in check and to find a pay phone to
make a collect call.

"I prayed," Mr. Mkhizi said, "and then I walked away from that building as fast
as I could. I never want to see it again."

I.N.S. officials acknowledge that Mr. Mkhizi, 27, has spent much more time in
their custody than most asylum seekers have. But, they contend, it was his own
decision. A spokesman for the immigration service's Newark district, Kerry Gill,
said that three weeks after Mr. Mkhizi was found aboard a Greek cargo ship that
docked in Philadelphia, an immigration judge denied his request for asylum,
ruling that he did not have a "credible fear" of persecution if he returned home
to Congo, formerly Zaire. "Credible fear" is the only criterion that allows
refugees to be considered for asylum.

Mr. Mkhizi could have accepted deportation, Mr. Gill said, but chose to fight
it. "He remained in custody pursuing his rights under the law," Mr. Gill said,
"and the I.N.S. detained him in accordance with its policy." Three and a half
years later, the agency's highest appeals board reversed the initial decision
and granted Mr. Mkhizi asylum. The board's decision has yet to be made public.

For human rights advocates, the experience of Mr. Mkhizi and other I.N.S.
detainees raises questions about the harshness of the Illegal Immigration Reform
and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, which requires "mandatory detention"
of those requesting asylum even if they have relatives or other sponsors in the
United States, and which has tripled the number of noncitizens in I.N.S.
custody. It illustrates the odd twists in the law that allow overworked I.N.S.
border inspectors to turn back asylum seekers. And it seems to confirm what many
advocates contend -- that those, like Mr. Mkhizi, who agitate for improved
conditions are often placed in solitary confinement or sent to isolated county
jails.

"Just about everything that could go wrong in the system in his case did go
wrong," said Will Coley, the head of the Jesuit Refugee Service in Newark.

Mr. Mkhizi speaks softly when he tells of growing up in eastern Zaire during the
dictatorship of President Mobutu Sese Seko. As a child, he traveled the country
by bus with his mother, who sold clothes in open-air markets and along
roadsides. His schooling was desultory, provided mostly by a family friend who
was a teacher.

On Oct. 7, 1996, he said, he was asleep in a hut in the fields where his family
grew cassava, corn and vegetables. His mother and two sisters were cooking
breakfast when soldiers entered the village. There were shouts. The women fled,
he said, but he and his father, a local leader of the Mobutu opposition, were
seized and beaten with rifle butts.

"They hit my father until he stopped screaming and did not move," he recalled.
"They left him on the ground and pushed me onto a truck with other captives."

He said he never saw his home again and knows nothing of what happened to his
family. He was taken to an army base where on the first morning he was forced to
dig a pit to bury four prisoners beaten with him during the night, he said.

As Mr. Mkhizi spoke, the tips of his fingers lightly touched scars on his scalp.
Dr. Allen S. Keller, director of the Bellevue-New York University Program for
Survivors of Torture, who examined Mr. Mkhizi after he was detained, said,
"Patrick had physical and psychological evidence corroborating his reports of
torture and mistreatment in the Congo."

A few days later, Mr. Mkhizi said, he was sent to a well outside the prison to
fill the water barrel for his cell. Instead, he bolted from his captors and,
dodging their bullets, ran into the forest. Hitching rides on trucks, he said,
he traveled through Zambia and Namibia, ending up in the slums around Cape Town,
where he slept on the docks, begging for food and doing odd jobs. All he had to
wear, he said, was a ragged pair of trousers.

One day before dawn in May 1997 he slipped aboard a Greek freighter and hid in
the cargo hold. He said he had no idea where the ship was headed, but hoped that
it was to "some United Nations country."

"I was found after four days by the sailors, who were Filipino," he said. "I had
not eaten or drunk and could barely walk. Two of them sexually abused me. Then
they locked me in a room until we reached Philadelphia."

That was on May 21, 1997. The ship's crew turned Mr. Mkhizi, who spoke little
English, over to the I.N.S., which held him at the Elizabeth Detention Center.
Six days later, an I.N.S. asylum officer, Angelina Gylling, without an
interpreter or a lawyer present, decided that he had "no credible fear." He did
not realize that his asylum request had been turned down and that he had been
ordered deported until October of that year, when I.N.S. agents drove him to
Kennedy International Airport and tried to shove him onto a Ghana Airways
flight.

It was then, Mr. Mkhizi said, that he decided to fight back. "I was screaming
and sobbing until the captain of the flight ordered me off the plane," he said.

He was returned to his cell in Elizabeth, where, I.N.S. officials said, he was
given a "reinterview" by an I.N.S. asylum officer. This time an interpreter was
present, and the officer ruled that Mr. Mkhizi did have a "credible fear" of
persecution. That allowed him to apply for asylum.

Mr. Mkhizi sent letters, written on his behalf by other detainees, to the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and advocacy groups until he found
lawyers willing to take his case without charge. He twice went on hunger
strikes, one of which included about half of about 300 detainees at the
Elizabeth Detention Center; filed legal complaints about mistreatment; and, Mr.
Gill said, developed a reputation among I.N.S. officials as a "behavioral
problem." I.N.S. records from that period state that Mr. Mkhizi fought with
another detainee during a soccer game.

"On more than one occasion, he refused to maintain the good behavior and
standards the other detainees maintained," Mr. Gill said, so he was placed in
solitary confinement. "But based on this persistent behavior he was eventually
sent to Sussex Country Jail for detention."

There, Mr. Mkhizi was held for a year with convicted felons. According to jail
records, he was again placed in solitary, this time after guards seized
"contraband items," which they described as "a several-day-old bagel," a
two-inch paper clip, wallet-size photos and a roll of tape.

Meanwhile, Mr. Mkhizi's fight to stay in the United States continued with the
help of pro bono lawyers from the Manhattan firm of Kramer, Levin, Naftalis &
Frankel.

The immigration judge who had first ordered him deported, Esmeralda Cabrera,
challenged the "reinterview" he was granted after refusing to get on the plane
to Ghana, but after a year, the I.N.S. Board of Immigration Appeals ruled in Mr.
Mkhizi's favor and the case went back to Judge Cabrera.

Hearings in the case took place intermittently throughout 1998 and 1999, though
many were postponed when interpreters failed to appear or lacked sufficient
grasp of Mr. Mkhizi's Swahili dialect.

In the summer of 1998, Mr. Mkhizi, growing impatient with the delays, said he
participated in a hunger strike with about 150 detainees in the Elizabeth
center. The strikers demanded that the price of phone calls be reduced, that
paroles be granted, that detainees be given more food and that long legal delays
be reduced.

"I was told to start eating or I would be deported," Mr. Mkhizi said.  "I had to
eat in front of the warden.  We were promised changes, but the only change was
in our 60-minute phone cards that cost us $25. After that, we could buy
30-minute phone cards for $12.50."

But Mr. Gill said that at this point, I.N.S. officials believed that Mr.
Mkhizi's "disciplinary issues escalated into security issues." By December 1998,
he and five other men were moved to an isolation dormitory for four months.

Judge Cabrera rejected his asylum request in January 1999 and ordered him
deported. Again, his lawyers appealed.

In early fall 1999, Mr. Mkhizi was transferred to the Sussex County Jail in
Newton. Mr. Gill said the move took place because of Mr. Mkhizi's persistent
refusal to follow the rules at the Elizabeth center. But a senior lawyer at the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, Elizabeth Acer, said he was moved because he
had spoken to reporters from The Record of Hackensack about the death,
apparently by suicide, of an Albanian detainee at the center.

"The claim that Patrick was moved for disciplinary reasons sounds a lot like an
after-the-fact excuse," Ms. Acer said. "The timing of the transfer -- one day
after Patrick was quoted in an article in The Record -- speaks for itself."

Last January, Judge Cabrera denied his request to remain in the United States
based on his torture, and his lawyers responded with their customary appeal. It
was not until Thursday that Mr. Mkhizi, who was transferred a few weeks ago to
York, heard that the I.N.S. appeals board had overturned Judge Cabrera's ruling.
He and his lawyers say they are waiting to see the board's ruling to know the
legal basis for his release.

The first thing Mr. Mkhizi did after walking away from the Elizabeth center was
call Charles Mulligan, a 60-year-old former Catholic priest who with his wife,
Geri, had visited him in detention as part of a program run by the Jesuit
Refugee Service. Mrs. Mulligan said that when she picked Mr. Mkhizi up and drove
him to the couple's home in Paterson, he offered to plant vegetables in their
backyard. Then he took "a very long shower," went out for a haircut and surveyed
the Manhattan skyline, she said. This morning, he applied to the I.N.S. for a
work permit, a process that takes an average of three months. He will live with
the Mulligans until he can get a job.

"I want to have my picture taken in front of the Statue of Liberty," he said,
"and I want to go to the zoo and see elephants and monkeys, if you have monkeys
here."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 2000, Friday

CORRECTION:

An article on Nov. 6 about an immigrant from Zaire who won an appeal for asylum
after years in detention, referred imprecisely to the Board of Immigration
Appeals, which granted it. The board is part of the Executive Office for
Immigration Review, not part of the Immigration and Naturalization Service; both
agencies are units of the Justice Department.




GRAPHIC: Photos: After being released from I.N.S. detention, Patrick Mkhizi of
Congo said, "I want to have my picture taken in front of the Statue of Liberty."
(Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Patrick Mkhizi, released last week
after being detained for more than three years by the I.N.S., compiled his first
wardrobe as he sorted through donated clothing at the Jesuit Refugee Service in
Newark. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Working, But Not 'Employed'

BYLINE:  By Robert B. Reich;  Robert B. Reich, former secretary of labor, is the
author of "The Future of Success."

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 922 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.


Linda Chavez, George W. Bush's pick for labor secretary, is facing a blizzard of
questions concerning Marta Mercado, a Guatemalan woman who, as an undocumented
alien, lived in Ms. Chavez's home during the early 1990's and did some work for
the family. Ms. Chavez didn't pay Social Security taxes on Ms. Mercado's labors.

Have we been here before?

No, says Ms. Chavez. She never actually employed Ms. Mercado. The entire
transaction between them amounted to nothing more than the woman's doing a few
chores around the house and getting in return some "spending money" -- no more
than a couple of thousand dollars. A spokesman for Ms. Chavez said it was just a
matter of helping someone "down on her luck." Ms. Chavez remembers the situation
as lasting about a year.

The distinction Ms. Chavez appears to be making turns on a definition -- as do
so many other pertinent legal distinctions these days. Is someone who receives
free rent and a few thousand dollars for doing chores around your home an
"employee" under the labor laws -- entitling that person not only to Social
Security but also to a minimum wage, time-and-a-half for putting in more than 40
hours a week and a reasonably safe workplace, among other things?

It's not a simple matter. These days, who works for whom is one of the most
complicated questions in the emerging economy. Tens of millions of temporary
workers, part-timers, freelancers, e-lancers, independent contractors and free
agents -- already estimated to constitute one-tenth to one-third of America's
civilian labor force -- are not technically "employees," under many labor laws
that impose legal obligations on employers.

Most labor laws were enacted at a time when "employees" and "employers" were
easily recognizable. Organizations were shaped like pyramids with a few
executives at the top, a wider layer of middle-level managers and staff and a
large number of workers at the bottom. You were either an employee or you
weren't. And if you were, you were either a manager or an hourly worker.

Now, bureaucratic structures and definitions no longer apply to large numbers of
workers. Broad constellations of designers, suppliers, marketers, financial
specialists, contractors and shippers function as employees in a single
enterprise at one point, only to split off separately afterwards to join new
constellations of employees. Giant companies can operate from single floors
leased in office buildings and contract out for everything they do.

In a few years, a company may be best defined by who has access to what data and
who gets what portion of a particular stream of revenues, over what period of
time. There may be no "employees" at all, strictly speaking.

Meanwhile, overworked two-earner couples are madly subcontracting to other
people much of what families used to do for themselves. Here too, it's getting
harder to discern traditional employer-employee relationships because the people
who are hired also tend to work for many others.

Some take care of children, others come into the home to cook, clean or even
assemble bookshelves and entertainment centers. Increasing numbers of people
provide coaching, counseling, and personal training. The do-it-yourself trend of
the 1950's has been all but replaced by the hire-someone-to-do-it trend of the
2000's -- although the hired person may not be an employee.

Courts are brimming with lawsuits over who works for whom, and who's entitled to
legal protections as a result. Microsoft just settled a big case with a large
fleet of temps who claimed they were, in fact, regular Microsoft employees. But
it's also occurring on a smaller scale, as people who have provided specific
services turn around and sue their putative employers for the back pay or health
care they say they are due or for injuries they claim occurred because of
employer negligence.

The law is muddled because the economic ground is shifting so fast. These days,
someone who hires someone else to do a job has been interpreted by some courts
to be an "employer" if he or she owns the equipment used on the job and the
place where the work is done and provides a significant portion of the hired
person's income (including an in-kind benefit like a place to sleep). But these
criteria aren't definitive, nor are they the only ones the courts are using.

Did Linda Chavez "employ" her Guatemalan guest? I don't know.

This is precisely the problem. The labor laws that were enacted many decades ago
when the economy was different are in the process of being adapted to a new
economy -- not only through new laws but, far more frequently, through rules,
advisory opinions and administrative orders issued by the Labor Department, as
well as through the informal pronouncements of the secretary.

A secretary of labor has to make a lot of decisions about what policies to
advance, which cases to bring, and whom to protect. But the bottom line is that
the labor secretary has to look out for the rights of people who are working --
regardless of technical definitions or of which way the labor markets are
moving. And that may mean erring on the side of declaring people "employees" so
that they can get the protection they need.

Linda Chavez might have a defensible legal claim that she did not employ Ms.
Mercado. But the disconcerting reality is that Ms. Chavez is the one who has
been nominated to enforce and interpret workplace laws in the future. If she
doesn't believe that the person working for her was an employee, how vigorously
will she protect employees in general?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Katherine Streeter)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 3, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Salvadorans Illegally in U.S. Are Given Protected Status

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2


President Bush agreed today to allow as many as 150,000 Salvadorans to remain in
the United States for up to 18 months to help El Salvador recover from a series
of devastating earthquakes earlier this year. Most of the Salvadorans are in
this country without legal visas or work permits.

President Francisco Flores of El Salvador had requested that the administration
grant "temporary protected status" to thousands of his countrymen living
illegally here, saying that money they earn in the United States and send to
relatives back home would be as valuable to rebuilding efforts as increased
American aid.

In a meeting with Mr. Flores at the White House today, Mr. Bush granted the
request.

"This will allow them to continue to work here and to remit some of their wages
back home to support El Salvador's recovery efforts," Mr. Bush said after the
meeting.

Mr. Bush also pledged a two-year package of reconstruction aid, $52 million this
fiscal year plus the same or more next year, quieting critics who had complained
that Washington had so far provided only $16 million in relief, about half of
what Spain has given.

"This is immensely important for us because it will allow Salvadoran families
here in the United States to send their help to Salvadoran families in the
devastated areas in our country," Mr. Flores told reporters outside the White
House.

Temporary protected status would shield undocumented Salvadorans from being
detained or deported for the next 18 months. It also would allow them to work
legally. The 1.8 million Salvadorans living in this country send home more than
$1.5 billion a year.

Today's action broadens a decision earlier this year by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to halt the deportation of 1,100 Salvadorans here since
the first quake, Jan. 13.

Two major earthquakes have caused nearly $3 billion in damage, an amount that is
growing as aftershocks continue. The quakes have left about one in four
Salvadorans homeless, Mr. Flores said.

Immigrant rights groups hailed Mr. Bush's decision as a compassionate
humanitarian gesture. And in the wake of his visit to Mexico last month, those
groups pronounced today's action a signal that Mr. Bush was making good on the
pro-immigrant stands he articulated in his presidential campaign.

"This is really the first opportunity the president has had to demonstrate that
he was serious when he talked in Latino communities in the campaign about
treating immigrants from other countries fairly and respectfully," said Cecilia
Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, an immigrant
rights organization.

Mr. Flores echoed the sentiments, saying today's agreements underscored Mr.
Bush's commitment to a closer relationship between the United States and Latin
America.

"He has given us concrete evidence that he is not only putting out his words,
but his will, so that this will be a reality," Mr. Flores said.

Salvadorans are eligible to register for the program announced today if they
have been in the United States since Feb. 13, the date of this year's second
major earthquake, which killed nearly 300 people.

Applicants are required to provide their names and addresses, be fingerprinted
and pay a $50 fee. To apply for work authorization and receive a legal Social
Security card costs an additional $100.

Congress voted to create the temporary-protected status program in 1990, largely
to grant temporary refuge to 200,000 Salvadorans who fled their country's civil
war. Mr. Bush's father, President George Bush, extended their status in 1992.
President Bill Clinton renewed the program a year later, but the temporary
status expired in December 1994.

In addition to El Salvador, residents from nine other countries are allowed to
stay in this country because of dangers in their homelands from conflict or
environmental disaster: Angola, Burundi, Honduras, Liberia, Montserrat,
Nicaragua, Sierra Leone, Somalia and Sudan.

Salvadoran immigrants from Los Angeles to Washington praised the
administration's decision.

Cristino Diaz, 39, a chef at a downtown Washington cafe who lives with his wife
and 16-year-old son in Silver Spring, Md., said he and his family sent about
$1,500 a month to cousins, aunts and uncles and other family members in El
Salvador.

Mr. Diaz said he talked regularly to his family there, who relate tales of
misery.

"There is no food," he said. "There is no work. The people are afraid to buy
anything because they fear they could lose it in another disaster."

"The only source of income is the dollars" sent home by Salvadorans living in
the United States, Mr. Diaz said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Channel Tunnel's Risks Defied For a Dream of Life in Britain

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

DATELINE: SANGATTE, France, March 8


In four languages, the signs on the walls in the Red Cross shelter warn of the
hazards of trying to sneak into England through the Channel Tunnel:
electrocution risk, squashing risk, very high-speed train, mortal danger.

But even the people who have posted the lists don't expect them to do much good.

The hundreds of illegal immigrants housed in the shelter, a cavernous,
hangar-like former factory in the middle of potato fields have a common goal:
getting through the tunnel that is just down the road from here. Some are
seeking asylum but many just hope to find work once in Britain, while others
will use it as a stopping point until they can reach the United States or
Canada.

Night after night they try. One young Afghan says he has tried 41 times in the
past two and a half months. He might try again tonight, he says, his eagerness
clear. "The smugglers will tell us this afternoon whether we go again tonight."

In the last year, tunnel authorities have spent millions trying to stem a
clandestine flow of immigrants who have managed to enter Europe and are now
trying to stowaway on the vehicles that are boarded on trains going through the
tunnel. The 22-acre complex of concrete lanes and train tracks that converge at
the mouth of the tunnel has become a fortress with barbed wire, electric
fencing, floodlights, infrared sensors and police officers patrolling with dogs.

But still the immigrants try, made more reckless and inventive by the new
barriers.

Nowadays they jump onto the tops of moving trucks from bridges. They hang around
gas stations hoping to hide in vehicles heading for the tunnel. Some jump in
front of freight trains, to slow them down so that others will be able to climb
aboard.

Just last week, nine Romanian immigrants including a 3-year-old girl, were found
hidden in the undercarriage of a high-speed passenger train that had arrived in
London. In near freezing temperatures, they had been traveling at speeds of 180
miles an hour. Passengers heard them banging for help.

For many, these risks are worth taking because tens of thousands are believed to
have made it through the tunnel, while only one death has been reported. Earlier
this month, an Iraqi man was found dead after he apparently got caught between a
platform and the undercarriage of a train.

In the last few months, security officials have found 150 to 200 illegal
immigrants a night trying to get across. "You can see the whole thing start
around 8 or 9 p.m.," said Francois Borel, the director of communications for
Eurotunnel, a privately financed British-French group that operates the tunnel.

"They start coming out of the Red Cross shelter in groups of 20 or 30 making
their way over here," Mr. Borel said, "ready to take their chances. It is taking
more and more of our resources and, of course, it is extremely dangerous for
them."

Some local officials have called for the dismantling of the Red Cross shelter
that opened just 18 months ago because they think it draws the illegal
immigrants and provides them a base from which to make repeated efforts to enter
the tunnel. But others say that the immigrants were squatting all over town,
long before the shelter opened. Red Cross officials point out that their role is
to provide aid to those in need -- not to police the comings and goings of the
immigrants or their activities.

The immigrants' numbers began to mount when war broke out in Kosovo, but other
conflicts have fueled the flow. The shelter has also housed Russians, Ukrainians
and Czechs. These days, most immigrants in the shelter are Kurds, Iranians and
Afghans.

Some have paid $25,000 to $40,000 to get this far, and will pay smugglers
another $300 to $500 to get across the English Channel, if they have it.

Those who do not pay often face the wrath of gangs that control this market.
Shelter officials said that a recent group of Afghans who tried to enter the
tunnel complex on their own were turned away at knife point by smugglers.
Fifteen people were injured in a melee at the shelter last week when one agent
for the gangs tried to extort a fee from a young Afghan who refused to pay.

But many of the immigrants are well educated and have been doctors, engineers or
are relatives of successful businessmen in their own countries. They simply pay
the fees, putting themselves in the hands of the smugglers.

The young Afghan, who in khaki pants and a Polartech sweater could pass for a
university student anywhere in the world, says he has been told to jump off
bridges and has done so. He has also tried to sneak into the backs of trucks.
For all of his efforts, he said, he has been beaten up by the police, beaten up
by a truck driver and once, he badly gashed his hand on barbed wire.

"I will keep trying because I have no way back," he said. "I have to keep
trying."

The young man said he hopes to be able to study in England, though he has
nothing particular in mind. He and a dozen other young Afghans share one of the
prefabricated cabins the Red Cross has set up inside the building, once a
staging area while the tunnel was being built. They all talk of avoiding the
military service in their homeland, which has grown from two years to five.
"Either you fight or you are killed," he said. "conditions are very bad."

Like the others he bunks with, he has only two sets of clothes. He wears both
when he goes to the tunnel. But their cabin is spotless and everyone appears
upbeat. This is not true in all the cabins. Some reek of stale sweat and
despair.

The lives and movement of these immigrants from one European country to another
is a touchy subject among the 15 members of the European Union.

Several times, Britain has made its displeasure known with France's willingness
to let illegal immigrants move around the country unsupervised. When a boatload
of 900 Kurds arrived in Frejus last month, France was heavily criticized for
giving the new arrivals eight passes that allowed them to travel where they
wanted.

Britain quickly told France to deal with the Kurds themselves, saying they would
be deported to France if found in England.

France responded that the Kurds would be invited to apply for asylum in France.
But eight days later, more than 200 were missing. Germany caught more than two
dozen of them trying to get across the border and quickly returned them to
France. Swiss border police turned back another nine. No one knows if any passed
through Sangatte, but it is clearly possible.

Britain is now the most popular destination for immigrants in Europe. In 2000,
the country received the largest number of asylum applications, 97,900 or 22
percent of the total number of applications lodged in Europe. Germany was second
with 78,800 or 17 percent.

Experts say immigrants are drawn to Britain for many reasons, including cultural
and historical ties. In addition, most are aware that Britain is the only
country in the European Union that does not demand that its citizens carry
identification papers at all times, making it that much easier to move around
and work illegally.

But many note as well that the immigrants often get poor information about where
they are going. At the shelter in Sangatte, several immigrants said they were
choosing England because they would get free housing and an allowance when they
arrived, which is far from true.

"There is what we call the CNN factor at work," said Jean Pierre Garson, an
immigration expert with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. " And you have the fact that a lot of people are selling them
dreams, they are just victims of false dreams."

On a chilly, rainy day there is little to do at the shelter, where noise echoes
harshly on the concrete floor. Mothers bathe their children in the sinks as men
shave nearby. But the most activity is around the pay phones, just outside the
front door. Everyone waits for word from the smugglers.

Since the shelter opened, more than 26,000 men, women and children have passed
through the Red Cross shelter.

Michael Derr, the director, says he has no doubt that almost all of them are in
Britain now, with most having passed through the tunnel while some used boats or
ferries to cross. A family of four was not back in the cabin they had occupied.
"It could be that they made it," said another of the shelter's residents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cots piled with belongings at a shelter in Sangatte, France. The
number of immigrants headed for Britain began to grow with the war in Kosovo;
these days most shelter residents are Kurds, Iranians and Afghans. (Fabien
Calcavecchia for The New York Times)(pg. A12) Map of France highlighting
Sangatte: In a Red Cross shelter in Sangatte, immigrants wait for their chance.
(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Stowaways Are Feared Trapped in Container

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: UNALASKA, Alaska, Sept. 6


A cargo ship bound for California has altered course for an emergency stop in
Alaska because crew members heard a pounding noise from a deeply buried
container, raising fears that stowaways were trapped inside.

The ship, the Manoa, en route from Asia, was making for Dutch Harbor, said Gene
Mackarin, manager of the American President Lines terminal at Dutch Harbor.

The container, which was loaded in China, cannot be opened aboard the ship
because the space between the containers is too narrow.

The crew punched an air hole into the container and was trying to pump in air
and provide food and water, but had heard since the first tapping.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 20, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Migrants Bound for U.S. Found in Box at Hong Kong Port

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 19


Hong Kong customs agents discovered 26 illegal Chinese migrants today, hidden in
a shipping container bound for Long Beach, Calif., after they detected carbon
dioxide gas emanating from the container.

The container, which was scheduled to be shipped on Friday, had been outfitted
for a long voyage with food, drinks, blankets, clothes and a simple ventilation
system. All 26 occupants, who Hong Kong officials believe are from China's
Fujian Province, were healthy.

The would-be stowaways are part of a huge wave of illegal Chinese migration to
the West, particularly the United States, which both the Chinese and the United
States governments have loudly condemned, but which has proved difficult to
stop. Most of the migrants are from several counties in Fujian Province that
have a long tradition of migration and have already sent tens of thousands of
people to the West.

The illegal migrants, who generally end up as low-wage laborers in their new
country, pay smugglers $30,000 to $60,000 for the passage. They are often
provided with false travel documents as well. Hong Kong is a frequent early
transit point on these long, sometimes circuitous journeys.

The use of hand-held monitors to detect the presence of carbon dioxide, a
byproduct of human respiration, is part of Hong Kong's effort to stem the trade.

The perils of these passages were underscored last May, when British authorities
in Dover discovered 58 Chinese, all dead from suffocation, in the back of a
truck supposedly carrying tomatoes.

But experts say that a miserable passage by sea or via the overland route
probably represents only the low-end of this profitable trade, reserved for
poorer farmers who can not raise enough money for the air route. Far more common
for migrants from better-off families, they say, is to first fly to Hong Kong or
Bangkok, where the migrants pick up false travel documents -- often a forged
passport from a third country or a faked business visa -- which they then use
for travel to the United States.

Some of these people are intercepted by immigration officials at American
airports, but others make it successfully into the United States, where they are
often taken in by the friends and relatives from Fujian who came before them.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Hearing Custody Fight Would Keep Thai Boy in U.S.

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 598 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 4


A federal judge said today that a 3-year-old Thai boy detained last year while
being used as a decoy in an immigrant trafficking scheme should remain in the
United States.

"This child should not be returned to Thailand," the judge, Dickran Tevrizian of
Federal District Court, said. "He has been used, abused and bruised in
Thailand."

Judge Tevrizian's comments came in a hearing on the status of the case at which
a lawyer representing the paternal grandparents outlined steps taken so the boy,
Phanupong Khaisri, could be placed in their custody and returned to Thailand. In
recent months, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials denied the boy's
asylum application, and the grandparents presented documents to show they had
legally adopted him in Thailand.

Advocates for keeping the boy in the United States say that sending him back
would be tantamount to signing his death warrant. Phanupong, who was critically
ill when he arrived in the United States and was found to be infected with
H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, has been nursed back to health by his
court-appointed custodian from the Thai Community Development Center here.
Still, he requires a battery of medications twice daily to fight the virus, and
advocates argue that such medical treatment in Thailand would be inferior or
nonexistent.

In addition, Peter A. Schey, the boy's lawyer, has questioned the suitability of
the paternal grandparents, particularly the grandmother, Sumalee Khaisri, who
served 12 years in prison in Thailand for heroin trafficking before being
released in 1995. Phanupong's father, who was also infected with H.I.V.,
committed suicide shortly after the boy's birth.

Although Judge Tevrizian simply continued the status quo, refusing to lift an
injunction barring the boy's return, he said the grandparents' history warranted
keeping Phanupong in the United States.

The judge also chastised the immigration service for failing to hear Phanupong's
asylum application before a judge.

Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the United States attorney's office in Los Angeles
that is representing the immigration service, said the case could not go before
a immigration judge because no formal removal proceedings had been issued, which
is a requirement for an asylum hearing before a judge.

Mr. Mrozek said the case could not advance to that point because Judge Tevrizian
ordered that the boy not be removed from the United States.

Almost since the boy's arrival, the immigration service and Thai officials have
been seeking to have him returned to Thailand. Initially, Phanupong was to be
returned to his mother, a prostitute infected with H.I.V. and the person who
rented him to the traffickers. Phanupong, who was 2 at the time, came to the
United States with a trafficker who was helping a Chinese woman enter the
country illegally. They posed as a couple on vacation and pretended the boy was
their son.

As a court battle ensued, Judge Tevrizian appointed two officials from the
center as the boy's custodians.

Dorothea P. Kraeger, an Arizona immigration lawyer, defended the grandparents
today, saying they had been in the United States for much of the past year,
returning to Thailand only for a short time to complete the adoption.

In response to Mr. Schey's evidence indicating that convicted criminals were not
eligible to adopt children in Thailand, Ms. Kraeger said the grandmother had
been pardoned for her crime and her record cleared.

Ms. Kraeger said she was reviewing the case before moving to have Judge
Tevrizian's order requiring Phanupong to remain in the United States lifted.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ashcroft Wants Thai Boy Used by Smugglers to Stay in U.S.

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 23


Attorney General John Ashcroft granted "humanitarian parole" today to a Thai boy
infected with H.I.V. who was used as a decoy in a human trafficking scheme,
saying the United States should not deport him.

That status will allow the boy, Phanupong Khaisri, who is 4 and known as Got, to
stay in the United States until his local guardians can apply for the new
T-visa, which was authorized by the Victims of Trafficking and Violence
Protection Act of 2000. The regulations for the visa have not even been released
yet, but Mr. Ashcroft has instructed the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to accept and process the boy's T-visa application.

"Stories like Got's can't help but move us," Mr. Ashcroft said at a news
conference at the federal courthouse in downtown Los Angeles. "They appeal not
just to our principles as a nation but to our compassion as a people. Like so
many victims of human trafficking, Got is a confused and isolated figure adrift
in a complex legal system."

The child arrived from Thailand at Los Angeles International Airport on April
20, 2000, as a "prop" in an international human trafficking scheme, Mr. Ashcroft
said. Inspectors discovered that the couple he was traveling with were not his
parents, but smugglers. The couple posed as a vacationing family in an effort to
bring the woman into the United States to work as a prostitute. Mr. Ashcroft
said the boy's mother, a convicted prostitute, "rented" the boy to the couple
for the trip.

But when Got entered the United States, he became ill from an ear infection and
chicken pox. Tests showed that he was H.I.V. positive.

The boy's father committed suicide shortly after he was born. His paternal
grandparents are seeking his return to Thailand.

Piyawat Niyomrerks, the Los Angeles consul general for Thailand, said his
government wanted Mr. Ashcroft to hear from the grandparents about the type of
life they can provide.

"We're quite surprised and saddened by his statement," Mr. Niyomrerks said. "The
child is not helpless. He has blood relatives to take care of him."

Dorothea P. Kraeger, the lawyer for the grandparents, said they would fight the
T-visa. She said Mr. Ashcroft's order did not change the boy's status because a
federal judge had already ruled that he should remain in the United States.

While Mr. Ashcroft's decision is a setback for the grandparents, "the decision
today is not an end to the case," Ms. Kraeger said. "It has done nothing more
than keep the judge's order in place."

Ms. Kraeger called the label humanitarian parole a "fiction."

"It allows someone to be here with no immigration status," she said.

The lawyer said her clients, who are residing in Los Angeles until the case is
decided, live an upper-middle-class life in Thailand.

Chanchanit Martorell, the boy's co-guardian, said she was "overjoyed" that Mr.
Ashcroft stepped in.

"Mr. Ashcroft spared his life," said Ms. Martorell, the executive director of
the Thai Community Development Center, which has acted as an advocate for Got.
"It is really what Got has always deserved, the chance for a better life." The
boy is staying with a Los Angeles couple who want to adopt him, she said.

Members of the Los Angeles Thai community fear that if the boy is returned to
Thailand he may be used by traffickers again. They note that his paternal
grandmother was once convicted of heroin trafficking.

Ms. Kraeger acknowledged that the grandmother, Sumalee Khaisri, pleaded guilty
to heroin trafficking in the 1970's and served 12 years in prison. She received
a royal pardon and was released early. "She did serve her time and she did raise
three other children successfully," Ms. Kraeger said.

Ms. Martorell said she hoped a compromise could be reached with the grandparents
to allow visitation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phanupong Khaisri, 4, brought into the United States from
Thailand last year, was held yesterday by Janet Herold, who wants to adopt him.
(Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Smuggling Ship to Become a Reef Off Florida

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 676 words


The Golden Venture disgorged its human cargo -- 286 desperate Chinese immigrants
who had endured 100 harrowing days at sea -- into the cold and pounding surf off
Queens at 2 a.m. on June 6, 1993. Ten died before reaching shore, others endured
years in detention and the name of the freighter became synonymous with the
willingness to profit from human aspiration and desperation.

Now, on Tuesday, the ship -- since rechristened the United Caribbean -- will
return to the sea for good. Cleaned and stripped, it will be towed about a mile
off the coast of Boca Raton, Fla., and sunk in about 70 feet of water to create
an artificial reef.

The total cost for Palm Beach County to turn the aging freighter into a home for
marine life is $60,000, according to Janet Phipps, an environmental analyst for
the county who is overseeing the reef's creation. That is twice the amount that
each immigrant was supposed to pay for passage to the United States.

The ship, which has been sitting unused on the Miami River, was bought from a
company called Export Terminal. Its owner, Juan Lopez, did not return phone
calls seeking comment, but he told The Associated Press he had inherited the
ship as a custodian for a court case involving previous owners. The ship was
sold by the United States Marshals Service, which seized it after it ran aground
off the Rockaway Peninsula.

Ms. Phipps, who said she did not know the ship's history until recently, added
that the reef would be a living memorial of sorts that is fitting in a state
where desperate Caribbean refugees regularly wash ashore.

Viewing the 147-foot-long ship on Thursday, she said: "You sit there and look at
it and you just can't fathom that 300 people were crammed down there. It does
kind of give you the chills. The desperation of people who would go to those
extremes -- it's hard to imagine as a person who's grown up in this country."

The Chinese aboard the Golden Venture endured an ordeal that began to seem
almost absurdly cruel. After nearly four months in suffocating squalor, with
minimal food and water, they were ordered to swim ashore when the ship grounded.
Then they were rounded up and detained, in some cases for more than three years.
At least 170 were repatriated to China.

More than 20 people were ultimately convicted for their role in the lucrative
smuggling operation.

Jeffrey Lobach, a lawyer in York, Pa., where many of the immigrants were
detained for three and a half years, said those who were not repatriated have
adjusted well to American life.

The man he represented, and whom he now considers a son, has settled nearby, is
working at two jobs, married his girlfriend in China and is now trying to bring
her to the United States. Many of the others moved to New York, Washington or
the West Coast, Mr. Lobach said, often working at more than one job to survive.

"I don't think any of them would care to preserve the Golden Venture," he said.
"Their 100 days on there were something a lot of them still have nightmares
about."

Still, Mr. Lobach said, there were good things that came from the Golden
Venture's misadventure. An odd assortment of citizens in the York area were
drawn into action by the prisoners in their midst, demonstrating for their
freedom outside the York County Prison for 186 straight Sundays.

Because the federal government has detained an increasing number of asylum
seekers at the York prison in recent years, the Golden Venture coalition
established both the Pennsylvania Immigration Resource Center, which gives free
legal advice to asylum seekers, and an international friendship house for
detainees released from the jail. The house has already given refuge to
Iranians, Iraqis, Bosnians, Liberians and others, Mr. Lobach said.

Other good things will come as well, said Ms. Phipps, the Palm Beach biologist.
Within a few years, she said, the ship will be surrounded by radiant tropical
fish and coated with colorful sponges and coral.

"A ship that had an ugly past will become something beautiful," she said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

I.L.O. Sees Rise In Forced Labor And Slavery

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 342 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, May 28


Forced labor, slavery and criminal trafficking in people are increasing
globally, with women and children most at risk, the International Labor
Organization says.

Increased efforts are needed to "stamp out the scourge of forced labor once and
for all," the labor agency said in a report that examined the issue, which is
set for debate by its 175 member nations at an annual meeting next month.

Although the report, "Stopping Forced Labor," did not quantify the problem, it
said compelled work -- slavery, debt bondage or bonded labor -- was found
worldwide. "The emerging picture is one where slavery, oppression and
exploitation of society's most vulnerable members, especially women and
children, have by no means been consigned to the past," said Juan Somavia, the
agency's director general.

By far the fastest growing form of forced labor is trafficking in people, which
is so pervasive that most nations are either sending, transit or receiving
countries, the report said. The workers are sent to richer countries, with the
United States believed to be the destination for 50,000 such women and children
every year. Most are destined for the sex trade or domestic work. Many from the
former Soviet Union end up in Western European sweatshops.

Yet traffickers, who are usually part of a criminal network, are rarely caught,
and penalties are lighter than for drug smuggling.

Traditional forms of forced labor, like slavery and bonded labor, also ensnare
vast numbers of people. In South and Central America, the Caribbean and South
Asia, millions of people "are tied to their work through a vicious circle of
debt," the report said.

Burma has been cited by the labor agency for compelling villagers to toil on
public works. The country has outlawed the practice, but human rights groups and
trade unions said this year that they had evidence that it was continuing.

The report also pointed to the use of prisoners by private companies. It said
about 30 American states had legalized the practice of contracting out prison
labor since 1990.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Approves a Big Increase In Visas for Specialized Workers

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3


Congress today passed a bill to increase significantly the number of visas for
educated foreigners who temporarily fill specialized American jobs, largely in
the high-technology industry. Rapid approval by President Clinton appears
virtually certain.

The bill advanced first today in the Senate, on a vote of 96 to 1 that followed
weeks of partisan feuding by lawmakers and months of aggressive lobbying by
high-tech companies, which say they need many thousands more computer
programmers and software engineers.

Tonight, just hours after it had passed the Senate, the measure was cleared as
well by the House, where Republicans set aside their differences on the issue.

That the legislation was passed by the House on a voice vote and was opposed by
only one senator -- Ernest F. Hollings, a South Carolina Democrat who is a
longtime job protectionist -- underscored the technology industry's formidable
influence on Capitol Hill. It was just two years ago that the industry first won
an increase in the number of these visas for specialized workers, called H-1B
visas.

Under the bill, the Immigration and Naturalization Service would be able to
issue 195,000 H-1B visas a year, for each of the next three years, to
foreign-born workers with college degrees and special skills, up from the
existing limit of 115,000. Each visa is good for six years, although it must be
renewed after the first three.

"The one thing on which I think almost everyone is in agreement is that we face
a serious worker shortage with respect to high-tech employment and skilled labor
in America today," said Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who
co-sponsored the legislation. "The short-term problem is how to fill the key
positions immediately so that we don't lose opportunities to foreign
competitors. The long-term problem is to determine what we can do to make
certain that in the future we have sufficient trained Americans to fill those
jobs."

The legislation includes several provisions intended to allay the concerns of
organized labor, which has routinely opposed H-1B visas, arguing that they
displace American workers and depress pay. Under one provision, for example, an
employer that sponsors a foreigner who obtains such a visa must pay that worker
the job's prevailing salary.

The measure also continues a program to train American workers for high-tech
jobs and teach children information technology skills. The program is financed
by a $500 fee paid by the sponsoring employer for each visa application, a sum
that might be increased to $1,000 in coming weeks under separate legislation.

But the bill's immediate goal is to help high-tech companies recruit employees.

"There are 300,000 jobs that have yet to be filled," said Representative David
Dreier, a California Republican who had sponsored a bill similar to the one
passed today. "The industry very much wants to make sure that we remain
competitive globally. We either import workers or export jobs and industries."

President Clinton has said he supports increasing the number of H-1B visas, and
in May proposed raising the annual limit to 200,000. And Congressional Democrats
roundly endorsed the legislation today, although in the Senate they had held it
up for several weeks as they tried, unsuccessfully, to attach other immigration
provisions.

"I thought we would work together to restore some of America's lost luster on
immigration issues, and this did not happen," said Senator Patrick J. Leahy of
Vermont, who has sought to legalize the immigration status of some Haitians,
Central Americans and others who have lived in the United States a long time
illegally.

Each of the two major political parties has tirelessly courted high-tech
companies in recent years, hoping to sway the wealthy industry its way. For its
part, the industry has found benefit in playing the political game, and begun
hiring well-connected lobbyists and stepping up its campaign contributions.
According to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics here, the
computer industry has made political contributions of more than $22 million
since the beginning of 1999, nearly three times the contributions it made in
1995-96, during the last presidential election cycle.

While the bill that Congress passed today was intended to beef up the high-tech
labor pool, other foreign workers who receive the special visas include
architects, engineers, university professors and even distinguished fashion
models.

The United States is not the only country that has tried such an approach.
Germany adopted a similar measure earlier this year, allowing up to 20,000
computer specialists from non-European countries to apply for visas to bolster
the German information technology industry.

But the American program is far larger: in 1998, Congress increased the annual
limit on the special visas to 115,000 from 65,000.

Still, that number has been quickly exhausted each year. In 2000, the
immigration service, having reached the limit, stopped taking applications in
March, fully six months before the end of the fiscal year.

Nearly 50 percent of the visas go to workers from India, which churns out large
numbers of high-technology specialists. The second-highest number go to people
born in China. In most cases, the workers are already in the United States,
pursuing advanced degrees at American universities.

"The companies frequently use these people for computer programming jobs and
creating new software that can be used in a global environment," said Harris
Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America, an
industry group. "When they develop these products, they have to be adapted not
just for the U.S. marketplace, but for Asia, Europe and Africa." The foreign
workers "know the language, the skills, the marketing that needs to be done to
customize that product."

The bill, Mr. Miller said, was "a political compromise," inasmuch as the
industry would like to lift the limit on H-1B visas altogether.

"Is 195,000 going to be enough?" Mr. Miller said. "I don't know. But 115,000
wasn't nearly enough. The new economy is simply growing much faster than anybody
ever projected."

Lately the program has come under criticism, with even some supporters admitting
mix-ups that leave foreign workers disappointed that the H-1B visas do not lead
to indefinite stays in the United States.

"The H-1B program is a temporary-workers program," Mr. Miller said. "The
employers make that very clear up front. Sometimes there is a disconnect.
Sometimes workers think it's an automatic step toward permanent immigrant
status."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Equity for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 138 words



To the Editor:

Re "Congress Approves a Big Increase in Visas for Foreign Workers" (front page,
Oct. 4):

The Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act should also have been passed. This bill is
critical to improving the precarious legal status of some one million
tax-paying, long-term United States residents. Many of these workers are Central
Americans and Haitians and the parents of children who are United States
citizens. But they do not have the lobbying power of the technology industry.

Passing this bill is a crucial step in correcting the discriminatory treatment
of immigrants created by the Illegal Immigration Reform and Responsibility Act
of 1996.

YANIRA CHACON-LOPEZ
New York, Oct. 4, 2000

The writer is Latino outreach coordinator, Intercommunity Center for Justice and
Peace, New York City.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrant Workers Sue Discount Store Chains Over Wages

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 813 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, Jan. 9


They were a different kind of migrant worker Mexican and Latin American
immigrants traveling from job to job around the New York region at
bargain-basement chain stores where everything cost a dollar or less. But the
working life, they say, was no bargain.

Eight of these men took their grievances to United States District Court in
Newark today, charging three New Jersey-based companies that operated the
discount stores with failing to pay them minimum wages and proper overtime, in
violation of federal and state labor laws.

Afterward, at a news conference here, one man, Fernando Islas, said he sometimes
worked 22-hour shifts at meager wages, with only two hours off to sleep.
Another, Daniel Cirio, said he was once forced to stay in a store for three days
straight, preparing for its grand opening. Although employers promised him and
other workers motel lodging and free meals, he said, they got one meal a day and
were locked in the store at night without bedding and with only newspapers and
their jackets to cover themselves.

Jennifer Ching, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, which filed the
lawsuit on behalf of the workers, said she believes hundreds of other workers in
the region are caught up in a similar plight.

"We hope other workers will hear our small voices and come forward," said Miguel
Gomez, one of the immigrants in the lawsuit.

Ms. Ching said each of the eight men had worked in 40 different discount stores
in the late 1990's in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut.  Each, she
contended, was entitled to several thousand dollars in back pay.

Sanford Browde, a lawyer for the three companies, declined today to discuss the
specific charges in the suit. "We will aggressively defend this suit, which we
believe was improvidently filed," Mr. Browde said.

The companies, which are all based in New Jersey, are: Universal Distribution
Center L.L.C. of North Bergen, Dollar Strength L.L.C. of Hackensack and Dollar
Star Inc. of Elizabeth.

According to the lawsuit, the New Jersey stores that underpaid workers include
Dollar Master of Orange; Dollar Creation, New Brunswick; Dollar Strength,
Hackensack; Dollar Class, Elizabeth; and 99-Cent Dreams and Dollar King, both of
Jersey City. In New York, the stores include Super $ Dream, Brooklyn; Dollar
Jet, the Bronx; Dollar Budget, Queens Village; Dollar Roof, Yonkers; and Dollar
Box, Hempstead.

Initially, the workers complained to the New Jersey Department of Labor. Last
March, after a seven-month investigation, the department cited the companies for
violations of state labor laws, including nonpayment of wages, said Kevin Smith,
a spokesman for the agency. Settlement talks recently broke down, he said, and
the companies are appealing the citations.

The A.C.L.U. pulled out of the state's effort to collect the back wages as a
prelude to taking the fight to federal court. Its lawsuit says that although the
eight immigrants had been promised hourly salaries from $5 to $9, they often
received less and were not given overtime pay as required by law.

Minimum wages at the time were $4.25 an hour in New York State and $5.05 in New
Jersey and Connecticut, Ms. Ching said.

Some of the eight, the suit said, worked 12 hours a day, seven days a week
between 1996 and 1999, and received $230 a week. Others worked 12 hours a day,
six days a week and received $180 a week.

Another advocate for the workers, Denis Johnston, director of the Immigrant
Rights Program of the American Friends Service Committee in Newark, said store
owners violate the law with impunity, in part because they believe immigrants
are reluctant to complain publicly for fear of being arrested and deported.

He and Ms. Ching would not discuss the eight workers' immigration status. Some
of them acknowledged, however, that they came to the United States without visas
and remain illegal aliens. Seven are from Mexico, and one is from Colombia. They
said they range in age from 20 to 31 and live in Jersey City, most with wives
and young children.

Typically, the suit said, the eight men prepared the stores for opening, though
some also stayed after the stores opened or worked in warehouses. Mr. Islas said
he was the first of the eight to work in the stores, beginning in 1996, and
eventually recruited the others. He said the companies owed him $15,000 in back
pay.

Ms. Ching said that under an internal policy called "operating instructions,"
the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service does not seek to deport
illegal immigrants involved in labor disputes.

A spokesman for the agency, Kerry Gill, said that policy generally deals with
immigrants in a strike or work slowdown. Illegal immigrants who are plaintiffs
in a civil lawsuit are generally not immune from deportation efforts, he said.

"Whether or not a civil lawsuit involving wages constitutes a labor dispute is
open to interpretation," Mr. Gill said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Plaintiffs in a lawsuit against three New Jersey-based discount
chains demonstrated with supporters in front of a 99 cents Dreams store in
Jersey City yesterday. The suit contends the workers were paid illegally low
wages. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 14, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

LONG ISLAND JOURNAL;
The 'Padrecito' Ministers to Diverse Flocks

BYLINE:  By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1985 words


NOTICING three day laborers walking along a Farmingville street lugging sacks of
laundry on their backs, the Rev. Allan Byron Ramirez stopped his silver BMW
325i.

"No work today?" the minister asked in Spanish. The men shook their heads. The
weather was cold and damp, and work was scarce.

Mr. Ramirez, 47, known to the immigrant workers as the "padrecito," popped open
his trunk, pulled out new winter jackets and slipper socks for each, and wished
them well.

Moments later, he knocked on the door of a ramshackle house occupied by 14
Mexican day laborers, including the father of one of the two workers beaten in a
much-publicized attack in Shirley on Sept. 17.

Finding four people at home, Mr. Ramirez presented them with jackets, socks and
blankets, promising to return the following week with thermal underwear. Last
year, Mr. Ramirez's congregation at the Brookville Reformed Church raised
$41,000 to buy clothing for immigrant workers.

From the street corners in Farmingville to the Shape Up Center in Glen Cove
where day laborers wait for jobs, in the dank basements and overcrowded
apartments where the workers live, Mr. Ramirez is an increasingly visible and
sometimes incongruous watchdog for the Island's Latino community.

Mr. Ramirez, who was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador, is the pastor of an all-white,
largely Republican congregation in one of the wealthiest enclaves on the North
Shore. William Waldorf, the church's financial secretary, described the
congregation as "beyond upper middle class in average economic status."

In this role as the church's leader, Mr. Ramirez leads a blue-blood life, with
all the trappings of privilege: fine clothes, a spacious new parsonage in Sea
Cliff, ski trips to Vermont, six-week jaunts to Europe each summer and
wintertime vacations in the Caribbean. His son, Kial, 14, and daughter, April,
16, attended the tony Friends Academy in Locust Valley before switching to
public schools four years ago.

"It is a white world that has come to respect me and recognize me for who I am
and the challenges I have brought before them," Mr. Ramirez said. "By raising
their consciousness, we are in a position to make a difference. I am awakening
their faith, the willingness to live out the demands of the Gospel that says you
must love your neighbor as yourself."

"How do we inspire people to lift themselves up to be better unless we show
them?" Mr. Ramirez added. "I can't ask congregants to go and serve breakfast
unless I do it. I can't ask my congregants to give out clothing unless I do it."

In the past he has butted heads with Mayor Thomas Suozzi of Glen Cove over the
need for a homeless shelter and what Mr. Ramirez says is the city's selective
building-code enforcement that disregards constitutional rights. "Over the
years, I have tried to simply respond to situations where it's obvious that
people are being either discriminated against or they are facing some kind of
persecution," he said as he showed a visitor a one-room Glen Cove apartment that
sleeps 15 immigrants.

Paul Tonna, the presiding officer of the Suffolk County Legislature, recently
asked Mr. Ramirez to serve on a panel to study the day laborer issue.

"He has allowed the Latino community to speak for themselves," Mr. Tonna said.
"This is not a guy trying to control the process but to provide leadership, not
by demonizing people but by lifting people up."

After handing out the jackets to the Mexican workers in Farmingville, Mr.
Ramirez dropped by to see Eduardo and Reyna Mendez Rojas and her mother, Reyna
Espinoza, in Selden. Since they bought the neat ranch house a year and a half
ago, they say they have been harassed by neighbors shouting racial epithets,
revving a motorcycle up and down their driveway and accusing them of harboring
illegal aliens in their basement. Things have gotten so bad, they say, that they
have put their house up for sale.

"They cannot take the racial insults and harassments they have to live with
every day," Mr. Ramirez said, hugging Mrs. Mendez Rojas and settling onto the
sofa in her unheated living room. "She really has been feeling very, very
lonely. So I try to call from time to time and see how she's doing. It's not
much, but it makes her feel somebody is remembering her, that she's not alone."

Tears welling in her eyes, Mrs. Mendez Rojas praised Mr. Ramirez for arranging a
meeting at the Mexican consulate in New York to straighten out a visa problem
and for offering to have his congregation pay to fill her oil tank.

"I saw him on the TV when he helped the man who was beaten up on the corner,"
Mrs. Mendez Rojas said, leading a visitor on a tour of her newly finished -- and
unoccupied -- basement. "We also knew that he was the one who helped the men
over there when they had been beaten up. Also in church I had heard about him
when people talk about when you need help, who do you go to."

Mr. Ramirez's penchant for helping the downtrodden grew out of his own
experience. At age 11, he moved from Ecuador with his parents and eight siblings
to a roach-infested three-room basement apartment in Hackensack, N.J. Two weeks
later he began delivering the local newspaper and working weekends at a car
wash, giving half his earnings to his parents. During high school he worked his
way up to manager of the frozen-food department at a local supermarket, logging
30 hours a week.

In those days, Mr. Ramirez recalled, he didn't have any white friends and hung
out with his brothers and the other Latinos in the neighborhood. "We dressed
differently," he said. "We spoke differently. Our customs were different."

When he was a junior in high school, an English teacher assigned him a
presentation about Edward Albee's "Zoo Story." Another student invited Mr.
Ramirez to watch the play with the youth group at the Second Reformed Church.
Mr. Ramirez was stunned. No white child had ever spoken to him in such a
friendly manner before. Afraid of a setup, he nervously rode his bicycle past
the stone church, recalling stories he had heard about the Ku Klux Klan and the
assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Afterward, Mr. Ramirez was invited to stay for a soda and ping-pong. His new
friend, the son of the minister, asked him to return to the youth group, and he
started worshiping at the church regularly.

"That invitation in essence shaped my theology," Mr. Ramirez said. "These kids
were members of a white upper-middle-class congregation. They embraced me, they
reached out to me as a human being. For the first time I was being affirmed."

Encouraged by his church friends, Mr. Ramirez enrolled at Central College in
Pella, Iowa, a school affiliated with the Reformed Church in America. He was the
only nonwhite student. "I immersed myself in the white world to learn to survive
in that environment," he said, although he wore his curly hair in a bushy Afro.

By the time he graduated from Western Theological Seminary in Holland, Mich., in
1979, each of his 30 classmates had received a call to a church. Only Mr.
Ramirez didn't have a job. "The only difference between myself and all my
classmates was that I was Latino," he said.

While he was in the seminary, he married Kim Renskers, a Reformed minister's
daughter from a Dutch family. Together, they headed to New York, where she
enrolled in law school and he sold clothes at Gucci, worked as a building
superintendent in Brooklyn and taught Spanish at the State University at
Farmingdale. He sent out 125 applications for a pulpit.

"Every single one of those churches turned me down," he recalled. He had no
problem getting interviews at white, middle-class churches, he said, but when he
showed up and the search committees saw his cocoa-colored skin, he was never
offered a job.

"But then I would go to Latino churches or African-American churches," he said,
"and they'd be courteous and give me interviews, and I could read between the
lines there, too: 'He's too white. He sold out.' I was in a no man's land. That
was probably one of the most painful experiences in my life."

It was four years before Mr. Ramirez was offered a permanent job as the pastor
of the Brookville church after filling in as its minister for 32 weeks. Though
he has been with the 200-member congregation since 1983, he is still not
convinced that he would have been hired if the congregation had not gotten to
know him first.

"That's why when I see these guys out on the street corner at 6 o'clock in the
morning and willing to work a 12- to 14-hour day for $70, helping them is really
honoring my parents and honoring the struggle of every immigrant who has come to
this country with nothing more than a dream to better their lives," Mr. Ramirez
said. "I feel very, very strongly about that. I hate to see injustice."

Mr. Waldorf, the financial secretary at Mr. Ramirez's church, said the minister
stirred his congregation. "It's a heart-opening experience to have him here,"
Mr. Waldorf said. "It's a strong message in the oneness of God's children."

Without Mr. Ramirez's influence, Mr. Waldorf said, he was not sure the church
would have rented its sanctuary to a Jewish congregation on Friday nights. Mr.
Ramirez, who ended a service on a recent Sunday with a benediction in Hebrew,
now calls the building a "chumple."

Howard Crofoot, the vice president of the Brookville church, said a recent
survey of congregants gave Mr. Ramirez top marks. The pastor has a fancy
lifestyle, he said, "but look how he takes care of us."

"We are so proud of him," he added. "We think he walks on water."

Nan Coffey, a former vice president of the church, said that although some
members were concerned about their pastor's high profile, most appreciated his
habit of calling attention to social problems in the area.

"He's very strong and passionate in his defense of people being abused," Ms.
Coffey said. "He's a wonderful defender of the underdog."

And a political force to contend with. Mr. Ramirez and Mr. Suozzi now meet for
breakfast or lunch from time to time, and Mr. Ramirez has talked about helping
with Mr. Suozzi's campaign for Nassau County executive. But Mr. Ramirez hasn't
ruled out his own run for the same office. Mr. Ramirez, who is registered as an
independent, said, "If I see the concern of this community is not being
addressed, I have no other choice but to go and take that road."

Mr. Suozzi said he shared Mr. Ramirez's mission to protect people's rights and
to improve the quality of life for newcomers as well as longtime residents. "One
of the impetuses is what has been going on out in Suffolk," Mr. Suozzi said.
"While the reverend doesn't think what we are doing is perfect, we are going to
do the best we can."

But Mr. Suozzi argued that while Mr. Ramirez beat the drum for more affordable
housing in Glen Cove, he wondered why he wasn't demanding the same in Sea Cliff,
where he lives, and in Brookville, where he preaches.

Mr. Ramirez's salary in Brookville is $54,000 a year, he said, and the church
pays for the parsonage and his BMW. Acknowledging these perks, Mr. Ramirez said
he knew he how lucky he was.

"You have to realize life is more than a big house in the suburbs, a BMW, a
weekend in the Hamptons," Mr. Ramirez said, picking up his cell phone when he
suddenly remembered that he had forgotten to ask an acquaintance -- he would not
say who, exactly -- for tickets to a Jets game, and, please, don't forget the
parking pass.

His work with the immigrants keeps him grounded. "I am immersed in a world of
pain," he said. "I am immersed in a world of struggle. It is my reality check."

Mr. Ramirez said if he walked down the street in a dirty jacket, rather than his
$100 slacks and navy blazer, he might be mistaken for a day laborer. "I would
dare to say if Christ came into this world today, he would go and hang out with
the have-nots," Mr. Ramirez said. "He would go hang out with the homeless. He
would go hang out with the day laborers. And he would try to speak on their
behalf."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Under the leadership of the Rev. Allan Byron Ramirez, left, who
was born in Ecuador, the Brookville Reformed Church raised $41,000 to buy
clothing for immigrant workers. (Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. 1);
Life is more than a big house, a BMW or a weekend in the Hamptons, the Rev.
Allan Byron Ramirez said. (Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 14, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BRIEFING: LAW ENFORCEMENT;
IMMIGRANT WORKERS SUE

BYLINE:  By Robert Hanley

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 82 words


Eight immigrant workers filed a lawsuit in federal district court in Newark last
week charging three state-based companies that operate bargain stores with
failing to pay them minimum wages and overtime in the late 1990's. Workers say
they were forced to work 70 hours a week for 40 hours' pay and were locked in
stores overnight without bedding. The companies are Universal Distribution
Center, of North Bergen; Dollar Strength, of Hackensack; and Dollar Star, of
Elizabeth.   Robert Hanley

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 17, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

PUBLIC LIVES;
Singing Labor's Song to Immigrants, Legal or Not

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


AS organized labor's chief advocate for immigrant workers, Linda Chavez-Thompson
often harks back to her grueling childhood in West Texas, where her
Mexican-American father was a $30-a-week farmhand.

With President Bush heading to Mexico to discuss, among other things, the
treatment of Mexican workers north of the border, Ms. Chavez-Thompson spoke on
Thursday of how family circumstances forced her at age 10 to weed cotton fields
for 10 hours a day in the searing summer sun.

Ms. Chavez-Thompson, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s executive vice president and the labor
movement's highest-ranking Hispanic and woman, also recalled how she had to drop
out of school in 1959, after the ninth grade.

"Dad only had enough money to send four kids to school, and that year, the fifth
child was beginning first grade," she said, a plaintive note slipping into her
habitually cheerful, full-speed-ahead mien. "It cost 25 cents a day for lunch
and with $30 a week, Dad said he couldn't pay for lunch for five kids. The
unfortunate thing was, back then the thinking in many Mexican-American families
was that girls did not need an education."

John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, has tapped Ms. Chavez-Thompson
to be labor's chief bridge to immigrants and to head its push to reform the
nation's immigration laws. She is the obvious choice for that role because of
her Mexican-American heritage, her fluent Spanish and her knack for connecting
with even the most humble workers. Always ready with a tension-melting, often
ribald, joke, she is not one to be accused of airs.

"I can walk into a room with 100 strangers and feel comfortable," she said. "I
don't feel that I'm better than anybody."

This week, labor leaders, meeting in Los Angeles, called for granting amnesty to
the nation's six million illegal immigrants, a sharp change from labor's
traditional anti-immigrant stance.

In a makeshift office at the Regal Biltmore Hotel, Ms. Chavez-Thompson explained
labor's about-face. She said that granting amnesty -- that is, granting working
papers -- would make it harder for employers to force low wages upon immigrants,
a trend that undercuts wage increases for American workers. Labor, she
acknowledged, is also championing immigrants' rights as a strategic move to make
immigrants more enthusiastic about joining unions.

"Immigrant workers work very hard for their money," said Ms. Chavez, who has a
knack of going into speech-making mode in a nanosecond. "They hold the worst
kinds of jobs, like roofing houses in the heat of summer. They get very little
respect. Most don't have health care or pensions. They dream about having a home
and security for their families, exactly what every other worker wants."

Ms. Chavez-Thompson was born in Lorenzo, Tex., near Lubbock, in 1944. Her given
name was Lydia, but a grade-school teacher found it too foreign and hard to
pronounce, and forced the name Linda on her.

For five years after she dropped out of school, she supplemented her family's
income by picking cotton and cleaning houses. When she was 23, a drinking buddy
of her father who headed the Lubbock local of the laborers' union hired her. He
needed a bilingual secretary because he spoke only English while most of the
local's members spoke only Spanish.

In 1971, after a tornado hit Lubbock, killing 26 people, the Texas A.F.L.-C.I.O.
hired her to oversee labor's relief efforts. "I was getting paid $150," she
said. "I thought I had died and gone to heaven."

Later that year, she took a job with the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees. There, she organized more than 1,000 garbage workers,
cafeteria employees and bus drivers in Texas. Over the next two decades, she
climbed the union ladder, becoming executive director of a large local in San
Antonio and later head of the union's operations in Texas and the whole
Southwest. Her husband, Robert Thompson, a leader of the transit workers union
in Texas, died of cancer in 1993. Ms. Chavez-Thompson has two grown children
from a previous marriage.

In 1995, Mr. Sweeney asked her to run on his slate, which sought to oust a group
of A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders they viewed as doing too little to reverse labor's
decline. Ms. Chavez-Thompson agreed to run, acknowledging that she feared she
might be just a token woman and Hispanic with little power. She said those fears
had been proved false.

Morton Bahr, president of the Communications Workers of America, said: "I did
not support her back then. I thought they just wanted a Hispanic woman on their
ticket. But she's completely won me over with her dedication and energy."

MS. CHAVEZ-THOMPSON is often confused with Linda Chavez, the conservative
commentator who was President Bush's first choice for labor secretary.

"She stands for everything I don't," Ms. Chavez-Thompson said of her
semi-namesake, who opposes affirmative action and a higher minimum wage.

Ms. Chavez volleyed back some criticisms: "She has been part of the new wave of
the Sweeneyites. I think the shift to the left in the labor movement that
they've brought about has not been a good one."

Ms. Chavez-Thompson said she got a surprising call after President Bush selected
Ms. Chavez. That day, several Texas newspapers mistakenly ran Ms.
Chavez-Thompson's photograph to accompany articles about Ms. Chavez.

"My brother Tony called from Texas and said, 'You told us to vote for Al Gore
and here you are taking a job with Bush. We're going to drum you out of the
family.' I said, 'Tony, stop talking long enough so I can tell you that it's not
me.' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Linda Chavez-Thompson

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Chavez-Thompson would like it known she is not Linda
Chavez. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican 'Guest Workers': A Project Worth a Try?

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON with STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1503 words

DATELINE: NOCATEE, Fla.


Perched like birds in the trees of a Florida orange grove, a crew of Mexican
farmhands recently recounted the different routes they had taken to sneak into
the United States.

About 10 years ago it was as simple as crossing a street, said Juan Sierra, 47,
a father of five. He just waited in Tijuana until nightfall and climbed a fence
into California.

Five years ago the passage got tougher as United States Border Patrol agents
began sealing off urban areas along the border and immigrants began cutting
trails through the desert.

"I walked eight days with only one bottle of water, because it was too hot to
carry more," said Jose Palomares, 29, about his last journey across the sizzling
Arizona landscape.

Jose Vasquez Cabrera, 42, added: "One of the men in my group was bitten by a
snake. There was nothing anyone could do but leave him there."

But two years ago this crew of about 24 men found a new, legal way to enter the
United States: they are among more than 40,000 "guest workers" employed in
seasonal jobs on farms from North Carolina to Georgia, Arkansas to Idaho.

They are living models for President Vicente Fox's vision for his countrymen.
Since winning the Mexican presidency last July, Mr. Fox has been pressing the
United States to open the border to Mexican workers.

His campaign took a significant step forward in February when he and President
Bush agreed to begin negotiations on a range of immigration policies. And in
Washington on April 4, Mexican officials are to hold the first in a series of
meetings to discuss migration policy with top Bush administration officials.

Mexican officials have said guest worker programs help reduce the number of
workers who stream across the border illegally each year -- an estimated 150,000
-- and help American farmers who now depend on illegal foreign labor.

With Americans shunning low-wage farm jobs, 50 to 80 percent of the 1.6 million
farm workers in the United States are illegal immigrants, most from Mexico.

And, Mr. Fox has said, guest worker programs could save lives. More than 300
immigrants died last year, largely from exposure to the heat and the cold in
their attempts to cross the border.

Not long ago American politicians dismissed Mr. Fox's notion of a more open
border as a populist delusion. But the political winds are shifting. After 15
years of deadlock over the expansion of guest worker programs, American
lawmakers and labor unions, together with growers, are proposing to make it
easier to hire such workers.

One proposal, supported by unions and several state grower associations, would
increase the number of seasonal farm workers to as many as 250,000 a year, from
about 40,000, and grant many foreign workers legal residency in the United
States.

On a recent visit to California, Mr. Fox told hundreds of farmworkers that he
would press the United States to enact laws to give a blanket legal status to
illegal immigrants already working on farms here.

During a news conference with President Bush in February, Mr. Fox talked about
the new political climate. "There is a new attitude," he said. "There is a new
way of approaching things, a much more positive approach to things on issues of
migration."

Bush administration officials say that while the president is interested in the
various guest worker proposals in Congress, he has opposed an amnesty.

The call for more foreign guest workers has been compared to the pleadings for
labor that prompted the bracero program in the United States during World War
II.

The aim was to keep farms and railroads functioning while Americans went to war.
It allowed some four million Mexican braceros -- the term is derived from the
Spanish word for arm -- into the United States from 1942 to 1964.

After the program ended, the United States continued to let some guest workers
into the country with a range of temporary visas including the current seasonal
worker visa known as H2-A.

But almost from their inception, temporary visa programs have been attacked by
immigrant and labor advocates for fostering a class of low-paid workers
vulnerable to abuse. Recent efforts to pass similar legislation have failed
because of union concerns that such programs would make it more difficult for
Americans to get jobs and would push down agricultural wages.

Bruce Goldstein of the Farmworker Justice Fund, a nonprofit advocacy group for
migrant farmers, says most guest workers do not complain about wage and safety
violations, unsanitary living conditions and harassment by their employers,
because they fear being sent home.

Greg Schell, of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project, a different advocacy
group, adds that temporary workers are "held hostage" by their visas, which do
not allow them to move from one employer to another for better job conditions.

"What we are saying to Mexico," Mr. Goldstein said, "is that when you look at
the kinds of guest worker programs you want, then what you should look for is
something better than what exists now. Essentially, there is no difference
between an undocumented worker and a guest worker; neither one is treated
fairly. Neither status should be accepted in this country."

Remembering their illegal trips across the border, the guest workers in Florida
described their legal status in a decidedly positive light. Mr. Vasquez, a
father of three from President Fox's home state, Guanajuato, did complain that
he worked 10 hours a day while his pay stubs reflected earnings for fewer hours.

But in the end, he said, he makes in a day what he would have made in a week in
Mexico. His American employers provide him a decent place to live, rent-free.
And the job gave him safe and legal passage to the United States.

"I don't have to risk my life anymore to support my family," Mr. Vasquez said.
"And when I am here," he said, gazing out at the Florida grove around him, "I do
not have to live in hiding."

One guest worker proposal, promoted by Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat
of California, and Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, would
eliminate many requirements on American farmers to demonstrate a genuine labor
shortage before they can hire guest workers. Bob Vice, president of the National
Council of Agricultural Employers, has called such requirements a "bureaucratic
nightmare."

The Berman-Smith proposal would allow growers to provide housing vouchers
instead of actual housing. And it would allow foreigners who have been employed
in agriculture for at least 360 days in the previous six years to qualify for
legal residency in the United States.

Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, is expected to present Congress with a
competing plan that would expand the use of foreign guest workers in various
industries, including retail sales, tourism and construction. But his aides have
said the proposal will not include a provision for granting the temporary
workers legal residency.

The United States and Mexican governments are expected to review the different
proposals as they negotiate a joint "migration working group."

Like Senator Gramm, Mexican officials are eager to expand guest worker programs
in various industries. But they also support the Smith-Berman proposal to give
migrant workers legal residency. "In many instances the H-2A programs are
satisfactory, and in many they are not," said Foreign Minister Jorge G.
Castaneda. "The expansion has to go in the direction of those programs that are
satisfactory."

Here in the Florida orange grove, music by Los Tigres del Norte blared. Only
campesinos like them, the workers said, could sing while enduring the physical
demands of the orange harvest, hauling 80-pound sacks of fruit from the top of a
tree down to a tub the size of a Jacuzzi.

For six days a week they worked from before sunup until sundown, a minimum of 10
hours a day. But a review of their pay stubs showed that most of them were paid
for far fewer hours, and although they all arrived and left the groves on the
same bus, each was paid a different amount.

Rafael Ramirez Calderon's paycheck for the previous week indicated that he had
been paid for 39 hours. Jose Palomares was paid for 28 hours. And Renato Garcia
Rivera was paid for 49 hours.

Their employer, Steve Sorrells of Sorrells Brothers, explained that the workers
were not paid by the hour. He said they made $8 for each tub they filled with
oranges. Mr. Sorrells said counting his workers' tubs was a more accurate gauge
of their labor than the number of hours they spent in the groves.

"Those guys aren't working all the time," Mr. Sorrells said in an interview in
his office. "Some of them take breaks in the morning, or they take long lunches
or they take breaks in the afternoon.

"Under our system, the ones who work hard make good money. The ones who don't,
don't."

When asked how long a break they usually took for lunch, the workers looked
puzzled. Renato Garcia Rivera, 23, a native of the central Mexican state of
Morelos, said, "We may stop our work for a few minutes to eat a taco, but there
is no real time for breaks."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Palomares, 29, from the state of Morelos in central
Mexico, at work harvesting oranges in an orchard in Florida as a "guest worker."
The United States is about to consider admitting more such workers. (Photographs
by Lauro Cano for The New York Times) Map of Flordia highlighting Nocatee: In
their living quarters in Nocatee, Renato Garcia Rivera, far left, and Jose
Palomares cleaned their living quarters. The two Mexicans are in the United
States working legally under what is called the H2-A program.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Complexities of Visas

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 170 words


To the Editor:

"Workers, and Bosses, in a Visa Maze" (April 29), spells out clearly the
problems plaguing the H-1B visa program that brings skilled foreign workers to
the United States for up to six years.

But the program was conceived and expanded to benefit high-technology companies
in this country, which cited a shortage of qualified American workers.

It was not devised to benefit foreign workers, many of whom are being harmed by
the law's complex provisons.

Most of the program's problems stem from a desire to ensure that no American
workers are available for these jobs before allowing foreign workers to be
hired.

Foreign workers in the H-1B visa program find that obtaining permanent residency
can take some time, especially if they come from countries like India, which
generates large numbers of foreign workers and produces a long waiting list.

This wait means the workers can be committed to one company, with restricted
opportunities to advance or change jobs.

STEPHEN NORDLINGER
Chevy Chase, Md., April 29

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Rising Long Island Voice in Immigration Debate

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., July 5


It began as a group of homemakers concerned about crowds of migrant workers
waiting for work on the streets in Farmingville, on Long Island. But after
gaining increasing momentum and membership, the Sachem Quality of Life
Organization, which now claims 800 to 1,000 members, has grown into an unlikely
national opponent of illegal immigration.

While numerous pro-immigrant groups, both national and local, work to protect
the rights of immigrants, the Sachem Quality of Life Organization has provided,
for the past four years, a less familiar and more controversial point of view.

Its mission, as organizers describe it, is to stand up for the rights of
middle-class suburban communities it says are being inundated by thousands of
undocumented, mostly Latino, immigrants. To do that, it calls for expanded
enforcement of immigration laws and the expulsion of all immigrants not here
legally.

Now, in the latest twist with national reach, the Sachem group is planning a
two-day meeting next month to address the Latino day laborer issue on Long
Island and immigration in general.

But the forum is raising new questions about whether it will be a legitimate
gathering for discussion and advocacy of issues relating to immigration or an
angry one aimed at further stigmatizing those at the bottom of the socioeconomic
pecking order.

Organizers deny that the meeting has anything to do with bigotry.

"If there are hatemongers who come they will not be welcome," said Margaretann
Bianculli-Dyber, a New York City high school teacher who lives in the largely
working class hamlet of Farmingville in Suffolk County and is a founder of the
Sachem group. It takes its name from a local school district. Sachem is an
Indian word meaning the chief of a tribe or a confederation. The group thought
the word had broad appeal and a ring of authority, and did not obviously limit
the group's scope to Long Island.

Still, those from both sides of the issue acknowledge that the rhetoric has been
ratcheting up on Long Island, among the places where poor Hispanic immigrants
are increasingly conspicuous outsiders amid the affluent bustle of suburban
life. Each side has said that Long Island is the latest flash point in a
continuing national debate.

In part, the Sachem group's meeting is being planned in response to a two-day
gathering of 17 pro-immigrant and Latino rights groups earlier this week in
Nassau County. That gathering, its organizers said, was held to discuss what
they characterized as a growing anti-immigrant sentiment.

It is an emotional struggle that has at times turned violent, as it did last
fall in Farmingville when two Mexican laborers were picked up by men posing as
contractors and then severely beaten.

More recently, the debate in Suffolk reached a height in April when the County
Legislature let stand County Executive Robert J. Gaffney's veto of a bill to
spend $80,000 for a hiring hall in Farmingville that would have housed a support
center offering education and legal and referral services for the workers as
well as a place where they could wait for work.

In June, a similar battle in Farmingdale in Nassau County ended when officials
shuttered a dusty outdoor hiring center it established for laborers 14 months
earlier.

Opponents of the Sachem group said that, behind the scenes, national groups
opposed to immigrants were pulling the strings with politicians and the public
in the debate over the Farmingville and Farmingdale work sites.

Darren Sandow, of the Long Island Unitarian Universalist Fund, a nonprofit group
that supports hiring centers for Latinos, said the national groups were
providing technical assistance, strategic planning and overall philosophy to the
Sachem group.

"They are frightening the public with a campaign of misinformation," said Mr.
Sandow, who organized the pro-immigrant gathering this week. "The Sachem group
is doing it on the ground, but they are getting coached by such groups as
American Patrol and Federation for American Immigration Reform. In my mind, they
are preventing constructive solutions from being adopted by local politicians."

Ray Wysolmierski, a spokesman for the Sachem group, said he had invited Glenn J.
Spencer, the president of American Patrol, of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and Barbara
Coe, of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform.

The Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks hate groups, has described Mr.
Spencer as "one of the hardest line anti-immigrant ideologues now operating." It
said Ms. Coe had repeatedly referred to Mexican immigrants as "savages," and had
advocated using the military to seal off the border.

Mr. Wysolmierski and others said the participants in the August meeting could
not be defined as haters of anyone. Mr. Spencer said that the Sachem group "is
reflective of the best quality of American citizens who, when confronted with a
problem, came together and organized themselves to seek the facts and share them
with their fellow citizens."

Ms. Bianculli-Dyber said her group began with local concerns, like reports of
laborers sexually harassing young girls, but had reluctantly been drawn into
larger issues.

"We've been forced into this position because of the resistance of government at
all levels to stop the criminal and underground activity in our community," she
said. "This goes way beyond the illegal aliens on our corner. It is national in
scope."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 26, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Charged With Beating Of Laborers Is to Go on Trial

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., July 25


One of two men charged with beating two Mexican day laborers in Suffolk County
last fall is to go on trial on Thursday in a case that has highlighted the
tensions over immigrant workers.

The trial in Riverhead of Christopher Slavin could span three weeks and is
scheduled to be followed by a separate prosecution against Ryan D. Wagner, who
was also charged in the Sept. 17 beating of Magdaleno Escamilla and Israel Perez
with a shovel, a crowbar and a knife, officials said.

The particularly violent crime brought the region's long-simmering racial
tensions into focus and sparked an emotional battle over immigrants who wait in
the streets for day jobs with contractors, landscapers and homeowner.

At both trials, prosecutors will try to prove that the attack was motivated by
the hatred of foreigners, particularly of Mexicans who live in the United States
without documentation, James M. Catterson Jr., the Suffolk County district
attorney, said.

"A vigorous prosecution is mandated," Mr. Catterson said today, "to ensure that
everyone present in our society -- legally or illegally -- under our
Constitution enjoys certain freedoms and the protection of our laws."

Robert J. Del Col, Mr. Slavin's lawyer, said in an interview tonight that the
jury would hear inconsistencies in the witnesses' accounts and a different story
about what happened Sept. 17, "like maybe that this was a prank that escalated."
He said the accounts provided by Mr. Wagner and the victims were inconsistent.

"It was not this brutal assault that was portrayed," Mr. Del Col said. "The
physical evidence and the inconsistencies are going to demonstrate that."

Barring a delay, the selection of jurors will begin Thursday morning before
Judge Charles F. Cacciabaudo of Suffolk County Court in Riverhead. It could take
two to four days until Eileen A. Powers, the lead prosecutor, presents her
opening argument.

Mr. Slavin, 29, of Holbrook, and Mr. Wagner, 20, of Maspeth, Queens, who are
both construction workers, were indicted on two counts of second-degree
attempted murder, two counts of second-degree aggravated harassment, and assault
charges, said Drew Biondo, a spokesman for Mr. Catterson. Each of the
defendants, who are white and whose bodies are covered with numerous tattoos,
including swastikas and white supremacist symbols, face up to 50 years in prison
if convicted, Mr. Biondo said.

The victims said that they were in Farmingville when they were lured by two men
to an abandoned warehouse in Shirley with the promise of work. But the site
looked more like a ghost town and the next thing they knew, they were being
beaten, the victims said.

Thomas F. Liotti, who is Mr. Wagner's lawyer, has acknowledged that his client
took part in the attack. But, he said, Mr. Wagner was high on drugs and alcohol
and should have been given a chance to plead guilty to reduced charges.

"We indicated that Mr. Wagner was acting in self-defense and he has claimed that
he was hit in the back of the head with a shovel," Mr. Liotti said. "He has made
some mistakes and is very sorry for making those, but let's try and be
reasonable. He did not have the requisite mental intent to kill or attempt to
kill. He was justified in doing what he did because he said he was attacked from
behind."

The victims' testimonies will figure prominently in the prosecution's case. Mr.
Perez and Mr. Escamilla are expected to testify on the second or third day of
testimony in each trial, Mr. Biondo said.

Mr. Catterson said that separate trials are necessary because Mr. Wagner named
Mr. Slavin in his statement to the police. Under the law, Mr. Wagner's statement
cannot be presented in a trial where Mr. Slavin has no opportunity to
cross-examine him, and Mr. Wagner cannot be compelled to testify at his own
trial, prosecutors said.

Mr. Del Col said tonight that he filed a motion on Monday seeking to delay the
start of the trial by a day or two until "significant evidentiary issues" that
may affect jury selection can be addressed. But Mr. Biondo said that he was
unfamiliar with that motion and said that they are proceeding on schedule.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 2, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bias Led to Attack on Mexicans, Prosecutor Says as Trial Opens

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 350 words

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y., Aug. 1


The two men charged with beating two Mexican day laborers last fall were
inspired by hatred for Mexicans, a Suffolk County prosecutor said today during
the opening arguments at one man's trial.

The lead prosecutor, Eileen A. Powers, told the jury that the defendant,
Christopher Slavin, was "a hatemonger" who, along with another man who will be
tried separately, had attacked the laborers simply "because they are Mexican."
The multiple Nazi and skinhead tattoos hidden by Mr. Slavin's olive green
jumpsuit, Ms. Powers said, "will provide some insight into his motive."

Mr. Slavin's lawyer, Robert J. Del Col, argued in his opening statement that Mr.
Slavin's tattoos were irrelevant and that the references to them were intended
to muddle the jury's ability to think logically.

"They're being introduced so you don't like him," he said. "Don't be fooled.
Don't get bamboozled here."

Mr. Slavin, 29, and the second defendant, Ryan D. Wagner, 20, have been indicted
on charges that they lured the immigrants, Magdaleno Escamilla and Israel Perez,
on Sept. 17, 2000, to an abandoned warehouse in Shirley, where they attacked the
Mexicans with a shovel, a crowbar and a knife.

The crime threw into sharp relief tensions on Long Island over the
Spanish-speaking immigrants who wait in the streets for day jobs building homes
and landscaping yards. Since September, the conflict has particularly
intensified in Farmingville, a community of 15,000 residents, mostly white,
where the victims lived and where they were picked up for what they believed
would be just another day of work.

Farmingville has since become a flash point in the complicated and emotional
battle over illegal immigration, particularly the question of what role local
government should play in protecting the immigrants who build homes and beautify
gardens, but often do not have the legal status that comes with a green card.

Opening arguments in Mr. Slavin's trial, before Judge Charles F. Cacciabaudo of
Suffolk County Court in Riverhead, come just days before a two-day "anti-illegal
immigration" conference in nearby Centereach.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

2 Greengrocers to Give Back Wages to Underpaid Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 560 words


Two Manhattan greengrocers have agreed to pay nearly $100,000 in back wages to
immigrant workers who sometimes received only $200 for working 72-hour weeks,
state officials said yesterday.

One of the workers, Candido Aparicio, an immigrant from Mexico, said that he
worked like an animal, lifting heavy loads during 12-hour days for which he did
not receive time-and-a-half overtime pay.

Mr. Aparicio spoke at a news conference yesterday at the Manhattan office of
Eliot L. Spitzer, the state attorney general, who investigated the two stores,
Lucky Farms, at Broadway and 105th Street, and the 118 First Avenue Food and
Vegetable Corporation, which is at First Avenue and Seventh Street.

The attorney general's office said many workers at the grocers were paid $180 to
$360 for 72-hour weeks, which translates to $2.60 to $3.60 an hour. The minimum
wage is $5.15 an hour. "As a society, we should be far beyond the point where
individuals are required to work long, arduous hours for less than the minimum
wage," Mr. Spitzer said.

Mr. Spitzer announced that Lucky Farm agreed to pay $62,500 in back wages to six
workers and that 118 First Avenue had agreed to pay $29,608 in back wages and
damages to four workers.

He said his office pursued the two grocers as part of an effort to stop minimum
wage violations involving immigrant workers and to pressure all of New York
City's 2,000 greengrocers to comply with state and federal labor laws. Most of
the more than 10,000 employees at these stores are Mexicans, and many of them
are illegal immigrants.

Labor experts say there is widespread flouting of minimum wage laws at such
stores and occasional illegal use of child labor.

The attorney general's office also announced yesterday that it had undertaken an
education program that is intended to encourage grocery stores across the city
and state to comply with wage and hour laws. His office is working on this
education campaign with the United States Department of Labor and the Korean
Produce Association, which advises greengrocers and provides them with a
distribution network.

Mr. Spitzer called the long hours and low wages "egregiously wrong, especially
in this time of economic prosperity."

Mr. Aparicio, who worked at Lucky Farms, said that for years he was paid just
$200 after 72 hours or more each week. But he said his employer started paying
him $400 a week, after deductions, as soon as Mr. Spitzer's office began
investigating last year.

"We were mistreated constantly," Mr. Aparicio said in an interview. "We were
cursed by the employer. If we got sick, we didn't get paid."

Andrew Hoffmann, a lawyer for Lucky Farm, said his client had amicably settled
the matter. "Unfortunately, there is widespread ignorance of some of the
technical aspects of the wage and hour laws," he said, "particularly among some
of the immigrant communities."

Mr. Hoffmann said many store owners were "ethical, hardworking people who work
very long hours in a very marginal business."

A man who answered the telephone at 118 First Avenue said the owner was not
available for comment. The store's lawyer, Lloyd Somer, was unavailable because
he was away on vacation, a law firm receptionist said.

Mr. Spitzer's office said it was tipped off to the violations by Local 169 of
the Union of Needle Trades, Industrial and Textile Employees.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Greengrocer employees Candido Aparicio, right, and Antonin
Rivera appeared yesterday at a news conference with the state attorney general,
Eliot L. Spitzer. The store, at 118 First Avenue, was one of two that agreed to
pay back wages. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

FOREIGN WORKERS AT HIGHEST LEVEL IN SEVEN DECADES

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1543 words


As employers clamor for more foreign-born workers and as tens of thousands of
Mexicans slip across the border each year, the percentage of immigrant workers
in the nation's labor force has climbed to its highest level in seven decades.

New figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed that the number of
immigrant workers jumped to 15.7 million last year, up 17 percent from three
years earlier. Immigration analysts estimate that nearly 5 million of these
workers are illegal immigrants.

This influx -- immigrants now represent 12 percent of the nation's workers -- is
having profound effects on the work force and the economy, helping hold down
wages in unskilled jobs and giving many companies the employees needed to
expand.

Immigrants dominate dozens of jobs, especially arduous, low-paying ones: poultry
plant workers, meatpackers, gardeners, hotel maids, seamstresses, restaurant
workers, building demolition workers and fruit and vegetable pickers.

"Immigrants are now a critical part of the labor force across the board," said
Demetrios Papademetriou, co-director of international migration policy at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "We are into a new world of
immigrants basically spreading throughout the economy. This is something that is
going to continue and intensify."

With the unemployment rate at 4.1 percent, near its lowest point in 40 years,
the debate about immigrant workers has shifted considerably from five years ago,
when many politicians called for more restrictive policies.

Now, software companies, farmers, hotels and other employers desperate for
workers are pressuring Congress to enact legislation that would admit hundreds
of thousands of additional immigrants each year.

But some groups, most notably labor unions and engineers' associations, are
fighting such an easing, fearing that it would depress wages and cost jobs for
American workers. At the same time, unions have softened their once hard line
toward illegal immigrants already in the country, as they seek to unionize them.

Economists and demographers see a continuing surge in immigrant workers unless
there is a major economic downturn. Under existing quotas, about 800,000
immigrants enter the nation legally each year. An estimated 300,000 enter
illegally.

These workers range from supermarket delivery people who have received an
illegally low $3 an hour, far less than the $5.15 an hour minimum wage, to
$100,000-a-year software developers from India.

As the number of immigrant workers has soared, Americans are voicing less anger
and anxiety about immigration than in the mid-1990's. The reason, political
analysts said, is that the expanding economy and low jobless rate have reduced
economic insecurity.

Not only that, politicians who led the attack against immigrants -- with
measures to cut government benefits to the children of illegal immigrants --
have seen their efforts backfire, especially in California. There, the
fast-growing Hispanic and Asian populations have moved to punish anti-immigrant
politicians in the voting booth.

"You have a very robust economy and full employment, and that always changes the
terms of debate on immigration," said James P. Smith, an economist with the Rand
Corporation who was chairman of a 1997 National Academy of Sciences study on the
effects of immigration. "When there are plenty of jobs around, the finger
pointing that goes on about immigration goes away."

Even so, in some places, like Farmingville, N.Y., residents have complained that
dozens of immigrant day laborers who assemble in streets and parking lots each
morning to be picked up by employers are an unsightly horde who litter, commit
crimes and hurt property values.

At the same time, many Americans have found that the stream of immigrants has
provided them with affordable gardeners, nannies, housekeepers -- even
manicurists

"Americans rely very much on low-cost immigrant labor to maintain their living
standards, which means everything from lawn care to inexpensive agricultural
production to the construction business," Mr. Papademetriou said.

One unhappy result of the influx of immigrants has been a wave of violations of
the nation's labor laws. Unscrupulous employers have refused to provide workers'
compensation or pay minimum wage or time-and-a-half overtime to immigrants
required to work 70 to 80 hours a week. Some female immigrants have complained
that their bosses sexually harass them, and they fear that if they complain,
their bosses will report them to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

One immigrant, Silverio Otero, a grocery store worker on New York's Lower East
Side, complained that for a long time he was paid $240 a week even though the
store owner required him to work 72 hours a week. That came to $3.33 an hour.

"They didn't treat us very nice," said Mr. Otero, a 29-year-old native of Mexico
who will receive $7,000 in back wages because of a settlement arranged by Eliot
L. Spitzer, the New York State attorney general. "They took advantage of us
because we were immigrants and they didn't think we would speak up."

Officials from a coalition of industries pushing Congress to grant several
hundred thousand more temporary worker visas each year said they were not
looking for easy-to-exploit workers, but simply for workers. Among the groups
pressing for such legislation are the National Restaurant Association and the
American Hotel and Motel Association.

"We want to make it easier for employers who are facing shortages to hire
foreign workers," said John F. Gay, co-chairman of the industry group, the
Essential Worker Immigration Coalition. "We've tried everything we could think
of to bring more American workers into the labor force, but with this booming
economy, it hasn't been enough. It's not a question of finding cheaper bodies.
It's a question of finding bodies."

Other industries are making similar pleas. The agricultural industry wants
Congress to allow in more foreigners to plant and pick produce. Computer and
software companies have asked that more three-year visas be granted each year to
foreigners with technology expertise. In 1998, Congress expanded that program to
allow in 115,000 workers, up from 65,000, and now the high-technology industry
wants that quota lifted to more than 200,000.

Many labor groups, including the United Farm Workers and the A.F.L.-C.I.O., are
fighting these proposals. The unions argue that workers brought in under such
programs drive down wages and essentially are easy-to-exploit captives
restricted to working for one company.

The Clinton administration, mindful of Silicon Valley's political contributions
and organized labor's political muscle, has signaled that it favors increasing
the number of high-technology visas, but not those for unskilled workers.

"In high technology, we are now trying to meet a real spot shortage," Labor
Secretary Alexis M. Herman said. "But when you talk about jobs in the hotel
industry and other areas, there's still a lot of untapped employment potential
in the nation, and I believe that we can meet those demands with Americans."

This debate is influenced heavily by the way immigration creates different
winners and losers.

American businesses, ranging from motels and lettuce farms to corporate giants
like Intel and Apple, benefit from the influx of immigrants. But the National
Academy of Sciences study found that immigrants, especially illegal, unskilled
workers from Mexico and the rest of Latin America, have pushed down wages for
American-born workers with less than a high school education by 5 percent.

That study found that immigration increased the nation's economy by $10 billion
-- a tiny amount in a country with a gross domestic product of nearly $10
trillion.

"The real impact of immigration is not to increase the size of the pie, but to
redistribute the pie," said George J. Borjas, a Harvard University professor of
public policy. "If you happen to have the type of job that competes with
immigrants, you're often hurt, but if you're a company or an upper-middle-class
person who hires immigrants, then you benefit."

In recent months, one of the biggest changes has been the softening stance of
labor unions toward illegal immigrants. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has called for
repealing the law that bars employers from hiring illegal immigrants -- a law
organized labor lobbied successfully for in 1986.

While still favoring strict limits on the number of immigrants entering the
country, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has reversed itself by calling for the granting of
legal status to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants. Giving them legal
status, union officials said, would make it harder for employers to exploit them
and hold down their wages.

"There was a recognition of how immigrants are being discriminated against and
of the indignities they suffer," John J. Sweeney, president of the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., said. "We saw that the present immigration policies weren't
working and that it was time to call for a fairer policy that treats these
people in a more humane way."

As part of this shift, many unions that once sought to keep immigrants out of
their fields now are eager to organize those workers.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Silverio Otero, an immigrant from Mexico, had been paid $240 for
working a 72-hour week at a grocery in lower Manhattan. After action by the
State of New York, Mr. Otero will receive $7,000 in back wages. (Frances Roberts
for The New York Times)(pg. A12)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers Tell of Being Lured and Beaten

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y., Sept. 19


From the start, the two Mexican immigrants who were attacked Sunday with a
shovel, a crowbar and a knife had a bad feeling about the white men who had
lured them to an abandoned building with the promise of work.

It looked more like a ghost town than a construction site, they said today as
they sat in Brookhaven Memorial Hospital, one wearing a neck brace, the other
with bandages around his punctured neck and slashed left wrist.

"I told my friend, 'I don't like this one minute,' " said Magdaleno Escamilla,
28, a native of Hidalgo state in Mexico, who had come to the United States a few
months ago to find work. "I told him to pay attention. It didn't look like there
was much work here."

The next thing Mr. Escamilla remembers was being beaten unconscious with what he
believes was a crowbar. He awoke when he heard the screams of his friend and
housemate, Israel Perez, 19. "He was screaming, 'Help me, help me!' And the man
who attacked me started running away," Mr. Escamilla said. "My friend was
wrestling with the knife. So I took up the crowbar and the other man ran. I
honestly don't know how we got away."

The incident, which the police are investigating as a bias crime, has become the
talk of this Long Island hamlet of 15,000, which was already electric with
racial tensions. Tonight, despite a soaking rain, immigrant workers and
supporters held a march here to draw attention to their cause, trading shouts
and taunts with protesters opposed to immigrants. In all, about 150 to 200
people attended, the authorities said.

The authorities said the events leading to the beating began at dawn on Sunday,
when two white men first tried to hire another Mexican man who was standing in a
field next to a 7-Eleven, one of the most popular spots on Long Island for day
laborers and contractors to barter for labor.

According to the victims' account, this Mexican man was a friend. He had already
arranged work for himself that day, so he led the two white men to the house
that the three Mexicans share with a dozen others.

Mr. Escamilla said he was lured into a silver station wagon by the promise of
work. The men never discussed money, he said. The workers were taken to an
abandoned warehouse off Exit 68 of the Long Island Expressway in Shirley, and
were told to start digging.

Fifteen minutes later, the two wounded workers managed to stumble to the
expressway. "We saw cars, but seeing our condition, the people did not want to
stop," Mr. Escamilla said. Finally, a man who thought the pair had been in a car
accident stopped and called the police on his cell phone.

"It is being treated as a bias attack," said Detective Sgt. Robert Reecks of the
Suffolk County Police. He also said it appeared as though the ambush was
carefully planned.

"It appears as though the assailants were trying to kill them," he said.

The attackers were each described as unshaven, about 5-foot-9 and in their late
20's. One man is thin, the other heavyset, Sergeant Reecks said. He added that
the authorities were following up on dozens of leads. The Federal Bureau of
Investigation was advising investigators.

Mr. Escamilla was treated and released. Mr. Perez underwent surgery for a
severed tendon in his left wrist Monday and was listed in stable condition at
Brookhaven Memorial Hospital. He was expected to be released this evening.

"I came with a great American dream that all Latinos have," Mr. Perez said,
lying back in a wheelchair and appearing disoriented. "It is a great country,
but I want to forget this happened. I guess I will go home and I won't be back."

The attacks added fuel to already smoldering tensions in Farmingville, said the
immigrants, their advocates and local politicians.

Each summer, more than 1,000 Hispanic workers flock here looking for work as
landscapers and handymen. They are picketed by a group of Americans every
Saturday morning.

These residents say the day laborers are responsible for all kinds of problems,
from a decrease in property values to a spiraling crime wave that the police say
does not exist.

Earlier this month, the Suffolk County Legislature narrowly voted down a
proposal to file a federal suit to force the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to move against illegal immigrants. And this year, the Town of
Brookhaven, which includes Farmingville, passed a law aimed at illegal
immigrants, limiting the number of people who may occupy a rental house.

Moreover, the day laborers said, they are often not paid by contractors and must
endure insults and racial slurs directed at them by morning commuters.

Joseph Caracappa, a Republican county legislator from Selden, who sponsored the
bill to sue the I.N.S., did not return calls left at his office today. The group
that urged Mr. Caracappa to sponsor the legislation, said they did not believe
their rhetoric had inflamed racial hatred in the community.

"This was inevitably going to happen whether we existed or not," said Ray
Wysolmierski, a leader of the group, called the Sachem Quality of Life. "People
wait on the corner for people to hire them. Those who hire them aren't going to
win a Nobel Peace Prize. As far as I'm concerned, they're all criminals."

Paul Tonna, the Republican majority leader of the Suffolk County Legislature,
said the bill only deepened divisions. "It demonstrated how much easier it is to
destroy a community rather than build one," said Mr. Tonna, who voted against
the measure. "After I voted against it, people picketed my home carrying signs
that called me a papist."

At tonight's march, the workers and their supporters asked that the authorities
allow them to build a clean, safe hiring hall where they would be better
shielded from attacks.

"It's been such a bad summer already with the rain," said Moises Recendiz, 19.
"I'm trying to live a dream that is turning into a nightmare. But no matter
what, I'm not leaving."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Israel Perez and Magdaleno Escamilla, who were attacked last
weekend, said at a news conference yesterday that they had been lured by the
promise of work. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Mexican
laborers and their supporters held a candlelight vigil in Farmingville, N.Y.,
for the two workers who were attacked on Sunday. The authorities have deemed the
attack a bias incident. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

Map of Long Island shows the location of Farmingville: Farmingville wanted to
sue the I.N.S. to go after illegal immigrants. (pg. B5)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Sympathy for Migrant Workers After Attack

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y., Sept. 20


This town of 15,000 people gives many mixed messages to the brown-skinned men --
welcomed as workers but shunned as neighbors -- who line up in front of the
7-Eleven at a central intersection looking for day work.

But there was nothing ambiguous about the message delivered Sunday night when
two white men picked up two laborers, took them to a secluded, abandoned factory
in Shirley and then hit one in the back of the head with a crowbar and slashed
the other's neck and wrists with a knife.

The victims escaped, flagged a car on the nearby Long Island Expressway,
received medical help and are expected to recover.

The violence was hardly routine, but the situation is one faced across the
region from Brewster, N.Y., to Montclair, N.J., where poor Hispanic migrants,
many of them undocumented workers, are increasingly conspicuous outsiders amid
the affluent bustle of suburban life.

Interviews with people here about the immigrants in town turned up no small
amount of uneasiness and sometimes hostility, but there was more confusion and
sympathy than anger.

Of those people interviewed in the parking lot of the 7-Eleven or outside the
boarded-up Bald Hill Market, where a vigil for the workers was held in the rain
Tuesday night, most said that the workers were simply trying to earn a living
and support their families.

Most condemned the attack, while several struggled to resolve the current
tensions that have torn the town apart.

"When I heard about the migrant workers, and another incident of bias crime, I
had a very nauseous feeling in my stomach," said Yolanda Lucas, a psychiatric
rehabilitation worker who was waiting in a van in the parking lot yesterday.

"They get in the car, trusting people," said Ms. Lucas, who is black. She
advocated making it illegal to pick the workers up at the corner.

But recognizing that the workers have to feed themselves as well, she suggested
that the people who pick up the day workers should have to register or show
their licenses before hiring anyone, "so that people would know where they are."

A man who owns his own landscaping service but insisted on not being identified
by name said he had hired a few immigrants.

"As long as they're working, they're no problem," said the man, who lives in
Holbrook but works in Farmingville. "I can see if people in Farmingville believe
that if they're not working they should go back home or to a factory and not
mess up the look of Farmingville."

Jack Scheckner of Mount Sinai, who directed an English as a second language
program for 22 years in Freeport, called the attack "very cruel and vicious."

"I think it's a sin, a real shame, that these people be mistreated," he said.
One solution, he said, would be a central place, other than a store's parking
lot, where employers could find help without causing traffic problems.

Mr. Scheckner would also like to see the government curb the number of
immigrants. But he added, "No one should rightfully take the law into their own
hands and punish somebody just because they are different."

Local governments have tried several ways to regulate immigrants, first with a
law limiting the number of tenants per apartment in the Town of Brookhaven,
which includes Farmingville, and then with a proposed bill in the Suffolk County
Legislature in support of filing a federal suit to force the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to move against illegal immigrants.

The bill, which failed to pass earlier this month, will not be reintroduced, its
sponsor, Joseph Caracappa, a Republican County legislator from Selden, said
through a spokeswoman.

Paul J. Tonna, the presiding officer of the Suffolk County Legislature, said he
and his wife, Carol, had pledged $2,000 as a reward for information about the
attack. Bill Fairchild of Crimestoppers of Suffolk County said his unit had
received about 20 tips about the attack.

A podiatrist from Farmingville, Bernadette Garcia, said she would volunteer if
there was a hiring center where immigrants could congregate and where employers
could register for them. "The problem lies with the employers," she said. "The
people who pick them up treat them like day slaves."

"They have to give back," she said of those who hire the workers. "It's not fair
for them to earn $50,000 for a job and give the migrant workers $25 a day. It's
just not right. Somebody has to oversee it."

Hugh Duncan, an insurance agent and teacher in Farmingville, said Huntington had
the right idea -- immigrant workers needing work there gather in a fenced-off
lot that does not obstruct traffic. "A lot of people who are complaining, they
hire them," he said. "They're hypocrites."

Outside the closed Bald Hill Market, Luisa Machado, an assistant manager at a
liquor store, said workers should gather there to be hired. "There is just so
much hatred here, it's horrible," she said.

"They're not hurting anybody," she said of the workers. She worries that there
may have been earlier, more lethal attacks that no one heard about. "I just hope
they haven't done it to anyone else," she said of the attackers.

Nearby, Chris Volpe, a retired law enforcement officer in Farmingville, said he
wanted to move away from his town, where he is disturbed by seeing 35 men living
in one house and where he does not like seeing 20 foreign-born people playing
basketball at the nearby playground on weekends.

"These people come here demanding protection, and they don't pay taxes," he
said. "I never see anybody harass the people. Nobody hates these people, because
they're good people, God-fearing people. But what's happening is not natural.
You cram 35 people into a house, and it's not a good thing. It's not a healthy
thing."

Sal Lucchese of Ronkonkoma, who works for a propane company, was ordering some
food at the Lucky Fortune Chinese Restaurant nearby. "Send them back to their
country," he said. "These people come to this country illegally. People are
taking advantage of them. They're lucky if they make minimum wage."

Sam Costanza, who works for the Long Island Rail Road and was picking up food at
a local restaurant, said: "I don't believe in violence in any way, shape or
form. What did it prove? Did it scare anybody?"

He added that he had seen men lined up for work again this morning.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sam Costanza, a railroad worker, said that the use of violence
would not solve any problems involving migrant workers. (Kevin P. Coughlin for
The New York Times)(pg. B1); Chris Volpe, a retired law-enforcement officer,
said that seeing 35 men living in one house disturbed him and that he did not
like seeing 20 foreign-born people playing basketball at a nearby playground on
weekends.; Bernadette Garcia, a podiatrist, put the blame on employers. The
people who pick up the migrant workers "treat them like day slaves," she said.
(Photographs by Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 29, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Migrant Worker Rights

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 159 words



To the Editor:

Re "For Migrants, Hard Work in Hostile Suburbs" (front page, Sept. 24):

Undocumented immigrant workers are now in the public eye because of the beating
of two Hispanic day laborers in Farmingville on Long Island.  While this hate
crime is intolerable, it is also a harsh reality check.

The desire for cheap labor has allowed those responsible in our communities to
turn a blind eye toward exploitation. Everyone recognizes these migrants as
workers, but they are denied the legal protections afforded other workers.

For us in the labor movement, this is a call to act. We support the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. resolution regarding amnesty, and we will continue to work with
immigrant and community groups to push for improved public policy to protect the
rights and enhance the lives of immigrant workers in New York.

BRIAN M. MC LAUGHLIN
President, New York City
Central Labor Council, A.F.L.-C.I.O.
New York, Sept. 26, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

OPINION;
The Cost of the American Dream

BYLINE: By CARLOS SANDOVAL; Carlos Sandoval, a lawyer and writer, lives in
Amagansett.

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 19; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 862 words


BANDAGED and bruised, one of the two Mexican immigrant workers from Farmingville
who were recently lured to an abandoned building and then attacked was afraid to
show his face. "I guess that's the price you have to pay for the American
dream," he was quoted as saying about the attempt to murder him.

As a Hispanic, my stomach heaved: I was angered by his sense of resignation, but
I understood it, too. As an American, I was shocked that anyone would think that
the risk of murder is the price of entry into my country. As an East Ender, I
realized he was right.

It's simple economics. Many of us on the East End are feeling flush these days.
We want to perfect our American dream, but on the cheap. So we hire immigrant
labor to build the decks on which we barbecue, the pools we play in and the
family rooms we gather in. We pay them a low wage -- they seem to be satisfied
-- and we consider the transaction complete when they disappear.

But it's not. In economic terms we haven't captured all the costs.

In the case of immigrant workers, most communities on the East End have avoided
the full costs associated with maintaining this cheap labor pool. We (or our
contractors acting as our agents) want the convenience of disposable labor,
people we can hire in the morning and push out of sight after a long day's work.
The most efficient way of accomplishing this labor transaction is the same way
you buy a quart of milk. You go to a market and select the product you want off
the shelf.

And so it's evolved that day laborers congregate in certain highly visible spots
to form "shape-up lines" and ply their wares -- themselves.  But because there
is no affordable housing in the communities where the laborers actually work,
they generally live and gather in communities far away from those of us who hire
them. It's as if you hired a gardener and then forced your brother to take him
in. The gardener may pay rent, but your brother is going to resent the
intrusion.

This is, in essence, what we have done to working-class hamlets like
Farmingville. We have shifted the burden of the housing and dispatching of
immigrant labor to them. Formerly homogeneous suburban communities have suddenly
seen their lives disrupted so that we can afford to enhance ours.

This is not to excuse the hate unfurled in recent months by groups like the
Sachem Quality of Life Organization. These groups argue that the shape-up lines
and the immigrants' crowded housing conditions create health and safety hazards.
If this were their real concern, these groups would have accepted the proposal
to establish a hiring hall, a proposal backed by Robert J. Gaffney, the Suffolk
County executive, among others. Instead, these groups have tried to pervert
American values in pursuit of their racist ends.

They argue that hiring halls offend their civic sensibilities because they
condone the illegality of immigrants who have slipped into this country.  Yet in
pursuing this argument these groups have nurtured another illegality: attempted
murder.

And in a scene more appropriate to a totalitarian regime than to our Rockwellian
vision of small-town American democracy, this same element drowned out a
Hispanic witness at a town meeting by chanting the Pledge of Allegiance while
marching out of the meeting.

Working from fear rather than fact, they cited a nonexistent crime wave in order
to convince the Suffolk County Legislature to sue the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to initiate a witch hunt in which I, a sixth-generation
United States citizen, could easily have been rounded up. To its shame, the
Legislature almost bought into the ploy, barely defeating the measure by a lone
vote.

The atmosphere of hate that some citizens of Farmingville have fostered cannot
be excused or tolerated.  But neither can we excuse ourselves from our role in
creating it. We have to recognize that Farmingville, and communities like it,
are subsidizing our "not in my backyard" views, because they are being forced to
house a disproportionate number these workers.

It's not enough to dismiss Farmingville with a liberal "tsk, tsk." We in
surrounding communities must absorb the full cost of the labor that makes it
possible to build our McMansions. At minimum, this means establishing hiring
halls and evenly distributing them among various communities.

But more important, we must put an end to the Nimby complex. We must create
affordable housing in communities throughout the East End including -- or
perhaps most especially -- in overheated real estate markets like the Hamptons.
It also means accepting these workers as neighbors in our communities after the
workday ends rather than carting them off as chattel to pens in other
communities each night.

The American dream is about more than economic opportunity. It's about creating
a textured land in which people of various colors come together as a community.
That's our great experiment and strength. While we may need to be ready to die
in defense of that dream, we cannot tolerate the murder of anyone seeking to
join it merely because he is willing to build our own American dreams at a
discount.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

One Suspect Is Arrested In Beating Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Oct. 10


The Suffolk County police said today that they had arrested one of two men
suspected in the Sept. 17 beating of two Mexican immigrant workers in
Farmingville.

Ryan Wagner, 19, of Maspeth, Queens, was charged with second-degree attempted
murder and second-degree aggravated harassment, said Officer Sonny Di Stefano.
But the police would not release any details in the case, saying they would hold
a news conference Wednesday morning to discuss the arrest.

In the beatings, two men posing as contractors lured the Mexican laborers to an
abandoned building in Shirley, promising them work. They then attacked Israel
Perez, 19, and Magdaleno Escamilla, 28, with a knife, shovel and crowbar. The
workers managed to escape and wave down a driver on the Long Island Expressway.

Officer Mike Lettich of the Fifth Precinct in Patchogue confirmed that Mr.
Wagner would be taken there for the night, after bias detectives completed their
investigation.

Mr. Wagner's family on 60th Lane in Maspeth hung up when a reporter called the
house tonight. But a neighbor said Ryan Wagner was a familiar face in the
neighborhood.

She recalled being on the roof on July 4 to watch the fireworks, and watching as
Mr. Wagner left his house, apparently in a rage, and gunned the engine of his
car.

"He was revving it so that the wheels were spinning and they were burning and
making this smell," recalled the woman, who refused to give her name. "Then his
father came out and calmed him down."

Paul J. Tonna, the Republican majority leader of the Suffolk County Legislature,
praised the police work in the case, and said an anonymous tip had helped the
investigation.

"It just goes to show again you can't commit these type of crimes and get away
with it," he said. "Hopefully it will send a message to the people in the
Hispanic community that there is equal enforcement of the law, and it will send
a message to anybody motivated by hate and race-bashing that they will get the
full extent of the law."

In a statement released by his lawyer, Mr. Wagner said he had turned himself in.
He said he was employed and had a high school equivalency diploma, and said his
problems were related to drinking. "I do not hate anyone," the statement said.
"I have an alcohol problem, which causes me to become angry. I now understand it
is an illness that is treatable."

The Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church, who has
been acting as an adviser to the victims, welcomed news of the arrest.

"I hope that we will now begin to feel the beginning of the end of something
horrific," he said.

He said the two victims have been unable to work since the beatings.

Mr. Ramirez said the men had applied for help from New York Crime Victims
Bureau, and meanwhile are relying on a fund raised through the Brookville
Reformed Church to pay their rent and basic expenses.

Mr. Wagner is scheduled to be arraigned Wednesday at the First District Court in
Islip. The police are continuing their investigation into the second assailant.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 26, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Farm Union Takes Aim At a Big Pickle Maker

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1210 words

DATELINE: FAISON, N.C.


Working the fields here the last 26 years, stooping over rows of cucumbers or
sweet potatoes or tobacco, Jose Pablo Carreon has occasionally had some of his
five children along.

He has brought them not to supplement the $70 he can earn piece rate in an
11-hour day by filling bucket after bucket with vegetables, but to offer them a
lesson: that working the fields should not be their life.

"I don't want them to go through this," he said as he stopped for lunch the
other day.

Mr. Carreon, 42, has hopes not just for his children's lives, but for his own,
too. He backs a drive by the Farm Labor Organizing Committee to organize
cucumber pickers, one of the few efforts ever made to unionize agricultural
workers in the South.

Rather than negotiate separately with hundreds of farm owners resistant to the
drive, the union has been engaged in a boycott of the growers' biggest customer,
the Mount Olive Pickle Company, the South's most popular pickle maker. The
campaign, intended to get the company to bring pressure on the farm owners, has
called particular attention to a federal "guest worker" program and brought rare
scrutiny to labor practices here, from church groups, student organizations and
others.

Most of the harvesters are either illegal Mexican immigrants or workers brought
from Mexico under the guest-worker agricultural program, each for a few months'
work on one farm, harvesting tobacco leaves, yanking sweet potatoes from the
sandy soil, plucking cucumbers from waist-high vines. North Carolina has become
the largest user of these guest workers: a fourth of the nearly 42,000 last year
came to the state.

Without the same federal protection to unionize that other workers have, farm
workers are especially difficult to organize, and North Carolina is famously
inhospitable to unions. Further, the illegal immigrants and the legal guest
workers here fear causing any trouble, making the task of the farm workers'
union all the harder.

Mr. Carreon said he had watched a farmer belt-whip a worker who was too slow. He
has worked in cucumber fields with no portable toilets. He knows of one novice
guest worker who fainted on a tobacco farm last year and died. "Maybe," he said,
"we are afraid to speak up."

Accounts like those have become fodder for the union's campaign.

"They are all indentured," the union's president, Baldemar Velasquez, said of
the pickers. "They have to have the ability to defend themselves, not be
retaliated against."

The union seeks a doubling over five years in cucumber-picking piece rates,
which currently range from 40 to 70 cents a bucket, and the creation of
grievance procedures for working conditions and for living conditions in the
farm labor camps like the one here in Faison, some 50 miles southeast of
Raleigh.

Officials at Mount Olive, just up the road from Faison, say the union has
engaged in a misinformation campaign against the company.

The company does not employ the farm workers but instead has contracts with
suppliers, who in turn have contracts with the farm owners. As the company
notes, then, it is not legally responsible for labor conditions on the farms.

But as the union sees it, Mount Olive is the chief beneficiary of the labor
arrangements, through lower prices than the cucumbers would command in a
unionized market.

"They can subcontract away their responsibility," Mr. Velasquez said. "But the
fact of the matter is, this exists for them.

"Bill Bryan," he said of the company's president, "understands the necessity of
cheap labor."

Although there has never before been a similar boycott in North Carolina, the
action against Mount Olive is a standard farm organizing strategy. A boycott of
the Campbell Soup Company by the Farm Labor Organizing Committee ended in 1986
with union contracts for Ohio cucumber and tomato pickers.

Mr. Bryan, whose company is privately held, declined to discuss revenues. But he
did say the boycott, now a year old, had not affected sales, which he said had
grown by about 10 percent a year in the last decade, to 80 million jars last
year.

Mr. Bryan's factory workers are not unionized, but he said the farm workers'
union had picked his company as its target simply for its name recognition. "Our
business practices are the same as or better than anyone else in the industry,"
he argued. "We're all buying nonunion labor in North Carolina."

And that is the way many farmers in the state want to keep it. Not one of them
has agreed to a union contract with the cucumber pickers.

Frank Howell, whose 900-acre farm in nearby Goldsboro has been in his family for
generations, said he would rather give up on cucumbers than bargain with the
union.

"What can he do on my farm to help my worker?" Mr. Howell said of Mr. Velasquez.
"As far as the conditions in the fields, he can't air-condition the fields. It's
hot, dirty work."

On a recent afternoon, Mr. Velasquez, 52-year-old son of migrant farm workers,
led a reporter through a labor camp tucked behind a hog pen at the end of a dirt
road on a private farm.

The rooms inside these tin-roofed, cinder block cabins were lined with four or
five beds each. Some of the mattresses had lost their springy entrails. The
laundry space was no more than a metal wash basin outside. And the concrete
floors were strewn with dirty boots left behind, and brochures that promised
dreams on these hot, bountiful fields.

"Your dollars working in Mexico," a brochure from the North Carolina Growers
Association, a farmers' group that recruits laborers under the federal
guest-worker program, read in Spanish. It featured pictures of men building a
house in Mexico, or standing in front of a new truck. The brochure warned of
"enemies" of the workers: lawyers and union organizers who, the association
contends, want to shut down the program. Association officials have instructed
workers to get rid of legal-rights handbooks distributed by lawyers with the
federally financed Legal Services Corporation.

In a report issued last month, Human Rights Watch found that visitors were
prohibited in some labor camps and that on occasion sheriff's deputies had
arrested them; they included union officials and supporters from the
church-based National Farm Worker Ministry.

It is not illegal to fire farm workers for union activity. The National Labor
Relations Act does not provide them that protection, as it does other workers.
Further, guest workers can be swiftly sent home if their employer is
dissatisfied; they cannot work for any other employer, though in North Carolina
a handful have fled, choosing to work elsewhere illegally.

Still, Mount Olive officials point out, guest workers are guaranteed prevailing
wages. Their labor camps are required to pass state inspection. Some of the
unionized labor camps in Ohio are worse, the officials say, offering photographs
that show outdoor toilets and crumbling shacks.

Santos Sanchez, 36, a guest worker from Nayarit, Mexico, has heard the growers'
warnings. And while he is skeptical of their claims, he is not unhappy to be
here. He cannot imagine ever making this kind of money back home.

"In Mexico?" he asked incredulously, and laughed. The going rate for field work
back home, he said, is $6 a day.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Farm Labor Organizing Committee is trying to unionize in
the fields of North Carolina, long inhospitable to unions. The campaign has
called attention to a federal program involving "guest worker" immigrants.; Jose
Pablo Carreon, a farm worker who does not want his children following in his
footsteps. (Photographs by Jennifer Warburg for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 30, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Europe's Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 172 words



To the Editor:

"Europe's Love-Hate Affair With Foreigners" (Week in Review, Dec. 24) suggests
that "a model similar to the American H-1B visa -- allowing skilled foreign
workers into the country" is a step that could help increase Europe's comfort
with immigrants and ease its growing labor shortage.

But there is another opportunity for Europe's former colonial powers: higher
education.

As a Fulbright scholar in Lisbon in 1997 and 1998, I worked closely with
students from Portugal's former African colonies who were pursuing university
degrees through grants from Portuguese and African governments and nonprofit
institutions.

If these students remain in Portugal after graduation, they will provide that
country with skilled workers; if they return home, they will contribute to the
countries that send Portugal most of its immigrants.

Educating these students in Europe also provides their European classmates with
an early perspective on diversity.

MICHAEL D. KERLIN
Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 26, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 19, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Last-Minute Congressional Mischief

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words


It is now nearly three weeks into the new fiscal year, and Congress still has
not finished work on several key appropriation bills, including measures to
finance foreign operations and the departments of Commerce, Justice, State,
Labor, Health and Human Services and Education. At this point it seems likely
that most of these measures will be rolled into a giant omnibus bill loaded with
riders and other surprises that neither the public nor even most members of
Congress will have understood or digested before they become law. End-of-session
chaos has become the norm in recent years, and the picture this year seems no
better.

Several of the bills are hung up as Congressional Republicans struggle to
negotiate compromises with President Clinton. Some disputes involve spending
levels, others involve policy matters. The spending bill for the Commerce,
Justice and State departments, for example, has properly drawn a veto threat for
several reasons. Congress has failed to include a provision giving limited
amnesty for illegal immigrants who have been in the United States since 1986.
Mr. Clinton is right to insist on this provision given that so many longtime
immigrants were left in legal limbo after the 1986 immigration reform. The bill
does not include $23 million sought by the administration to finance federal
litigation against the tobacco industry.

Finally, the bill is likely to be saddled with a rider pushed by commercial
broadcasters that would hinder the Federal Communications Commission from
approving low-power radio licenses for groups like schools and churches that
want to reach communities underserved by commercial radio. The administration
has said it would oppose such an amendment.

The education bill has major problems. It fails to include money for tax credits
to help school districts finance school construction. It places money for class
size reduction and school repairs into block grants that do not allow sufficient
accountability from local districts, and it does not adequately finance teacher
training or after-school programs.

The foreign aid bill is blocked by a dispute over unacceptable language that
would bar international family planning groups from receiving American aid if
they perform abortions or lobby foreign governments on abortion policy, even if
they use their own money. Mr. Clinton should veto the bill if this language is
not stripped out.

Two insidious environmental riders bear watching. One, drafted by the snowmobile
industry and sponsored by Senator Craig Thomas, Republican of Wyoming, would
effectively overturn an Interior Department plan to ban snowmobiles from
Yellowstone National Park. It would also block the department from issuing new
regulations banning snowmobiles in national parks generally. This rider deserves
a veto should it somehow find its way to the president's desk. The other rider,
attached to the veterans and housing appropriations bill, seeks to throw
unnecessary obstacles in the way of a decision by the Environmental Protection
Agency on how best to deal with toxic sediments in the Hudson River. That
decision has been too long in coming as it is.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 11, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation: Mexican-Americans;
Forging a New Vision of America's Melting Pot

BYLINE:  By GREGORY RODRIGUEZ;  Gregory Rodriguez is a senior fellow at the New
America Foundation, a nonpartisan public policy institute.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1686 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


WHILE visiting Ellis Island at the turn of the 20th century, Henry James
wondered how the sweeping tide of immigrants would ultimately affect "the idea
of" America. Comparing the incorporation of foreigners to sword- and
fire-swallowing feats at a circus, James reflected on what it meant for America
to share its patrimony with those "inconceivable aliens."

Yet throughout American history, immigrants and minority groups, seeking to make
room for themselves, have broadened the definition of America. Minority
experiences have acted as a powerful force in the creation of America's
self-image.

For the first half of the 20th century, Jews were the paradigmatic American
minority by which all other minority experiences were understood. In the second
half, African-Americans, the descendants of a forced migration, set the standard
for a racial debate that altered the nation's vision of itself. Now, with
Hispanics poised to become the largest minority group, Mexican-Americans -- who
make up two-thirds of all Latinos in the United States -- could change how the
nation sees itself in the 21st century.

Their unique perspectives on racial and cultural synthesis may fundamentally
alter the nation's attitudes, for they are the second largest immigrant group in
American history -- the largest when including illegal immigrants. Mexicans,
themselves the product of the clash between the Old and New Worlds, could shift
this country's often divisive "us versus them" racial dialogue.

A Census Bureau study released last month found that about 10 percent of United
States residents are foreign-born, midway between the high of 15 percent at the
turn of the 20th century and the low of 5 percent in 1970. And Mexicans are by
far today's biggest immigrant group. As such, they are the most likely to leave
a permanent imprint on the culture.

For instead of simply adding one more color to the multicultural rainbow,
Mexican-Americans may help forge a unifying vision. With a history that reveals
an ability to accept racial and cultural ambiguity, Mexican-Americans could
broaden the definition of America unlike any earlier immigrants.

THE early 20th-century debate about the "melting pot" evolved as Jewish writers
envisioned an America that might better accommodate Jews. Their historic
experience as a minority prompted them to take the lead in re-imagining America
for an entire wave of immigrants. The playwright Israel Zangwill, in a 1908
drama about a Jewish immigrant rejecting his faith's prohibition against
intermarriage, developed the optimistic American civic faith that a fusion of
ethnicities will create a stronger nation. For Zangwill, the United States was
both a safe harbor and a crucible that melted Old World ethnics into a
distinctly new American culture.

But by the 1960's, America's exclusion of African-Americans from the mainstream
forged a new vision based on multiculturalism. Though it encompassed other
minority groups, including women and gays, blacks gave the multicultural
movement its key moral impetus. The civil rights movement had begun by
advocating racial integration, but by the late 1960's its message had fused with
a reemergent black separatism that fueled the nascent multicultural movement.

Multiculturalism -- the ideology that promotes the coexistence of separate but
equal cultures -- essentially rejects assimilation and considers the melting-pot
concept an unwelcome imposition of the dominant culture. Race became the prism
through which all social issues were perceived.

BUT because their past and present is characterized by a continual synthesis, a
blending of the Spanish and indigenous cultures, Mexican-Americans could project
their own melting pot vision onto America, one that includes mixing race as well
as ethnicity. Rather than upholding the segregated notion of a country divided
by mutually exclusive groups, Mexican-Americans might use their experience to
imagine an America in which racial, ethnic and cultural groups collide to create
new ways of being American.

It was never clear where Mexican-Americans belonged on the American racial
scale. In 1896, two white politicians in Texas grew worried that more Mexican
immigrants would naturalize and vote. They filed suit against a Mexican-born
citizenship applicant, Ricardo Rodriguez, because he was not white, and so, like
Asians and American Indians, not eligible to become a citizen. Citing the Treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo, in which citizenship was granted to Mexicans in the
conquered region of the Southwest after 1848, the court rejected the suit on the
grounds that Mr. Rodriguez's national origins qualified him for citizenship
regardless of his racial background.

In the 1920 census, Mexicans were counted as whites. Ten years later, they were
reassigned to a separate Mexican "racial" category, though in 1950 they were
white again. Mexican-Americans and Hispanics as a whole are commonly viewed as a
mutually exclusive racial, linguistic and cultural category in a country of
competing minorities. But Mexican-Americans do not share the overarching ethnic
narrative of Jews or the shared history of suffering that has united
African-Americans. For all the discrimination and segregation Mexican-Americans
suffered in the region, the Southwest was never the Deep South. In any case, as
the memoirist John Phillip Santos wrote recently, "Mexicans are to forgetting
what the Jews are to remembering."

By the late 1990's, both the largely ethnic-Mexican Hispanic Congressional
Caucus and the powerful California Latino Legislative Caucus had adopted "Latino
issues are American issues" as their mantra. Mexican-Americans are using their
growing political power to enter the American mainstream, not to distance
themselves from it. The new chairman of the Hispanic Congressional Caucus,
Representative Silvestre Reyes, Democrat of Texas, was once a high-ranking
Border Patrol official and the architect of Operation Hold the Line, the
labor-intensive strategy to stem illegal immigration along the West Texas
border.

Perhaps assuming that Mexicans would (or should) follow the organizational model
of Jews or African-Americans, East Coast-based foundations contributed to the
founding of national ethnic-Mexican institutions. The New York-based Ford
Foundation was instrumental in creating three of the most visible national
Mexican-American organizations -- all modeled after similar black organizations.

But with the exception of some scattered homegrown social service organizations
and political groups, Mexican-Americans have developed little parallel ethnic
infrastructure. One national survey has shown that Mexican-Americans are far
more likely to join a non-ethnic civic group than a Hispanic organization. There
is no private Mexican-American college similar to Yeshiva University or
Morehouse College. In Los Angeles, which has the largest Mexican population in
the country, there is no ethnic-Mexican hospital, cemetery or broad-based
charity organization. Nor does Los Angeles have an English-language newspaper
for Mexican-Americans similar to the black Amsterdam News and the Jewish Forward
in New York.

Though the Spanish-language media is often referred to as the "Hispanic media,"
it generally serves first generation immigrants and not their English-dominant
children and grandchildren.

In the late 1920's, Representative John C. Box of Texas warned his colleagues on
the House Immigration and Naturalization Committee that the continued influx of
Mexican immigrants could lead to the "distressing process of mongrelization" in
America. He argued that because Mexicans were the products of mixing among
whites, Indians and sometimes blacks, they had a casual attitude toward
interracial unions and were likely to mix freely with other races in the United
States.

His vitriol notwithstanding, Mr. Box was right about Mexicans not keeping to
themselves.  Apart from the cultural isolation of immigrants, subsequent
generations are oriented toward the American mainstream. But because Mexican
identity has always been more fluid and comfortable with hybridity, assimilation
has not been an either/or proposition. For example, Mexican-Americans never had
to overcome a cultural proscription against intermarriage. Just as widespread
Mexican-Anglo intermarriage helped meld cultures in the 19th-century Southwest,
so it does today. In fact, two-thirds of intermarriages in California involve a
Latino partner.

ACCORDING to James P. Smith, an economist and immigration scholar at the RAND
Corporation, by 2050 more than 40 percent of United States Hispanics will be
able to claim multiple ancestries.  "Through this process of blending by
marriage in the U.S.," he says, "Latino identity becomes something even more
nuanced."

The fact that people of mixed ancestry came to form a greater proportion of the
population of Latin America than in Anglo America is the clearest sign of the
difference between the two outlooks on race. Mexican-Americans bring the New
World notion encompassed by the word mestizaje, or racial and cultural
synthesis, to their American experience. In 1925, the romantic Mexican
philosopher Jose Vasconcelos wrote that the Latin American mestizo heralds a new
post-racialist era in human development. More recently, the preeminent
Mexican-American essayist Richard Rodriguez stated, "The essential beauty and
mystery of the color brown is that it is a mixture of different colors."

"Something big happens here at the border that sort of mushes everything
together," says Maria Eugenia Guerra, publisher of LareDos, an alternative
monthly magazine in Laredo, Texas, a city that has been a majority Latino since
its founding in 1755. As political and economic power continues to shift
westward, Mexican-Americans will increasingly inject this mestizo vision onto
American culture. "The Latinization of America is so profound that no one really
sees it," asserts Kevin Starr, the leading historian of California, who is
writing a multivolume history of the state. The process of they becoming us will
ultimately force us to reconsider the very definition of who we are.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Latino mural towers over a sidewalk in East Los Angeles.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Rush to Marry During Brief Break in Law

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 814 words


The number of New Yorkers getting married has more than doubled in the last two
months, but it is not the sweet promise of spring that has inspired many of the
couples. It is the hope of a green card.

A law enacted on Dec. 21 offers some immigrants, including those who are in the
country illegally, a brief opportunity to adjust their status if they have a
close relative who is a citizen or a legal permanent resident.

Anyone who wants to take advantage of the benefit -- and an estimated 700,000
people nationwide could be eligible -- must file an application with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service by April 30.

The approaching deadline, complicated rules and widespread public
misunderstanding about the law have left many immigrant families panicked. And
one effect of that panic has been a rush to marry or, at the very least, to
contemplate marriage so as to profit from a partner's legal status.

"I wanted a beautiful dress, a big party, a limousine -- everything," said
Patricia Gonzaga, a student from Brazil who decided to move up the date of her
wedding to her green-card-holding fiance because of the deadline. "But everyone
said, 'You've got to do it now,' " she said. "So we'll have something simple at
City Hall, and then later we'll do it the way we want it."

Couples seeking a combination of premarital counseling and immigration advice
have been showing up at the offices of legal aid groups, immigrant organizations
and lawyers and at churches for weeks.

"What I'm spending most of my time with right now are those people who are
living together or having some kind of romantic interlude but had not really
considered marriage," said the Rev. Brian Jordan, who runs the Franciscan
Immigration Center on West 31st Street in Manhattan.

The number of marriage licenses and civil marriage ceremonies jumped by 125
percent this month and last month over the same period in 2000, said Joyce
Iturriaga, the executive secretary to the city clerk.

Manhattan led the way, but each borough recorded a comparable sudden increase.
So have other cities with large immigrant populations, like Chicago and Los
Angeles.

The law that has prompted the boom temporarily reactivates a waiver program that
has been offered in the past and is known as 245(i).

The main attraction for immigrants is that they can apply for permanent
residence status even if they are in the country illegally. Immigrants who
qualify may stay openly in the United States while waiting for a green card, the
federal document that signifies permanent residence.

Thousands of people, driven by hope and the mistaken impression that a general
amnesty for illegal immigrants was being offered, have flooded legal aid offices
in the New York City area since the clock began running on the one-time waiver
program, when the law was enacted.

A new state information line offering advice in 10 languages has been getting
400 calls a day, twice the number expected when Gov. George E. Pataki first set
it up two weeks ago (800-566-7636). He set aside $1 million to help immigrants
apply for the waiver.

Those applicants who are here illegally still must pay a $1,000 fine and meet a
number of requirements, including proof that a relative or employer in the
United States will take financial responsibility for them.

American immigration law generally favors the reunification of families, giving
preference to the close relatives of someone who is a citizen or has already
settled in the country and has permanent resident status.

Normally those relatives may only apply from their native country. In practice,
that means that families may remain separated for a long time because the wait
for green cards can take from a few years to as many as 20 for other relatives
like brothers or sisters.

Julio, an illegal immigrant from the Dominican Republic who was afraid to give
his last name, said he was planning to marry his girlfriend on Friday and then
apply for the waiver. The woman is a United States citizen and the couple have a
child together, he said.

But he belatedly found out this week that he is married, but to someone else,
because the paperwork for a divorce from his first wife was never filed. Without
the waiver, Julio said, he will probably do just as he has done for years: stay
in New York as an illegal immigrant and try to avoid detection.

Immigration lawyers said they try to warn clients that the new law will not
solve every immigration problem and that improper applications can cause more
harm than good.

Anyone contemplating a sham marriage risks losing all rights to immigrate if
found guilty of trying to defraud the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said Michael Amezquita, executive director of the Coalition for Immigrant Rights
in Washington Heights. "I know that the I.N.S. is going to scrutinize any
marriage that takes place after Dec. 21 and before April 30," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Votes in Congress

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 572 words


Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York.

Senate

1. Tax Cut: Vote on a bill that would lower taxes by $1.3 trillion over the next
11 years and contains all the main elements President Bush proposed. Approved 62
to 38 on Wednesday.


2. Nomination: Vote to confirm Theodore B. Olson as solicitor general. Approved
51 to 47 on Thursday.

12ConnecticutDodd (D)NayNayLieberman (D)NayNayNew JerseyCorzine
(D)NayNayTorricelli (D)YeaNayNew YorkClinton (D)NayNaySchumer (D)NayNay

House

1. Immigrants: Vote on a bill that would give some 200,000 illegal immigrants
with family or employer sponsors four more months to file to adjust their
status. The original deadline was April 30. Approved 336 to 43 on Monday.
2. Education: Vote to strike a provision from an education bill that calls for
annual testing of schoolchildren in grades three to eight. Rejected 255 to 173
on Tuesday.
3. Education: Vote on an amendment to an education bill that would grant two
school districts in every state greater flexibility in how they use some of
their federal money as part of a pilot program. Approved 217 to 209 on Tuesday.
4. Education: Vote on an amendment to an education bill that would allow
low-income parents to use a federal stipend of $1,500 to send their children to
private or religious schools. Rejected 273 to 155 on Wednesday.
5. Education: Vote on an amendment to an education bill that would authorize
five pilot projects to determine the effectiveness of using school choice
vouchers in improving academic achievement. Rejected 241 to 186 on Wednesday.
6. Education: Vote on an education bill that increases spending on education for
mostly low-income students. At the bill's center is a requirement that states
conduct yearly testing as a way of pinpointing failing schools, gauging their
progress and giving parents a status report on the schools their children
attend. Approved 384 to 45 on Wednesday.

Connecticut1Larson (D)YeaYeaNayNayNayA2Simmons (R)YeaNayYeaNayYeaYea3DeLauro
(D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea4Shays (R)YeaNayYeaYeaYeaYea5Maloney
(D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea6Johnson (R)YeaNayNayNayNayYeaNew Jersey1Andrews
(D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea2LoBiondo (R)NayNayYeaNayNayYea3Saxton
(R)NayNayYeaNayYeaYea4Smith (R)YeaNayYeaNayYeaYea5Roukema
(R)NayNayYeaNayNayYea6Pallone (D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea7Ferguson
(R)YeaNayYeaNayYeaYea8Pascrell (D)AYeaNayNayNayYea9Rothman
(D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea10Payne (D)YeaYeaNayNayNayNay11Frelinghuysen
(R)YeaNayYeaYeaYeaYea12Holt (D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea13Menendez
(D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYeaNew York1Grucci (R)YeaNayYeaNayYeaYea2Israel
(D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea3King (R)YeaNayYeaYeaYeaYea4McCarthy
(D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea5Ackerman (D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea6Meeks
(D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea7Crowley (D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea8Nadler
(D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea9Weiner (D)AYeaNayNayNayYea10Towns
(D)AYeaNayNayNayYea11Owens (D)AYeaNayNayNayYea12Velazquez
(D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea13Fossella (R)ANayYeaYeaYeaYea14Maloney
(D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea15Rangel (D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea16Serrano
(D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea17Engel (D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea18Lowey
(D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea19Kelly (R)NayNayYeaNayYeaYea20Gilman
(R)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea21McNulty (D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea22Sweeney
(R)ANayYeaNayYeaYea23Boehlert (R)YeaNayNayNayNayYea24McHugh
(R)YeaNayYeaNayNayYea25Walsh (R)YeaNayYeaYeaYeaYea26Hinchey
(D)ANayNayNayNayYea27Reynolds (R)YeaNayYeaNayYeaYea28Slaughter
(D)YeaNayNayNayNayYea29LaFalce (D)YeaYeaNayNayNayYea30Quinn
(R)YeaNayYeaNayNayYea31Houghton (R)YeaNayYeaNayNayYea

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Fill Gaps, Cities Seek Wave of Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, May 25


A small but growing number of cities with declining populations are embracing
new strategies to attract immigrants to replenish shrinking neighborhoods, fill
labor shortages and inject greater ethnic diversity in their communities.

A number of such efforts are under way here in Pittsburgh, where the population
fell by 9.5 percent in the 1990's, to 334,563, and the immigrant population in
the metropolitan area grew by only 9,000. Four local groups were awarded
$800,000 in foundation grants in the past month to help lure immigrants with
jobs, encourage foreign students to stay after graduation and teach the
community about international diversity. Separately, Allegheny County, which
includes the city, established a task force this week to study how to entice
more immigrants.

Across the state, Philadelphia, which lost 4 percent of its population since
1990, is considering a plan that would create an "Office of New Philadelphians"
patterned after similar offices in New York and Boston that help new foreign
arrivals. The plan, whose champion, Councilman James F. Kenney, is seeking
financing from private foundations, would also promote the city in American
consulates abroad and require more gates at the Philadelphia airport for flights
to and from Asia and Latin America.

"We've got a people problem," said Grant Oliphant, planning director for the
Heinz Endowments, a private, independent foundation in Pittsburgh that gave the
grants. "Regional economies today are heavily dependent on people and people
skills, and it's difficult to attract new businesses in a region that's losing
people."

It was not that long ago that many city officials viewed immigrants as a drain
on public services and that workers saw them as competition for jobs. But the
booming economy of the late 1990's made immigrant labor at all skill levels a
valued commodity, and foreign-born residents, typically with larger, younger
families, helped restock urban neighborhoods that shrank as the middle class
moved to the suburbs.

The fledgling efforts to attract immigrants have just begun in most cities and
are part of broader revitalization plans. They are partly in response to new
data from the 2000 census showing that immigrants are fueling the growth in the
nation's fastest-growing cities, like Charlotte, N.C., and Las Vegas, and
offsetting the flight to the suburbs in many others, like Chicago and New York.

While it is too early to predict the programs' success, planners here are also
watching how other cities retain their foreign newcomers. In Louisville, Ky.,
whose population fell 5 percent in the 1990's, a new city office of
international and cultural affairs plans to post a list of interpreters on the
Internet by the end of next month for community service providers to use.

Louisville officials say their population would have dropped even more had it
not been for the roughly 20,000 immigrants and refugees, from countries like
Cuba, Somalia and Vietnam, who came in the 1990's, tripling the immigrant
population.

In Albuquerque, the City Council passed a bill last December declaring the city
"immigrant-friendly," and appropriated $50,000 to create a resource program for
immigrants. An influx of Hispanics has contributed to a 16 percent increase in
the city's population since 1990.

But even as cities contemplate how to reverse population declines, demographers
expressed caution about whether civic leaders could influence immigration
patterns.

"The research doesn't clearly tell us what causes what, meaning, Does the
presence of immigrants lead to job creation or do jobs attract the immigrants?"
said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer with the Urban Institute, a social-policy
research organization in Washington.

Even if cities can attract immigrants with jobs, housing and ethnic enclaves,
some critics express fear that they could strain city services.

"Politicians who see immigration as a solution to their region's viability are
shortsighted," said Sharon McCloe Stein, executive director of Negative
Population Growth Inc., a population control advocacy group in Washington. "Our
country is overpopulated now. What we need is better distribution of the people
we have."

Civic leaders here dismiss the criticism, but acknowledge they face a stiff
challenge in recruiting immigrants to Pittsburgh, one of the nation's least
racially and ethnically diverse cities.

Pittsburgh ranked 25th among metropolitan areas in the number of immigrants
gained in the 1990's: only 8,935 people, or 0.4 percent of the area's total
population, according to a census data analysis by the Center for Social and
Urban Research at the University of Pittsburgh.

By comparison, the immigrant population of the Miami and New York metropolitan
areas increased by 337,174 and 974,599, respectively, from 1990 to 1999. That
net increase in immigrants amounted to 15.5 percent of Miami's population in
1999 and 11.2 percent of New York's.

Once synonymous with a steel industry powered by waves of Italian, Irish, German
and Eastern European workers, Pittsburgh has reinvented its economy since the
big steel mills collapsed in the 1980's.

But the city's outdated smoky image has dissuaded many immigrants, business
leaders say, and thousands of jobs in new health care, biotechnology and
computer software industries go begging.

Moreover, demographers say, it is difficult to attract immigrants if there is
not already a large foreign community. Only 2 percent of the Pittsburgh area's
population is foreign-born , and many of those people are elderly. Of the
country's most-populous counties, Allegheny County has the second-oldest
population, behind Palm Beach County, Fla.

There are pockets of ethnic diversity. The Squirrel Hill neighborhood is home to
many of the city's 3,000 Russians. There is also a vibrant community of Indian
medical and high-tech professionals.

Only 1.3 percent of Pittsburgh's population is Hispanic, according to the 2000
census. That is well below the 3.2 percent share in Pennsylvania and 12.5
percent nationwide.

The demise of the steel industry, for which overseas competition is largely
blamed, has left many Pittsburghers wary of new foreigners, immigrants here say.

"The people at the top, in business and government, are very receptive, but the
general population is still not very open or receptive to immigrants," said Anju
Chopra, 32, who came to the United States from India as a student in 1992, and
moved here six years ago from Florida with her husband, Sanjay, 33, an executive
of a small software company.

"Still, this area has been very good to us," said Ms. Chopra, an immigration and
economic development consultant who earned a master's degree from Carnegie
Mellon University here and is expecting the couple's second child next month.
Ms. Chopra said she and her husband both recently applied for United States
citizenship.

To help assess immigrants' needs, the Heinz Endowments has given $150,000 to the
World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh to promote international understanding;
$200,000 to El Centro Hispano-Latino, a group that recruits Hispanic workers and
their families; $200,000 to the Pittsburgh Council for International Visitors,
to encourage the 4,000 foreign students here to stay after their studies, and
$250,000 to the Center for Competitive Workforce Development at Duquesne
University, to study how immigrants can fit into the workplace.

Kenneth B. Rodriguez, 58, El Centro's founder, who moved here in 1993 from
Connecticut, acknowledged that the process was slow. He said he had recruited
six men this year from Mexico, El Salvador and Puerto Rico for landscaping or
welding jobs that started at $10 to $12 an hour.

Community leaders agreed that it would take a concerted effort to promote
practical incentives and overcome ingrown suspicions.

"There aren't any magic bullets," said Linda Ehrenreich, associate executive
director of the Jewish Family and Children's Service of Pittsburgh, which has
resettled 2,000 refugees here in the past decade. "It will take time and it will
be controversial."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sanjay Chopra, 33, a native of India, with his daughter, Anya,
4, lives and works in Pittsburgh. He and his wife have applied for citizenship.
(Terry Clark for The New York Times)(pg. A21) Chart: "HEAD COUNT: MOVING IN FROM
ABROAD"The top 25 metropolitan areas by net international migration from 1990 to
1999 as a percentage of estimated 1999 population. RANK: 1METROPOLITAN AREA:
MiamiNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 337,174AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 15.5%1999
POPULATION: 2,175,634 RANK: 2METROPOLITAN AREA: New YorkNET INTERNATIONAL
MIGRATION: 974,599AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 11.2%1999 POPULATION: 8,712,600
RANK: 3METROPOLITAN AREA: Los Angeles-Long BeachNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION:
902,097AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 9.7%1999 POPULATION: 9,329,989 RANK:
4METROPOLITAN AREA: Orange County, Calif.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 233,168AS
PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 8.4%1999 POPULATION: 2,760,948 RANK: 5METROPOLITAN
AREA: San DiegoNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 164,016AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION:
5.8%1999 POPULATION: 2,820,844 RANK: 6METROPOLITAN AREA: Oakland, Calif.NET
INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 135,027AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 5.7%1999
POPULATION: 2,348,723 RANK: 7METROPOLITAN AREA: HoustonNET INTERNATIONAL
MIGRATION: 209,859AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 5.2%1999 POPULATION: 4,010,969
RANK: 8METROPOLITAN AREA: Washington, D.C.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 240,117AS
PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 5.1%1999 POPULATION: 4,739,999 RANK: 9METROPOLITAN
AREA: ChicagoNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 366,607AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION:
4.6%1999 POPULATION: 8,008,507 RANK: 10METROPOLITAN AREA: DallasNET
INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 132,574AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 4.0%1999
POPULATION: 3,280,310 RANK: 11METROPOLITAN AREA: Riverside-San Bernardino,
Calif.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 119,038AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 3.7%1999
POPULATION: 3,200,587 RANK: 12METROPOLITAN AREA: Seattle-Bellevue-EverettNET
INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 79,353AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 3.4%1999 POPULATION:
2,334,934 RANK: 13METROPOLITAN AREA: Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y.NET INTERNATIONAL
MIGRATION: 70,812AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.6%1999 POPULATION: 2,688,904
RANK: 14METROPOLITAN AREA: Boston*NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 137,313AS
PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.5%1999 POPULATION: 5,423,689 RANK: 15METROPOLITAN
AREA: AtlantaNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 82,580AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION:
2.1%1999 POPULATION: 3,857,097 RANK: 16METROPOLITAN AREA: DenverNET
INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 41,029AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.1%1999 POPULATION:
1,978,991 RANK: 17METROPOLITAN AREA: Phoenix-MesaNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION:
62,280AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.1%1999 POPULATION: 3,013,696 RANK:
18METROPOLITAN AREA: Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, Fla.NET INTERNATIONAL
MIGRATION: 42,826AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.9%1999 POPULATION: 2,278,169
RANK: 19METROPOLITAN AREA: PhiladelphiaNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 91,672AS
PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.9%1999 POPULATION: 4,949,867 RANK: 20METROPOLITAN
AREA: Minneapolis-St. PaulNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 45,981AS PERCENTAGE OF
POPULATION: 1.6%1999 POPULATION: 2,872,109 RANK: 21METROPOLITAN AREA: DetroitNET
INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 68,449AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.5%1999 POPULATION:
4,474,614 RANK: 22METROPOLITAN AREA: BaltimoreNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION:
32,727AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.3%1999 POPULATION: 2,491,254 RANK:
23METROPOLITAN AREA: St. LouisNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 25,310AS PERCENTAGE
OF POPULATION: 1.0%1999 POPULATION: 2,591,456 RANK: 24METROPOLITAN AREA:
Cleveland-Lorain-ElyriaNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 17,247AS PERCENTAGE OF
POPULATION: 0.8%1999 POPULATION: 2,221,181 RANK: 25METROPOLITAN AREA:
PittsburghNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 8,935AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION:
0.4%1999 POPULATION: 2,331,336 *Not the Boston primary metropolitan statistical
area, but a group of counties that generally corresponds to the Boston area.
(Source: Center for Social and Urban Research at the University of Pittsburgh,
from Census Bureau estimates)(pg. A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rulings on Medicaid for Immigrants Step Up the Pressure on Albany

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 941 words


Each year, Gov. George E. Pataki has a goal in mind for the Medicaid budget:
lower it. Yet this year it seems that with every month that passes, that budget
is pushed in the opposite direction, and there is little the governor can do
about it.

Sometimes it is because of political pressures, as was the case last spring when
union and hospital leaders begged him to sign on to a public health insurance
program for the working poor and to hold the line on Medicaid cuts to hospitals.

Other times, Mr. Pataki is confronted with unanticipated responsibilities. This
week, New York's highest court ruled that the state had violated the state and
federal Constitutions by denying Medicaid benefits to legal immigrants who
arrived after August 1996, and that now it must pony up.

The court decision came on the heels of another ruling that eliminated federal
money for a program for pregnant immigrants, and the state must decide whether
to dip into its Medicaid till for that group as well.

All this comes at a time when the governor is holding steady on his position
that the overall state budget -- now two months overdue -- should be tightened.

Medicaid, at a cost of roughly $30 billion a year, is the single largest
component of the state's budget. New York spends more on the program than any
other state.

Any Medicaid increase "has to be done in the context of the overall budget,"
said John J. Faso, the Assembly's Republican leader. "You can't do everything
for everyone."

So who, among those looking for more Medicaid dollars, does Mr. Pataki most need
to please?

There are plenty of candidates, most notably immigrants, who appear to have
accounted for the state's tremendous growth in the past 10 years. Then there is
Dennis Rivera, the leader of 1199/S.E.I.U., New York's health and human service
union, who wants $250 million of fresh government money to increase nursing home
staffing. Can the governor afford to alienate him?

In the past few years, Mr. Pataki has agreed to extend New York's public health
insurance to people whom other states have ignored -- the children of illegal
immigrants and poor single adults, among others.

But that was before this week's ruling. The state's Court of Appeals found that
by denying Medicaid coverage to legal immigrants who arrived after August 1996,
as the federal government does, New York had violated its Constitution. The
court ruled that the state must pay for that coverage.

The governor said that he would comply with the ruling, but demurred on whether
he believed the state would have to foot the bill for legal immigrants who want
to participate in a new program, Family Health Plus. That program, financed by
the state and the federal government, will provide free health insurance for
many of the working poor who earn too much to be eligible for Medicaid.

Another legal decision last month found that pregnant women who are in this
country illegally have no right to prenatal care under Medicaid. Before that
ruling, issued by a federal appellate court, New York State was reimbursed for
about 50 percent of its annual costs for a program that covered roughly 13,000
of these women. Governor Pataki has not said whether the state will pick up the
tab for that program.

Avoiding the Family Health Plus additions and declining to pay for prenatal care
for illegal immigrants may seem fiscally prudent. Just covering the legal
immigrants will cost the state "in the nine figures," according to Mr. Pataki,
although the Commonwealth Fund, a health care research foundation, puts the
figure substantially lower at about $2.5 million a year.

But the state had already been under pressure to extend insurance benefits to
legal immigrants. Bills in the Senate and the Assembly proposing an extension of
entitlement insurance programs to legal immigrants were already pending before
the ruling on Tuesday, and advocacy for such bills was coming from many
directions. For instance, a letter signed by several business leaders, including
George Soros, ran in an upstate newspaper recently urging health care coverage
for legal immigrants.

While illegal immigrants -- and many legal ones -- cannot vote, their issues
often resonate strongly with immigrant citizens. "We certainly have seen the
governor courting New York's immigrants," said David Sandman, a program officer
at the Commonwealth Fund. He cited the governor's position that the federal law
denying health care to legal immigrants was wrong. "His increasingly receptive
stance would seem to indicate that he would want to add them to his health care
agenda," Mr. Sandman said.

New York City's population, which has fueled the state's growth in the past
decade, has grown by 456,000 people to 8,008,278 since 1990, according to the
latest census figures. While the percentage of those people who are immigrants
is yet to be determined, there are strong hints that immigrants have been behind
much of the population expansion in the city and elsewhere.

Could the Medicaid budget be cut in other places? Not likely. This year, Mr.
Pataki proposed a $300 million cut in the state's contribution to nursing homes,
but both the Senate and the Assembly pronounced it dead on arrival.

For his part, the governor plans to do what many states do in the face of rising
costs: ask for more from the federal government. "These are some substantial new
and unanticipated costs," said John F. Signor, a spokesman for the State Health
Department. "We will be looking for some help from the federal government and
our Congressional delegation to ensure that New York State gets its fair share
of its federal dollars to cover the costs of these programs."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The World: Adjoining;
Rethinking Segregation Beyond Black and White

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words


THE waves of immigration to the United States over the last 20 years -- the
largest two-decade influx in the nation's history -- have produced new forms of
segregation and integration that challenge the traditional meaning of those
words. The 2000 census reveals that the issue of black-white segregation has
been complicated by new forms of Latino and Asian separateness and mixing.

While the census makes clear that the segregation of blacks from whites remains
stubbornly high, Latinos and Asians have integrated places once largely black or
largely white. Yet they have also formed racial and ethnic enclaves that upend
long-held assumptions about segregation's causes and costs.

These enclaves are the result of forces far more complex than those that
produced black-white segregation in the past -- forces that include not only
discrimination but also varying degrees of necessity, personal preference and
the immigration process itself.

Among Asian groups, for example, it is sometimes those with higher incomes and a
greater range of choices who opt to cluster. So the enclave is a springboard for
some, a destination for others. And while some Latinos assimilate quickly,
others become segregated in places that resemble traditional ghettos.

"The conventional notions of integration and segregation need rethinking," said
George Galster, a professor of urban affairs at Wayne State University in
Detroit. "We are starting to see many more multiracial and ethnic neighborhoods.
And the dynamics of how and why those neighborhoods change are relatively
unknown to social scientists, compared to the dynamics of the traditional
white-black transitions."

John R. Logan, a sociologist at the State University at Albany who has long
studied black-white segregation, said he shifted after 1990 to include Asians
and Latinos. He has gone from thinking of segregation as "almost entirely
imposed on minorities" to believing there is "more variation and complexity
among different groups, and even different social classes among groups."

EXTERNAL barriers, like housing discrimination based on race, are still viewed
as the main cause of black-white segregation. But among Asians, preference plays
a larger part. Latinos fall in between. Like blacks, they face discrimination in
the real estate market, though they can also benefit from the ethnic economies
found in Hispanic enclaves. Many, better educated and better off, move on;
others do not. Language ability is a key factor.

Professor Logan said Latino children tend to remain bilingual at home even in
the third generation, particularly when they live in concentrated enclaves. But
most Asian children in the third generation, he said, live in entirely
English-speaking environments.

"The complexity of segregation is brought home to us when we see how differently
it is working out for different groups," he said.

To many, the term segregation connotes black isolation from whites. And
black-white segregation remains the most extreme. As Edward L. Glaeser, a
Harvard economist who studies segregation, puts it, blacks, more than any group
except perhaps Native Americans, have been subjected to an unusually severe set
of external segregating forces -- from violence to restrictive covenants to
racial steering by real estate agents.

"One of the striking things about black-white segregation over the years is that
it has been and remains so much higher than other kinds," said John M. Yinger, a
professor of public administration and economics at Syracuse University. "It is,
in some ways at least, a different phenomenon."

BY contrast, Latino and Asian segregation is often a transitory product of
immigration: a Korean immigrant moves into an Asian neighborhood not because of
housing discrimination but because a Korean friend finds her an apartment. In
that way, researchers say, Latinos and Asians resemble earlier European
immigrants, who faced discrimination but also congregated voluntarily.

"There's probably some discrimination against Latinos and Asians in the housing
markets," said Reynolds Farley, a sociologist at the University of Michigan,
"but most immigrant groups have, to some degree, clustered when they arrived. As
they move up the economic ladder, their clustering goes down."

Not everyone, however, moves on. Some Latino groups are isolated in inner-city
areas just as disadvantaged as some African-American ghettos, Professor Logan
said. While Latinos who achieve higher income and educational levels have
assimilated after the first generation, many have not -- even in the third
generation.

"There are many places now where Mexicans or Guatemalans or Dominicans or Puerto
Ricans have greater disadvantage and perhaps not better prospects in the next 20
years than African-Americans," he said. "There's a social process in place that
makes assimilation possible for them in a way that African-Americans do not
experience. But, particularly among Hispanics, only a relatively small share get
the benefit of that."

Another difference between the segregation of blacks and other groups has been
the intensity of concentration. Philip Kasinitz, a professor of sociology at
Hunter College and a specialist in immigration, said it is unusual for people
who voluntarily cluster to become as highly concentrated as African-Americans.
For Europeans who came in the early 20th century, as for more recent Latino and
Asian arrivals, high concentrations occur only rarely, in so-called
neighborhoods of first settlement.

Second-generation neighborhoods are far more mixed. The dominant ethnic group in
places that used to be called, say, Little Italy rarely topped 50 percent,
Professor Kasinitz said. Then middle- and upper-middle-class members of the
immigrant group moved on, leaving the working class behind -- a pattern he
suspects is being repeated by Asians and Latinos.

Black segregation is different. Concentrations of 80 or 90 percent occur almost
exclusively in black neighborhoods, Professor Kasinitz said, because only in the
case of blacks do all whites flee. There are neighborhoods in the Bronx, he
said, where the older population is Italian and the younger population Latino,
that will remain integrated for a long time.

Other scholars make the point that "voluntary" segregation is rarely clear-cut.
The last national study of housing discrimination, in 1989, found discrimination
in the sales market was as high on most measures for Latinos as for blacks.
Another national audit, which for the first time included Asians, was done in
2000; the results are due this year.

"It's very hard when you see a clustering of any type of racial or ethnic
minority group," Professor Galster said, "to know the degree to which their
expressed preferences are a function of positive desires to be with their own
kind as opposed to fears of being with a different group."

The census shows a mixed picture. Nationally, there has been a slight drop in
black-white segregation, measured by indexes sociologists use. Much of the
improvement seems limited to the black middle and upper-middle class; new and
growing metropolitan areas in the South and West; and suburbs. Older cities
remain highly segregated.

Segregation between blacks and Latinos dropped in some areas, as lower-income
Hispanic immigrants moved into black neighborhoods that some blacks left behind,
Professor Logan found. But segregation between whites and Latinos changed little
in cities with the largest Hispanic populations, where many immigrants have
settled in Hispanic neighborhoods; it dropped more where Latinos had been a
small fraction of the population.

The pattern is similar for Asians. Asian-white segregation was unchanged in
metropolitan areas with the largest Asian populations, which also saw heavy
Asian immigration. It dropped where Asians made up 2 to 4 percent of the
population.

"In some ways, we have become a far more mixed, multicultural community,"
Professor Kasinitz said of New York. He pointed out that the number of places
that whites share with Asians and that blacks share with Latinos increased. "But
the old, core segregation problem in the United States, the distance between
blacks and whites, hasn't changed."

Researchers have drawn divergent conclusions. Professor Logan, who calculated
rates of segregation between all four groups, found little change. Despite the
small drop in segregation between blacks and whites, he said he was struck more
by its persistence, and its persistence between whites and the other groups.

In contrast, Professor Glaeser, who is studying segregation between blacks and
all nonblacks since 1890, concluded that the level had "declined dramatically"
for the third straight decade. He said the drop appeared greater if one looked
at black-nonblack segregation, instead of black-white, but it was significant
either way.

Professor Galster of Wayne State said: "The data are just very complicated.
There are all sorts of trends happening that suggest certain things that are
positive and other things that are not. It becomes just a matter of judgment and
ideological position whether one sees the glass as half empty or half full at
this point."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new integration: a procession at Our Lady of Vietnam Church,
in East New Orleans. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 3, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

POSTINGS: Public Meetings This Week;
The Next Phase For Ellis Island

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 220 words


Ten years after transforming the Main Building on Ellis Island into an
immigration museum, the National Parks Service is preparing the next phase of
its work, to save and rehabilitate 30 other historic structures on the island
that have fallen into disrepair since being abandoned by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in the 1950's. They include the vast Baggage and
Dormitory Building, the New Ferry Building (a 1930's replacement, hence its
designation as new) and the 28-building hospital complex.

Efforts to stabilize temporarily the buildings that are now considered unsafe
have begun, thanks to commitments of more than $8 million in government and
private funds. The estimated cost of the entire project is $200 million,
according to Cynthia Garrett, the deputy superintendent of the park service for
Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty.

Three forums will be held this week to give the public an opportunity to comment
on the plans. They will be held on Wednesday 6 to 8 p.m. at the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection, 401 East State Street, Trenton; Thursday
from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Ellis Island Main Building and Thursday from 6 to
8 p.m. at the National Museum of the American Indian, 1 Bowling Green.

Specific uses for the buildings have not been determined.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 2, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suit Details The Beatings Of Detainees In Louisiana

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS


As the Immigration and Naturalization Service locks up more immigrants, already
doubling the number the agency detained five years ago, cries by the immigrants
and their advocates about miserable prison conditions are mounting.

The immigration service uses more than a third of the $800 million budgeted to
house detainees on about 225 jails, many in rural areas, where there is space
and per diem costs are low.

Of the jails, immigrant advocates often cited the Orleans Parish Prison in New
Orleans as one of the worst. Detainees there have detailed frequent beatings by
guards to numerous advocacy groups, including the Catholic Legal Immigration
Network.

One detainee, Shi Cheng Qin, told the Catholic group that on May 12, 1999, he
was beaten by five guards. He said other detainees watched the beating, which
lasted about 20 minutes. It ended, he said, when he began coughing blood.

Shi Cheng Qin said that during the beating, he shouted that he would call a
lawyer or the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He said a guard replied: "How are
you going to contact them if you are in segregation without a phone, envelope,
writing pad or writing pen?"

Freeman R. Matthews, the lawyer for Orleans Parish Criminal Sheriff's Office,
denied that the beating took place. Mr. Matthews said Shi Cheng Qin had attacked
a guard after he complained that items he had ordered from the prison store were
not delivered. He said Shi Cheng Qin received 60 days in solitary confinement
for the incident.

A lawsuit by 13 Asian detainees in 1999 against the Orleans prison cited
consistent abuse there. The lawsuit, filed by Salvador G. Longoria and Michele
Gaudin on behalf of the group, accused the guards of beating the detainees and
of conspiring with inmates who were not immigrants to beat the detainees in
October 1998, in what Ms. Gaudin described as a "staged gladiatorial contest
inside the prison."

The Asian detainees said the inmates beat them until they were bloody.

Tin Huu Pham, a detainee, gave an account of the beating of Chau Van Cong in a
deposition on Sept. 21, 1999: "I saw Mr. Van Cong was unconscious on the ground.
He got blood where his mouth and nose at, and the rest of the Asians, they just
sit down. And it was a horrible sight. And I was weak, real weak. And Sergeant
Verrett asked me to slip Mr. Van over on his side so he wouldn't choke on his
own blood, but I was so weak, I was bleeding myself, and I couldn't do it."

Last September, after the case was tried but before the judge rendered a
decision, the Orleans Parish Criminal Sheriff's Office settled the lawsuit,
agreeing to pay an undisclosed amount to the 13 detainees. All 13 were later
released under what Russell A. Bergeron Jr., director of media relations for the
immigration service, said were "routine release procedures."

Mr. Matthews said that the accusations of civil rights violations made against
the sheriff's office were false, conceding only that the guards should not have
allowed the two groups to mingle. He noted that a federal magistrate was
appointed 20 years ago to oversee prison conditions after inmates filed a
lawsuit, and that the magistrate continued to make sure the jail did not violate
the rights of inmates.

Mr. Matthews described the October 1998 incident as a fight between the inmates
and detainees.

But two inmates filed a claim saying the guards forced them to beat the Asian
detainees. The inmates were given monetary awards from the judge, who ruled that
the incident was not a violation of their civil rights.

Other detainees have also complained of the parish prison.

Majid Cholak, 40, an Iraqi who came to the United States in 1972, was picked up
by the immigration service on July 16, 1996, the day he was released from
federal prison after six years for possession of marijuana and a handgun. He was
eventually ordered deported and after his appeal was denied, Mr. Cholak was
transferred to the Orleans Parish Prison. Because Iraq refused to accept him, he
was eventually released on Nov. 4, 1999.

"In the winter I slept with two sweatpants, two sweatshirts and a hat in my bunk
because there is no heat," Mr. Cholak said. "We never had fresh fruits or
vegetables. And there would be a beating of a detainee at least once a week."

Mr. Matthews said prison records showed that Mr. Cholak limited his grievances
to minor issues such as cold food, late mail and problems with a cellmate.

But when it comes to jail conditions, Mr. Cholak is able to speak from
experience. "I have been in 11 different state prisons, 8 federal prisons and 14
country jails," he said, "and the House of Detention in O.P.P. was by far the
worst."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 13 Asian detainees, represented by Salvador G. Longoria and
Michele Gaudin, received a settlement in September. (David Rae Morris/Impact
Visuals); Chau Van Cong was one of 13 detainees who accused guards of beatings
in October 1998 at the Orleans Parish Prison. This photograph was taken by
Salvador G. Longoria, a lawyer for the detainees. (Salvador G. Longoria)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sharon Opens His Campaign; U.S. Diplomat Puts Off Trip

BYLINE:  By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 10


Ariel Sharon, the hawkish Likud Party leader and clear front-runner for the
premiership, formally kicked off his campaign tonight, as an American envoy
indefinitely postponed a trip to the region for last-minute peacemaking efforts.

To Chaim Levi, a car mechanic who was bobbing with glee at Mr. Sharon's rally,
it was a one-two punch to the Oslo interim peace agreement, which he has long
opposed.

"Oslo is dead, Barak is dying and Sharon is king!" Mr. Levi said.

Referring to the American envoy, he added, laughing: "Dennis Ross -- may he rest
in peace. We are at the start of a new era."

Mr. Ross had been scheduled to arrive today for meetings with the Israeli and
Palestinian leaders. The visit was pushed back a day, and then, with barely 10
days remaining for the Clinton administration's troubled mediation efforts,
State Department officials said it would be delayed further. It could not,
however, be considered canceled, they said -- not yet.

Tonight, Mr. Sharon sat flanked by Benjamin Netanyahu, the former prime
minister, Natan Sharansky, the pre-eminent Russian immigrant leader, Avigdor
Lieberman, another Russian immigrant leader, Yitzhak Levy, head of the National
Religious Party, former Foreign Minister David Levy and former Prime Minister
Yitzhak Shamir, among others.

Excepting Mr. Shamir and perhaps Mr. Netanyahu, it was a snapshot of what would
very likely be Mr. Sharon's cabinet.

Above them hung a large picture of Jerusalem taken from the vantage of the Mount
of Olives, and a banner: "Ariel Sharon, leader of peace."

"There is not one camp that is the peace camp and another camp that does not
yearn for peace and does not want to reach it," Mr. Sharon said, reminding his
supporters he had served in the military for many years, lost many friends and
been wounded more than once. "I know the agonies of war and its heavy price. No
one will preach to me. No one will preach to us."

Mr. Sharon has made it clear that he will consider any Israeli-Palestinian
understandings reached at or since the failed Camp David talks last July to be
void if he becomes prime minister in the Feb. 6 elections. In an interview with
a Hasidic magazine to be published on Thursday, he went even further.

"The Oslo accord is an agreement that no longer exists," Mr. Sharon said,
according to an account printed today by several newspapers. He explained that
the peace agreement "self-destructed" in the last months of violence. He also
sought to clarify that when he refers to "painful concessions that have to be
made in the name of peace, he is not referring to the dismantling of
settlements.

"When I talk about painful concessions, I mean we're not going to reconquer
Nablus or Jericho," he said, referring to West Bank towns under Palestinian
rule.

Mr. Ross was to be making his final trip to the region, since he plans to step
down this month after shepherding the Israeli-Palestinian peace effort through
many highs and, now, new lows. No hope seems to remain of a breakthrough deal.

But officials said that Mr. Ross has tried to document the points of agreement
-- partly to wrestle from the disintegrated relationship a record of some
achievement and partly as a guideline to serve the Bush administration.

The rigorously Orthodox Shas party, a linchpin group that has endorsed Mr.
Sharon without great enthusiasm, boycotted the rally tonight "for reasons of
modesty." Female artists were scheduled to perform, and Shas politicians did not
succeeding in persuading Likud officials to take them off the program in respect
of a theological prohibition on men listening to women sing.

This followed Shas's disappointment last weekend to learn that Mr. Sharon had
appeared on a Friday evening interview program in violation of the Sabbath, as
had Prime Minister Ehud Barak. Mr. Sharon explained that, if elected, he would
start observing the Sabbath.

In words of caution to Mr. Sharon, Shlomo Benizri, a Shas lawmaker, said: "Don't
scoff at the ultra-Orthodox public and don't think it is in anybody's pocket.
People may say wait a minute, if that is how he acts, we are not willing."

Mr. Sharon, a pugnacious septuagenarian with a long, checkered career in public
service, is leading Mr.  Barak by a very large margin in the polls. The margin
is so big that Mr. Barak faces mounting pressure from within his own Labor Party
to step down as candidate and let Shimon Peres, the former prime minister and a
rival, run in his place.

Polls show that a race between Mr. Sharon and Mr. Peres would be very tight, and
Israel's election laws allow a candidate to resign up to 96 hours before an
election.

The pressure on Mr. Barak to do so went very public on Wednesday morning when
his former chief of staff, Haim Mendel-Shaked, said he expected the prime
minister to pull out.

"As I know Ehud, he has already made the decision in his own mind," Mr.
Mendel-Shaked told Israel's Army Radio. "He's no kamikaze. Whoever reads the map
correctly knows that Ehud has no chance to be elected."

The prime minister's office issued a quick denial of Mr. Mendel-Shaked's
assessment. Mr. Barak himself has said he would not quit his campaign even if he
was left with only a handful of supporters. It was a remark that made his
associates wince, since it fed into a public image of the prime minister as
defiantly stubborn and made his campaign seem more quixotic than it is.

"There is nothing in the world that would make me quit the race," Mr. Barak said
on Israeli television on Tuesday night, sitting beside his wife, Nava. "I am
convinced that I will be able to persuade the left camp that this election is
not a video game."

Tonight's rally was buoyant but more subdued than past Likud events in honor of
Mr. Netanyahu, a crowd-pleasing politician who energized his supporters.

Mr. Netanyahu, who was the favored candidate of the nationalist camp, decided
not to run for prime minister in the special elections, which were prompted by
Mr. Barak's resignation after 17 months in office. Mr. Netanyahu said that no
prime minister would be able to govern unless the Parliament were remade, too,
and that he would wait for the next general elections to make his bid.

Whoever is elected would theoretically serve out the rest of Mr. Barak's
four-year term, but Mr. Netanyahu has suggested that no government will last
that long.

At the rally, there was low-key chanting of Mr. Sharon's name, and loud,
extended booing at every mention of Mr. Barak's.

Earlier this week, Mr. Sharon confronted rumors that he was suffering from
failing health and memory loss. His physician, Dr. Borislav Goldman, called
Israel Radio from Cambodia to declare him perfectly fit. He said that Mr. Sharon
had endured some hearing loss in the army, but that that condition had not
deteriorated in "30 to 40 years."

Israeli newspapers quoted suspicions by Mr. Sharon's associates that the rumors
were an "inside job," leaked by former allies of Mr. Netanyahu.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ariel Sharon kicked off his campaign yesterday. Seated in front
row from left: Benjamin Netanyahu, Natan Sharansky and Yitzhak Shamir. The mural
is dominated by the Dome of the Rock, the Muslim shrine. (Reuters)(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Melting Pot Works Its Magic On Baby Names

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 278 words


Taking stock at the end of the 20th century, some might have found it amazing
that there were still plenty of things in New York City that had not changed
since the end of the 19th century. It was still noisy. It was still teeming with
traffic. And the city's population included a large helping of people who had
not been born in the United States.

Census Bureau numbers from a household survey in 1999 showed that 40 percent of
the city's population was foreign-born, equaling the previous record from the
1910 census.

Of course, over a century, the details change. The noise is no longer from
horseshoes and street cart vendors who advertise their wares vocally. The subway
did cut down on traffic (for a while). And most of the souls yearning to breathe
free do not come from Europe anymore. Nowadays, they hail from Central America
and the Caribbean.

Like the newcomers of a century ago, immigrants today are looking for a better
life for their children. But as the list of the most popular baby names seems to
show, the modern immigrants are not clinging to the names familiar in their
native countries. Although the city's Health Department does not break out the
names of first-generation babies, the Census Bureau says immigrants provide a
large share of the city's baby boom.

The most popular name for Hispanic girls born in New York City in 1999 was
Ashley; for Asian girls, the No. 1 choice was Michelle. For black girls, the
most popular name was Kayla; for white girls, it was Sarah.

And the most popular name for Hispanic boys in the city in 1999 was Christopher;
for Asian boys, it was Kevin. For black boys, it was Justin; for white boys, it
was Michael.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart lists babies most popular names in 1898 and 1999.(Source:
New York City Department of Health, Office of Vital Statistics)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 17, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Dreams, For Immigrants, Too

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 150 words


To the Editor:

Re "Americans (a) Love (b) Hate Immigrants" (Week in Review, Jan. 14):

America can't function without immigrants as a source of cheap labor, people who
will do the jobs nobody wants at wages nobody else would accept.

Yet we have the "American dream," in which no one stays at the bottom of the
economic ladder. Within one or two generations, the descendants of immigrants
are supposed to become business people, lawyers or doctors.

However, we can't have it both ways. A steady supply of cheap labor implies a
permanent underclass. If today's immigrants move up the ladder, who will harvest
the raisin crop, scrub the floors and watch the babies tomorrow? Do we want a
stationary underclass that will never realize the American dream, or an upwardly
mobile society in which an endless stream of immigrants moves in to fill the
bottom rungs?

RONALD W. ANGEL
Bellevue, Wash., Jan. 15, 2001


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 20, 2001 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Reno Voids Denial of Asylum For Guatemalan Battered Wife

BYLINE:   By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 499 words


In one of her last acts as attorney general, Janet Reno yesterday voided an
immigration panel's ruling that denied political asylum to a Guatemalan woman
who fled her country to escape an abusive husband.

The decision was immediately hailed as a boon for other women who are seeking
asylum in the United States on grounds that they were persecuted because of
their sex.

"It erases the one major precedent that had been an obstacle to the granting of
those cases," said Karen Musalo, a professor at the University of California
Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco.

In her order, Ms. Reno vacated a 1999 decision by the Board of Immigration
Appeals concerning the Guatemalan woman, Rodi Alvarado Pena, whose case has
become a rallying point for many women's advocates in New York and across the
country.

While acknowledging that Mrs. Alvarado had suffered appalling beatings at the
hands of her husband, the judges on the appeals board said that she did not
qualify for political asylum as a member of a persecuted group. They denied her
request to remain in the United States. Mrs. Alvarado has appealed the decision
in federal court and is living in California while her case is pending.

Her lawyers had argued that Mrs. Alvarado was a member of a persecuted social
class by virtue of being a woman in a patriarchal culture that tolerated
violence against women.

Similar arguments have been made on behalf of foreign women who flee countries
where female genital mutilation is practiced, where men are excused for killing
female relatives who are sexually active, and where men have the legal right to
prevent a female relative from traveling.

Immigration judges have sometimes granted asylum to women who suffered abuse or
feared abuse in such countries. But their rulings have not been consistent.

Ms. Musalo said the Alvarado ruling two years ago significantly shifted the
debate because it established new and more stringent criteria for abused women
seeking asylum.

The decision by Ms. Reno to vacate that ruling, Ms. Musalo added, could help
other women whose cases were still pending before immigration judges. "This
brings us back to the body of law that existed before," she said.

Mrs. Alvarado's quest for a haven is not over. The Board of Immigration Appeals
will now reconsider her request for asylum, although possibly according to
different ground rules.

In her one-paragraph order, Ms. Reno directed the board to wait until federal
rules on gender-based asylum claims were finalized and to reconsider the case in
light of those rules.

In December, the Immigration and Naturalization Service asked for public comment
on proposed rules for deciding asylum requests from women who say they are
victims of domestic violence. At the time, the agency said it wanted to make it
easier for abused women to qualify for asylum.

The rules are not final and it is not clear whether the immigration agency,
under the new leadership of the Bush administration, will ultimately adopt them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2001



CORRECTION: A headline on Saturday about the asylum request of a woman who fled
Guatemala to escape an abusive husband referred imprecisely to an action taken
on Friday by Attorney General Janet Reno. She did not grant asylum; she voided
an appeals board ruling denying asylum, and thus required the board to
reconsider the case.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 20, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Economics

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 149 words


To the Editor:

Re "Americans (a) Love (b) Hate Immigrants" (Week in Review, Jan. 14): The one
group whose interests should be paramount is the citizen workers with whom most
immigrants compete. Our immigration policies (including lax enforcement) have
generated a flood of unskilled, poorly educated job seekers.

The oversupply of any economic resource means it will be underpriced and,
therefore, actively sought.

When poor immigrants accept lower wages and fewer benefits and job protections,
immigrant workers are exploited and the well-being of citizen workers is
imperiled. Cheap labor has led to a perilous widening in wage disparity. The
ensuing income inequality has been the Achilles' heel of the recent economic
boom and will be the nightmare of the next recession.

VERNON M. BRIGGS JR.
Ithaca, N.Y., Jan. 16, 2001

The writer is a professor of labor economics at Cornell University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Haunted by an Earlier Life;
A Deportation Order Is Also a Separation Order

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1660 words

DATELINE: WALLINGTON, N.J.


The desire of Malachy McAllister to continue living with his family in this
working-class town would not be so problematic if he had not once been an Irish
terrorist. Then he would simply be McAllister the stone mason with a gift for
restoring old buildings, not McAllister the ex-terrorist begging the United
States not to deport him.

He readily admits to his former life, although he prefers to think of himself as
an ex-soldier in a civil war. As a member of the Irish National Liberation Army,
a left-wing paramilitary organization, he plotted to kill two Royal Ulster
Constabulary officers in Belfast nearly 20 years ago. One of his targets was
slightly wounded, and the plot against the other fizzled.

That was another Malachy McAllister, he says now. He gave up being a terrorist
because he was bothered by the killing part, served time in prison, and for more
than a decade has done nothing more violent than put mortar to brick. After
gunfire riddled the family's Belfast home in 1988, he and his wife fled with
their four children, first to Canada and then to the United States, where they
requested political asylum. He told the authorities that if he returned home,
old enemies would be waiting.

In October, a federal immigration judge in Newark agreed that he had turned his
life around but said the change "does not diminish the gravity of his earlier
criminal activities"; he ordered that Mr. McAllister be deported. But the judge
granted asylum to Bernadette McAllister for having "suffered extreme past
persecution based on her religion, her political opinion, and because she is
Malachy McAllister's wife."

Distraught over the split decision, the McAllister family hoped that the Clinton
administration would include them in any final sweeping gesture regarding
Northern Ireland.

In December, the government announced that to contribute "toward a lasting
peace" there, it would not pursue deportation proceedings against nine Irish
republicans. Mr. McAllister was not among them.

Now he and his family live more in limbo than in New Jersey.

The family wound up in this predominantly Polish-American town in 1997 simply
because a friend of a friend knew of a place for rent. Then, in mid-1999, they
moved into the first floor of a three-family apartment building, not far from
Giants Stadium and just off a main road lined with gas stations and convenience
stores.

Most of their neighbors are ignorant of their plight, and the McAllisters have
worked to blend in, to be just a few more threads in the New Jersey fabric. The
youngest, 13-year-old Sean, dreams of making the high school baseball team;
Nicola, 14, baby-sits for the family living upstairs. In photographs that hang
prominently in the living room, both children wear Wallington Little League
uniforms.

But when Mrs. McAllister is not keeping the house and Mr. McAllister is not
detailing brick, they are attending fund-raising events for their benefit,
talking to lawyers about court appeals, and doing what they can to block a
deportation that draws nearer each day.

"All we're asking for is sanctuary in this country so that our children don't
have to endure what we had to endure," Mr. McAllister, 43, says in the distinct
Belfast accent that makes answers sound like questions.

Even relocating to Dublin in the Republic of Ireland, 100 miles south of
Belfast, holds little appeal. "Too close," says Mrs. McAllister, weary beyond
her 42 years. "They were out to shoot my family."

Nearly two dozen members of Congress recently signed a petition that sought,
without success, to prompt a last-minute reprieve from President Clinton. Now
the same pressure will be applied to the Bush administration, according to
Representative Robert Menendez of New Jersey, who with Representative Joseph
Crowley of Queens is championing the cause of Mr. McAllister and other Irish
republicans living illegally in the United States, a group whose exact number is
unknown but estimated to be fewer than two dozen.

"President Clinton provided some relief for a small number of them," Mr.
Menendez said in a statement. "Now it falls on President Bush to do the same for
Malachy McAllister and the other remaining few who otherwise will be forced to
return to Northern Ireland and possibly face politically motivated threats
against their well-being."

Just as there is nothing simple about the Catholic-Protestant conflict in
Northern Ireland, there is nothing simple about the case of Mr. McAllister. Like
many other Catholics growing up in certain Belfast neighborhoods in the 1970's,
he rebelled against what he saw as the persecution of Catholics by the Royal
Ulster Constabulary officers and the British Army. He threw his share of rocks
and fists, took his share of beatings, saw his share of bloodshed. In 1975, he
watched Protestant loyalists gun down his friend in a drive-by shooting.

In the spring of 1981 there came a singular, galvanizing moment for Belfast
Catholics: the hunger-strike death of Bobby Sands, a member of the Irish
Republican Army, in Long Kesh prison. Soon Mr. McAllister was working with the
Irish National Liberation Army, which had deep roots in his neighborhood; two of
his brothers were already members. "No question about it, it was Bobby Sands,"
he said. "In my mind that was as close to war as you could possibly get."

In July of that year, Mr. McAllister pulled a mask over his face and helped
ambush an officer of the Royal Ulster Constabulary. He stood guard while a
partner shot and wounded the officer. Four months later, he worked on a plan to
kill another constabulary officer who attended the same fitness club as he did,
but the murder was never carried out.

In February 1982, information provided by his brother Robert, an Irish National
Liberation Army assassin turned informant, led to Mr. McAllister's arrest. He
was convicted and served time in the Crumlin Road jail and Long Kesh prison,
where he and other republicans were given political-prisoner status. Released in
September 1985, he rejoined his family and began working as a mason.

But no ex-terrorist could return to the roiling Belfast streets -- rife with
soldiers, traitors and boys with guns -- and expect to live as though all had
been forgotten. The angry confrontations with police and soldiers continued, as
did the sense of persecution and the taste of fear. The McAllisters frequently
checked for bombs beneath their cars, and many nights waited by the windows,
peering through the shades.

"I knew they were coming," Mrs. McAllister said. "And they did come."

The masked gunmen came on an October evening in 1988, when Mr. and Mrs.
McAllister were vacationing in Spain. They fired 26 shots into the family's home
while three of their children and Mrs. McAllister's mother were inside. Several
weeks later, with money from a priest, the family fled to Toronto.

But his former life eventually became national news in Canada, and deportation
seemed certain. One morning in March 1996, the McAllisters packed their four
children into their Ford Taurus and drove across the border to New York, leaving
behind a furnished house with family portraits still hanging on the walls.

After several months living undetected on Long Island and in New Jersey, the
McAllisters requested political asylum, but, as usual, their timing was off.

Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican Army, and some prominent
Irish-Americans were already successfully pressing the Clinton administration to
suspend deportation proceedings against nine Irish republicans living in the
United States. (These were the same deportation cases that the administration
formally terminated in December.) All had served time for their crimes,
including murder, and all were veterans of the I.R.A., not the I.N.L.A.

Bruce Morrison, a former congressman from Connecticut who played a role in the
negotiations, said the deal to help the nine men was part of a plan to secure an
I.R.A. cease-fire and further the peace process in Northern Ireland. "There were
other people who could make a claim to be similarly situated," he said. "But
these guys had organized and had been pushing for relief for a long period of
time."

But Mr. McAllister cannot help comparing his case with those of the ones whose
deportation proceedings were halted. "We saw our case as that much stronger," he
said. "I was an ex-prisoner, and our house had been attacked."

In his testimony before Immigration Judge Henry S. Dogin, Mr. McAllister tried
to explain what it was like to have grown up in a city under siege: to have a
rifle muzzle shoved in his mouth when he was 16, to see a Protestant friend
murdered by Protestants because he spent too much time with Catholics, to plan a
killing and believe it justified.

But he sensed that his words fell short, he said recently. "You just can't
imagine."

Lawyers for the Immigration and Naturalization Service argued that the conflict
in Northern Ireland in the 1980's did not rise to the level of a civil war, and
that Mr. McAllister's acts were those of a terrorist, not of a soldier. Judge
Dogin agreed, although he said the McAllisters had endured a pattern of
persecution that the Northern Ireland and British governments "were unable or
unwilling to control."

Mr. McAllister has appealed the judge's order to remove him from the country,
while the Immigration and Naturalization Service has appealed the order granting
asylum to Mrs. McAllister and three of her children: Nicola, Sean and the
oldest, Gary, 24, a supervisor for a construction firm in New York. The case of
their fourth child, 21-year-old Mark, is on hold, pending the outcome of a minor
criminal case against him.

Meanwhile, the McAllisters try to find anonymity in New Jersey. They attend Mass
at St. Joseph's Church. They go to the Garden State Mall. And sometimes they
quarrel about professional ice hockey, particularly the Toronto Maple Leafs and
the New Jersey Devils. It is a game that has yet to catch on in Northern
Ireland.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A few years as an Irish terrorist put Malachy McAllister,
right, in Long Kesh prison, above, and may force his deportation. But a judge
gave asylum to, from left, his daughter, Nicola; his wife, Bernadette; and a
son, Sean. (Richard Perry/The New York Times, above, and Reuters, top)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'The Newest Place in the World'

BYLINE:  By Suzanne Ruta; Suzanne Ruta is the author of a collection of stories,
"Stalin in the Bronx."

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1020 words


When I Lived in Modern Times
By Linda Grant.
260 pp. New York:
Dutton. $23.95.

TWO of the five novels nominated for Britain's latest Orange Prize -- awarded
annually to a woman writing in English -- dealt with immigration. Zadie Smith's
charming, playful debut novel, "White Teeth," follows a group of immigrants and
their offspring around contemporary London. Linda Grant's "When I Lived in
Modern Times" recalls Jewish immigration to Palestine right after World War II.
Grant got the prize, but some people said it was because Smith had effectively
removed herself from the running by insulting one of the judges, the wife of a
Tory politician known for his anti-immigrant stance.

Life is not a contest and neither is art. All writers deserve prizes, if only
for trying. But Grant's novel can be trying in all senses of the word: it's an
informed, intelligent, but uneven attempt to make early Zionist idealism
accessible to non-Zionists or even anti-Zionists.

The author of three previous books, Grant zeroes in on the year 1946, when
hundreds of thousands of concentration camp survivors remained in Europe while
the British blocked Jewish immigration to Palestine. Americans know the story
from Leon Uris's novel "Exodus" and its movie adaptation. Grant's book is a kind
of thinking woman's version of the same story, and as such it has villains --
personifying British colonial arrogance and anti-Semitism -- but no heroes. In
the author's view, Jewish courage, resilience and self-invention are inseparable
from Jewish divisiveness and moral blindness. The Arab voice is never heard.

Grant shows us Palestine through the eyes of 20-year-old Evelyn Sert, the orphan
daughter of a Jewish hairdresser whose parents immigrated to Britain from Latvia
around 1900. From the beginning, there's a problem of tone: it's meant to be
light and breezy and dismissive, to suit a book about people in love with the
future and impatient with the ugly past. But too much is sacrificed to the
forward momentum, with whole eras reduced to simple-minded anecdotes or
catalogs. Immigrant Latvian origins equate, predictably, with dirt, misery,
herring barrels and outdoor toilets, while memories of life in the old country
are reduced, also predictably, to "crude men in long beards . . . shouting and
cursing in Yiddish."

Evelyn is a bit of a dreamer, with artistic ambitions, but she's not nave. So
she isn't shocked when, on the kibbutz during her first weeks in Palestine, she
meets Meier, a middle-aged emigre from the Soviet Union who sleeps with teenage
girls to escape the boredom of life on an isolated farm. When a group of
concentration camp survivors reaches the kibbutz, its members' anarchic
individualism wreaks havoc on socialist discipline.

And here we hit another journalistic shortcut: the wholesale traffic in stock
characters. "The girls on the kibbutz were matter-of-fact types." Members of the
Irgun military faction are "tough, stocky little Jews." British soldiers are
"boisterous and confident, pink, sandy-haired men." The nameless, faceless group
of camp survivors rejects Hebrew as "the gabbling mutter of the old men who
prayed as they were led to the gas chamber." These offhand summations make
Evelyn sound narcissistically detached, hollow at the core.

In Tel Aviv, she meets German Jewish capitalists as cynical, in their way, as
the old Soviet kibbutznik. Blum, a declasse refugee lawyer turned landlord,
gouges her on the rent and withholds needed repairs. ("I did not come here from
conviction," he explains. "I came here from Germany.") Evelyn's neighbor, Mrs.
Linz, is a sour feminist who takes a dim view of marriage: "I don't know why
people think that happiness lies in sharing a bathroom."

Blum and Linz are Yekkes, snobbish German Jewish culture vultures, contemptuous
of those they call Ostjuden, peasant Jews from the shtetls of Eastern Europe.
Both terms are sorely overworked, but the reiterated barbs do serve to stress
Grant's point that these German and Russian Jews are too mired in old feuds to
recognize a new one. They show no understanding of their Arab neighbors, when
they notice them at all. The call of the muezzin is barely heard in the heart of
Tel Aviv, "the white city where nothing was old and everything had an
explanation."

Tel Aviv inspires Grant's most vital, original writing, the pages where she
transcends reportage and approaches myth. Founded in the dunes just north of
Jaffa in 1909, with its gleaming white apartment houses, this is "the first
Jewish metropolis since the destruction of the Temple," "the newest place in the
world." Tel Aviv is, in fact, "the opposite" of Jerusalem because in Tel Aviv --
what a relief! -- nothing is sacred."

In this relentlessly modern, forward-looking city, "a gun firing itself into the
future," Evelyn falls into an ancient pattern, an ill-starred romance with a
soldier. Born in Palestine, Johnny belongs to the Irgun, whose members are
trying to bomb the British out of Palestine. When he tries to involve Evelyn in
the struggle, she faces an identity crisis. Is she Jewish or British? Where do
her loyalties lie? She doesn't know -- and neither do we, because she's a
character who never quite comes into focus. (In an interview, Grant has
mentioned her early admiration for Jean Rhys. Perhaps Evelyn, with her odd mix
of passivity and pluck, is a Jean Rhys heroine transplanted to the Middle East.)

In the end, it's Grant's portrait of Tel Aviv that gives the novel bite and
relevance. At the novel's close, an elderly, widowed Evelyn returns to the city
after 50 years "in exile." Despite vast changes, she's again delighted with the
"mongrel metropolis of aliens among aliens." In the lethally polarized Israel of
the late 1990's, she sides with Tel Aviv against Jerusalem. Mrs. Linz, the
Weimar exile, still full of fight at 85, puts it best. "If Mrs. Linz had her
way, she'd evacuate all the inhabitants of the Old City, blow up everything --
the Wailing Wall, the churches, the Dome of the Rock -- and build something
useful, like a hospital." Too bad the rest of the novel doesn't reach this level
of inspired iconoclasm.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tomer Hanuka)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Travel;
Services that deliver foreign currency are growing with the frenetic pace of
life on the road.

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey;  The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday.
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 866 words


UNLIKE international leisure travelers, who usually have the luxury of a little
time to become organized once they arrive at a foreign airport, business
travelers sometimes must hit the ground running as soon as the immigration agent
waves them in.

Faster than the flight attendant can say, "Welcome to London's Heathrow Airport,
where the local time is 8:15 a.m.," you can be met by a client and hustled off
on the morning's business without the opportunity to get some local cash at the
airport currency-exchange counter.

Given the frenetic pace of today's business-travel itineraries, chances are good
that at some point during the day, before you've had a spare minute to change
money, you are going to feel like a chump because you don't have the local cash
to pay a fare or a tip.

Partly to address the business traveler's needs, foreign-currency delivery
services have been growing in the United States. They all work basically the
same way. You make a call or go online with a credit card and order an amount of
a specific foreign currency, which is then delivered to your home or office,
with next-day service if you wish.

Two of the major providers of this service in the United States, are Thomas Cook
Ltd., through an online arrangement with Oanda.com, a Web site that features
several widely used search tools for tracking and converting foreign exchange
rates; and J. P. Morgan Chase & Company, through its Currency to Go service,
available online (www.currency-to-go.com) or by calling (888) 242-7384.

On two recent occasions while making plans for a trip abroad, I used these sites
to order currency for next-day home delivery. First the bad news. In neither
case did the foreign cash arrive as advertised, though in both the fault seemed
to lie with the delivery service rather than the currency provider.

The most recent example was an order made online last Wednesday for $200 of
British pounds to be delivered to my home by FedEx the next day, in advance of a
business trip to London the following afternoon. The other example was in
October, before a trip to Ireland, when my wife ordered 500 Irish pounds from
Currency to Go using its toll-free number.

In the case of the British pounds, the currency was sent out overnight as
promised by Thomas Cook, but not delivered by FedEx until two days later -- past
my airport departure time. In the case of the Irish pounds, the money didn't
arrive at home when it was supposed to, but a heads-up Chase customer service
representative did manage to have an emergency delivery sent to a nearby Chase
bank, where we picked it up with literally minutes to spare.

Would I use these services again, despite the problems? The answer is probably.
But I certainly wouldn't depend on getting the currency at home (as advertised)
the next day, especially since a customer has to be there to sign for the
package, which can arrive at any time of the day. Having the currency delivered
to an office would be a better idea, as would building in several extra days.

Judith Miller, a spokeswoman for Chase, which offers about 75 foreign currencies
on Currency to Go, said that delivery problems had been minimal, however, and
that the currency service had been growing among business and leisure travelers
since it was introduced in late 1999.

"If there is a glitch with the outside delivery vendor, our customer service
works with customers on a case-by-case basis to get it to them," Ms. Miller
said.

Tracy Hammock, a vice president at Thomas Cook, said, "We send out literally
thousands of packages every month and delivery problems are a relatively small
issue." He added that FedEx was usually "extremely reliable" in getting the
money to customers on time.

In both currency-delivery problems, the good news was that customer-service
representatives jumped into action once they were informed of a problem. In
neither instance, incidentally, were they aware that they were dealing with
someone who had the luxury of making a complaint known in a newspaper column.

For example, my local Chase bank made several phone calls to make sure I knew
when my Irish pounds arrived. And even though my British pounds didn't come on
time and traveled to several FedEx way-stations before being returned to the
sender, a Thomas Cook representative named Lorena Kay was on the job like a
firefighter yesterday when I phoned to complain that my credit card had been
charged for the delivery nevertheless.

Within 15 minutes after routinely coming across my complaint, Ms. Kay, a product
manager who is a trouble-shooter for customer-service problems, made a series of
phone calls that tracked the wayward delivery and erased the credit card
charges. She then called to apologize for the problem and inform me precisely of
what had occurred and what had been done to fix it. She also gave me her direct
phone line in case the fix came unglued.

Pressed on why she had been so persistent, Ms. Kay replied in a pleasant
Louisiana accent: "It's a big deal to me. If I have an unsatisfied customer, I
am all over it, sir. If you walk away with a bad experience, chances are you're
going to tell someone about it. I want to make sure that you walk away smiling."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Provide Employee Answer for Long Island Mailing Company

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 921 words

DATELINE: EDGEWOOD, N.Y.


There is a one-story building in the back of an industrial park here with a roof
the size of eight football fields. There, companies' financial statements are
prepared and shipped to investors across the country by Investor Communication
Services, the nation's largest provider of such services, which expects to send
a billion pieces of mail this year.

The company has one problem: employees. "We can't find enough of them," said
Judy M. Winter-Giella, director of human resources.

The solution is immigrants. "We know what the job market is and we've found a
work force that is eager to work and eager to learn," Ms. Winter-Giella said.

The work force at the I.C.S. center here on central Long Island is about 90
percent foreign born, company officials estimate: about 85 percent Hispanic and
5 percent Haitian. Though they work with mail written in English, most of them
cannot speak or read the language.

Like much of the country, Suffolk County is experiencing an unprecedented labor
shortage. With unemployment hovering around 2 percent here, there are not enough
people to fill all the low-level, low-paying jobs available.

It is not unusual for large companies to turn to recent immigrants to close the
gap. But I.C.S. has come up with a way to keep the workers it has, while helping
them toward jobs with better pay and a future: it pays workers to attend courses
on English as a second language. Classes are held twice a week in the company
break rooms. Each two-hour class averages about 20 people.

The company says employees with English skills work more efficiently and provide
a pool of candidates for higher-level jobs.  "If you want to sort mail written
in English, if you want to get ahead, then you have to learn to read and speak
English," Maggie Rajotte, the language teacher, told a dozen Hispanic men in the
break room after work.

During the busy season from March through May, the company, a division of New
Jersey-based Automatic Data Processing, will take on 1,300 temporary workers to
augment its full-time staff of 700. These people will work as much as 84 hours a
week in 12-hour shifts, Ms. Winter-Giella said.

Wages start at $6.75 an hour, and few skills are needed to load envelopes and
reading material into a machine.

"The truth is, the new people are hungry," Ms. Winter-Giella said. "We've found
they will work 54 days in a row. We depend on them to tell their friends and
relatives that there is good work here."

Nadeshda Sosa found work here. She walked in the door four years ago as a
temporary sorter and is now a line supervisor earning about $15 an hour.

Ms. Sosa, who fled the civil war in El Salvador, now owns a home nearby in
Brentwood with her husband, a day laborer, and two children. She speaks
excellent English.

"I came from a war, and now I have a home," Ms. Sosa, 26, said as she wandered
among the sorting and stamping machines.  "The language classes, they're a good
thing. The company is teaching people to be part of society, not hidden
laborers."

The Census Bureau estimates that more than 850,000 immigrants came to the United
States between July 1998 and July 1999. But some economists believe that the
number of illegal aliens is woefully underestimated and that the actual number
could be as much as three times that.

There is a strong demand for people to fill laborious and dirty jobs that pay $8
an hour or less -- about 25 percent of all jobs in the country. And Suffolk
County has a large population of new immigrants -- 3,040 in the year that ended
in July 1999, according to the Census Bureau. Most of them are from Mexico or
Latin America, and many are here illegally.

At I.C.S., workers are required to offer proof that they can work legally in the
United States: a Social Security card and a picture ID. But counterfeits are
easily obtained and workers readily admit that they work under false names.
Workers also must pass a drug test and a criminal background check.

Employers can be fined for knowingly hiring illegal workers, but they also risk
being sued for discrimination if they challenge documents that on the surface
seem authentic, Ms. Winter-Giella said.

"If the documents appear real, we accept them as such," she said. "We can't
afford to mistreat people."

The Social Security Administration makes only random checks once a year for
numbers that fail to match legitimate accounts or repeat themselves in different
locations.

The workplace is clean and well kept at I.C.S. The overtime is plentiful, the
paychecks steady. And the technology is state of the art.

"The hardest part of the job is the ink and the paper cuts," said Luis Morales,
32, a Mexican who works under another name. "It doesn't pay much, but it's warm
work for the wintertime. When May comes, I'll go back to landscaping. That pays
$15 an hour without taxes."

While they have found work on the farms and in the factories, new immigrants
have not found a welcome mat in Long Island. Groups of Americans routinely
protest the presence of day laborers who loiter on their streets while waiting
for work. Recently two Mexican men were abducted by two white men and stabbed
and beaten with gardening tools in Suffolk County. The motive was hate, the
police said.

There is a housing shortage that the county is unable to solve. Immigrants
routinely live in toolsheds and auto garages. "Speak English!" is the battle cry
in the suburban parking lots.

But Mr. Morales is unfazed. "It doesn't bother me to hear that racism," he said.
"I say, 'How are you going to get your mail without me?' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Investor Communication Services in Suffolk County, Wilber
Velasquez works at a machine that packages annual reports. (Chris Maynard for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 13, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 985 words


INTERNATIONAL   A3-12

Bush to Press Energy Plan During Visit to Mexico
President Bush will bring an agenda to Mexico on Friday that along with trade,
immigration and anti-drug efforts offers a vision of an energy policy reaching
from the Yukon to the Yucatan, weaving together the United States, Mexico and
Canada. But such a plan, which Mr. Bush believes could help stave off
recurrences of the California energy crisis and free the United States from its
addiction to Persian Gulf oil, faces huge financial and legal obstacles.   A1


Likud-Labor Unity Deal Close
Prime Minister-elect Ariel Sharon and the outgoing prime minister, Ehud Barak,
were said to have approved crucial policy guidelines for a coalition government.
A8

Russia and Ukraine Affirm Ties
The presidents of the two former Soviet republics agreed to expand cooperation
in civilian space research and aviation.   A3

Report on Torture in China
Amnesty International said a review of scores of allegations found that torture
and ill treatment of prisoners was widespread and systemic.   A4

Effort to Reduce Drug Prices
The influential charity Oxfam, following the lead of other groups, said it would
press multinational drug companies to cut the prices of life-saving drugs to
poor nations.   A5

U.N. Details Afghans' Plight
More than 150 Afghan civil war refugees, most of them children, have frozen to
death at makeshift refugee camps in Western Afghanistan in recent weeks, United
Nations and private aid officials said.   A10

U.N. to Streamline Congo Force
The United Nations is working on plans to send fewer peacekeeping troops to
Congo than planned, but to send them sooner, to take advantage of the change in
leadership, an official said. The plan reduces the number of troops and
observers to 3,000 from the 5,537 authorized last year.   A9

World Briefing   A6

NATIONAL   A14-28

Bush Would Shuffle Budget To Improve Troop Benefits
President Bush urged shifting $5.7 billion in Pentagon spending to provide
higher pay and better health care and housing for the armed forces, warning that
substandard benefits and aging barracks were taxing members and their families.
A1

Sub Followed Procedures
Navy officials said the Greeneville was following standard procedures for
detecting surface vessels when it hit a Japanese vessel off Hawaii.   A20

Design Not Cause of Crash
The Marine Corps commandant said investigators had found that the fatal crash of
a V-22 Osprey on Dec. 11 resulted from hydraulic and computer failures, not the
tilt-rotor design.   A20

Clinton Pardon Inquiry
Congressional investigators said they would issue subpoenas in their
investigation of President Bill Clinton's last-minute pardon of Marc Rich to
determine whether there was a link to money being raised for Mr. Clinton's
presidential library.   A26

No. 2 at State Dept. Is Picked
President Bush said he had chosen Richard L. Armitage for deputy secretary of
state. Mr. Armitage, 55, was an assistant secretary of defense in the Reagan
administration.   A26

Failing Grade for Airlines
A Transportation Department report found that airlines had not made delays more
tolerable for passengers, despite promises to do so.   A18

Judicial Pay Raise Sought
A report by the American Bar Association and the Federal Bar Association to
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist asserts that federal judges should get a
raise of nearly 10 percent and that their compensation should not be tied to the
salary level of members of Congress.   A23

Setback for California Utility
A federal judge denied a request by Southern California Edison to let it raise
rates immediately and pass its $5 billion debt to consumers.   A24

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-7

Clinton Changes Office Plan From Midtown to Harlem
Former President Bill Clinton abandoned plans for an office on the 56th floor of
Carnegie Hall Tower and is looking at more modest space 14 floors above Harlem's
main shopping boulevard, 125th Street, between Lenox and Fifth. The rent savings
would be about $528,700 a year.   A1

City Hospitals Faulted
New York City hospitals are the state's worst at informing the State Health
Department of mistakes and unexpected harm suffered by patients, state officials
said.   B1

Neediest Cases   B5

FASHION   B9

EDUCATION

Mixed Grades for Summer Class
Summer school markedly improved the reading levels of elementary school
students, but educators said the gains were far less noteworthy for middle
school students.   B1

ARTS   E1-10

SPORTS   D1-8

SCIENCE TIMES   F1-12

First Landing on an Asteroid
NASA said the 1,100-pound NEAR Shoemaker spacecraft had defied the odds and
ended its yearlong mission orbiting Eros by landing on the 21-mile-long space
rock.   A1

Human Genome Findings
The biologists who reported their first analysis of the decoded human genome
discussed their findings in a news conference in Washington.   F1

Health & Fitness   F7

BUSINESS DAY   C1-18

Ruling Against Napster
A federal appeals court largely affirmed a lower-court ruling that Napster, the
online music service that shook the record industry by letting users copy music
free, encourages and abets the wholesale infringement of copyrighted works.   A1


Lucent Credit Rating Falls
Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service lowered their ratings on
Lucent's debt to one notch above the junk level, its fourth cut since October.
Questions have mounted about past revenue and regulators have begun looking into
Lucent's accounting practices.   C1

XFL Uproar at NBC
NBC moved to placate Lorne Michaels, the executive producer of "Saturday Night
Live," which was delayed 45 minutes by the second Saturday night broadcast of
XFL football, which plunged in the ratings compared with its first week.   C1

Business Digest   C1

World Business   W1

OBITUARIES   B8

EDITORIAL   A30-31

Editorials: Reaching out to Japan; a flawed wireless auction; basketball's
troubles.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.

Crossword   E7
TV Listings   E9
Public Lives   B2
Weather   D8

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 13, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSH DUE TO VISIT MEXICO TO DISCUSS OBTAINING ENERGY

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 12


President Bush comes to Mexico on Friday, and at the top of his agenda,
alongside trade, immigration and drugs, is his vision of an across-the-border
bargain to allow billions of dollars of energy to flow to the United States.

Such a deal, part of his larger plan to expand trade between the two countries,
could help stave off debacles like the California brownout and liberate the
United States from its addiction to Persian Gulf oil, Mr. Bush says.

Only three obstacles stand in its way: the laws of physics, the laws of supply
and demand, and the laws of Mexico. There may be a fourth: It would take many
billions of dollars in American investment in Mexico to make it happen.

Mexico imports huge quantities of natural gas and gasoline from the United
States, not the other way around. Its power grid cannot handle a torrent of
electricity flowing north. Its Constitution all but prohibits foreign control of
energy production. And Mexico will require an investment of $200 billion or more
simply to meet its own energy needs. It does not have the money to pay for it
itself.

People from the oil business, like President Bush and Vice President Dick
Cheney, have the habit of thinking big. So does President Vicente Fox, who once
ran Coca-Cola's Mexico operations. And an energy policy that would reach from
the Yukon to the Yucatan peninsula, weaving together the United States, Mexico
and Canada, is a big dream indeed. Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney have talked it up,
though not in any great detail, from the day they were nominated.

But "it's going to be very difficult for them to come up with a joint policy
with Mexico that delivers the goods -- namely energy," said Sondra Scott, Latin
America director for Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm.

Mr. Bush has not been much more precise about his plans than he was in the first
presidential candidates' debate in October, when he mentioned the need for "a
hemispheric energy policy where Canada and Mexico and the United States come
together."

"I brought this up recently with Vicente Fox, who's the newly elected
president," he said. "He's a man I know from Mexico. And I talked about how best
to be able to expedite the exploration of natural gas in Mexico and transport it
up to the United States, so we become less dependent on foreign sources of crude
oil."

"Natural gas is hemispheric," he has said. "I like to call it hemispheric in
nature because it is a product that we can find in our neighborhoods."

When the electric power squeeze hit California last month, he said, "The
quickest way to have impact on the energy situation is for us to work with
Mexico, and a certain extent Canada, to build a policy for the hemisphere." Last
week, he said, "We need more product, and it doesn't matter where the product
comes from."

Mexico has plenty of natural gas and oil in the ground but lacks the technology
and money to exploit them fully.

But in Mexico, which nationalized the oil industry in the 1930's, state control
of energy has been a point of pride for past presidents and politicians. Mr. Fox
says he welcomes foreign investment, but first he must persuade Mexico's
Congress to rewrite the laws to allow a mix of public ownership and private
development in energy production. Then the United States and other nations must
pour money into Mexico, scouring the land for trillions of cubic feet of natural
gas and millions of barrels of oil.

And that can be risky, as Mr. Bush knows: the oil exploration company he once
ran in Texas lost a small fortune, raising $4.67 million from investors but
returning only $1.55 million. "Bush can come to Mexico and put a lot of money on
the table," said George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, a Houston
company. "Or he can encourage Mexico to let private companies in. This will
require legal changes and a new way of thinking." Without them, he said, there
is little chance for the United States to buy much power from Mexico.

Mexico's state-run oil monopoly, Pemex, is the world's fifth-largest oil
company. It produces all of Mexico's oil and extracts all its natural gas.

But it has spent about $5 billion in the last five years buying American
gasoline. And Mexico desperately needs more natural gas from the United States;
its imports are likely to rise to $17 billion a year in this decade, its energy
ministry projects.

Pemex will have to invest tens of billions simply to keep up with domestic
demand for gasoline and natural gas. Much of that money must come from abroad.
But foreign investors are wary of sinking money into a state-controlled
enterprise. And though Mr. Fox says he wants to open up Mexico's petrochemical
industry to private companies, he has not spelled out how.

Electricity in Mexico is a tangle. Under the Constitution, the government
controls almost all the power plants, the transmission wires and the market.
Mexico's grid cannot plug into the United States, except for three connections
on the borders of California and Texas. Last month, Mexico began sending about
50 megawatts a day to California, a one half of one percent of the state's
needs. "Neither the transmission grid nor the regulations exist today for more
power to flow north," Ms. Scott said.

Juan Camilo Mourino, president of the energy committee in the lower house of
Mexico's Congress, said that in the coming decade, Mexico "will have to double
the amount of electricity we generate," and "at least double natural gas
production" to meet its own needs.

And Ms. Scott, the consultant, said the country will require "$50 billion or 60
billion in capital expenditures" before it can produce enough natural gas to
export it -- part of a larger need to invest $200 billion to $250 billion in the
energy sector by 2015.

"Pemex will not be spending this money," she said. "They can't." Without the
money, she suggested, the policy Mr. Bush proposes may be a pipe dream.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Union Drive Collides With Korean Grocers

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1922 words


Kum Lee, a Korean immigrant who was eager to open his own business, hired two
Mexican clerks and opened a 24-hour greengrocery in Manhattan last March. Two
months later, there was a picket line outside Mr. Lee's store, the Olympic Deli
on First Avenue, over the low wages he paid his workers.

Bardominano Feliciano, 36, came to New York six months ago from Guerrero,
Mexico, and landed a job at an Upper East Side greengrocery owned by Koreans. He
works 12 hours a day, six days a week, for $240 a week, well below minimum wage.

Mr. Lee and Mr. Feliciano, two proud men willing to work long, hard days, are in
the middle of a bitter citywide dispute between greengrocers and their workers,
a volatile clash that combines economics, immigrant ambitions and a labor
union's sense of opportunity.

The dispute, fueled by an aggressive campaign by Local 169 of the Union of
Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, has pitted Korean immigrants --
no strangers to explosive tensions with other ethnic groups -- against Mexican
immigrants. Sixty percent to 70 percent of the city's roughly 2,000
greengroceries are owned by Koreans, and most of their workers, an estimated
10,000, are Mexican immigrants.

The tensions have mobilized the fast-growing population of Mexican immigrants
and gripped the Korean merchants, still nursing bitter memories of ethnic
clashes that fueled a black-led boycott of a Brooklyn greengrocer in 1990 and
anti-Korean violence in the 1992 riots in Los Angeles. There are about 120,000
Koreans in the city.

The conflict has dominated the city's Korean-language media for more than a year
and has prompted some Korean merchants, who have long viewed the greengrocery
business as a steppingstone to economic success here, to fight the union. Many
of the merchants say the working conditions for the Mexicans -- long hours, no
vacations or benefits -- are the same ones they endured while learning the
business from earlier generations of Jewish and Italian greengrocers or while
running their own businesses.

And, the merchants say, the business models for their own stores assumed that
low-cost labor would continue, so concessions to their workers threaten already
slim profit margins.

Other merchants are addressing the workers' complaints, raising wages and
shortening workdays. But a growing number are leaving the greengrocery business.

"There's too much damage in my community," said Jae Il Kim, president of the
SoHo-Village Merchants Association. "Everybody's scared," he said. "We want to
live with the Hispanic community, but now Korean people and Spanish people, they
have a problem."

Both the union and the state attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer, who is
investigating working conditions, say there are widespread violations of labor
laws at the greengroceries, with workers being paid as little as $3 an hour for
workweeks that sometimes exceed 70 hours. So far, the union has signed contracts
with only seven of the city's greengrocers. The union has stepped up its efforts
in recent weeks, picketing or leafletting outside more than 60 stores across the
city.

Mr. Spitzer, whose investigation has led to settlements with three grocers for
back wages, said the labor-law violations were not limited to Korean-owned
groceries. Minimum wage is $5.15 an hour and, under the law, workers must be
paid at least time and a half, $7.73, for every hour over 40 hours in a week.

Union officials also say that they have found poor conditions in stores owned by
ethnic groups other than Koreans, like Indians and Arabs, but that they have
encountered the most resistance from the Koreans.

Korean-American business leaders have formed a special task force on the
conflict and have hired a labor consultant from Los Angeles.

Last month, nine Korean-American merchants, clergy members and business leaders
-- trailed by reporters from three Korean-language newspapers -- filed into the
offices of Local 169 on West 14th Street for the first face-to-face meeting with
union officials. But several of them stormed out of the heated meeting, and both
sides concluded that little was accomplished.

Mr. Kim and others, including merchants and business leaders, say many
greengrocers had little knowledge of labor laws until the union and Mr.
Spitzer's office began contacting them. They say that once the merchants were
made aware of the laws, most complied, although there has been no comprehensive
review of financial records to prove that they did, and many merchants have not
kept payroll records, paying their workers in cash.

"Most of the stores are paying minimum wage, overtime, everything," said Hong K.
Chun, executive director of the Korean Produce Association, which represents 820
merchants in New York City. "On that point, we can give credit to the union.
They prompted us to rethink our way of doing business. But they are going too
far."

Mr. Chun said the greengrocery industry had already been squeezed by
competition, and more merchants, citing dwindling profits and the labor dispute,
are bailing out. He said membership in his association was down from 1,200
merchants five years ago.

Accusations that the Korean-American merchants were too insular arose in 1990
during a widely publicized black-led boycott of a Korean-owned greengrocer on
Church Avenue in Flatbush, Brooklyn. The boycott, which lasted nine months,
began after the owner accused a black customer of shoplifting.

Mr. Chun said his organization urged the greengrocers then to "have patience
with customers" and "get involved in community activities with the black
community, black ministers." And he said that merchants responded, participating
in neighborhood improvement efforts and sponsoring scholarships and other
programs.

He said his organization was now advising the merchants to be respectful to the
Mexican immigrant workers. "We are telling them, 'Don't look down at them, don't
use the bad language,' " he said. "That's the only way you can stay in
business."

But a dozen greengrocery workers interviewed in the last few weeks suggested
that things had not changed much. They said they were still making less than
minimum wage or were not receiving time-and-a-half overtime pay. Many said they
felt that management mistreated them or treated them differently than
Korean-American workers. But few, including Mr. Feliciano, who has told union
officials about his working conditions, were willing to identify the stores,
saying they feared retribution.

Ernesto Dominguez Conde, 28, said he worked at East Natural Food Market, a
greengrocery on Fifth Avenue and 13th Street owned by Jacob Han and his sister
Josephine Kim, for four years, stocking shelves and cleaning. He started out
being paid $220 a week for 72 hours, he said, and was making $350 for the same
number of hours when he asked for a raise. He said Ms. Kim told him that a raise
would be "a lot of money for you" and that "I can replace you with a cheaper
Mexican."

Mr. Conde said he quit in 1999, returned to Mexico for several months, and was
then rehired at another store owned by the same owners. But he said he was laid
off in December without explanation.

Ms. Kim did not respond to four telephone messages left since last week. A
lawyer for the owners, Larry Cole, did not return two phone calls this week.

Mexican immigrants have flocked to the greengrocers in recent years because the
work requires little English (many store owners do not speak English, either)
and they are paid under the table in cash. Regardless of their immigration
status -- most of those working in the groceries are in the country illegally --
the workers are protected by state and federal labor laws.

The Mexican Workers Association, an advocacy group in New York City, began a
series of boycotts and pickets at stores in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, in 1998
after hearing complaints about working conditions from greengrocer employees
there.  Local 169 joined the effort a few months later. Since then, the union
has focused its efforts on Manhattan, where it is now leading boycotts and
picketing at four Korean-owned stores. Three stores are owned by Mr. Han and Ms.
Kim, who have been locked in a fierce battle with Local 169 for months. Mr. Han
refused to comment on the dispute.

Because most of the workers are illegal immigrants, they are reluctant to stand
up for their legal rights or to support a union contract, union officials say.

"In terms of not paying workers and so forth, people understand what they are
doing," the organizing director for Local 169, Jeff Eichler, said of the
merchants. "They say they didn't know about minimum wage, but they know."

Mr. Lee, of the Olympic Deli, acknowledged he had been paying his workers $4.50
per hour with no overtime pay before the union approached him last year. He said
he then raised wages.

But one of his employees, Abraham Martinez, 47, said recently that he was being
paid $300 per week for 9 to 10 hours of work, six days a week, which would mean
he was receiving minimum wage but not overtime pay. However, Mr. Martinez, an
immigrant from Puebla, Mexico, who has worked for Mr. Lee since the store
opened, said he had no complaints about the job, liked working for Mr. Lee and
did not want to join the union.

Mr. Lee, 48, said the union's picket line in front of his greengrocery lasted
six months, wiping out what little profit he had. "Other stores, they are
struggling, too," said Mr. Lee, sitting on a milk crate in an unheated storage
room in the back of his store, on First Avenue near 13th Street. "I didn't know
about this. If I knew, I don't think I would have started."

Mr. Lee refused to sign a contract, and the union eventually backed off, saying
it would shift its focus to larger stores, Mr. Eichler said.

In most cases, Local 169 has been unable to get the votes needed to begin
unionizing a workplace -- more than half of the workers in a given business,
according to federal and state labor laws. Union officials say that is because
the store owners have intimidated the workers; merchants deny the claim.

While few merchants openly acknowledge it, several Korean-Americans watching the
situation closely say the merchants' own experiences -- working long hours for
low wages, including in their own stores -- may have shaped their views about
the union's demands.

"A lot of the greengrocer owners worked for Jewish and Italian owners," said
Jonghun Kim, a reporter for The Korea Central Daily News in Queens, who has been
writing about the dispute for two years. "And they worked 12 hours a day, their
whole families worked together. They gathered up the money and bought the
stores. They had no benefits. They didn't even think about that."

Roy Hong, a consultant on labor-management disputes and former executive
director of Korean Immigrant Workers Advocates in Los Angeles, who has been
advising the Korean-American merchants in New York City for more than a year,
said he thought many greengrocers had mistreated their workers.

"The mentality of these greengrocers is one of survival," he said. "Then they
got essentially called out when the union began their campaign and they were
caught with complete disregard for minimum labor standards."

But Mr. Hong has also criticized the union's tactics. "The union has to
recognize this is a mom-and-pop industry," he said. "Even though it's a
bare-bones contract, many of them are not going to be able to pay. In those
cases, they need to back off -- not completely back off, because it's a moral
victory. The moral victory is that it's no longer a sweatshop."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soon after Kum Lee opened his greengrocery, a picket line
formed. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Easing Up at the Border

BYLINE:  By Pamela S. Falk;  Pamela S. Falk, professor of international law at
the City University of New York, is former staff director of the House Western
Hemisphere subcommittee.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Both President Bush and Vicente Fox, the president of Mexico, are saying that
Mexican migration to the United States will be on their agenda when they meet
tomorrow at Mr. Fox's ranch. Most Americans understand what a big issue this is
for domestic politics in the United States. Fewer may realize that it is also a
subject of great internal interest in Mexico.

Many Mexicans are deeply concerned about the hostility and even violence that
meet their countrymen at the border. President Fox wants the United States to
begin to open the border and stop mistreatment of the Mexicans who work hard in
American harvests and labor in American cities. "Open borders will take time to
phase in," Mr. Fox said last year, "but building up walls, putting up arms and
dedicating billions of dollars, as every border state in the United States is
doing to avoid migration, is not the way."

Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox wisely support an increase of temporary legal
immigration to the United States. Mr. Bush has an excellent opportunity to
achieve an expansion in the number of temporary guest workers -- with adequate
protections against employer abuses -- given bipartisan support of the general
idea in Congress last fall. One proposal would have allowed Mexicans to work
legally in American agriculture for several months a year and return to Mexico.
It would also have given those laborers a right to adjust their immigration
status to permanent residency after several years. The measure ultimately died,
but such a proposal has a chance of passage this year if Mr. Bush places it on
his agenda.

Mr. Fox also wants an amnesty program for Mexicans living illegally in the
United States. Today, about 7 million Mexican-born immigrants, legal and
illegal, live in the United States, sending about $6 billion a year home to
their families. That makes Mexican migrants the third-largest source of foreign
exchange in Mexico, behind oil and tourism.

But few Americans share Mr. Fox's view of the amnesty issue. Though he has
retreated from his earlier advocacy of a fully open border, he now proposes a
program of tearing down the border over the course of several decades as a way
to help strengthen the two nations' trade relationship and raise the Mexican
standard of living. Many Americans, fearing competition for jobs and depression
of wages, view even this less ambitious proposal with dismay.

The last amnesty bill was passed 15 years ago and was the right thing to do,
both economically and morally. Mr. Fox is not unrealistic, however, about this
issue. He understands that the border cannot be open now, when an average worker
in Mexico earns $5 a day and one in the United States earns at least 10 times
more.

Mr. Fox likes to compare the Mexican-American relationship to the European
Union, where richer countries helped pull the poorer countries up in economic
terms. Over time, he says, this sort of transformation here could create an open
border and open market for services, goods and workers. The flow of Mexican
workers has, as Mr. Fox argues, become an important component of American
economic growth.

The Bush administration's support for guest worker programs is a sound start on
regularizing migration between the two nations. Though previous administrations
have had reservations about guest workers, employers have wanted the program. In
Congressional testimony last summer, the National Council of Agricultural
Employers said, "Labor from Mexico has supported the development of irrigated
agriculture in the Western states from the inception of the industry."

Migration is not the only issue on the presidents' agenda. For Mr. Bush, this
meeting is a first step in establishing credibility on foreign policy. He is
likely to stress the need to battle the illegal drug trade and to agree on how
to get energy from Mexico, with its oil and gas riches, to California.

But the Hispanic population will become the largest minority in the United
States in the next few years, according to census projections. And by 2050, a
quarter of Americans will be Hispanic. This constituency cares about immigration
and Latin American issues, and Mr. Bush clearly must be sensitive to those
interests.

The meeting is especially important for Mr. Fox, whose two months in office have
been marred by several embarrassing jail breaks by drug lords. He needs to come
away from the meeting with some sort of American commitment to binational
partnership, especially on the migration issue. A guest worker program and an
amnesty for longtime residents should be pursued vigorously in this Congress.
With Mexicans crossing the border each day, it is an issue Mr. Bush cannot
avoid.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 20, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Russian-Language TV, a Slice of Moscow-Style Turmoil

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words


Most immigrants from the former Soviet Union may have thought they left its
power struggles and intrigues behind them. Then came the television wars.

Over the last 16 months, the biggest Moscow media tycoons and a host of
entrepreneurs in the New York metropolitan area have plunged into the business
of selling Russian programming to Russian speakers in the United States. Now,
with competition for cable and satellite subscribers at its most fierce, a
shake-up is in progress that could radically change the lineup in
Russian-language broadcasting.

The upheaval corresponds, in part, to turmoil in Russian television, which
produces the bulk of the programming that is transmitted by New York area
companies to the nation's growing population of Russian immigrants.

One New Jersey-based company associated with Boris A. Berezovsky, a high-profile
Russian businessman under investigation in Moscow for fraud, suspended its
production of local shows last week and has not paid its employees in a month.
The company, TVR Network, rebroadcasts programs from ORT in Moscow, which was
controlled by Mr. Berezovsky until a few months ago.

A second Russian-language TV company here also faces an uncertain future because
of the credit and political problems of its owner, another Russian mogul pursued
by Russian prosecutors, Vladimir V. Gusinsky. NTV International, based in
Manhattan, depends on Mr. Gusinsky's NTV network in Russia to supply almost all
of its programs.

Meanwhile, several companies are fighting in court over the pieces of a third
Russian-language station, RTN/WMNB, based in Fort Lee, N.J., which once
dominated the Russian-language TV market but was dismembered in bankruptcy
proceedings nearly two years ago. A Connecticut rabbi-turned-broadcaster, Mark
S. Golub, is trying to rebuild its satellite customer base nearly from scratch
using programs from the Russian government-owned station RTR.

Thanks to the reach of cable and satellite systems, many other immigrant groups
already have access to television from their native countries or locally
produced shows in their native languages.

But just as television in Russia has proved to be a politically sensitive
business, Russian immigrants in the United States have proved to be a
particularly demanding audience. "A Russian-American is very different from a
Russian in terms of taste and programming needs," said David A. Moro, a former
investment banker who is negotiating to buy the financially troubled TVR Network
in Secaucus, N.J. "That was not always apparent to the business people who came
here from Russia."

Nationally, as many as 400,000 households may use Russian as their primary
language, according to the most optimistic industry projections. In the New York
area, which has the country's biggest concentration of immigrants from the
former Soviet Union, as many as 140,000 households are potential customers for
Russian-language programming.

But the local TV companies that want to serve them, weakened by their own legal
battles and the distractions of the media wars in Moscow, have managed to reach
only about half of those potential New York area subscribers.

If Mr. Moro and his partners succeed in buying TVR Network, the sale could shift
the balance away from the big Russian media moguls.

TVR, for example, began operations just six months ago on the strength of its
exclusive right to rebroadcast programs from ORT and its sister cable station,
TV6. Both Moscow stations belonged to Mr. Berezovsky, a high-profile Moscow
businessman who once commanded outsized influence in the Kremlin of Boris N.
Yeltsin.

But Mr. Berezovsky has since fallen afoul of the new Russian president, Vladimir
V. Putin, and recently sold his stake in ORT, leaving it to pass into the hands
of the Russian government. He also resigned his seat in the Parliament and left
Russia, saying the atmosphere for independent businessmen and journalists had
become too risky.

The precise place of TVR in the Russian tycoon's holdings is not clear. The
station manager, Gregory Antimony, said Mr. Berezovsky is the owner -- "at least
indirectly." And Mr. Moro, who owns two Russian-language radio stations, said
Mr. Berezovsky is selling him TVR."We shook hands on a deal," Mr. Moro said,
"and now I'm negotiating with his people." Efforts to reach Mr. Berezovsky, who
is believed to be in Europe, were unsuccessful.

Faraway problems are also dogging NTV International, now the Russian-language
programmer with the greatest reach in the United States. It is owned by Mr.
Gusinsky's conglomerate, Media Most, which also owns NTV, Russia's sole
remaining independent national television station.

Mr. Gusinsky, too, has found himself the target of an assault by the Putin
administration, which is seeking his extradition from Spain to face fraud
charges in Moscow. NTV, meanwhile, is the subject of intense negotiations, with
both the state-controlled energy company, Gazprom, and a group of investors led
by Ted Turner trying to gain control.

The fate of NTV will ultimately be felt at its American operation, which
rebroadcasts its programming and produces only an hour or two a week of locally
produced shows. Sergei Shestakov, the executive vice president for American
programming at NTV International, said the parent company's problems have not
yet affected its operations here.

Like other foreign-language program providers, the Russian stations distribute
through cable systems, satellite or both. Most Russian speakers in big cities
like New York have limited choices; they usually can subscribe only to the
service that is installed in their apartment building.

That has not prevented Russian immigrants from taking an intense and proprietary
interest in all the companies, sometimes mounting campaigns against one or
another as too local, too Russian, too focused on Jewish issues, not Jewish
enough or, once, as bases for ex-communists.

The majority of Russian-speakers in the city are Jewish, but they are divided
among those who arrived 20 years ago as Soviet dissidents and those who came in
the last decade of Russia's freewheeling experiment with democracy.

"We have people representing all the immigrant waves and all different age
groups among our subscribers, which makes it hard for us to be on target for all
audiences," Mr. Shestakov said. "But all of them are quite emotional about the
old country in one way or another."

Marketing to Russian emigres is complicated by their love-hate relationship with
their homeland, which can play out as a contest in each household between
sentimental memories of the old country and an urge to say "good riddance" to
the old culture.

"Our TV channels that speak Russian need to give more information about our new
life -- American life, the election system, artists, etc.," said Michael
Nemirovsky, the host of a 30-minute weekly show in Russian about Israel. He
appears on WMRB, a tiny Brooklyn-based company that leases 10 hours a week from
Cablevision Systems to broadcast locally produced Russian-language programming.

Rabbi Golub, an early owner of WMNB who sold it and then bought it again from
its creditors last year, rebroadcasts programs from yet another Russian
television outlet, the state-owned RTR network. He also produces his own
public-service programs and talk shows using Russian immigrants.

He is building his station from the remains of what was once the nation's most
successful Russian-language broadcaster, which was also called WMNB. After a
complicated series of sales and mergers, it ended up bankrupt in 1999.

At its peak it had signed up about 68,000 satellite and cable subscribers,
according to Mr. Moro, who used to run it. Rabbi Golub has managed to sign up
12,000 customers for the new WMNB since re-establishing full-service programming
three months ago.

He said that while he is running a business, his philosophy is that the Russian
emigre audience is a family. "At the moment, we're not making any money at all,"
he acknowledged. "But the appreciation we feel from the community is better than
anything."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: RTN/WMNB, a Russian-language television station in Fort Lee,
N.J. Local broadcasters seeking to serve immigrants from the former Soviet Union
have been hampered by problems that often originate in Moscow. (Dith Pran/The
New York Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 21, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Realities On the Rio Grande

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 138 words


To the Editor:

Re "Easing Up at the Border," by Pamela S. Falk (Op-Ed, Feb. 15):

While helping businesses and recent and future immigrants are all laudable goals
in the debate over immigration levels, another factor that President Bush and
Congress must consider in the debate is the effect of immigration on population
growth.

During the 1990's, our population grew by 13 percent to 281 million, and the
Census Bureau projects that it could rise to 500 million by 2050. Immigration
causes the majority of growth, as Americans have had below-replacement fertility
rates for years.

Further growth will strain the country's infrastructure and environment, as new
houses, schools and roads will have to be built, often in currently undeveloped
areas, to accommodate a growing population.

CHRISTOPHER EDWARDS
New York, Feb. 15, 2001


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 21, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

My Debt to Cousin Louis's Cornet

BYLINE:  By Stanley Karnow;  Stanley Karnow is author of "Vietnam: A History."

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: POTOMAC, Md.


While viewing Ken Burns's recent television documentary series on jazz, I was
interested to see that Louis Armstrong had been hired as a teenage delivery boy
by immigrant New Orleans coal merchants called Karnofsky. They took him under
their wing, fed him a hot meal every evening, lent him five dollars to buy his
first cornet. And because they were Jewish, as a gesture of gratitude for their
generosity Armstrong wore a Star of David around his neck for the rest of his
life. Thus they inadvertently contributed to American culture -- and earned at
least a measure of immortality.

Aware that my grandfather's name had been Karnovsky before he abbreviated it, I
reckoned that perhaps I could claim a connection to Armstrong and bask in the
reflected glow of his glory. Like many immigrants, who sought to forget the
hardships of the old country as they started afresh, my forebears seldom spoke
of their past. But, prompted by curiosity, I decided to embark on a genealogical
expedition, and I am now learning details about my lineage that I had never
known. My guide on this voyage of discovery has been Jacob Karno, a retired
Louisiana judge and a grandson of the Karnofskys who knew Armstrong. No sooner
did I locate him than he concluded we belonged to the same clan, and, an
energetic researcher, he has enlightened me with a wealth of information on my
ancestry.

My grandfather, Bernhardt Karnovsky, arrived in New York in 1886, settled on the
West Side and later in a leafy Brooklyn neighborhood, and sired 10 children. I
inherited a faded photograph of him that depicts a slim figure with a handlebar
mustache seated ramrod-straight and wearing a black suit and stiff celluloid
collar. A cork cutter by trade, he soon Americanized his first name to Barnett
and, out of admiration for Theodore Roosevelt, became a Republican precinct
captain. Jacob's records indicate that Bernhardt and his wife, Rebecca,
originated in Kovno, a town in Lithuania. Jews had resided there since the 16th
century, and Jacob traced Karnovsky roots in the vicinity back to 1710 -- when
our mutual patriarch Yankel, a tavern keeper, established the dynasty -- and
determined that our great-great-grandfathers were brothers.

Jacob's computerized database contains 5,313 living and dead Karnovskys, with
various versions of the name. They include the distinguished Shakespearean actor
Morris Carnovsky and the Harvard biochemist Manfred Karnovsky. But Charlie
Chaplin's impresario, Fred Karno, who popularized slapstick music hall routines
like the custard pie in the face, is not among them.

Those who migrated to America were either lucky or prescient. Kovno's Jewish
community prior to World War II numbered 37,000. Systematically ravaged by the
Nazis, deported by the Russians to Siberian gulags or wantonly butchered by
Lithuanian anti-Semites, they dwindled until only a few survived. Chiune
Sugihara, the Japanese consul in Lithuania, and his Dutch colleague Jan
Zwartendijk issued transit visas to 6,000, allowing them to escape. Jacob's
voluminous list shows that five of my relatives were Holocaust victims. Among
them was my great uncle Israel, who had owned a jewelry store, a hotel and real
estate, and died in 1944 in Dachau. But they were only a handful of the six
million, and we mourn them all individually and collectively.

Had I not fortuitously stumbled onto Armstrong on the tube, much of my family's
experience would still remain a mystery to me. So I feel that we are somehow
related. Jacob proudly refers to him as "Cousin Louis" -- and henceforth, I
will, too.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jorge Colombo)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 27, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asian-American Story

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 123 words


To the Editor:

Re "Family History Forges Labor Secretary's Convictions" (Public Lives column,
Feb. 26):

Elaine L. Chao's appointment to President Bush's cabinet as labor secretary has
been widely heralded as the immigrant success story. Yet there are countless
Asian and Pacific Islander immigrant families who remain trapped by poverty and
discrimination despite their sacrifices, work ethic and high value on education.
Their stories are very different.

Ms. Chao's formula of merit and hard work is shortsighted and perpetuates a
damaging perception of immigrants whose stories do not mirror her own family's,
which, you say, "explodes with success after success" after her parents arrive
in America.

EZER KANG
New York, Feb. 26, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 28, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Against a Trend, U.S. Population Will Bloom, U.N. Says

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 27


Alone among major industrial countries, the United States will continue to grow
markedly in population during the next half century, a result of the largest
intake of immigrants anywhere and a higher fertility rate than that of other
rich nations, says a United Nations analysis to be published Wednesday.

By 2050 the United States will be the only developed country among the world's
20 most populous nations, an international team of demographers predicts. In
1950 at least half of the top 10 were industrial nations. In 2000 there were
still three, including Japan and Russia.

In broader terms, demographers confirm that the world is witnessing a huge
population shift to the third world, where poverty and limited resources are
already hampering development and propelling migration within and between
countries.

By 2050 the population of the less developed countries is expected to grow from
4.9 billion to 8.2 billion, while the more developed countries will hold at 1.2
billion.

"These changing relationships have enormous economic, social and political
consequences," said Joseph Chamie, the director of the United Nations population
division. "They are basically the foundation for relations among countries and
groups within countries. In brief, numbers matter."

At the Population Reference Bureau, a nonprofit organization in Washington,
Diana Cornelius, a demographer, said population projections were important.

"One reason is because of links to consumption and therefore to the
environment," she said, citing the need to plan for future services like health,
housing, education and jobs.

In December, the Central Intelligence Agency's National Foreign Intelligence
Board published a set of projections, "Global Trends 2015: A Dialogue About the
Future With Nongovernment Experts," which linked population to economic and
social trends and security concerns.

As examples of the world's rapidly changing profile, Mr. Chamie compares Europe
with Africa and South Asia, dominated by India, which will replace China as the
most populous nation within half a century.

"After World War II, Europe accounted for 22 percent of the world population and
Africa 8 percent," he said. "Today they are about the same, about 13 percent,
but by 2050 Africa is expected to be three times larger than Europe."

Growth in Africa is expected to be so strong, the demographers found, that tens
of millions of deaths from AIDS will only slow, not reverse it. In sub-Saharan
Africa, South Africa is the only exception. There, lower fertility coupled with
AIDS-related deaths could result in a declining growth rate, the survey found.

India, with a population about two and a half times that of the European Union
countries, is growing much faster than some earlier predictions suggested. "In
2000, the E.U. had a natural increase of 343,000 people," Mr. Chamie said.
"India achieved this in the first week of 2001. If you add migration to Europe,
the net growth would be about 1.2 million. India grew that much in the first
three weeks of the year."

The United Nations report has calculated higher birth rate estimates than
previously for India, Nigeria and Bangladesh, among other nations where efforts
to slow population growth are taking longer than predicted.

The United Nations has slightly revised upward the projected world population
for 2050, to 9.3 billion from 8.9 billion, based on a possible range from 7.9
billion to 10.9 billion.

At the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, Nicholas Eberstadt, a
demographer and political scientist, said population projections had to be
viewed skeptically.

"There is no scientific basis to long-range population prediction," he said in
an interview, "because no one has figured out how to estimate how many babies
currently unborn babies are going to have. So when you look half a century out,
you're into science fiction." All demographers can ever do, he said, is provide
an educated glimpse of what the world may look like in the future.

The new figures have some thought-provoking information, he said, including a
change in an "arbitrary assumption that immigration from poorer to richer areas
of the world was going to decrease progressively." But he said immigration alone
did not account for America's fertility rate.

"The U.S. is the most fertile of developed nations," he said, just above the
replacement rate of 2.0, to replace two parents. He discounts ethnicity as the
major cause.

"Even if you tried to match European-Americans with their country of origins,
fertility would be higher than in Europe," he said. "New wealth doesn't explain
it. My pet theory -- and you can't prove this -- is that it has to do with
greater religiosity than in Europe or Japan."

Whatever the cause, he said, "We are the only developed country today that is
anywhere near replacement level, and nobody has an explanation for it."

One of the findings of the United Nations survey is that the current imbalance
of populations between Israel, at 6 million, and the Palestinians in the West
Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem, at 3.2 million, is likely to shift
dramatically in 50 years, with Israel's population projected at 10.1 million and
the Palestinians' at 11.8 million.

At the Population Reference Bureau, Ms. Cornelius said that although projections
were not predictions, but the result of "a mathematical exercise," they had to
be taken seriously. "The future population is dependent on who is already alive
and how old they are," she said. "Children are already born who are going to
become parents, so we know there are going to be very large numbers of people in
their childbearing years, long into the future."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Population Shifts"World population, which
reached 6.1 billion in mid-2000, is projected to grow to 9.3 billion by 2050,
with most of the growth in less developed regions. Chart tracks current and
projected population for 2000 and 2050 in Africa, Asia, Latin America/Caribbean,
Europe, Northern America and Oceania.(Source: United Nations)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Teaching Parents About Choices in Bilingual Policy May Be Tough, Educators Say

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 715 words


Educators who work with immigrant students are cautioning that the New York City
Board of Education may have a hard time teaching parents about the choices they
have to make now that the bilingual education system is being overhauled.

The parents, several educators said, are often intimidated by school bureaucracy
and often do not have the time to tend to their children's education.

The Board of Education voted unanimously on Tuesday to give parents of students
who speak little English the chance to choose whether their children go into
standard bilingual classes, where most classes are taught in a native language,
an English as a second language program, where English is dominant, or two newer
options, a more intensive English as a second language program and a program in
which students may be taught in Spanish one day and English the next.

The change came after critics charged that parents did not have control over
whether to place their children in bilingual or E.S.L. classes and were often
not informed about their choices. About 160,000 of the city's 1.1 million
schoolchildren are enrolled in either bilingual or E.S.L. classes, with roughly
half the total in each program.

While advocates said that they were satisfied with the outcome of the vote, they
voiced concern that parents may not always get the information they need to make
intelligent choices, echoing the concerns of at least two board members.
Children in the New York City school system speak 140 different languages,
predominantly Spanish, but also Chinese, Haitian-Creole, Urdu, Russian and
Korean, among others.

Because some families may be new arrivals to the country with precarious
immigration status, many parents may not feel comfortable going to schools to
request information about the range of programs for students who speak little
English, said Luisa Costa Garro, a professor of education at the Bank Street
College of Education.

"Schools are not a welcoming place where they can go seeking information," Ms.
Garro said.

Luis O. Reyes, an assistant professor of education at Brooklyn College and
former member of the Board of Education, said yesterday that he was skeptical
because the board had repeatedly failed to live up to its commitments to the
program.

Mr. Levy said yesterday that to help put a plan in place he appointed Edna Vega,
superintendent of Community School District 7 in the South Bronx, as the
superintendent of the new Office of the English Language Learners, which is to
replace the Office of Bilingual Education. Beginning March 27, Dr. Vega will
play a key role in evaluating plans to help districts set up programs allowing
parents to choose their children's English instruction. Mr. Levy said that
parents would be informed of the programs through pamphlets in various languages
and by videotape.

Mr. Levy also said that he was setting up an advisory committee of neighborhood
groups and leaders connected to parents and educators of limited English
speakers to help outline a plan.

He said that some districts would have choice programs and others would not,
depending on parent demand. Details of the parent choice plan are to be worked
out by Dr. Vega, he said.

"In some districts there will be fewer than four choices, either because there
is not enough money or because there aren't enough children," he said.

The board directed Mr. Levy to put a plan in place by June, but said that he
could start some elements this month.

In all, Mr. Levy's office estimates that his plan would cost the board $75
million in the first year alone. Mr. Levy will have to turn to City Hall and
possibly Gov. George E. Pataki for the money.

So far, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been willing to spend about $9 million for
summer, weekend and after-school classes for students who speak little English.
Whether he is willing to come up with the rest of the money is an open question.

Randy Mastro, chairman of the mayor's task force on bilingual education and a
former deputy mayor under Mr. Giuliani, said that he was certain that the mayor
and Mr. Levy would discuss additional resources. He said that Mr. Levy might not
need $75 million because the board should be able to pay for some programs with
its existing funds.

"I know that the mayor is supportive of the new plan," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Aid El Salvador

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 140 words


To the Editor:

Re "El Salvador Says Earthquake Aid From Foreign Nations Is Lagging" (front
page, Feb. 26):

It is deeply troubling that the United States has not extended more aid to El
Salvador, especially considering our role during the civil war, when our
government spent millions supporting a murderous army and government.

Under current legislation, President Bush can grant temporary protected
immigration status to Salvadorans living in the United States. This would
regularize their employment, provide them with legal Social Security numbers and
enable them to continue to help their families so devastated by the earthquake.

Considering our past policies toward the Salvadoran people, it seems the very
least we should do.

JOYCE ANTILA PHIPPS
Plainfield, N.J., Feb. 27, 2001

The writer is staff attorney, El Centro Hispanoamericano.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 3, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1351 words


INTERNATIONAL   A3-6

Mexico Seeks Lower Fees On Funds Sent From U.S.
President Vicente Fox is pushing to create financial networks to help Mexicans
in the United States, including illegal immigrants, send money home. The new
networks would cut the cost of a typical transaction to 2 or 3 percent from the
wire transfer fee of 10 to 25 percent that many Mexicans often pay now.   A1

New Israeli Defense Minister
The Labor Party, which is entering a coalition government with the Likud Party,
chose Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, a former general who was born in Iraq, to be defense
minister. Although Mr. Ben-Eliezer is a party colleague of Shimon Peres, who is
to be foreign minister, he is considered closer ideologically to Prime
Minister-elect Ariel Sharon, the Likud leader.   A1


Last-Ditch Bid to Save Buddhas
The United Nations led an 11th-hour drive to save two towering statues of Buddha
in Bamiyam, Afghanistan, as the country's leaders, the Taliban, assembled
explosives at the sites to obliterate them in keeping with the movement leader's
strict interpretation of Islamic law banning idols.   A3

To scholars of Asian art, the destruction of the Bamiyam Buddhas would be
catastrophic. Apart from Bamiyan's rarity as one of the few examples of
monumental Buddhist sculpture, it holds a key to countless questions about how
Buddhism developed internally and influenced virtually every culture in Asia.
A3

Crackdown on China Fraud
China sentenced seven people to death for tax fraud and executed two others for
embezzlement as part of a wave of capital punishment intended to curb corruption
and economic crimes that the government says has weakened the economy and that
it fears may threaten the legitimacy of the Communist Party.   A6

Body Count in Chechnya Grave
Russian officials said 48 bodies had been uncovered in a grave outside
Chechnya's capital, Grozny, which is controlled by Russian soldiers by day and
Chechen guerrillas by night.   A5

World Briefing   A6

SCIENCE/HEALTH

U.S. Foot-and-Mouth Risk
Some veterinary virologists believe it is only a matter of time before a slip in
agricultural hygiene or a tourist who flouts customs rules reintroduces
foot-and-mouth disease to American livestock. The last such outbreak of the
highly contagious disease, which is causing chaos in Britain and Ireland, was in
1929.   A6

Puberty Findings Challenged
Two professional societies representing endocrinologists say that despite the
conclusion of a widely noted study, it is not yet established that girls are
typically entering puberty earlier now. They recommend that girls who appear to
be starting sexual development at a young age see a specialist as soon as
possible.   A10

NATIONAL   A7-11

Republicans Seek to Void Worker Injury Regulations
Senate Republicans plan to repeal a far-reaching set of rules on workplace
injuries that are strongly opposed by businesses, a Republican leadership aide
said. The rules were issued by President Bill Clinton three months ago and
require businesses to provide conditions that protect workers from repetitive
strain injuries.   A1

Reservations on Religious Right
President Bush's plan to funnel government money to religious charities is
generating unlikely criticism from some conservative Christian leaders who had
promoted the idea for years but are now voicing reservations about putting it
into effect.   A1

Protection for Salvadorans
President Bush agreed to let as many as 150,000 Salvadorans remain in the United
States for up to 18 months to help El Salvador recover from a series of
devastating earthquakes this year. Most of the Salvadorans are in the United
States without legal visas or work permits.   A7

Greenspan Counsels Caution
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, restated his support for a
reduction in taxes but urged Congress to be cautious in parceling out both tax
cuts and spending increases, warning that the projected federal budget surplus
should not be considered money in the bank.   A9

Pardons Investigation
Lawyers for the Clinton Presidential Library agreed to give Congress details of
the financial support from more than 100 people who gave or promised to raise at
least $5,000 for the project. Investigators are looking for links between
donations and pardons issued by Bill Clinton.   A10

90-Second Periscope Check
The submarine Greeneville scanned the horizon off the Hawaiian coast for one and
one half minutes before rapidly surfacing and colliding with a Japanese fishing
vessel on Feb. 9, according to details made public by the National
Transportation Safety Board. Naval officials said the check was shorter than
would be expected for such a maneuver.   A8

Religion Journal
The heads of the 38 churches that make up the Anglican Communion gathered at an
Episcopal Church retreat center in North Carolina for a high-level meeting that
will explore some contentious issues, like some bishops' ordinations of
non-celibate gays and lesbians as priests.   A11

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-6

Mayor Close to Decision On Privatizing OTB
Mayor Giuliani is nearing a decision on the sale of New York City's off-track
betting parlors to a private enterprise, a campaign promise he made eight years
ago, his aides say. But any sale must be approved by the State Legislature, and
whomever Mr. Giuliani chooses as a buyer, the deal is expected to set off a
political struggle in Albany that horse racing experts say may shape the
fortunes of leading thoroughbred tracks.   B1

Missing From the Parade
No Roman Catholic parish or Catholic school in Queens has agreed to participate
in the St. Patrick's parade through Woodside and Sunnyside tomorrow that
includes gay and lesbian groups, as well as many not associated with homosexual
causes.   B1

Mob Assault Trial
Testimony began in the trial of three men arrested in the Central Park assaults
of women after the Puerto Rican National Day Parade.   B3

ARTS & IDEAS   B9-18

EDUCATION

City's Gym Programs Faulted
New York City schoolchildren are not getting the physical education classes they
need, with 4 of 10 elementary schools failing to offer the classes regularly, a
study found.   B1

Race and Special Education
Black students are three times as likely as white students to be labeled
"mentally retarded" or "emotionally disturbed" and put in special education
classes, where they are less likely to end up with high school diplomas or a
quality education, a set of studies concluded.   A9

Fonda Gift for Harvard Center
Jane Fonda said she would give Harvard $12.5 million to set up a Center on
Gender and Education, which would be dedicated to examining how children's
development and learning are influenced by their sex.   A7

SPORTS   D1-8

Sehorn Staying With Giants
Cornerback Jason Sehorn signed a six-year, $36 million contract, after less than
a day as a free agent.   D1

BUSINESS DAY   C1-14

Ruling Voids Cable Rules
A federal appeals court struck down regulations that prevent large cable
companies from growing larger and broadcasting more of their own programs,
saying the rules violated the companies' First Amendment rights to reach new
audiences and to control their programming.   A1

Music Service to Impose Limits
Napster, which has suffered setbacks in a copyright suit brought by the
recording industry, said it would prevent users from exchanging thousands of
copyrighted songs online beginning this weekend.   C1

H.M.O. Suits to Proceed
A federal judge in Miami rejected motions by insurance companies to dismiss 20
wide-ranging lawsuits challenging the business practices of HMO's and accusing
eight of the largest companies of contract violations and unjustly enriching
themselves at the expense of doctors.   C1

Bank Acknowledges Lapses
Citibank officials admitted in Congressional testimony to considerable lapses in
their dealings with two Caribbean banks that were used to launder millions of
dollars from drug trafficking and bribery.   C1

Business Digest   C1

OBITUARIES   B7

EDITORIAL   A12-13

Editorials: Donors and the Rich pardon; obliterating history in Afghanistan;
high-tech snooping.

Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.

Bridge   B16
TV Listings   B18
Crossword   A22
Weather   B6
Public Lives   A7

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Child of Immigrants Can Be a 'Real' American

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 135 words


To the Editor:

Re your cover article "Looking for Love" (Feb. 11): While it was courageous of
the central figure, Asha Sekhri, to share the challenges of her love life, she
and the article seem to adopt the erroneous, narrow-minded notion that only
white Americans are "real" Americans, and nonwhite people (except for
African-Americans) should be assumed to be foreigners or immigrants.

Asha referred to a former boyfriend as one of those "real" Americans, because he
was white and had been here for generations, while she and her family were
"always playing" at being Americans.

Even though Asha was born in the United States, the article refers to her as a
"second-generation immigrant." Why isn't her white ex-boyfriend called, let's
say, a fourth- or fifth-generation immigrant?

LILY SEN
Upper West Side

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Praise of Hard Work

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 140 words


To the Editor:

A Feb. 27 letter says of Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao that her "formula of
merit and hard work is shortsighted and perpetuates a damaging perception of
immigrants whose stories do not mirror her own family's." I vehemently disagree.

Many people would like to believe that the problem with the United States is
that in order to succeed one needs to be independent, work hard and be judged
based on merit.

That is not the problem. That is exactly what makes this country so great!

A culture that cheapens the work ethic, promotes dependence on the government
and fails to evaluate people based on their merit will make us a weaker nation,
not a greater one.

Ms. Chao's formula for success is not shortsighted. She is proof that success is
available to anyone who will work for it.

PATRICK HUNTER
Laurinburg, N.C., Feb. 28, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

PUBLIC LIVES;
Fighting a Happy Image of Self-Sufficiency

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 822 words


A FEW weeks after Christopher Kui arrived as a 10-year-old immigrant from Hong
Kong, he walked into a public library in East New York. A sign hung on a wall
promising a ticket to a Yankees game to any child who memorized the names of the
50 states. And so he set to work, struggling not only to learn the states but
also to pronounce their names correctly in an unfamiliar tongue.

The rest one might guess at. Mr. Kui, who won a ticket, went on to excel in
school, graduate with an economics degree from New York University and succeed
in business. But the story, of the diligent Chinese immigrant who makes good, is
one he, in a certain strategic sense, hates. For Mr. Kui has spent most of his
adult life trying to organize a swelling Asian community he considers complacent
and misunderstood to assert itself.

"When we get involved in the political process, we will no longer be invisible,"
he said. "I want to erase this stereotype of the model Chinese-American
immigrant who does not need help."

As a student tutor during his years at Brooklyn Technical High School and
N.Y.U., he was haunted by the stories of deprivation and sweatshops, of
unscrupulous landlords and indifferent city bureaucrats that he heard from
Chinese immigrant laborers. He continued to tutor immigrants as the manager of a
print and design shop but finally quit to join Asian Americans for Equality in
1986, a group set up 27 years ago to combat discrimination against newly arrived
immigrants.

"My parents did not understand what this job was about," he said. "They were
concerned that it did not have a future, that I could not build a career. But
they have come to see that what I do is to help people like themselves and their
friends. I saw what my parents' generation did for their children, how they
sacrificed their lives so their children could go to college and have
professions. I want to give something back."

As executive director of Asian Americans for Equality, Mr. Kui, 41, runs the
city's most prominent Asian civil rights group. He is planning street protests
over the temporary closing of the Grant Street subway station in Chinatown. The
station will be shut down for four years while the Manhattan Bridge is
rehabilitated. Mr. Kui led a fight two years ago to get the city to add a second
exit to the station.

THE closing, he said, is a potent illustration of how the city's Asians, who
number some 600,000, are ignored. Although the closing will, he said, "severely
impact the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of people" who depend on access
to Chinatown from growing immigrant communities along the B and D lines in
Brooklyn, the city "never felt the need to hold a public hearing."

"If there is no public hearing, the city will not be responsible for the impact
on the community," he said. "This refusal to consult the community would have
never happened if this stop was on the Upper East Side. A large market for the
local merchants will be effectively cut off due to the tremendous inconvenience
of having to use the Canal Street Station for transportation. Keeping in mind
that the shopping community is in large part seniors and people on the way home
from work, the added 20- to 30-minute walk with groceries and goods in tow
becomes an incredible burden."

If Mr. Kui walked into a room filled with social activists, he would probably be
pegged as the undercover federal agent. He speaks in the no-nonsense tone of an
entrepreneur. When asked about his wife and personal life, he dismissed the
questions as "something I don't want to get into." Asked about China, Mr. Kui,
who lives in Woodside, tersely said: "I am an American citizen now. I was in
Hong Kong for the transfer. The visit wrapped up the last vestiges of my
attachment to Hong Kong."

He wears dark suits and pressed white shirts. The bookshelves in his office are
lined with titles like "Jack Welch and the G.E. Way," "How to Think Like a
C.E.O." and "Highly Effective People." He had difficulty coming up with hobbies
outside work.

But while his personal mannerisms are understated, his politics are not. And he
and his organization have done much to transform Chinatown. His group has
arranged financing to renovate or finance the building of 500 units for low- and
moderate-income families, with more on the way. "There," he said, pointing to an
empty lot near his Norfolk Street office, "is where we will begin our next $8
million building project."

Along with housing, he overseas a huge citizenship drive. His agency runs
language and civics courses. Its staff helps fill out immigration forms and
guides families through the process.

Ann Moy, a volunteer who poses as an Immigration and Naturalization Service
officer in mock interviews, stood in St. George's, an Episcopal church in
Flushing, after a ceremony for 60 new citizens. She ran down the list of
questions she threw out in her role. "Of course," she said, "they have to know
the 50 states."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Christopher Kui

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHRISTOPHER KUI (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Court Halts Deportations

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 66 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, March 6


A federal appeals court has ruled that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service cannot deport immigrants convicted of driving while intoxicated.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled on Thursday in
New Orleans that felony D.W.I. convictions in Texas, which are generally third
drunken-driving convictions, are not crimes of violence like assault, rape and
murder.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 8, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEW CENSUS SHOWS HISPANICS ARE EVEN WITH BLACKS IN U.S.

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7


The Hispanic population in the United States has grown by more than 60 percent
in the last decade, pulling it into rough parity with blacks as the largest
minority, early data from the 2000 census show.

The new data carry broad political and cultural implications for a nation
undergoing major demographic shifts. In this case, demographers said, the
soaring Hispanic population was driven largely by waves of new immigrants, legal
and illegal, as well as by an improved ability by census takers to count this
group.

The figures showed that the number of Hispanic people, who have Spanish-speaking
ancestry but may belong to any race, including black, soared to 35.3 million
from the 22.4 million recorded in 1990. The 2000 total was about three million
more than the Census Bureau had previously estimated, a difference demographers
attributed to illegal immigrants.

In contrast, the number of blacks rose by about 16 percent to 34.7 million from
the 30 million counted in the 1990 census.

"This is fairly significant because it spells the transition of the Latino
population toward becoming the largest minority in the country," said
Representative Silvestre Reyes, Democrat of Texas, who heads the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus.

The growing Hispanic population is a major reason that for the first time since
the early 1930's, one of every 10 Americans is foreign born.

Demographers have long anticipated that Hispanics would supplant blacks as the
nation's largest minority, but earlier census reports had forecast that this
would happen by 2005.

The new information, which represents some of the first details to emerge from
the count last year, was included as background tables in a public report issued
last week and was first reported today by The Washington Post.

While Hispanics are still concentrated in the Southwest, California, Florida and
New York, new immigrants from Mexico and Central America have moved to states
like North Carolina, Georgia and Iowa, where the Hispanic population was almost
nonexistent a decade ago.

Hispanics have become a mainstay in many low-paying, labor-intensive industries.
In Atlanta and Memphis, they dominate the construction and landscaping trades.
In eastern North Carolina, they process hogs. In Arkansas, they pluck chickens.

The new census figures also disclosed that about 1 in 20 residents who consider
themselves black -- about 1.8 million people -- checked at least one other race
in the census, the first national count to allow that option.

People filling out the census form were asked to identify themselves by race as
either white, black, Asian, American Indian or Alaska native, native Hawaiian or
other Pacific islander, or other race. They could check one or more boxes.

The trend of people who consider themselves black to identify with at least one
other race is especially true among of those under 18 years old. Eight percent
of that group identified themselves as black and belonging to another race,
compared with 2.3 percent of blacks over 50 years old who said they belonged to
another race.

"It's a reflection of a very rapid increase in interracial marriages and the
fact that many younger blacks are looking back in their ancestry beyond their
parents," said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer with the Urban Institute, a
social policy research organization.

Mr. Passel warned that while this data might provide a better picture of the way
black people view themselves, it might actually hamper the way other people view
blacks.

"Down the road, this will lead to complications in the use of the data, and will
ultimately muddy the waters of measuring and remedying discrimination," said Mr.
Passel, who said he stumbled across the figures on Hispanics and blacks while
perusing the Census Bureau's Web site.

The Census Bureau is expected to release early next week a comprehensive
analysis of the complex American racial makeup, including a breakdown of black
and nonblack Hispanics.

Even as census documents begin to paint a portrait of the country's population,
census officials acknowledged that 5.7 million people who could not be
completely identified were added by statisticians to the census, based on a
statistical portrait of their neighborhoods. That number of people is a sharp
jump from the 2.2 million individuals who were statistically added in the 1990
census.

John Thompson, director of the 2000 Decennial Census, said the bureau did not
yet know why three times as many hard-to-reach people had been statistically
added to the 2000 census than had been the case 10 years ago.

"We really want to understand it and go back and learn about it," Mr. Thompson
said, speaking of large number. "We really don't know about it at the present
time."

The growing Hispanic population has sent ripples through every sector of
American society and culture, from pop music and food to political campaigns and
marketing.

But demographers and political analysts issued several caveats about the
political impact of the new census data. Hispanic is a catch-all term designed
to cover a disparate array of people from various nationalities, from liberal
Puerto Ricans in New York to conservative Cubans in Miami, who do not always
have common interests.

"It's hard to really know how strong the Hispanic identity is among all these
groups," said Eugene P. Ericksen, professor of sociology and statistics at
Temple University.

Moreover, a large proportion of the new Latino residents are immigrants, often
with young children, who are not yet citizens, and thus cannot vote. Clearly,
though, politicians in both parties have aggressively courted Hispanic voters.

In his race last year, President Bush sought to attract Latino voters in part by
using his Spanish-speaking nephew, George P. Bush, on the campaign trail and by
speaking Spanish himself. He had mixed success.

Mr. Bush won 31 percent of the overall Hispanic vote in the 2000 elections. The
election-day surveys of voters leaving polling places showed not only that
national figure but wide variations among the states.

For example, Mr. Bush won 49 percent of Latino voters in Florida and 43 percent
in Texas, where he was the governor, but only 28 percent in California and 18
percent in New York, according to polls of people after they cast ballots.

Hispanic lawmakers on Capitol Hill have pledged more aggressive voter outreach
efforts. Currently, Hispanics hold 21 seats in the House, compared with 39 seats
held by blacks. As a result of the 2000 census, Nevada will pick up an
additional House seat in the Las Vegas area, and Mr. Reyes said Democratic
Hispanics have already identified a leading candidate for the position, Dario
Herrera, a county commissioner.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Surge in Hispanic Population in Latest Census"Early data from
the 2000 Census shows that the Hispanic population in the United States has
grown by 61 percent since 1990 and Hispanics are now nearly even with blacks as
the largest minority group. The Hispanic population grew much faster than that
of blacks . . . Blacks: +15.6 to +21.5%Hispanics: +61.2% . . . with the number
of Hispanic men and women ages 30 to 49 growing fastest. 1990 MEN AGE17 and
younger: 3.918 to 29: 2.930 to 49: 3.050 and older: 1.3 WOMEN AGE17 and younger:
3.718 to 29: 2.530 to 49: 2.950 and older: 1.6 TOTAL 17 and younger: 7.618 to
29: 5.330 to 49: 5.950 and older: 3.0 2000 MEN AGE17 and younger: 6.318 to 29:
4.430 to 49: 5.250 and older: 2.2 WOMEN AGE17 and younger: 6.018 to 29: 3.730 to
49: 4.850 and older: 2.6 TOTAL AGE17 and younger: 12.318 to 29: 8.130 to 49:
10.050 and older: 4.8 PERCENTAGE CHANGE 1990-2000 AGE17 and younger: 61%18 to
29: 52.1%30 to 49: 68.9%50 and older: 61.3% *Includes blacks who also indicated
at least one other race.(Source: Census Bureau; Queens College Department of
Sociology (1990 Hispanic count and age breakdown) "Choosing the Mixed-Race
Option"The 2000 census was the first to give respondents a chance to identify
themselves as belonging to more than one racial category. Younger blacks were
more likely than older blacks to identify themselves this way. IDENTIFYING
THEMSELVES AS . . . BLACK AND ONE OR MORE OTHER RACESALL AGES: 36,419,43417 AND
YOUNGER: 11,845,25718 TO 29: 6,656,20530 TO 49: 10,753,66650 AND OLDER:
7,164,306 BLACK ONLYALL AGES: 34,658,19017 AND YOUNGER: 10,885,69618 TO 29:
6,353,40530 TO 49: 10,420,57250 AND OLDER: 6,998,517 DIFFERENCEALL AGES:
1,761,24417 AND YOUNGER: 959,56118 TO 29: 302,80030 TO 49: 333,09450 AND OLDER:
165,789 DIFFERENCE AS A PERCENTAGE OF THE TOTALALL AGES: 4.8%17 AND YOUNGER:
8.118 TO 29: 4.630 TO 49: 3.150 AND OLDER: 2.3(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Minorities Changing Landscape of New Jersey

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words


The population of New Jersey fanned out into the state's booming midsection and
its coastal counties during the 1990's, according to the first detailed numbers
from the 2000 census, which were released yesterday. The figures sharply
illustrate the degree to which diversity is transforming the state's suburbs
while immigration has helped breathe new life into several of its cities.

Hispanics accounted for more than half the state's growth from 1990 to 2000, the
new data show. They appeared likely to outnumber blacks in the state as early as
this year. Asians were the fastest-growing group, while blacks grew faster than
the population as a whole and the number of non-Hispanic whites continued to
decline.

The numbers paint a vivid portrait of a changing state that long ago outgrew its
well-worn stereotypes, a place where the fastest rate of growth is now in the
green sprawl of what was once hunt country, where Jersey City may one day
challenge Newark's standing as the state's most populous city, and where the
state capital, Trenton, has slipped to ninth place, well behind growing suburbs
like Woodbridge and Dover Township.

James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public
Policy at Rutgers University, said late yesterday that the broad themes of the
census data were that of immigration restocking the state's older urban
counties, the potent growth of the state's "wealth belt" and what he and others
have called "the suburbanization of diversity."

The data, limited to detailed population counts and breakdowns by race and
ethnicity, are to be used to redraw the boundaries of the state's legislative
districts for future elections. They were among the first detailed state figures
released by the Census Bureau, which is to make public comparable data for New
York and Connecticut later this month.

Estimates of the rates of change in different areas of the state and different
racial and ethnic groups vary depending on the numbers used. The New York Times
compared the 2000 figures with data from the 1990 census that had been adjusted
to reflect the undercount in that census; others, like state officials, compared
the 2000 numbers with unadjusted data.

Over all, New Jersey's population grew quicker in the 90's than in the previous
decade and also faster than the populations of New York and Pennsylvania. Its
population grew 7.38 percent, to 8.41 million, faster than it had in the 1980's,
according to comparisons using the adjusted 1990 figures. The fastest-growing
county was Somerset, in central New Jersey, where the population jumped by 23.8
percent.

Other rapidly growing counties included Ocean, Hunterdon, Atlantic, Warren,
Middlesex, Morris, Monmouth, Gloucester and Sussex -- counties in the state's
affluent center, its coastal areas and its rural northwest. But Hudson, the
state's most densely populated county, was also on the list. Having shrunk in
the 1980's, it gained 40,000 people in the 90's, largely as a result of the
revitalization of Jersey City and Hoboken.

Other cities fared less well, though in many cases far better than they had in
the 1980's. Newark, which lost nearly 55,000 people in the 80's, lost far less
in the 90's. Paterson and Elizabeth experienced slight gains, while Trenton
continued to shrink. Camden, which grew in the 1980's, lost nearly 9 percent of
its population in the 1990's.

It is not easy to assess rates of growth among different racial groups because
the Census Bureau changed the racial categories between the 1990 and the 2000
censuses. But analysts with the New Jersey Department of Labor did draw some
conclusions based on their numbers, which they posted yesterday on the
department's Web site, www.state .nj.us/labor/lra.

According to their calculations, 51 percent of the state's population growth
occurred among Hispanics. Their numbers jumped from 739,000 to 1.11 million,
more than a third of them living in Hudson and Passaic Counties. The Asian
population increased by 77 percent, to more than 480,000, making up nearly 6
percent of the state. Their numbers grew fast in every county, but Asians now
account for nearly 15 percent of the population of Middlesex County and one in
every 10 residents of Bergen County, according to the state's analysis.

The number of blacks rose by nearly 105,000, to nearly 14 percent of the state's
population, the state's calculations show. More than half of all blacks live in
the older, industrial counties of Essex, Union, Camden and Hudson. But their
numbers increased elsewhere, too. In Somerset County, traditionally
overwhelmingly white, the number of blacks grew by more than 50 percent, to
22,400, Mr. Hughes pointed out.

The state's non-Hispanic white population declined by less than one percentage
point, the State Labor Department concluded. The counties with the largest drop
in non-Hispanic whites included Essex, Hudson and Middlesex, while Ocean,
Somerset and Hunterdon Counties, in the heart of the suburban growth belt,
experienced some of the state's highest rates of white population growth.

About 2.5 percent of New Jersey residents identified themselves as multiracial
-- a category that had not existed in the census in recent years. The counties
with the largest multiracial populations included Hudson, Essex, Bergen, Passaic
and Middlesex. The number of American Indians and Alaska Natives grew, but from
a relatively small base.

Some state officials were watching the numbers closely in light of New Jersey's
recent efforts to contain its sprawl. Herb Simmens, director of the Office of
State Planning, said yesterday that he was encouraged by the population
increases or stability in older cities like Elizabeth, New Brunswick, Jersey
City and Newark.

"It looks like a lot of people are choosing to live in places that are
consistent with the vision of the state plan," Mr. Simmens said, referring to
the state's attempt to concentrate its growth in compact, often existing
communities. "I think if you look at the eight urban centers in the plan, you
see some really dramatic turnarounds."

Mr. Hughes, the Rutgers dean, said, however, that the continued spread of people
into the countryside "should raise some alarm, I think."

"In some of those high-growth areas," he said, "there is a potential for
overdevelopment, particularly in Somerset County. It raises some quality-of-life
issues, because much of that growth brings congestion along with it."

Bergen County, which lost population in the 1980's but gained it in the 1990's,
remained the most populated county. A number of the other industrialized
counties in the northeastern part of the state also gained population. Mr.
Hughes and others said it was probably impossible to determine what part of
those and other gains was attributable to genuine growth and what part to a more
effective census and a smaller undercount among minority groups and in urban
areas.

Despite the growth in the northeast, that region's share of the state's
population continues to shrink. Along with the booming suburbs in the center of
the state, the other growth belt remains the four counties along the Atlantic
coast -- Ocean, Atlantic, Monmouth and Cape May. There was major growth in
Middlesex County, a strikingly diverse place that includes older urban centers
like Perth Amboy, booming South Brunswick and sprawling townships like Edison,
with its surging Asian population.

Analysts with the Labor Department suggested that much of the growth in the
central counties would turn out to have been fueled by immigrants. Both
Middlesex and Mercer Counties received large numbers of immigrants during the
1990's. Yesterday's batch of census data, however, did not include information
on residents' country of origin, due out in later releases from the Census
Bureau.

Also outpacing the statewide growth rate were Sussex and Warren Counties in the
state's relatively sparsely populated northwest. By contrast, the counties near
Philadelphia and elsewhere in South Jersey grew at a slower rate. The least
populous county in the state remained Salem, an agricultural county in South
Jersey, which was also the only county to lose people.

All in all, it was the medium-sized places that grew the fastest, according to
the state's analysis. More than two-thirds of the growth occurred in communities
with populations of 10,000 to 50,000.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Tracking Sprawl" Maps compare changes in New Jersey's
Urban, Suburban and rural areas in 1980 and 2000.(Source: Census Bureau data
analyzed by The New York Times )(pg. A1) Chart/Map: "Population
Change"Percentage population changes from 1990 census count to 2000 census
count. Chart tracks demography (percent of total population) among white
(Hispanic and non-Hispanic), Black (Hispanic and non-Hispanic) and Hispanic
(data not available before 1980) since 1950. Highlights GrowthSomerset County:
23.1%Greenwich: 130.0% DeclineSalem County: 2.3%Wrightstown: 81.4% Largest
Counties Pop.Bergen: 884,118Essex: 793,633 Largest Cities Pop.Newark:
273,546Jersey City: 240,055 1990Categories may include multiracial people White
(Non-Hispanic): 73.0%Black: 13.4%Asian or Pacific Islander: 3.4%Other: 0.3%
HispanicWhite: 5.5%Other: 4.4% 2000Seperate category for multiracial people
White (Non-Hispanic): 66.0%Black: 13.0%Asian or Pacific Islander: 5.7%Other
single race: 0.4%Multirace: 1.6% HispanicWhite: 6.5%Other single race:
5.8%Multirace: 1.0%(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 10, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Newest Immigrants Head Straight to New Jersey's Suburbs

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1004 words

DATELINE: SOUTH BRUNSWICK, N.J., March 9


The Jersey suburbs, they're not just about the Sopranos anymore.

Not now that the Patels, the Amins, the Engs, the Maleks and many other
newcomers have moved into the raised ranch on the half-acre lot practically next
door.

Among the most vivid threads in the New Jersey census figures released Thursday
are stark figures on the diversification of the suburbs around the state and
particularly here in the boom belt across the narrow middle of the state, where
new names and faces from abroad have moved the old urban polyglot immigrant
drama to a new suburban stage.

The blizzard of numbers from the census tell of a new kind of immigrant, the
educated, high-achieving striver who skips the traditional urban gateways of
Newark, Jersey City and Elizabeth to put down roots here in Middlesex County,
within commuting distance of the electronics, pharmaceutical and medical care
industries of central New Jersey.

"Before they would live in an apartment in Newark or New York," said Woody
Patel, 36 and the owner of an Indian restaurant here called Chutney Mary's. "But
now they all know computers and right away they get jobs for $60,000, $70,000
and they go straight to the suburbs to look for a house."

South Brunswick was once a big, centerless bedroom suburb of New Brunswick to
the north. But according to the new census figures, it is not only the
third-fastest-growing municipality in the state, it is also one of the strongest
magnets for immigrants like Mr. Patel, who came with his mother from Gujarat
Province when he was a child.

With a population of 37,700 compared with 26,000 10 years ago, South Brunswick
is now 17 percent Asian, which under the Census Bureau's definition could be
anyone with origins in India, the Philippines or points in between. Of 418 new
students in South Brunswick schools this year, 203 were Asian. Their parents
were drawn to the research laboratories at Rutgers, the pharmaceutical plants
along Interstate 287 and the electronic firms that line Route 1 from New
Brunswick to Trenton, or they run the motels and gas stations that constitute
suburbia's stepping-stone immigrant businesses.

Above all, according to a dozen people interviewed this morning, they came
because their children or their parents or other relatives were here, and
because a familiar community has grown up under the beech and maple trees that
forest the crest dividing the Raritan and the Delaware watersheds.

Mr. Patel was surprised that a visitor might think that most of his restaurant's
clientele were Anglos. No, no, he said. Most are Indian immigrants like himself.

And for a clue to how these newcomers explode the old story of penniless,
illiterate immigrants, look at Monmouth Junction Elementary School, where of 508
students, nearly 23 percent are Asian, yet only 1.6 percent of students qualify
for free lunches because of low income, and fewer than 1 percent are classified
as non-English speakers.

Diversity has become so much the norm at South Brunswick schools that it is no
longer even ground for comment, said Linda Fekete (speaking of ethnicity, her
name is Hungarian), the activities coordinator at South Brunswick High School.

"Ten or 15 years ago we would have these diversity celebration events because
diversity was a big thing," Ms. Fekete said. "But it just isn't anymore. The big
thing now is cultural mingling and working together."

East Brunswick has not been entirely free of tension over the growth of the
Asian population. A few years ago some youths in the area generated headlines
when they spray painted the homes of Indians in the area. They even tried to
come up with a racist slur -- "dots" -- after the mark some married Hindu women
wear on their foreheads. The term never caught on.

Instead, the new Americans and soon-to-be Americans who were out in the pale
late winter sunlight this morning said that what struck them about the place was
not prejudice, but just the amount of social mingling that went on.

"In India, for you and me to sit down together, there would have to be some
reason, task we needed to do," said Chandra Mohan Dubey, 61, a retired Indian
Army major who moved with his wife, Shakuntala, to live with their son, a
computer engineer with AT&T, in 1986.

"But here they have got no inhibitions; it is all free-mixing, and there is no
harm in that," Mr. Dubey said. "It is the American way."

The melting pot bubbled as usual today at the South Brunswick center for the
elderly, where the hands at a bridge game, which follows the compass points,
were held thus: North, Thakor Patel, a former Ugandan Indian who came here to
join his daughter, a dentist; West, Jagdish Amin, 69, who came to the United
States from India in 1979 to be near his children, one dentist, two engineers
and a State Department official; South, Peter Alden, 71, a Briton and a
microwave engineer who emigrated to New Jersey via Canada; East, Irving Stein, a
World War II Navy veteran and the only native-born player at the table.

James Chu, 62, was a Taiwanese ship captain for most of his working life until a
stroke impaired his eyesight. Now he takes a township bus each morning to get
coffee and a bagel at the center before taking up the cue for his daily game of
eight ball in the pool room.

"It's like one family here," he said. "On one side my neighbor is from India,
and on the other, it's an Italian guy, I can't pronounce his name. The Italian
guy always cleans my sidewalk when it snows, because he knows I can't see so
good."

The talk among the retirees at the center is nearly as likely to be about
immigration law and the mysteries of the green card residency permit as about
successful daughters and brilliant grandchildren.

Sobhy Malek, 71 and a retired high school math teacher from a town outside of
Cairo, spoke of an immigrant family in transition, with himself and his wife,
Awatef, already here with their daughter, but their son, a chemical engineer,
still in Cairo.

"Yes, it was hard to say goodbye," Mr. Malek said. "But someday, I think, my son
will be here, too."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Chu, left, who is from Taiwan, says of his diverse
community in Middlesex County, "It's like one family here." Sobhy Malek, above,
hopes his son will move to the United States from Cairo. (Photographs by Keith
Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B7) Charts: "Racial Shifts"Composition of New
Jersey's suburbs, where population density is between 320 and 3,200 people per
square mile. 1990WHITE: 87.8%BLACK: 5.1%ASIAN or PACIFIC ISLANDER: 3.5%OTHER:
0.2%*HISPANIC: 3.4% 2000WHITE: 82.3%BLACK: 5.8%ASIAN or PACIFIC ISLANDER:
5.6%OTHER: 1.4%*HISPANIC: 4.9% *May be of any race(Source: Census Bureau)(pg.
B1) "Altered State"Non-Hispanic whites as a percent of the suburban population
have mostly declined over the past decade. Suburbs are defined as areas with
about 1 to 5 people per acre. Graph of New Jersey illustrating the percentage of
change of the surburban population.(Source: New York Times analysis of census
2000 data.)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Constitutional Case of a Man Without a Country

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1182 words

DATELINE: MISSION BEND, Tex.


Kestutis Zadvydas is an unlikely lead actor in a legal drama now before the
United States Supreme Court.

Mr. Zadvydas, born in a displaced-persons' camp in 1948, is a man without a
country. He is also a convicted burglar, robber and drug offender who has been
ordered deported from the United States. And he is a carpet deliveryman with a
thick Brooklyn accent who, his lawyer says, "is not sophisticated."

But the unusual case of Mr. Zadvydas (pronounced zad-WEE-das), argued before the
court in February, presents the constitutional question whether the government
violates a deportable immigrant's guarantee of due process by keeping the person
behind bars indefinitely when no other country will take him.

Mr. Zadvydas, who was detained for more than three years by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in two jails in Louisiana, has been free since 1997. His
freedom makes him more fortunate than most deportable immigrants, but Mr.
Zadvydas lives under several restrictions imposed by the immigration agency. He
is not challenging his deportation; he just wants his diplomatic and legal limbo
resolved.

"Send me anywhere, send me to the moon," Mr. Zadvydas said in an interview at
his daughter's home in this Houston suburb, where he has lived most recently
since his release from jail on a $2,000 bond. "Believe me, being locked up is no
fun."

The immigration service still holds about 2,800 deportable immigrants who have
completed their jail sentences, but whose home countries will not take them.
Some have been locked up since the early 1990's. A few are stateless, like Mr.
Zadvydas. But many are from Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and Cuba, which do not have
repatriation agreements with the United States.

Federal law requires the service to detain immigrants whose convictions for
"aggravated felonies" make them deportable. The government argues that holding
these immigrants beyond the 90-day federal limit is warranted to ensure public
safety so long as the agency reviews the cases periodically and continues to
seek through diplomatic channels a country to accept them.

Federal courts are divided on whether indefinite detention violates principles
of due process. The United States Courts of Appeals for the Fifth and 10th
Circuits, have affirmed such detentions; the Ninth Circuit struck down the
policy. The Supreme Court is to decide the issue by June.

"The government's policy is really extreme," said Judy Rabinovitz, a senior
staff counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights
Project. "It takes the position that it can lock people up for the rest of their
lives because they've been ordered deported but their countries won't take them
back."

Mr. Zadvydas's case is unusual because in the eyes of the world, he is
stateless. Born in a displaced-persons' camp in American-controlled Germany, Mr.
Zadvydas and his family came to New York City as refugees when he was 8 years
old. He has been a permanent legal resident ever since, but never became a
United States citizen or, for that matter, a citizen of any other country.

None of that mattered much until Mr. Zadvydas was ordered deported in 1994 after
he served a two-year sentence in Virginia for possessing 474 grams of cocaine.
Germany said it did not consider him a citizen and would not accept him. Nor
would Lithuania, where his parents were born. Nor would the Dominican Republic,
his wife's native land.

So Mr. Zadvydas remained in detention, first in Oakdale, La., then in New
Orleans. He was released in 1997 after the Federal District Court in New Orleans
granted his petition for a writ of habeas corpus, which argued that his likely
prolonged detention was "an excessive means" of of protecting the community from
criminals awaiting deportation.

But the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, also in New
Orleans, reversed the district court's ruling. The appellate court stayed its
order pending Mr. Zadvydas's appeal to the Supreme Court.

For several months, Mr. Zadvydas, has lived with his 19-year-old daughter, Lina,
her husband, John Lohse, and their infant son, Julian. But Mr. Zadvydas said he
would soon move into his own apartment.

A tall, wiry man with graying hair brushed back and a gray mustache, Mr.
Zadvydas spoke of his life in an hourlong conversation in his daughter's living
room. He had just finished a 12-hour shift at his $9-an-hour job delivering
carpet and floor tile.

Growing up in Manhattan and then Brooklyn, he said he suffered a rough
childhood. "I used to go to school and all the kids used to taunt me for being
from Germany, for being a Nazi," Mr. Zadvydas said.

His father beat him, Mr. Zadvydas said, and after he ran away his parents sent
him to a home for troubled juveniles. He dropped out of high school, though he
later earned a general equivalency diploma. At 17, he was convicted of attempted
robbery and served a five-year sentence.

In 1974, he was convicted of attempted burglary; three years later the
immigration service started deportation proceedings. But Mr. Zadvydas said when
he moved he never received notice of his hearing and dropped off the agency's
radar screen until the drug conviction. The government says he was a fugitive
during that time.

Mr. Zadvydas insists he is a different man now. "I'm 52 years old," he said. "A
lot of things I did in my lifetime, I was young, O.K.? I was young and dumb."

The government says Mr. Zadvydas is still a threat to the community, a fear his
family and employer dismiss. "He shows up on time and gets things done," said
Kevin Rose, a supervisor at Quality Service Floor Covering in Houston. "We
haven't had any problems."

Robert F. Barnard, an assistant federal public defender representing Mr.
Zadvydas, said his client was "a real nice guy, but he is not sophisticated."
Mr. Barnard added, "I've had a few clients who are scary, and he doesn't even
come close."

For now, Mr. Zadvydas waits and ponders the consequences of being stateless. He
works and pays Social Security taxes. But he cannot vote. He cannot hold a
passport. He must report any change of job or address to the agency, and ask its
permission to visit his 82-year-old mother in Great Neck, N.Y., or some of his
five siblings who live outside Texas.

He has long been separated from his wife and said that if he was deported he
would miss only his daughter and new grandson. He said he had heard Germany was
not such a bad place, and he still recalled some German from his childhood.
"I'd go there in a heartbeat," he said.

The immigration service is continuing to negotiate with Germany and Lithuania,
but a spokeswoman for the service, Karen Kraushaar, said, "It's unclear what
will happen to him." However the Supreme Court rules, Ms. Kraushaar said Mr.
Zadvydas might continue the life he has lived for the last several years, free
from jail but not the agency, required to check in periodically.

"The way things are right now, I'm branded for the rest of my life," Mr.
Zadvydas said. "I did my time. I paid for my crime, but it's not over with. When
you get out, they still use that against you."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kestutis Zadvydas was in jail for three years while the
Immigration and Naturalization Service tried to find a nation that would accept
him. (Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boroughs' Rise Driven Largely By Immigration

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words


The vast majority of the growth that helped propel New York City's population
count to a historic peak in the census figures released yesterday occurred in
Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx, in neighborhoods that have been rapidly
transformed in recent years by the arrival of an unprecedented number of largely
Hispanic and Asian immigrants.

Latinos now outnumber blacks in New York City for the first time, the 2000
census figures show. Nearly one in 10 New Yorkers is Asian. The proportion of
blacks remains stable at just under one-quarter of the city's official
population count of 8,008,278, with an increasing number of them foreign-born.
Whites, many of whom have died off or moved away, have dwindled to just over a
third.

"You've got a big decline in the native-born population and a big increase in
the foreign-born," said Emanuel Tobier, a professor of economics and planning at
the Robert Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University. "The
future middle class of the city is in the foreign-born population. So it's
really a dramatic change."

It remains to be seen how much of the overall increase is explained by actual
growth and how much by better counting. City planners believe at least half the
increase in the census figures reflects real growth.

The largest increase occurred in Queens, where the population count grew by more
than 11 percent, compared with 1990 numbers that had been adjusted to take into
account the undercount in the 1990 census. That increase of more than 225,000 in
Queens accounted for nearly half of the city's overall increase of 456,000 and
more than a third of the increase in the count for the entire state.

The counts for Brooklyn and the Bronx each rose by more than 85,000 people, even
though the Census Bureau's estimates had suggested that the population in those
boroughs would shrink. Those jumps accounted for another third of the overall
change in the city's count. Staten Island contributed the rest, with an increase
of nearly 60,000, or 15 percent, the largest percentage increase among the
boroughs. Manhattan's population remained roughly stable.

The numbers suggest significant growth in a city whose official population count
had previously peaked at 7.894 million in 1970 and declined abruptly to slightly
more than seven million. But better counting could also be a factor: the Census
Bureau believes it missed fewer people in 2000 than it missed in 1990.

In addition, the city was allowed to add 370,000 households to the Census
Bureau's address list that it says had been missing, many of which the city
believes may have gone unnoticed and uncounted since the 1970's or 1980's.
Figures to be released later in the year by the Census Bureau may indicate the
extent to which those additional households, the equivalent of a medium-size
American city, affected the count.

"I think we're comfortable saying that probably at least half of the total
growth is real, not just a function of better counting," Joseph B. Rose, the
chairman of the City Planning Commission, said yesterday. Mr. Rose has said the
city must now determine what percentage of the growth was real to decide
infrastructure needs.

Whatever the explanation, the increase is expected to have profound economic and
political ramifications. Among other things, it is expected to make the city
eligible for more federal and state money, affect crime rates and per capita
income figures, shift the political balance of power in the state and enhance
the city's reputation as a thriving place.

The last time the population count approached eight million, in 1970, New York
was very different. Subway ridership was falling, crime was rising and
immigration was still barely a force in the city, said Kenneth T. Jackson, a
Columbia University historian who is the editor of the Encyclopedia of New York
City.

"In 1970, people felt that cities in general and perhaps New York in particular
were falling from some previous pinnacle of importance and success and that the
future was not going to be as bright as the past," he said. "But I think in the
year 2000, what's interesting is that people have a sense of the city as the
place of the future."

The numbers released yesterday were limited to population counts and breakdowns
by race and Hispanic origin. They did not include data on where the current New
Yorkers came from. Those details are scheduled to come out later. But planners
and demographers already have some sense of which neighborhoods have experienced
heavy immigration and from which countries.

In Queens, which has attracted large numbers of South American and Asian
immigrants, the number of Hispanics rose to about 556,000, or nearly a quarter
of the borough's population. Asians jumped to nearly 17.5 percent. The number of
non-Hispanic whites in the borough dropped by more than 200,000 to less than on
third of the population, as white residents died or left.

According to an analysis by The New York Times, communities with especially
large increases include Jackson Heights, East Elmhurst, Corona, North Corona,
Woodside and Long Island City. There also appeared to be significant increases
in East Flushing and in the area in southern Queens that includes Woodhaven,
Ozone Park, Richmond Hill and South Jamaica.

In Brooklyn, the non-Hispanic white population also declined by about 70,000, to
just over one-third of the overall count from nearly 40 percent. The number of
non-Hispanic blacks dropped slightly. The number of Asians rose significantly,
to 184,000 from about 118,000, while the number of Hispanics rose slightly.
Nearly one in every five Brooklyn residents is Hispanic.

As for the Bronx, the non-Hispanic white population dropped to nearly 195,000 in
2000, from about 272,000 in 1990. Whites now make up just 14 percent of Bronx
residents. The Hispanic population grew to nearly half the borough's population,
while non-Hispanic blacks declined slightly, to less than a third of the
borough. Neighborhoods that grew markedly included Morrisania in the South Bronx
and a number of communities in the northeastern part of the borough, including
Baychester, North Baychester and Eastchester.

In Staten Island, non-Hispanic whites remain more than 70 percent of the
population. But Hispanics now make up 12 percent of the borough, and Asians
nearly 6 percent. Much of Staten Island's growth was centered in the
southwestern part of the island, in places like Tottenville, where there was a
relatively large amount of new construction in the 1990's.

The population of Manhattan, meanwhile, remained stable at about 1,530,000, when
comparing 2000 figures with adjusted 1990 figures. In Manhattan, the percentages
of non-Hispanic whites and blacks dropped only slightly, while the numbers of
Hispanics and Asians rose.

Citywide, slightly fewer than 5 percent of all New Yorkers identified themselves
as multiracial.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How the City Diversified"Data compiled in a joint project by
The New York Times and Queens College show how racial and ethnic neighborhoods
developed. The project computerized the city's census data beginning in 1905.
1910 -- Only one tract has a black majority.POP.: 4,766,883WHITE: 98%BLACK: 2%
1930 -- 25 tracts in Harlem have black majorities.; 3 tracts in Queens and 2 in
Brooklyn have black majorities.POP.: 6,930,446WHITE: 95%BLACK: 5% 1950 --
Morrisania and Claremont have black majorities.; Half the tracts in
Bedford-Stuyvesant have black majorities.POP.: 7,891,957WHITE: 91%BLACK: 9% 1970
-- The Hispanic percentage in Longwood and Mott Haven is as high as 81 percent.;
One tract in Bushwick is 96 percent Hispanic.POP. 7,894,862WHITE: 77%BLACK:
21%OTHER: 2%NOTE: In 1970, Hispanics were 16 percent of the population, but
becauseof the way the data were reported, they cannot be shown as a separate
group. 1980 -- The only tracts with Asian majorities are in Chinatown.POP.:
7,071,639WHITE: 52%BLACK: 24%OTHER: 1%HISPANIC: 20%ASIAN: 3% 1990 -- Areas with
a majority of Asians spread in Queens.; Areas with a majority of Hispanics
spread in the Bronx.POP.: 7,552,186WHITE: 42%BLACK: 26%OTHER: 1%HISPANIC:
25%ASIAN: 7% Mapping shows pluralities of races (40%-60%)(60%-80%) of White,
Black, Hispanic and Asian people in New York City. 2000POP. 8,008,278 LARGEST
PCT. OF HISPANICSWest Farms: 81% SECOND LARGEST PCT. OF HISPANICSNorth Corona:
78% LARGEST PCT. OF BLACKSSpringfield Gardens: 92% LARGEST PCT. OF
ASIANSChinatown: 72% LARGEST PCT. OF WHITESBreezy Point: 98% SECOND LARGEST PCT.
OF WHITESManhattan Beach: 96% WHITE: 35%OTHER SINGLE RACES: 1%HISPANIC:
27%BLACK: 25%ASIAN: 10%MULTIRACE: 3% Map shows race populations densities of New
York City. NOTE: In 1910, the census divided up the races into black, white and
a third category, which combined all others. In 1970, the census began
collecting information on Hispanics and some Asian groups. For the 2000 census,
individuals could identify themselves as belonging to more than one race.
Percentages may not add up to 100 because of rounding. (Source: 1910 to 1990 New
York City maps are based on published and unpublished census data files compiled
by Prof. Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College sociology department. Data for each
year are allocated and mapped to 2000 census tract boundaries. 2000 data are
mapped by census block groups.)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York City's Population Peak

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 531 words


The first burst of census data from the year 2000 offers cause for optimism in
New York City. The numbers show the city as an inviting metropolis, no longer a
victim of flight and urban decay. After losing its population mostly to the
suburbs and the South in the mid-1970's and early 1980's, the city began to
register signs of renewal with the 1990 census. Now, in the latest round of
counting, New York has broken the eight million mark, surpassing its historical
peak in population of 30 years ago. The census has finally registered what any
New Yorker knows firsthand from crowding into the subways or competing for an
affordable apartment. America's largest city, benefiting from a decade of
sustained immigration and a solid economy, is officially booming.

The Census Bureau's early, broad-brush rendering of last year's count also
describes a perceptible shift in New York State's population from upstate to
downstate. In political terms, these shifts should give the city more clout both
in Albany and in Washington, including more seats in the Legislature and
possibly insulation against losing a Congressional seat.

Much of the increase in the city's population comes from the latest wave of
immigrants, who like earlier arrivals have provided labor and energy to New York
City. This expansion is reflected primarily in the growth in the Hispanic and
Asian populations, particularly in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx. The black
population grew only slightly over the past decade and the non-Hispanic white
population continued to decline, but the new portrait of New York still shows a
richly diverse city.

The greater accuracy of this census may account for more than half of the city's
population increase, which was either 450,000 or almost 700,000 people,
depending on what base is used. City employees worked diligently over the last
few years to help census takers find previously uncharted living quarters that
helped boost the city's census numbers. As a result, the city should
automatically gain $40 million a year, at the very least, under various state
and federal financing programs that distribute money based on population.

Unfortunately, even these latest census figures are probably still too low,
since the census canvassers tend to miss many immigrants and others in poorer
areas. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani needs to join the mayors of other metropolitan
areas who are pressing for release of detailed adjusted data from the Census
Bureau to determine whether the city would benefit from statistical sampling
expected to help make up for some of the undercount.

The new numbers stand as a clear challenge to New York's political and urban
thinkers to deal more quickly with the needs of a growing city. For too long,
New York has been mostly patching and fixing an infrastructure planned and built
many decades ago. This new data confirms the need for fresh, long-term
strategies to cope with such difficulties as aging, crowded schools, an
antiquated subway and transportation system, the scarcity of affordable housing,
and a commercial sector that needs space and services to maintain a thriving
economy. Bigger populations impose bigger responsibilities.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: RIDGEWOOD;
A Center Feeds Bellies and Minds

BYLINE:  By EUN LEE KOH

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 297 words


There is no welcome mat on the front stoop, no sign indicating free food. The
building still rattles with construction. But despite that, when the Newland
Community Center opened on March 1, throngs of local residents poured eagerly
through its doors.

Dozens of people, many of them poor Asian immigrants, enrolled their children
for after-school programs, then signed themselves up for English classes. They
asked for help with translating their immigration documents and citizenship
applications. They asked for snacks.

"You can tell that people must have wanted this for a long time," said Tran Thi
Nguyet, the executive director, who runs the center with another person and 10
student volunteers.

Poverty in New York City is no surprise, but the location of this center is. At
Seneca Avenue and Gates Avenue, it is the first facility of its kind in the
working-class neighborhood of Ridgewood.

Ms. Nguyet, who lives in Ridgewood, said a surge of poor immigrants had come to
the area in recent years. Rising rents in places like Chinatown and Flushing,
where many Asian immigrants had lived, have driven the poorer ones to cheaper
accommodations in Ridgewood.

All of the center's services, which are financed by the city and charitable
groups, are free.

Already, at least 40 students come after school every day for snacks, and play
until their parents pick them up after work.

English-language classes are expected to begin in April. Within the next couple
of months, Ms. Nguyet hopes to raise enough money to stock a full pantry of free
food.

"They don't like to talk about it, but I know some of the people are on welfare
and they work at the same time," Ms. Nguyet said.

"Some of them work 14 hours a day. You can't raise a family if you don't get
help in some way."   EUN LEE KOH

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Youth programs draw well. (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Affection Peddled By the Drink;
Lonely Immigrants Provide a Market

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.


A cluster of women in tight jeans and halter tops waited for a turn at the phone
at the Crystal Night Club. They cooed and whispered into the receiver. They
talked of longing and of dreams, of being lonely and desiring company. They
spoke of love.

And to the men listening, seated in small apartment rooms with two or three
other companions, far from wives and children, yearning for the soft touch that
comes with affection, the bait doled out over the line was irresistible. Central
American laborers, with little education, no English and lacking valid
immigration documents, they soon arrived at this club, or some 20 others grouped
in downtown Hempstead, to be relieved of their weekly pay.

The calls were not by chance. The bar, like most, kept a list of who gets checks
on Friday.

"We have clients who are in love with us," Selsa Ortiz said in Spanish. Ms.
Ortiz, 33, was dressed in a floor-length black dress that had slits up to her
hips and a rhinestone pin on the collar. "They have no women except us. They
come night after night until they cannot afford to come anymore."

The men, their hands callused by rough work, buy rounds of $10 drinks for the
women, nearly all from the Dominican Republic. The outings always end with the
same frustration. The women disappear shortly before dawn in vans to the Bronx,
Queens or Brooklyn, or leave their dates bereft and often drunk at tables when
the money is gone.

There are many ways to prey on the weak and the lonely. But one of the most
profitable is to peddle love. Many of the estimated 100,000 Salvadoran, Honduran
and Guatemalan pot washers, construction workers or landscapers on Long Island
frequent these seedy hostess bars just as legions of male immigrants, from the
Chinese to Eastern Europeans, did elsewhere in earlier eras. The deafening
blasts of music, gyrating women and booze-soaked conversations have been
repeated long before in other tongues.

The clubs, with hallways stinking of urine and with men collapsed on steps in an
alcoholic stupor, offer a brief and finally bitter respite from a dreary and
marginal life.

Ivan Escalante, 24, from El Salvador, has worked for five years as a pot washer
on Long Island. He lacks proper documents and so cannot open a bank account. He
shares a $400-a-month room with two other men and sends $150 weekly to his
family.

Payday, for him and many others, is the hardest day of the week.

"We live a life for others, for those at home," he said in Spanish. "We have no
lives here. As soon as we are paid we become vulnerable. We cannot keep money in
our room; someone will steal it. None of us have cars, so we must walk. And on
the streets of Hempstead there are a lot of assaults from the Salvadoran street
gangs. The only distractions we have are the bars, but once you get there it is
hard to stop. The cash is in your pocket. It is so nice to talk and dance with a
woman."

The cost is paid not just by the workers, but also by their families.

"When you wake up and realize your money is gone, that it has been wasted on
girls and drinks, you are depressed," said Juan Antonio Hernandez, 37, a
Salvadoran dishwasher who works in Bayville. "You know your children in El
Salvador will not get enough to eat this week. It is horrible."

Law enforcement officials say that Salvadoran gang members, from groups like
Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, gather on street corners near the clubs. Some sit
sullenly in the backs of clubs nursing beers, avoiding the women and looking for
easy targets.

"The gang members watch who gets drunk," said Detective Joseph Wing of the
Hempstead Police Department. "They follow them outside and take them off."

About 3 a.m. on Saturday morning, a brawl including about 10 members of the
MS-13 gang outside La Plaza Bar at 248 Front Street left Jose Hernandez, 23,
from El Salvador dead and another man wounded with a knife wound to the chest.
There have been no arrests.

The Hempstead police, with the surge in gang activity over the last few years,
have created anti-gang units and bar patrols to curb violence and monitor
activities in the clubs. The police said the special units had contributed to a
reduction of almost 30 percent in the crime rate.

Bars like Crystal, the largest in Hempstead with 30 hostesses, as well as places
like Macarena and El Pacifico, operate in the same manner. Vans deliver the
women from the city about 9 p.m. and return to pick up the hostesses about 4
a.m.

The women make money on each drink they get a client to buy for them. A plastic,
fluted glass filled with ice and an ounce of cheap wine earns about $4 for the
hostess and $6 for the house. Some women can drink 40 or 50 glasses a night.

On a recent Friday night, Luis Tejada, 32, stood behind the bar of the Crystal
swiftly refilling fluted glasses, collecting money and putting a mark on a
yellow pad next to the name of each woman who asked for a drink. A large wad of
bills was in his left hand. The roar of the music, a Puerto Rican pop song, made
communication difficult. He and his hostesses shouted.

"This is where men come for the concept of having a girlfriend," he said in
English. "All the bars in Hempstead have dancing waitresses. They dance, sit and
converse with you as long as you buy them drinks. The men fall in love with the
girls. This brings them back night after night. Every once in a while one of the
girls elopes with a customer, but once that happens they are out of a job.

"When a customer finds out he cannot get a girl, he will leave for a few weeks,"
he added. "But he will usually come back and try with another. I go for the
drinks, not what the girls look like. I have some Petunia Pigs that drink a lot
more and are worth more to me than the Christie Brinkleys. This is strictly
about money. Besides, these guys are not Tom Cruise."

A bouncer frisked men at the door, stripping many of knives and a few of
machetes that had been hidden inside pant legs. He placed one sticker on the
weapons and gave another to the customer. When one man staggered toward him,
already drunk, he turned him away.

Juana Franco, 29, who has five children and studies at Bronx Community College,
watched as the man made his way unsteadily down the stairs. "You don't have to
sit with someone like that," she said. "When you see that they are really drunk,
you go the other way."

Ms. Franco, in tight blue spandex pants, shifted to allow a group of men, who
turned to leer at her, pass into the club. "They all say they are single," she
said in Spanish, "even when they are married. No one put a gun to their heads to
make them come here, but still you feel sorry for them. We all have feelings."

The Hempstead police say they have found no evidence of prostitution in the
bars. And owners say that women who sleep with customers, or who use drugs, are
fired.

"If they sleep with a customer I lose clients," said Mr. Tejada, who said he had
already made enough on his business to retire. "They won't spend money to buy
her drinks if they get what they want. I only make money while they are trying
to get her. Why buy a cow when you get the milk?"

Many of the women at the clubs, who can sometimes dart between two or three men
at once, have spindly legs and stomachs that bulge from heavy drinking.
Alcoholics, bar owners contend, make the best employees.

"Girls in these bars like to drink, that is what it boils down to," said Mr.
Tejada, who like most club owners is Dominican. "Some of these women can drink
these guys to the floor. I have girls that can down 65 glasses in a night. That
is the record. The average is 50 on a Saturday night."

What revenge takes place does so in the bathroom. There the men, often drunk and
aware that they must soon stagger home alone, turn on the porcelain fixtures.

"They destroy everything that is not nailed down," said Mr. Tejada. "I have to
remodel the bathroom every month because the toilets, sinks and urinals get
ripped out. I am looking into stainless-steel fixtures, like the ones in jails.
The men are frustrated. They spend all their money on girls and get nothing in
return. They take it out on my bathroom."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A hostess at the Crystal Night Club, above, makes a telephone
call to a man asking him to come in. Vans, like the one at left, carry the
hostesses to the Crystal and other similar clubs each night and then home again
before dawn.; "They have no women except us," said Selsa Ortiz, a hostess, with
a customer. "They come night after night until they cannot afford to come
anymore."; At the Crystal Night Club and other clubs like it in Hempstead on
Long Island, men buy companionship for $10 a drink. (Photographs by ANGEL
FRANCO/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

MUSIC REVIEW;
A Nod, a Bow and a Pass At Immigrant Experience

BYLINE:  By ANNE MIDGETTE

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 610 words


Schoenberg's "Variations for Orchestra" are carefully structured, occasionally
beautiful and fiendishly difficult. It was the difficult part that came out
Sunday afternoon in the American Composers Orchestra's performance of this
piece, the first 12-tone work written for orchestra.

Filling in at short notice for Dennis Russell Davies, Dante Anzolini moved the
work from last place to first: a challenging opening for orchestra and audience.
Playing without much nuance or distinction between the variations, at a uniform
mezzo-forte, he and the orchestra gave the impression that they simply wanted to
get it out of the way.

The "Variations" were out of place on this program in any case. Called "Ellis
Island to J.F.K.," the concert was supposed to document immigrant composers in
America's classical musical life.

Since classical music was itself a foreign import, the idea is forced to begin
with. Also, Schoenberg's "Variations" were written before the composer moved
here. And finally, the concert didn't establish any parallels between Schoenberg
and, for instance, Jin Hi Kim, a specialist in traditional Korean music whose
"Eternal Rock," given its premiere on Sunday, was her first-ever piece for
orchestra. Both immigrants? O.K. So were Igor Stravinsky and John Lennon.

A more accurate title would have been "Non-European Women Confront European
Men," except that Ms. Kim and Tania Leon, who also had a world premiere on the
program, didn't actually do much confronting.

Ms. Kim's piece moved through the orchestra like a curious outsider, wondering
at the range of sounds it can make and generally using it as an extension of the
twangy vocabulary of the solo komungo, a large, zitherlike instrument.

In "Desde," Ms. Leon, better versed in orchestral language per se, dipped into
the instrumental sections like paint pots, dabbing bird-song trills of the flute
or soupcons of maracas onto an impressionistic, messy canvas.

As the soloist in Lukas Foss's "Piano Concerto for the Left Hand," which was
written for him, Leon Fleisher brought a stability and soundness to the
proceedings, and the orchestra picked it up as it passed phrases back and forth.
It caught well, too, the way Mr. Foss amplifies a piano passage with a touch of
glockenspiel, a flick of oboe, like a sprinkling of salt to bring out a phrase's
flavor.

As Mr. Foss was the subject of a Making Music program at Weill Recital Hall
immediately after the concert, audiences of both could hear 50 years of his
music, from the 1993 piano concerto to "Three American Pieces" from 1944.

One unexpected thing that emerged from hearing this span of work together was
that, for all the differences between the now-dated Americana of the 1940's and
the more avant-garde middle period of the 1960's, some of Mr. Foss's
fingerprints remained in evidence throughout: the use of repeating ostinato
figures, or the way that one voice would amplify another voice, then pick it up
and depart from it.

Not surprisingly, Mr. Foss's famous "Time Cycle" (1960) emerged as the strongest
work, in part because of a luminous reading by members of the Met Chamber
Orchestra under James Levine in the Making Music program.

Hearing a composer play his own music, as Mr. Foss did in the two early works
and the 1982 "Solo Observed" on the first half of the program, one realizes that
written notation is sometimes only an approximate means of conveying the way
something is supposed to sound.

Another player might have rendered the repetitive figures of "Solo Observed"
(1982) with a stronger sense of beat; Mr. Foss, by contrast, communicated, more
than anything else, an organic, vital sense of the music.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jin Hi Kim plays the komungo in the premiere of her "Eternal
Rock," with the American Composers Orchestra, conducted by Dante Anzolini.
(Chris Lee for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 1, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS;
A Snoopy Ad in 'Indish' Aims Cricket Bat at South Asians

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 369 words


An Ecuadorean transit worker walking by the billboard at Roosevelt Avenue and
Broadway in Jackson Heights had no idea what language it was in. Nor did a
Brazilian student. Speaking with a heavy Egyptian accent, a businessman visiting
from Cairo guessed it was "espanol." He was wrong.

But anyone shopping in the South Asian businesses that dominate 74th Street a
block away would not have any problem.

The billboard, which features Snoopy hitting a cricket ball with the line,
"Zindagi Ki Googly Per . . . MetLife Ka Sixer," was in "Indish," a Hindi-English
hybrid.

Translating from Hindi to English and cricket to baseball, its message is
roughly, "When life throws you a curveball, MetLife helps you hit a grand slam."

The advertisment uses the Latin alphabet rather than Hindi script so that more
immigrants from the Indian subcontinent will understand it. Spoken Hindi is
understood across much of the Indian subcontinent, primarily because it is the
language most often heard in Indian movies.

Yet the first language of many immigrants from the region is not Hindi but
something else, like Urdu, the official language of Pakistan; or Gujarati,
spoken in the Gujarat province of India; or Bengali, spoken in Bangladesh. Hindi
script may not be read by people speaking these other languages.

Though store signs in foreign languages are common, non-English billboards are
rare.

MetLife has a billboard in Los Angeles with a slogan in Vietnamese, and one with
a Spanish slogan in Miami, said Shailendra Ghorpade, senior vice president for
marketing and e-business at MetLife. The company has two other billboards with
the Indish slogan, in Edison, N.J., and Chicago. The one in Queens was put up
last April.

Mr. Ghorpade said the company aimed its message at South Asians because they
have higher-than-average income and education levels than most other immigrants,
making them excellent customers for financial services. The cricket reference is
used because the game is still popular on the subcontinent.

Jamaicans or Britons might understand as well.

"Anybody from the cricketing world would probably pick up 90 percent of the
meaning by reading those three words: googly, sixer and MetLife," he said.
SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: MetLife uses a Hindi-English hybrid language to sell its wares
in Queens.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. and Mexico Meet on Joint Migration Issues

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 4


In an effort to resolve the contentious issues of migration that have long
divided Mexico and the United States, high-level officials from both governments
agreed today to examine a broad set of proposals intended to make the border
safer for Mexican immigrants, expand guest worker programs in the United States
and create new incentives to keep Mexicans from abandoning their homeland.

In a written statement issued at the end of the meeting in Washington, American
and Mexican officials indicated that they viewed migration as an issue of
"shared responsibility" that must be addressed on both sides of the border.

For Mexico, where government officials had consistently regarded any efforts to
regulate the northward migration as an infringement on their people's
fundamental rights, the statement represented a major philosophical shift.

A senior Mexican official indicated that the Mexican government was considering
new social and economic programs in areas with high migration rates. The joint
statement indicated that the two governments were considering cooperating on
efforts that would increase protections for Mexican workers in the United
States, and on law enforcement efforts at the border.

"Priority will be given to programs aimed at combating the smuggling of people
and preventing the deaths of migrants at the border," the joint statement said.

The meeting of the two-nation migration work group, formed during President
Bush's visit in February with Mexican President Vicente Fox, was led for Mexico
by Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda and Interior Minister Santiago Creel.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft led the
meetings for the Bush administration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Give Me Your Tired, Your Poor, Your Vote

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1627 words


Ydanis Rodriguez, a schoolteacher and candidate for City Council, went
campaigning the other day in Washington Heights, home to New York City's biggest
concentration of Dominican immigrants like him. Buffeted by wet gusts of wind,
he called out greetings in Spanish and was rewarded with broad smiles of
recognition.

But being popular in a neighborhood buoyed by immigrants, while comforting on a
cold day, will not necessarily get an immigrant politician elected. As Mr.
Rodriguez would be the first to admit, few of those who greeted him so
cheerfully may be eligible to vote.

"We have a long way to go," he acknowledged. "To empower our community, it's not
just a question of getting elected but of educating people so they understand
they have to become citizens and to register."

Still, this could be a banner year for politicians like Mr. Rodriguez.

He is one of at least a dozen foreign-born candidates who have set their sights
on the City Council elections this fall, when term limits will force out
two-thirds of the incumbents and 35 seats will be open.

Many more of the 175 people who have declared their intentions to run are
second-generation immigrants with Hispanic, Asian or West Indian roots.

In fact, so many immigrant candidates are chasing the immigrant vote that they
could cancel one another out in some races. For example, along with Mr.
Rodriguez, at least five others of Dominican descent are running for the Council
seat in Upper Manhattan held by another Dominican-American, Guillermo Linares.

It is inevitable: a wave of immigration has transformed New York City since the
mid-1970's. One million legal immigrants arrived in just the last decade and by
now, city planners estimate, about 40 percent of New Yorkers are foreign born.

Despite their numerical strength, the newcomers from Asia, Latin America and the
former Soviet Union have yet to win real political power. Their biggest handicap
is that not all of them become citizens. And their American-born children, when
they are old enough, tend to vote at the same rate as other Americans --
infrequently. But recen years have brought significant changes that could give
these New York residents their best shot at shaking up local elections.

Spurred by national laws that eliminated services for even legal immigrants, a
record number of them, nearly 575,000, have become citizens since 1996.
Concerted voter registration efforts by advocates like the New York Immigration
Coalition also appear to have paid off. The number of registered voters in he
city has topped 3.6 million, 278,000 higher than a year ago.

At the same time, term limits have removed the advantage of incumbency in
Council races, opening opportunities for Hispanic, Asian and other immigrant
candidates who had largely been ignored by established party organizations.
Finally, a generous campaign finance law will give even neophytes access to
public matching funds to run promotional ads and print campaign material.

"This is a situation where you have had just a little bit of change in any one
year, but when you add up 10 years, it can be substantial," said John
Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the graduate center of
the City University of New York.

He added: "The non-Hispanic white population is down, the immigrant population
is up and there really was a lot more naturalization in the second half of the
90's. Gradually that's going to translate into greater voter registration and,
sooner or later, into more votes."

A study by Dr. Mollenkopf of where new voters registered from 1994 through 1999
showed the biggest increases in areas that have received the greatest number of
immirants. That is not so surprising. But what has happened in other
neighborhoods could tip the balance in a city where voting often divides along
ethnic and racial loyalties. In some non-Hispanic white neighborhoods, voter
rolls actually srank.

Candidates who try to mine the immigrant vote still face their own peculiar
challenges; for instance, there is the task of focusing energy on people who can
actually cast a vote on Election Day, and then getting those people to the
polls. That is the kind of help that has historically been provided by the
Democratic Party organization. While its power to deliver jobs and favors has
declined sharply, some neighborhood clubs and county organizations still anoint
their favorites and mobilize on behalf of selected candidates.

But few immigrant activists have advanced very far in the party hierarchy.

"I am the only Hispanic who is a Democratic leader of any county in the state,
so I am qualified to say that the Democratic Party has failed miserably to take
into account this new constituency," said Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic
Party chairman.

Mr. Ramirez, who was born in Puerto Rico, said the party structure was
uncomfortable with "the sleeping giant" that Hispanic and other immigrant voters
represent.

"New immigrants have a bright-eyed, bushy-tailed approach to voting," he said.
"The problem is that the political apparatus over the years has become less
eager to take advantage of them because these people look different."

Indeed, to many would-be immigrant politicians, the party is often seen as more
of a hindrance than a help.

"As long as you're an activist, you're welcome," said Inna Stavitsky, a
Russian-born candidate running for the Council seat in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn.
"As soon as you're a candidate, you're not, of course, because you're a rival."

The enduring power of the clubs shows on Election Day. Poll workers and
observers are drawn from the ranks of established party networks.

"All sides are controlled by the clubs and for new people it's very difficult to
participate," said Ms. Stavitsky, echoing complaints that have been raised by
many Asian-American and Hispanic groups. "Last year there was a lot of abuse. In
many cases they are very old. They have hearing impediments. And they don't
understand the differences between the first and last names of immigrants."

Labor unions, on the other hand, have shown more interest in promoting immigrant
candidates.

"They do pretty systematic phone banks," said Rocky Chin, a City Council
candidate in Lower Manhattan who has already been endorsed by Unite, the garment
workers' union. Mr. Chin is a Chinese-American seeking the seat held by Kathryn
E. Freed.

"And the unions do a better job of addressing the issue of building coalitions
between minority groups," Mr. Chin added, "because they have all these different
groups."

In some elections, though, like last year's, accumulating immigrant votes takes
more than an organizational structure.

In parts of Queens, the Chinese-language ballots in November reversed the party
headings for Congressional, state and judicial candidates, so that the Democrats
were listed under the heading of Republican and Republicans under the heading of
Democrat. Board of Elections officials blamed a printing error and said it would
not be repeated.

Sometimes the confusion is at least partly self-generated. One example was the
primary election in Brighton Beach, home to a majority of the elderly
Russian-American immigrants who have flooded New York in the past decade.

Dozens of voters complained that they were not permitted to write in the name of
a Russian-American candidate they favored for a State Assembly seat, but whose
name was not on the ballot. Shoving matches and shouting also broke out at some
polling stations when would-be voters did not find their names on the rolls.

The chaos was typical of many election districts with large numbers of new
citizens and elderly voters who do not understand that they must register by
party to vote in a party primary. In the case of many Russian-Americans, who had
experience in the fraudulent elections of their homeland, being turned away is
evidence of a dark conspiracy.

The final challenge to immigrant voting strength also comes from within. They
are so diverse that their impact on the power structure is fractured.

Outside of a few areas like Washington Heights, where most of the Hispanic
residents are believed to be from the Dominican Republic, immigrants do not live
in sizable enclaves that approach the critical mass of a single voting bloc.

In Flushing, Queens, for example, Asians make up 52 percent of the population.
Several Asian-American candidates, including three who have unsuccessfully run
for office before, are hoping to capitalize on the changing demographics. They
are running for the City Council seat held by Julia Harrison.

But while Asians may be in the majority, they are not all from the same place.
Aside from its large Chinese population, Flushing has also attracted substantial
numbers of Koreans, Indians, Bangladeshis and Pakistanis who may have no
particular incentive to vote for someone of a different national origin.

And that is where candidates have to walk a thin line. On one hand, they try to
appeal to immigrant voters as a fellow Chinese-American, Dominican-American or
Russian-American. On the other, they may not get elected unless they have
crossover appeal.

"We have to mobilize around issues and interests," said Margaret Chin, a
candidate for the City Council seat in Lower Manhattan, which includes
neighborhoods like Chinatown, SoHo and the Lower East Side.

For her and other candidates in the district, the controversy over the closing
of the Grand Street subway station has been fortuitous. It has galvanized the
traditionally disengaged residents of Chinatown. It may even convince them of
the importance of having a friend at City Hall.

Candidates like Ms. Chin can only hope.

"Ten years ago, you couldn't mobilize to this extent," she said. "But little by
little, I think, people will realize that voting is important."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Suman Raghunathan, of the New York Immigration Coalition,
describing a voter registration form. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 37);
Ydanis Rodriguez, above, in Upper Manhattan, and Inna Stavitsky, left, in
Brighton Beach, seek a growing immigrant vote. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York
Times); (Alan Chin for The New York Times); Rocky Chin, a candidate for a City
Council seat in Lower Manhattan. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg.
42) Chart/Map: "A Shift in Power"Percentage change of registered voters, 1994 to
1999. (Source: John Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research, City
University of New York)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BOOKSHELF

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 201 words


FROM ELLIS ISLAND TO JFK:
New York's Two Great Waves of Immigration
By Nancy Foner
Yale University Press
($29.95, hardcover)

In 1910, more than three-quarters of unmarried Jewish immigrant daughters over
16 worked for wages, the vast majority in the needle trades; even younger girls,
those only 14 and 15 years of age, often worked outside the home. Italian girls
were more likely to stay home helping with household chores or to engage in
industrial homework, but large numbers also went to work in factories.

By one count, in 1905 in New York City 62 percent of single Italian-born women
between the ages of 16 and 21 were wage earners, typically in the garment
industry but also in paper-box, candy, jewelry, and tobacco factories. For
Italian girls from rural backgrounds factory work in New York often represented
the first experience with wage labor. . . .

Among the American-born or raised, there was even some movement out of the
factory into the office during this period: by 1905 one out of four Russian
daughters in New York City was in white-collar employment, as a schoolteacher,
clerk, salesperson or shopkeeper, whereas the proportion among Italian
daughters, 9 percent, was still very small.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Great Expectations

BYLINE:  By Catherine Hausman and Victoria Goldman; Catherine Hausman and
Victoria Goldman are co-authors of "The Manhattan Family Guide to Private
Schools." Ms. Goldman is a board member of the Albert G. Oliver Program.

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 4485 words


Growing up in Brooklyn, Randolph J. Sealey Jr. never felt like anything other
than a typical American kid with an immigrant's background. His grandmother
cooked with curry, and he loved baseball and school. "I was either going to play
for the New York Yankees or be a doctor," said Mr. Sealey, who arrived in the
United States from Panama at age 8.

He went the latter career route. On a scholarship at Lawrenceville, a
prestigious boarding school in southern New Jersey, he emerged as a leader in
the classroom, on the playing fields and in student life. He worked his way
through Duke University and then medical school at the State University of New
York.

Few would guess that Mr. Sealey, with all his accomplishments and prep school
manners, has lived in the United States unlawfully for most of his 27 years.
Like others in his situation -- remarkable students running, often unwittingly,
under the radar of the Immigration and Naturalization Service -- he has had to
wage a quiet crusade to finish his education.

To be young, talented and illegal, even with a fistful of acceptances to top
universities, means a college dream is at best uncertain. Only American citizens
and legal permanent residents -- green card holders -- qualify for federal and
state grants and loans. And just a few private colleges and universities award
financial aid to international students -- the highly competitive category in
which illegal immigrants are placed. Even attending city universities, which
have long catered to the immigrant population, can be a financial hardship for
poor students who, without a green card, work off the books in low-paying jobs.

About 25,000 illegal immigrants are enrolled in American public universities and
community colleges, with only 200 at private institutions, according to Michael
A. Olivas, director of the Institute for Higher Education Law and Governance at
the University of Houston Law Center. "There are probably another 50,000 to
75,000 undocumented students who are qualified and desirous of a college
education," he said, but they are discouraged from applying because of fear of
the I.N.S. and soaring tuitions.

Each year the nonprofit program Prep for Prep prepares and places in private
high schools some 150 talented minority students, two to three of whom are
illegal, says Charles Guerrero, director of college guidance for the program.
"Many struggle just to scrape together funds for their local community college,"
Mr. Guerrero said. "Some lose the opportunity to go to a really first-rate
school. While many will go to state schools and do very well, if you do well at
a school like Georgetown, Northwestern or Stanford, there's a difference in how
that work is perceived and how it is valued. There are opportunities for
research, for jobs, leadership and social connections."

A 1982 Supreme Court ruling guarantees that all illegal immigrants have access
to free public education through high school, but not beyond that. National
sentiment, especially during economic downturns, rests squarely on the side of
limiting education, according to Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the
immigration service. "When things get bad," he said, "the immigrants
historically have been blamed."

The mood became particularly negative during the recession of the early 90's,
leading to the passage of major legislation in 1996 restricting social benefits
to noncitizens. One divisive provision that was dropped from the bill would have
allowed states to bar illegal immigrants from public schools. Pete Wilson, then
governor of California, and Bob Dole, then running for president, vociferously
supported the provision, arguing that the government should not have to bear the
cost of educating the children of nontaxpayers, that illegal students were
crowding out those legally entitled to the places and that the students would
not get legal jobs on graduation anyway.

Now, a bill pending in the California Legislature would help such students. If
passed, illegal immigrants graduating from a California high school would be
eligible for state financial aid. The bill, on its second round, was vetoed last
session by Gov. Gray Davis. Another bill is being prepared by a United States
Representative from California, Howard L. Berman, to grant conditional permanent
residency to "Americanized" undocumented students "so they can receive a quality
education that will permit them to become productive, self-supporting U.S.
citizens," according to Gene Smith, his chief of staff. On its prospects, she
added, "Immigration reform has not been real popular in the last several years
in Congress."

Haseena Enu, an immigration lawyer who works with Prep for Prep, believes
educating illegal immigrants is an investment, particularly given the fact that
many will make their lives here. "For children who have been living here from a
very young age with their families, and have achieved huge success, just like
other kids they think the sky's the limit," she said. "What a shock it is to
them, and a loss to the country, that they don't get the benefit of the best
education."

Randy Sealey was born in Mexico City in 1974, the son of a blond, blue-eyed
German dancer and a nightclub singer of Caribbean descent. After a bitter
divorce, the father took his son to a small town in Panama, where he literally
dropped him into the laps of his own parents. Mr. Sealey remembers little of his
early years in Panama but will never forget his grandmother telling him: "You'll
be learning English from this point on in this house."

He moved to the United States with his grandmother and grandfather, who had
become a naturalized citizen through his work as a land surveyor on the Panama
Canal. "Like many Caribbean immigrants, he accepted a lower level job, as a
courier," Mr. Sealey said. "The most important thing was to bring money home and
put food on the table."

The boy arrived on a visitor's visa. When it expired, he became illegal.

He distinguished himself early, graduating second in his class from the David A.
Boody Junior High School in Bensonhurst, a magnet public school for bright
students. As salutatorian at graduation he spoke prescient words about making
decisions, making an impact and going forward.

A guidance counselor referred him to the Albert G. Oliver Program, a New York
City nonprofit organization that places talented black and Hispanic students in
private secondary schools. He would attend the Lawrenceville School on a full
scholarship.

Many prep schools are now taking stricter measures to determine a potential
student's status. Phillips Academy at Andover, Mass., recently added a line for
an alien registration number to its application. If there is no Social Security
number or registration number, the school will investigate. "To admit a student
we knew was an illegal would be to put that student in a bad situation three to
four years from now when they apply to college" and cannot get enough aid, said
Sharon Britton, the academy's director of communications. When Mr. Sealey
entered Lawrenceville in 1989, nobody asked. The school, which lacks the
resources to deal with immigration entanglements, has since adopted the same
policy as Phillips Academy.

Mr. Sealey was awed by the 191-year-old Lawrenceville School and its
aristocratic pretensions. "I didn't know places like this existed," he said.
"They have their own golf course and a hockey rink. The buildings were just
dripping with history. I really felt that I saw white Americans -- this was not
your Jewish friend or your Italian friend -- it was, 'My grandfather's father's
father went here and my name is on that building.' "

For a boy from multicultural Brooklyn "in the world of J. Crew and L.L. Bean,
it's easy to lose your identity," he added. "One of the biggest things that
helped me fit in was the fact that I was good at sports."

The school paid for Mr. Sealey to join the baseball team on its annual preseason
trip to Florida. His coach, Champneys Atlee, remembers the dedicated young man
who "night after night, sometimes in the rain, hit in the batting cages until 10
or 11 o'clock." By all accounts, Randy Sealey had a bright future.

But during his senior year, a year of great expectations for college prospects,
the floor fell out from under him. Mr. Sealey had been accepted at Duke,
Georgetown and several Division III schools -- so he could play ball --
including Hamilton, Amherst and Franklin & Marshall College. "They sent me great
financial aid packages," Mr. Sealey said. "F.&M. even gave me a full ride for
all four years."

There was a problem; on all the applications, he had left the question "Are you
an American citizen?" blank. His grandfather had begun adoption proceedings so
that he could sponsor his grandson, but he had died before they were completed.
His grandmother "just didn't have the wherewithal," Mr. Sealey said. They needed
both parents' signatures, and his mother could not be located.

Minors can be sponsored by an immediate family member -- sisters or brothers
over 21 who are United States citizens, or parents who are citizens or have
green cards. The process can take so long -- from 2 to 20 years, depending on
category and nationality -- that some children "age out" at 21 and have to start
over in a new category, which could take another two years, according to Mr.
Strassberger of the I.N.S. Applicants do not have the right to "wait it out"
here during the process, and can be deported if they come to the attention of
the immigration service. District officers have discretion in not deporting
minors whose caretakers are in the United States.

Mr. Sealey had already been to three or four lawyers to resolve his illegal
status. "Nothing was working out," he said.

When he revealed his situation to the colleges, all the loans and scholarships
were rescinded because they were tied to state and federal funds.

"I was still welcome to attend," he said, "assuming I could pay the tuition."

Typically, a financial aid officer determines what a student can pay, then puts
together a package of government grants and loans to bridge the gap. If a
private institution wants a student badly enough, it will throw in its own money
to meet the college's sticker price. At least that's how it works for Americans.

College applications ask noncitizens for an alien registration number or visa
number, which illegal immigrants lack. How an institution reacts to that
information varies. Usually the immigrant is considered with the pool of
students from abroad, where competition is stiff for both admission and aid.

"It's virtually impossible for undocumented students to get funding at the
private colleges and universities," said Kalman A. Chany, an educational
financial consultant and author of "Paying for College Without Going Broke."
"The funds are limited, the awards are so small, and given to the most
exceptional student."

Most colleges can't afford to give aid to foreign students or give very little,
in the conviction that Americans are their priority. Some refuse to accept
applications from illegal immigrants at all. And only a handful of the richest
universities -- Harvard, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Yale and
Princeton -- have extended need-blind admissions to international students,
which frees up admissions offices to make decisions without regard to financial
circumstance. The institutions then divine ways to meet the students' financial
need, usually through a mix of grants, loans and campus jobs.

Since foreigners have traditionally had to pay their own way, applicants have
come from more developed countries. The aim of the elite universities is to
diversify their campuses with the top students from poorer countries as well as
present a more global image.

But it's rarely a full ride, perhaps in 10 percent of cases, says Caesar
Storlazzi, associate director of undergraduate financial aid services at Yale.

Even when an institution can offer a generous grant, the price tag can be so
high as to be beyond reach. Syracuse University, whose tuition, fees, room and
board comes to about $31,000 for next fall, offers some $21 million in
merit-based institutional scholarships. Awards range up to $24,000. But without
federal loans or grants, most illegal immigrants would be hard pressed to make
up the shortfall.

Would an illegal immigrant have a shot at these opportunities anyway?

To pick up most of the cost for four years is a huge financial commitment for a
university. Financial aid officers must also weigh whether a student, without a
green card, can pay back a loan upon graduation.

"Most financial aid officers would not want to spend scarce financial aid
dollars on an illegal immigrant," said Larry Zaglanizzy, a spokesman for the
National Association of Student Financial Aid Officers.

Manhattan Comprehensive Night and Day, a public high school for students ages 17
to 22 who are living with adult responsibilities, is a far cry from the golf
greens of Lawrenceville.

"These students don't have three meals a day unless they work for it," said
Gregory P. Cohen, executive director of Comprehensive Development, a nonprofit
organization that provides social services to students at the school.

Originally built for Jewish immigrant girls in 1904, the school now teaches 800
students from 52 countries. "Whoever arrives at Kennedy on Sunday shows up on
Monday," said Mr. Cohen, who estimates that of 480 students in the program for
English as a second language, a third are illegal. "We have kids from
Afghanistan, Kosovo, China and everywhere in between."

Comprehensive Development, headquartered in the basement of the school, is
staffed with 140 volunteer tutors, three social workers and two college
counselors. It's here, in a buzz of activity, that students come to navigate the
college maze.

"Documented or not, everybody in this school expects to go to college," said
Candace Reyes-Dandrea, a college adviser at the Door, an immigrant advocacy
group that works with the school.

One such student is Oscar. One of seven children in Mexico, he was brought to
the United States at age 17 with an older brother. He spoke no English, had only
a primary school education and no immigration status.

"I was trying to go to school and find time to work," said Oscar, who declined
to give his last name for fear of the I.N.S. He started at Manhattan
Comprehensive at night as a student in English as a second language, working
during the day. In his five years there, he received excellent grades and
learned English along the way. He graduated in 1996 at age 22 with the
Principal's Award, given to the student who overcomes significant barriers to
earn a diploma, a real honor in a school where nearly every student's story is a
profile in adversity. "I'd never won anything," Oscar said, "especially anything
like that. I was proud."

Oscar is now studying computer science at the Borough of Manhattan Community
College, City University of New York. He recently bought a second-hand computer,
which he upgraded himself. But it broke down and he now uses one at school for
his studies. "I have to save my money," he said.

Early every morning Oscar leaves the house in Ridgewood, Queens, where he lives
with his sister and travels more than 40 minutes to his job at a coffee shop. He
takes orders and works the cash register for $8 an hour. From 4 to 9 p.m. he
goes to college, then it's back home to do homework and sleep.

Most of Manhattan Comprehensive's students can barely scrape up tuition to pay
for a public university. Oscar was able to prove he had been a city resident for
more than a year and a half to get the CUNY in-state tuition for a two-year
college of $2,500 a year, as opposed to about $3,500. He spends perhaps $1,000
on books.

Out-of-state tuition is a real challenge for poor students: roughly $6,800 at a
CUNY four-year institution, $8,300 at a SUNY school.

In Texas, illegal immigrants are required to pay "international rates" to its
public university system -- $254 a semester hour, as opposed to $40 in-state. A
bill pending in the state Legislature would allow illegal immigrants who have
graduated from Texas high schools to pay in-state rates. The immigration bill
pending in the California Legislature includes a similar provision.

Ambition and a willingness to work hard do not always translate into a green
card. Oscar's immigration status remains unresolved. "I was hoping that if maybe
I started university that could help me to get status here," he said. "But I
don't think that's the case. I know that if I finish university with a diploma
or some sort of skill I might not be able to work here and I'll have to go back
to Mexico."

Because he has taken time off to earn tuition money, it is taking Oscar four
years to get through the two-year college.

"The difference between being middle class and being poor is you can't follow
the sequence from high school to college," Mr. Cohen said. "Students who defer
college now will find a way to get what they need. But we'd rather see it happen
when they have the freedom of a 23-year-old rather than when they're 35, married
with children."

Artee Ramkhelawan lost her momentum somewhere between high school and now. She
won a full scholarship to Taft, a boarding school in Watertown, Conn., through
the Wight Foundation in Newark. She excelled at languages and was interested in
international business and medicine, sparked by a community service job at a
local hospital. Her father had been a pediatric surgeon before the family
emigrated from Trinidad in 1991 to join her paternal grandmother, already an
American citizen.

Ms. Ramkhelawan began to understand the ramifications of her situation in her
junior year, after applying to study abroad in Barcelona. "When they asked for
my documents, that's when it really hit me that I could not do something like
this. I kept calling my parents and they kept calling lawyers who said, 'Oh,
well, all you need to do is submit another form, and another form.' That's when
I got nervous about college because I realized I would not be eligible for
financial aid."

With a combined SAT of 1260 and a 3.4 average, she was accepted at Syracuse
University, Barnard College and New York University, but she could not afford
the tuition or secure a private loan.

The family had submitted papers upon arrival in the United States, four years
before Ms. Ramkhelawan applied to college. But her green card did not arrive
until 1997, a year after she graduated from Taft. By then, she was taking
pre-med courses at Rutgers at night and helping support her family. Her father
had failed the physicians' licensing exam and refused to go back to school. He
worked for an insurance company for a time but then fell into depression and
spends most of his days in their small Newark apartment, while Ms. Ramkhelawan's
mother works as an employee trainer at an insurance company.

"I kept losing papers, I was in debt, and I was overwhelmed," Ms. Ramkhelawan
said. "When you get home from work and school you're just so tired and bills
were piling up. I fell asleep on my books. I knew I could do so much better
academically, but I was not motivated anymore. One by one I kept withdrawing
from my classes."

Her grade point average dropped to "barely a 3.0."

After taking a year off to work full time, Ms. Ramkhelawan, now 22, is applying
to Syracuse, the University of Massachusetts, the University of Connecticut and
Boston University.

"Some immigrants resign themselves to a regular job and that can be thoroughly
depressing because you can't pursue your dreams," said Peter Wilson, a college
counselor at Manhattan Comprehensive. "It's devastating not to be able to move
out of working-class constraints. Some will be really driven. The prospect of
college can be life-altering."

What should have been a time of celebration for Randy Sealey became instead a
time of apprehension. "In the spring of my senior year, you'd walk down the dorm
halls and everybody's saying, 'I'm going to Harvard,' 'I'm going to Yale or
Princeton.' 'Randy, where are you going?' It was very scary because I didn't
know where this was going to lead. I figured one night someone was going to come
to my dorm and deport me."

This might have been the end of the story. "His whole future suddenly seemed to
turn on a dime," recalled Dave Cantlay, an English teacher at Lawrenceville and
Mr. Sealey's housemaster, "with no money at all for college or perhaps being
shipped out of the country to a home that wasn't home." But abandoning him was
out of the question. "My God, we've taken a kid on and educated him here and
given him these prospects," Mr. Cantlay said. "How do you cut him adrift?"

It became a crusade.

A lawyer, Marcia Needleman, was found through an old-boy connection -- a partner
at a law firm specializing in immigration who was a Lawrenceville trustee. Ms.
Needleman said there was a way to help Mr. Sealey, but it was risky. Although
she had never done it before, she suggested a legal strategy known as suspension
of deportation. "Normally you try to do everything to avoid that," she said,
"because once you bring him to the attention of the service you can never be
sure which way it's going to go." To qualify for consideration for suspension of
deportation an illegal immigrant must demonstrate good moral character and
extreme hardship to himself or an immediate relative if he is sent back "home."
An affirmative deportation proceeding was begun, Mr. Sealey got a temporary visa
and Lawrenceville took care of the fees.

But Mr. Sealey still could not afford tuition at Duke. The cause was taken up by
Josiah Bunting 3d, then headmaster of Lawrenceville and now superintendent of
the Virginia Military Institute. "The hell with bureaucracy!" General Bunting
said, describing his reaction to the tangle of red tape. "This is a great kid.
Let's do what we have to do, period."

The headmaster appealed to the school's alumni, and one -- a "businessman and
champion of the school" -- agreed to foot the bill for Mr. Sealey's first year
of Duke, anonymously. In 1992, Mr. Sealey went off to college in Durham, N.C.
The tuition bills went directly to Lawrenceville, and the school didn't scrimp.
"I had the best meal plan," Mr. Sealey said.

With a 3.6 grade point average under his belt for his first semester, Mr. Sealey
made an appointment to see James A. Belvin Jr., director of financial aid. "That
was tough; he was a 6-foot-5 Southerner with a deep accent sitting behind his
desk," said Mr. Sealey, who is about 5 feet 8. "He told me, 'Weeeell, son,
there's not much we can do for you."' Mr. Sealey was still not eligible for
federal loans or grants. Mr. Belvin remembers how he explained the challenge of
trying to balance the interests of needy families with a restricted financial
aid pool. All Randy Sealey heard was "no."

Mr. Sealey was referred to Janet Dickerson, then the vice president of student
affairs, who took up his fight and assured him he would be able to return in the
fall. She contacted Mr. Belvin on his behalf several times, spoke to his lawyer
in New York to clarify the facts and appealed to the associate provost.

Mr. Belvin relented, awarding Mr. Sealey two substantial grants as well as a
loan at 8 percent interest, the same rate as the Stafford, the workhorse student
federal loan. One of the grants Mr. Sealey received, the Susan J. Dannenberg
Scholarship, is given to students who do not qualify for traditional forms of
financial aid. The scholarship was established by the family of Ms. Dannenberg,
whose college roommate, a young woman from India, was given in marriage by her
father during her senior year. When she refused, she was cut off financially.
The Dannenberg gift enabled her to finish her schooling. It would now enable Mr.
Sealey to finish his.

But his case would be reviewed on a semester-by-semester basis and contingent
upon his keeping his grade point average above a 3.0. "I had a huge chip on my
shoulder," he said. "Friends would come and tell me they were having a hard
time. I had a hard time listening to people and what they were going through"
because of "this other load I was carrying besides studying for organic
chemistry."

The summer after Mr. Sealey's freshman year he worked from 9 to 5 on a research
internship at the Hospital for Joint Diseases, which led to an interest in
orthopedics. From 6 to 10 p.m. he sold clothes at the Gap, often closing the
store.

The deportation hearing was scheduled for Dec. 2, 1994, two weeks before finals.

"On the day of the hearing, the floor was buzzing. Who is this kid? We've got to
meet this kid," Ms. Needleman recalled. "The application package we submitted
for him was very impressive. They saw all of his achievements. He had done
community work, sports and had an excellent academic record." The case drew a
sympathetic judge, whose first words to Mr. Sealey were, "Why aren't you in
class right now?" The lawyer representing the immigration service did not
contest the documentation. Mr. Sealey was granted a green card.

"It's easy to see if you have a brilliant scientist coming in from Eastern
Europe; it's not so easy to see if you have a little boy from Mexico," Ms.
Needleman said. "But someone saw potential in him and look where he is today. No
matter what he does he will devote some portion of his life to giving back to
the community."

Today, immigration laws are more restrictive. "If we were doing it now," she
said, "Randy would not even qualify for this strategy." But he might find it
easier to meet Duke's $26,768 in tuition and fees; in February, the university
announced that it would offer, for the first time, need-based aid to a limited
number of foreign students.

Mr. Sealey graduated from Duke in 1996, and deferred medical school for a year
to teach science at the George School outside Philadelphia through the
Independent Teaching Project, an organization that places minority teachers. He
went on to the SUNY Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, where he was named the
first Medical Scholar of the Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health -- a $20,000
award. He now awaits a match for a residency in orthopedic surgery.

Mr. Sealey was finally able to return to Mexico in 1999 to "piece my life
together." He had not seen his mother since he was 4. His father has visited him
once or twice a year, at Christmas and graduations.

The person who kept his dream alive was his grandfather. "I saw him work right
up until the day he died," Mr. Sealey said. "He got up every day, got dressed
and got on the subways, even in his upper 70's and 80's, keeping things
together. I thought, 'If he could do it, then there's no reason I couldn't."'

Last week, Mr. Sealey was sworn in as an American citizen. "It's kind of
ironic," he said with characteristic understatement. "Really, the hardest years
are coming up. As of July 1, somebody's going to be calling me Doctor."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Randolph Sealey Jr., long an illegal immigrant, on graduation
day at Duke with his father and grandmother. At right, Mr. Sealey at the SUNY
Downstate Medical Center, where he went to medical school. (Rebecca Cooney for
The New York Times); "Whoever arrives at Kennedy on Sunday shows up on Monday"
at Manhattan Comprehensive high school. (Philip Greenberg for The New York
Times); Artee Ramkhelawan, at home in Newark with her sister, Candie, won a
private-school scholarship but lost momentum amid citizenship issues. (Justin
Lane for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Los Angeles Warms to Labor Unions as Immigrants Look to Escape Poverty

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 892 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 6


For decades this city was known as an antiunion town, but now Los Angeles seems
to have warmed up to unions, largely because of the huge influx of Hispanic
immigrants.

Perhaps the best evidence of this is that a former union organizer, Antonio
Villaraigosa, is a favorite in the mayoral primary on Tuesday.  Trying to
continue a string of political victories, the city's labor movement is doing its
utmost to elect Mr. Villaraigosa, a former speaker of the State Assembly who has
worked closely with labor on countless issues. The Los Angeles County Federation
of Labor, with 800,000 members, has made hundreds of thousands of phone calls on
his behalf and mailed out a million pieces of literature in support.

A Villaraigosa victory would not only signify that the city had gone far to shed
its antiunion past but also show labor's growing might.

Labor's resurgence owes a great deal to the more than 1.3 million Hispanics who
have moved to the city since 1990, many of them using unions as a ladder out
poverty. By focusing its organizing on immigrant workers, the city's labor
movement is adding workers faster than unions anywhere else in the country. In
recent years, unions have organized 6,000 part-time school aides, 2,000
food-service workers and retail workers at the international airport and 2,000
Los Angeles park and recreation workers.

At the same time, many affluent Angelinos are viewing unions more charitably,
concluding that they help lift the lowest-paid workers.

When 8,500 office janitors went on strike for three weeks last April, the public
gave more than $2 million for food. The city's Roman Catholic archbishop,
Cardinal Roger Mahony also embraced the janitors' cause, calling their wage, $7
an hour, unjust in a city with such high living costs. The janitors, almost all
Hispanic immigrants, won a 25 percent increase over three years.

The union movement here is now looked to as a model for the languishing labor
movements in other cities because of its recent successes and the enthusiasm the
movement has stirred among immigrant workers. Two months ago, the national
A.F.L.-C.I.O. arranged for Los Angeles labor leaders to hold what was
essentially a tutorial for New York labor leaders.

"Los Angeles was always viewed as an antiunion town, but now Los Angeles,
believe it or not, has emerged as a major focal point of the new American labor
movement," said Kent Wong, director of the Center for Labor Research and
Education at the University of California at Los Angeles.

Several Los Angeles union locals led the effort that persuaded the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
to adopt a more sympathetic attitude toward immigrants. For decades, unions
viewed immigrant workers as a threat, but now the labor movement is eager to
unionize them and has backed efforts to grant legal residency to most illegal
immigrants.

Several developments in the last two years have highlighted labor's turnaround
here. In 1999, 74,000 home-care workers in Los Angeles County, most of them
Hispanic, voted to unionize in what was the largest successful organizing drive
in the nation since the 1930's. Last April came the successful janitors walkout,
and in September, 4,400 bus drivers and train operators went on strike for a
month and largely beat back management's effort to create more part-time jobs to
help hold down overtime for full-time drivers.

Organized labor also persuaded the city and county governments to enact laws
that require contractors to pay workers at least $7.80 an hour.

"We're driven by our charge of creating and maintaining a middle class to make
sure that workers can achieve a decent standard of living," said Miguel
Contreras, secretary-treasurer of the county's labor federation.

The city's long-standing hostility to unions can be traced to 1910, when two
labor extremists bombed the headquarters of The Los Angeles Times, killing 20
people, in a dispute over the publisher's fiercely antilabor views. Many
business executives and some government leaders are uneasy about labor's growing
power, fearing that it will hurt the city's business climate and push up costs.
Business leaders also fear that a mayor with close ties to labor could bring
more regulations and higher taxes.

"There is a concern among segments of the L.A. community that labor is becoming
too powerful," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a senior scholar for policy at the
University of Southern California. "There is also an undercurrent of anxiety
about the possibility of electing a mayor with strong ties to labor, and that
could give labor undue influence in the city."

Jorge Amselle, an immigration expert at the Center for Equal Opportunity, a
conservative research group, said: "The positive side is that unions will help
speed the assimilation of these immigrants. But the negative side is the dirty
little secret that labor is recruiting a lot of illegal immigrants. That's not a
good thing."

Mr. Amselle also said the unions might "make it impossible to ever elect a
Republican mayor again."

Indeed, many immigrants have embraced labor's message, and union meetings and
rallies here often resemble religious revivals.

"The union is very important to me," said Dora Guzman, an immigrant from
Guatemala who works as a food server at Los Angeles International Airport. "With
unions, you get your managers to treat you with respect, and you get a
worthwhile salary."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A former union organizer, Antonio Villaraigosa, is a favorite in
the mayoral primary, and union volunteers, like these putting labels on hundreds
of packets to hang on doors, have sent out a million fliers supporting him.
(Marissa Roth for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2001 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Influx Slowly Altering A Town Veneer

BYLINE:   By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1883 words

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER, N.Y., April 13


The Victorian homes near Irving Avenue still retain the clapboard elegance they
had when European immigrants helped to build this Westchester County suburb. The
village officials are all white, still, and their concerns seem little changed
from the days when diversity meant Irish, Jewish or Italian.

But behind many of those Victorian porches are honeycombed apartments, each
housing two or three Hispanic families. And though these Hispanic residents
express great concern about the village's lack of low-income housing and health
care for the poor, Port Chester officials rarely cite these as top priorities.

If one unmistakable story of the 2000 census is the explosive growth of the
Hispanic population throughout the suburbs, so, too, is the reality that
Hispanics, while increasingly influential in numbers, are practically invisible
in many areas of public and political life, particularly in the Northeast. And
in few places is that story more dissonant and complicated than in Port Chester,
which, despite its old-world veneer, is now the only Westchester community with
a plurality of Hispanic residents.

"We're an urban man dressed in rube clothing," said Christopher Rocca, whose
family has owned Tarry Lodge, an Italian restaurant here, since 1947. "We're
like a small town because we still depend on volunteer firemen, and everybody
knows everybody. Then again, you've got an immigrant population, you've got
assimilation problems, and you've got some of the telltale problems of an urban
population."

Never has Port Chester's split personality been more magnified than in the last
month. First, the newly released census showed that the village's Hispanic
population jumped to 46 percent from 32 percent in the last decade. Then, in the
March 20 elections, a Hispanic village official vying to become the first
minority trustee finished last in a field of four.

In Westchester, where the Hispanic population has grown by 56 percent since the
1990 census, the growing pains are far from unique.

"Port Chester is idiosyncratic, but there are lessons to be learned," said
Gregory M. Holtz, research director at the Edwin G. Michaelian Institute for
Public Policy and Management at Pace University. "Places like Tarrytown or
Sleepy Hollow or Ossining can definitely say, 'Here are some things that
happened in Port Chester, and maybe they're applicable to us.' "

Port Chester's Hispanic population initially coalesced around a nucleus of
Cubans who fled Fidel Castro's rule in the 1960's and landed jobs at waterfront
factories here. By the 1980's, as the factories closed, Latin Americans began to
achieve critical mass, lured by jobs in restaurants and landscaping,
particularly in affluent neighbors like Rye and Greenwich, Conn.

Port Chester's Hispanic population was 12,884 in 2000, up from 3,670 in 1980 --
an increase of more than 350 percent. The proportion of Hispanics in the overall
population rose to 46 percent from 16 percent.

During the same period, the proportion of non-Hispanic whites dropped to 43
percent from 70 percent.

And community leaders say that if illegal immigrants missed by the census are
counted, Port Chester's population of 28,000 is probably closer to 35,000, more
than 50 percent of which is Hispanic. Its population density of 11,817 people
per square mile, which ranks second in Westchester to Mount Vernon, equals that
of Newark or Philadelphia.

To wander through this compact 2.4-square-mile village is to see, smell and hear
the continental divide between Port Chester past and present. Downtown Port
Chester used to be a major shopping destination, shouldered by blue-collar
Italian-Americans. But now, the downtown, with Spanish as the predominant
tongue, sprouts bodegas, Salvadoran and Peruvian restaurants and phone card
businesses.

Port Chester has become such a magnet for Latin Americans, in fact, that
hundreds, perhaps thousands, of residents are from one area alone: Cuenca,
Ecuador.

"Everybody knows about Port Chester in Cuenca," said Gladys Aguirre, 38, who
immigrated here six years ago and lives with her husband, two children and
brother in a small two-bedroom apartment that rents for $1,050 a month.

Ms. Aguirre has mixed feelings about Port Chester because of the drug dealers in
her neighborhood and what she and other Port Chester residents say are high
rents, although they do not seem substantially greater than in similar
communities, like White Plains and Mount Vernon. "We can't find anything less
expensive," said Ms. Aguirre, who works as a housekeeper while her husband does
landscaping jobs. "But we are here for the children."

With poor public transportation, it is often hard and expensive to get around
the village and county. Many new immigrants do not drive or own cars, and must
rely on taxis from one of four taxi companies here.

Shelter, food and health care are dicey propositions. The Rev. Rafael Garcia,
pastor of the Summerfield United Methodist Church, says his church's food pantry
serves 130 families a week, up from 40 families when the pantry opened five
years ago.

There are perhaps half a dozen boardinghouses in the village, with rents of $400
to $500 a month. Sometimes, apartments are so crowded that people take turns
sleeping.

"The conditions under which people live are deplorable," Mr. Garcia said.
"Housing is a big issue because the government doesn't want to build more
affordable housing."

The pantry at the Port Chester Carver Center, a community center, serves 50 to
100 people a week. On a recent day, Marcela Quiroga, a new undocumented
immigrant from Argentina, had arrived early after taking a cab from her
apartment, where seven people share two bedrooms. Because her husband, a
painter, was finding only spotty work in Greenwich, she needed help, she said,
procuring milk, rice and noodles.

"We have friends, and our church helps, but this helps me a lot," Ms. Quiroga,
24, said nervously in Spanish, while cradling her 1-month-old son.

Food is not the only mission at the Carver Center; other offerings include a day
care center and a program for pregnant teenagers. Port Chester has the county's
second-highest teenage pregnancy rate, as well as the second-lowest median
household income. Yet the Carver Center, which was founded in 1943 to serve the
once-sizable African-American community, is virtually alone in providing these
types of services, and receives no financial support from the village.

"It's unfortunate that we're the only game in town," said Jill Beltran, the
center's executive director.

A few years ago, the nonprofit Open Door Family Medical Center wanted to
establish a downtown presence to complement its clinics in Sleepy Hollow and
Ossining, communities that ranked second and third countywide in the proportion
of Hispanics in the 2000 census. Thwarted by tax and zoning concerns, Open Door
reluctantly opted for a glass office building in Rye Brook. It can cost Port
Chester residents $7 or $8 for a round-trip ride between downtown and the Rye
Brook clinic.

The clinic opened six years ago with two doctors; now, six doctors are barely
enough for its patients, mostly immigrants living in Port Chester. "We
underestimated the size of the demand," said Lindsay C. Farrell, Open Door's
president and chief executive.

Despite the Hispanic population's growth, Port Chester's Board of Trustees is
all white. The same is true of the school board. And there are few, if any,
bilingual brochures, signs or employees in Village Hall.

Last month, Port Chester's official liaison to Hispanics, Cesar Ruiz, finished
fourth in a four-way election for village trustee. But Mr. Ruiz, a Peruvian
immigrant who owns and operates a sandwich truck, vowed to run again, and to
encourage immigrants to register to vote. Only about 10 percent of registered
voters in Port Chester are Hispanic.

"We're in two worlds -- theirs and ours -- and in ours there is no
representation," said Mr. Ruiz. "But I'm telling people, 'You're the majority
now, and you've got to do something.' " He has just formed a committee,
Minorities for the Future of Port Chester, to informally lobby local officials
about issues of concern to Hispanics and other immigrant residents.

The new mayor, Gerald L. Logan Sr., 63, a securities broker and political novice
who defeated the three-term Democratic incumbent, Christine Korff, has an
ambitious agenda for the seven-member trustee board, where Republicans now hold
a 4-3 majority. He said his priorities include: completion of a downtown
redevelopment project, now under way, that is to include a Costco warehouse
store; private construction of upscale housing to attract more professionals;
creation of a center for the elderly; quality-of-life issues, like recycling and
street beautification; and recruitment of more volunteer firefighters.

"We want to look and smell good," Mr. Logan said. "As you travel around this
community, and you look at the residential areas, it has that village look about
it."

Later, when asked about issues relevant to Hispanics, Mr. Logan mentioned two:
education and day laborers. He said he wanted to educate Hispanics without
burdening taxpayers. And while he applauded the day laborers' determination, he
said they were not burnishing the village's image.

"The areas that they hang out on are not the areas where the village prefers
them to be," he said. "I want to discuss this with the board, how to approach it
not in a confrontational way, but in a sensitive way."

Several non-Hispanic residents, as well as some longtime Cuban-American ones,
echoed Mr. Logan's sentiments that Port Chester needed to accommodate, but not
pamper, its newest immigrants.

Mr. Rocca, of the Tarry Lodge, credited Hispanics with reviving a downtown that
was plagued by rowdy bars and shuttered businesses 20 years ago. But it is more
important now, he said, to fortify the tax base.

And just as his grandparents overcame a language barrier and other obstacles to
join the mainstream when they arrived from Italy, so, too, should newer
immigrants, he said.

"It's an American thing," he said. "It's not that you don't want to welcome
people, but it's human nature. You make things too easy, people will take things
for granted."

Some public agencies and officials are trying to do more for the new immigrants.
The police department recently installed a bilingual voice mail system, and is
trying to attract more Hispanic officers to the 60-member force. There are
currently seven Hispanic officers, Police Chief Joseph M. Krzeminski said.

The school district, the first in Westchester to mail a bilingual newsletter to
parents, has won awards for its bilingual programs for a student body that is
now 62 percent Hispanic, up from 39 percent 10 years ago, said Charles D.
Coletti, superintendent of schools.

Volunteer organizations have emerged, too, including Special Deliveries, which
organizes baby showers for pregnant Hispanic immigrants lacking cribs,
strollers, diapers and clothing. Kathleen Steinman, who co-founded Special
Deliveries last year, said that her group had so far staged three showers for 15
women, including one in March.

"Maybe we weren't prepared for it, or maybe this came on too quickly," she said
of the pace of change in her hometown. "I live a mile away from these people,
but you wouldn't know we live in the same community."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 2001



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Monday about the growth of the Hispanic
population of Port Chester, N.Y., misstated the 20-year increase. The Hispanic
population was 12,884 in 2000, up from 3,670 in 1980 -- more than 250 percent,
not 350.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thelma Valvera examines Kevin Aguirre at Open Door Medical
Center, frequented by an expanding Hispanic population in Port Chester, N.Y.
(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B3) Map of New York highlighting Port
Chester: Port Chester's Hispanic boom began with Cubans in the 1960's. (pg. B3)
Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: The Changing Face of Port Chester"Hispanic residents are
now a plurality of Port Chester's population. 1980WHITE: 69.6%BLACK: 13.6%OTHER:
1.1%HISPANIC*: 15.6% 1990WHITE: 56.6%BLACK: 9.9%OTHER: 1.9%HISPANIC*: 31.7%
2000WHITE: 42.8%BLACK: 6.6%OTHER: 4.3%HISPANIC*: 46.2% * Hispanic may be of any
race.(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ellis Island Opens Its Web Door;
Passenger Lists Let Families Trace Immigrant Roots

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1716 words


Now, for the first time and online, Ellis Island brings you . . . your
ancestors.

Beginning today, if all goes as planned, anyone with an Internet connection will
be able to search through old passenger manifests from the ships that ferried 17
million immigrants into New York Harbor, and the New World, in the late 19th and
early 20th centuries.

The database, extracted from microfilms of the original paper manifests, covers
arrivals at Ellis Island from 1892 through 1924. Those were the peak years of
immigration, when as many as 5,000 people a day shuffled through the inspection
process. The information recorded on the manifests hints at their individual
tales of grit, adventure and hope.

To find records, the curious can go to www .ellisislandrecords.org. Seen on a
computer screen, the ship manifests are prosaic documents: page after page,
column after column of names, ages and other dry particulars. Some were typed,
the letters fat and slightly uneven. More are filled with the dense florid
handwriting popular at the turn of the last century and barely decipherable now.

But the scraps of history contain an ineffable power. Concentrated within them
is the force of memory. And a trip through the records, either at home or at the
Ellis Island museum, can be emotionally harrowing.

Carol Curro and her husband, Santo Curro, took a preview spin through the
computerized manifests last week, when the museum staff let a few visitors try
out the system before its official opening.

Mrs. Curro had come with a quest: to find her favorite grandfather, who had
crossed the Atlantic several times from Calabria, Italy, before settling down in
New York. "He used to talk about it all the time," she said. "I wish now I had
listened more carefully."

Mr. Curro was only along for the ride. Or so he said. But just listening to talk
about ancestors brought to mind one of his own grandfathers. Maybe he would
look. "It would be my mother's father," he explained. "His name was . . . "

And then he stopped. His eyes filled with tears. His wife looked alarmed. His
two children looked embarrassed.

"His name," Mr. Curro continued in a strong but shaky voice, "was Paolo
Scarfone. He came from a small town called Scilla -- that's S-C-I-L-L-A. In
Italy."

The family sat at one of the large-screen computers in the family history
center, in the high-ceilinged room called the Kissing Room because long ago
bleary-eyed immigrants were reunited there with their American loved ones.

After one hour, Mrs. Curro did not find her grandfather. Mr. Curro found his.

"Look, here it is," he crowed, pointing at the image of the ship's manifest on
the screen, at a line where an officer of the ship Manilla, sailing out of
Naples, had written "Paolo Scarfone," a single man, 22 years old.

"And look, look," Mr. Curro said proudly, pointing again at the picture of the
100-year-old document as if it confirmed his own place in history. There, as
last place of residence, the manifest showed "Scilla."

Officials of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, which runs the
museum and the family history project, expect millions of people will want to
use the Internet site. As a guide, they looked to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, which put up its own genealogy Web site,
www.familysearch.org, two years ago.

It was so popular that, in the beginning, it crashed almost every day.

The Mormon Church, which has put some 600 million records from all over the
world on its site, also provided the labor for the Ellis Island project. About
12,000 volunteer members spent much of the last eight years extracting data from
microfilms.

They dealt with 22 million passenger records, including immigrants as well as
business passengers and tourists, and faced enormous challenges. The 60-year-old
microfilm was of varying quality and the original manifests, sold for paper pulp
by the government decades ago, were not available for double-checking. People's
names were spelled in oddly inconsistent ways. So were the names of towns and
villages, in part because the ship personnel wrote them phonetically.

The volunteers sometimes spent hours trying to decipher a single entry, said
Richard E. Turley Jr., managing director of the Mormons' family and church
history department.

But they may open a window for countless Americans.

"The challenge every American faces, unless you're a Native American, is tracing
their ancestors across the ocean," Mr. Turley said. "This data helps span that
difficult gap. At least you have a starting point, like the port they left
from."

For the dwindling number of people who are still alive to describe their own
experience at Ellis Island, the thrill of discovery is electric and personal.

Felicita Salto, a New Jersey grandmother, arrived at Ellis Island from Italy in
1920, at the age of 6. The family spent 10 days on Ellis Island while her mother
was in the hospital there, and Mrs. Salto said she spent the time attached to
her worried father's belt by a dog harness.

It is a story she has told and retold to her children and grandchildren. But
something about seeing her maiden name, Felicita Gabaccia, written right there
on the ship manifest, moved her in a way she found difficult to describe.

"It really hit me to see the names of my family there,"said Mrs. Salto, now 87.
"It gave me a feeling of belonging."

Many Ellis Island immigrants, fleeing poverty and persecution, wanted to lose
their past. They left their American descendants with just a few cloudy
passed-on memories of old dates, places and names.

"I think in the 1950's, people didn't want to think they came from someplace
else," said Stephen A. Briganti, a grandson of Italian immigrants and president
of the foundation that runs Ellis Island. "They concentrated on being American.
Now it's their children and grandchildren who want to find that past."

Mr. Briganti counts himself as one of those and set out to find records of his
grandmother's arrival. He located an entry that seemed right on target. It
concerned a young immigrant named Nunziata Rotunno, which seemed very close to
Annunziata Rotunno, his grandmother's name, and who came from the right small
village in Italy, in the right year and at the right age.

Indeed, everything fit. There was just one problem. The manifest showed this
Nunziata was a man.

Did Mr. Briganti's grandmother disguise herself as a man out of fear that the
ship would not take a single woman traveling alone? Did the ship's officer who
filled out the manifest make a mistake? And if so, what happened when the Ellis
Island inspectors questioned the young Nunziata? Her descendants will never know
the full story.

"This is what the search for ancestors is going to be like," Mr. Briganti said.
"I'm afraid people will think they'll come and push a button and out will pop
their ancestors. In many cases, they're going to have to come to the center with
substantial information."

Visitors to Ellis Island who want to use the family history center will need to
reserve their time at the computers by calling the foundation at (212) 883-1986.
Reservations may also be made online at the Web site for the family immigration
history center at:

www.ellisislandrecords.org.
Anyone who is fortunate enough to score a match will be able to see the name of
the ship their relative sailed on, its departure and arrival dates, the name of
the relative's contact in the United States, and the names of anyone who shared
the journey.

The manifests also tell much about the times.

The forms followed the language of the immigration laws, which excluded those
considered mentally, physically or politically undesirable. So in addition to
basic biographical information, they asked whether the immigrant was literate, a
polygamist, an anarchist, a felon or a cripple.

There were attempts, too, to categorize the newcomers. In addition to
nationality, they were identified by "race or people" and by complexion.

On a 1921 manifest, Irish-born immigrants are shown as British by nationality
and Irish by race or people, with most being listed as having "fresh"
complexions. Jews from Eastern Europe and Russia were shown as belonging to the
"Hebrew" race or people. Southern Italians were listed as a separate people from
Northern Italians, but both were described as having "dark" complexions.

A ship that sailed from Italy in 1910 carrying the 18-year-old Rodolfo Giuliani,
grandfather of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, seemed to be filled with single young
men who listed their occupations as laborers. Ships with Irish immigrants in the
1920's showed most people had many relatives waiting for them in the United
States, the fruit of an earlier wave of immigration from Ireland in the
mid-1800's. Many Eastern European immigrants said they had no one at all on the
far side of the ocean to embrace them when they eventually left Ellis Island.

The hard part, as anyone who tries to locate a relative on the Ellis Island Web
site will discover, is having the right clues. This reporter, taking advantage
of a preview odyssey through the records, can attest to that.

The search aimed to find a grandmother whose children vaguely recalled that her
original Russian name sounded like Chaia Kerchevsky. Nothing showed up under
that spelling that made sense for age or hometown. Nor for Chaia Kerchewsky. Nor
for C. Kerchivski or C. Kershovsky.

Two hours and many many clicks of the mouse later, a typo led to inspiration.
How about C. Krechevski?

And there, after a look through the alternative spellings suggested by the
computer, was Grandma. Name: Chaie Krechewski.

From the manifest, it appeared that the 21-year-old Chaie, accompanied by her
mother and little brother, sailed from Rotterdam, the Netherlands, on July 29,
1905, on the ship Noordam. The Ellis Island Web site described it as a
three-year-old vessel that stretched 575 feet from stem to stern and might have
been built for the express purpose of ferrying poor immigrants, since all but
500 of its 2,278 passengers traveled in third class.

Passage across the unimaginable expanse of ocean took 11 days -- she was sick
the whole time, she would say impatiently to her grandchildren before she died,
so what could she remember? -- and on Aug. 8, in the dead heat of a New York
summer, the ship brought her to Ellis Island and a new life.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A ferry passenger to Ellis Island. Internet users can now
search for the former passengers who were their ancestors.; Santo Curro, above
left, Carol Curro and their son, Chris, look up relatives at the family history
center on Ellis Island. Mr. Curro pointed to his grandfather's name, Paolo
Scarfone, left, on a ship's manifest. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tempers Rise Over Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2024 words


A BLACK Honda pulled into a dirt driveway flanked by two naked trees, and 30 men
in blue jeans and baseball caps raced toward it, clamoring for a coveted seat
inside. Before the financial consultant behind the wheel had time to pull
through the open gate, he already had more candidates to help him with a day of
landscaping than he knew what to do with.

The driver, Dr. Wasfi Barakat, set the rules -- $10 an hour, 10-hour minimum,
lunch provided but eating time not paid for -- and then selected two lucky young
men, one of whom talked his way into the back seat by claiming he had worked
with the driver in the past.

"These are people that sooner or later will be middle- and upper-class people
who will be building this society," Dr. Barakat said. Then he and his hires
headed for Dix Hills, where Dr. Barakat, who immigrated to America from Lebanon
40 years ago, was spending his vacation making $200,000 worth of renovations to
his house and yard.

Another morning was under way at the Huntington Station hiring site, a mating
ground where contractors, roofers, landscapers and homeowners come to collect
day laborers. The workers at this and other day-labor assembly points across the
Island have a reputation for stamina at jobs that many Americans would refuse.

But most are also illegal aliens, and for every citizen like Dr. Barakat, who
looks at them and sees the American Dream in action, there is someone like Ray
Wysolmierski of the Sachem Quality of Life Organization, a group opposed to the
Farmingville center. He sees immigration laws flouted, taxes unpaid and jobs
taken from legal residents.

"The idea is to get them off the street when in point of fact it attracts more,"
Mr. Wysolmierski said. "It's an unspoken promise that the government will not
throw them out."

The Huntington Station site, which opened last year, offers no English classes,
no job training sessions, no tenacious public interest lawyers clamoring to
right the wrongs of the exploited. It is little more than a patch of open space
near the intersection of Depot Road and Route 110.

There is no shelter. The portable toilet has not been cleaned in at least six
months, workers said, and so the men relieve themselves behind it. Arguably the
greatest on-site amenity is a Salvation Army truck from which Raisin Bran and
orange juice are distributed to anyone unlucky enough to be jobless by 7:30 a.m.
or so.

The Huntington Station site and similar ones in Glen Cove and Farmingdale are
operating quietly. But when the Suffolk County Legislature got into the act with
a plan for a "community opportunity center" to be run by Catholic Charities in
Farmingville, where tensions over the issue run highest, it triggered a
high-profile confrontation that has pitted neighbor against neighbor, union
against church and Republican against Republican, and drawn the attention of
national organizations on both sides of the immigration divide.

Long Island's immigrant labor issue first received national attention last fall,
when two Mexican workers picked up in Farmingville were severely beaten in what
the police said was a racially motivated attack. Harassment allegations have
continued. Last week, a group called the Brookhaven Citizens for Peaceful
Solutions organized a news conference at which advocates for the Farmingville
center testified that they had been harassed and threatened by those who oppose
it.

Meanwhile, anti-immigrant groups complain that curbside hiring poses a traffic
hazard and that the immigrants' loitering, petty thievery and overcrowding of
houses have dragged down their neighborhoods.

But now the debate has pitted the Republican county executive, Robert J.
Gaffney, against the Republican presiding officer of the county Legislature,
Paul J. Tonna of West Hills. In March, Mr. Tonna led the 12-2 vote, with 3
abstentions, to approve a bill to earmark $80,000 in county funds for a hiring
site in Farmingville, where hundreds of men wait for jobs on street corners. The
proposed center, where Catholic Charities would like to set up English classes
and other social services in addition to a hiring site, was vetoed this month by
Mr. Gaffney.

On Tuesday, county legislators will decide whether to override.

"Undocumented laborers work off the books and violate immigration, tax and labor
laws," Mr. Gaffney wrote to lawmakers. "It is a crime to assist an alien who
lacks employment authorization."

Mr. Tonna disagreed. "It was a veto message in search of a rationale," he said.
"All I can say is almost every credible legal source has said that the position
contained in the veto message has no merit."

"All over California they have these, and nobody has called the law into
question," Mr. Tonna said. "All this is doing is focusing on public safety and
traffic safety, and clearly it can't be illegal for a county to be concerned on
those issues."

The Legislature could override with the same 12 votes that were cast last month
in favor of the hiring center. But a week before the override vote, several
legislators indicated they had still not decided which way to cast their
ballots.

"Twelve never equals 12 when you have to override a veto," Mr. Tonna said.
"We're in a battle right now. It can get nasty."

At least one of the legislators who voted for the bill in March is unlikely to
do so on Tuesday. Andrew A. Crecca, a Republican legislator from Hauppauge, said
Mr. Gaffney's veto solidified reservations that he had harbored even while
supporting the bill initially. Mr. Crecca said he was "strongly leaning" toward
sustaining the veto.

"While I think that we're technically within the bounds of legality with this
bill, I question seriously whether or not we're really following the spirit of
the law," Mr. Crecca said. "It sends a bad message. We're a government body, and
we shouldn't be using government funds to sanction a hiring hall that's going to
be allowing people to hire people off the books."

Mr. Crecca said he has been receiving between 30 and 60 telephone calls a day,
about 60 percent of them from opponents of the proposed center.

"Obviously, you always want to keep your pulse on the voters," Mr. Crecca said.

Cameron Alden, a Republican legislator from Islip, voted for the bill
originally, but his spokesman was noncommittal about Mr. Alden's plans for
Tuesday's vote. "Although he voted for it during the first go-around, he's going
to take a very long look at the ramifications of this bill, and make his
decisions based on those ramifications," said the spokesman, Warren S. Greene.

Republican lawmakers Angie M. Carpenter of West Islip and Michael M. D'Andre of
St. James, both of whom voted for the bill in March and are now said to be
revisiting the issue, did not return telephone calls seeking comment.

Legislator William J. Lindsay, a Holbrook Democrat, has been in office less than
a month after a narrow win in a special election, and now finds himself squeezed
between overlapping connections and allegiances.

"I could be the crucial vote in this whole thing," Mr. Lindsay said, sounding
less than thrilled about the prospect. "It really puts a lot of heat on me."

Until he was elected, Mr. Lindsay was co-chairman of the Labor-Religion
Coalition, where he developed close relationships with some of the religious
leaders spearheading the push to override Mr. Gaffney's veto. At the same time,
he is the business manager of the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers Local 25, which has 2,200 members on Long Island, and has encountered
opposition to the site from union members and their families.

"A lot of the unions, especially blue-collar unions, are concerned about the
issue of a hiring hall that primarily serves illegal immigrants that are not,
shall we say, on the books," he said. At the same time, if Mr. Lindsay opposed
the bill or even abstained, he would likely be the only person in the
eight-member Democratic caucus to do so. And he said that philosophically, "I
have a natural sympathy to all working people, regardless of what their national
origins are."

Mr. Gaffney says his decision was not based on a lack of empathy.

"He doesn't want the government in a position where we're supporting a facility
that may be helping to evade both federal law and state law," said Robert J.
Cimino, the county attorney, who is fielding veto-related inquiries directed to
Mr. Gaffney.

Advocates for the Farmingville center say the quandary would not have risen to
the level of county government had Brookhaven's town leaders stepped up to the
plate in the first place. The Town of Huntington and the City of Glen Cove have
orchestrated their respective hiring sites, allocating money to the non-profit
organizations that operate the centers or funding the centers through their
community development agencies.

"In both cases, there was resolve of the leaders to stand up and resolve some of
their problems despite criticism," said John K. Bingham, the director of
immigration services for Catholic Charities.

Mr. Bingham rejected the notion that public money should not be spent on
shape-up centers. "Taxpayer money is always used for public safety programs," he
said. "This isn't new, it's not radical, it's not unprecedented."

Funding, of course, is a critical component of the debate. Glen Cove has
circumvented the public funding issue by funding the hiring site and shape-up
center in part through the city's Community Development Agency, which Mayor
Thomas R. Suozzi heads, and private funds the mayor himself has helped raise.

In January of last year, the Town of Huntington increased its allocation to the
Huntington Station Enrichment Center, which operates the "safe site," as it is
called here, to $105,000 from $55,000. But the executive director of the
enrichment center, Dolores R. Thompson, said only $1,400 in town money has gone
toward the safe site, which costs $100,000 a year to operate. That figure
includes the salary of a full-time employee who also helps documented workers
with job searches and health care.

While most of the men seeking work on the Huntington Station streets on a recent
drizzly morning seemed to have congregated on the designated plot, a smattering
of others chose to stand along Route 110 around the corner and down the street
from the site.

"I used to wait there sometimes, but it's hard to get the job over there," said
David Ramirez, 40, who cut a solitary figure as he stood along Route 110, hoping
he would be spotted before employers turned onto Depot Road. "So many people
jumping, pushing. It's very hard to get the job."

Mrs. Thompson is the first to admit that the Huntington Station site is not
perfect. "Is it ideal?" she asked. "Is it the end of the-of-the-world type
solution? No. But is there one?"

Next month, the Glen Cove site is expected to move into space donated by a local
business and refurbished by the local Community Development Agency. Mr. Suozzi
described plans for an organized operation with a wider mission and more
extensive services.

Through La Fuerza Unida de Glen Cove, the group that operates the current hiring
site and will also operate the new center, the workers themselves will decide on
a system to better manage the match-making that takes place between employers
and employees, avoiding the sort of race to the car door handle that takes place
now.

The refurbished center will also offer English and job training classes for the
cluster of workers who inevitably find themselves without a job after the
morning rush. This, Mr. Suozzi said, would avoid the sort of lingering about
that takes place around noontime, when the prospects for work become unlikely.

"Let's stop the philosophical debate and let's solve the problem," Mr. Suozzi
said. "The problem is littering, drinking in public, traffic problems, illegal
housing and, more important, the exploitation of these day workers, who work
hard all day and don't get paid and are discriminated against by employers and
landlords and members of the general public. These centralized shape-up areas
solve all those problems."

Whether Suffolk County legislators agree, and are willing to invest $80,000 and
defy their county executive, remains to be seen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: PLANS FOR A DAY-LABOR CENTER in Farmingville have set up a
high-level political clash. The site may offer more services than this hiring
site in Huntington Station, where a Salvation Army breakfast is all that's
offered. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Immigrant workers, hoping
to be hired for the day, approach a car at a shape-up site in Huntington
Station. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Long, Long, Long Road to Fargo

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 139 words


Your April 1 edition of the magazine was filled with some of the best articles
I've ever read. I teach at a private high school in Connecticut and plan to use
the articles on the Lost Boys of Sudan, the C.I.A.'s role in the death of Frank
Olson, the firing of Alicia Pedreira and the final, heart-wrenching Lives essay
on Julia Fournier in my classes. Thank you for all the wonderful teaching
materials.

Susan B. Burnell
Litchfield, Conn.

NOTE: Many readers have written to ask how they might help the Sudanese
refugees. The following agencies are involved in the resettlement of the Lost
Boys, looking for both donations and volunteers to work with refugees.

Lutheran Immigration
and Refugee Service
700 Light Street
Baltimore, Md. 21230
(410) 230-2757
and International Rescue
Committee
P.O. Box 98152
Washington, D.C.
20090-8152
(202) 822-0043

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Some Immigrant Enclaves, Loan Shark Is the Local Bank

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words


Juan Luis, a Washington Heights businessman, built a sprawling empire of fried
chicken stands in the 1970's and 80's, financing much of it with money borrowed
from loan sharks at punishing rates of interest. When much of the business
collapsed, the loan sharks took his home in the Dominican Republic and most of
his money.

Yet just last August, when Juan Luis needed $10,000 to pay a tax bill on what
remained of his business, he telephoned two of his most reliable loan sharks,
bargained for the best interest rate and arranged for a drop at one of the 10
chicken stands in the city that he still owned. The next day, the moneylender
double-parked in front of the restaurant and tossed a paper bag full of $20
bills onto a table in front of him.

"Bloodsuckers," says Juan Luis, who withheld his last name for fear of
retribution. "But everyone in the community uses them."

This is banking for thousands of Latinos in immigrant neighborhoods in New York
and across the country, where loan sharking and other unregulated lending is
thriving, often within sight of commercial banks. Unlike the loan sharks of
yesteryear, with links to the mob and reputations for brutality, the
"prestamistas," as they are known here by the Spanish term for moneylender,
often constitute a mainstream institution, financing everything from bodegas to
discos for the poor and the middle class alike.

While many prestamistas lend money at illegal interest rates, some compete
directly with mainstream banks. They are fast, reliable and often understanding,
and in many of New York City's Latino neighborhoods, the prestamistas are the
lenders people turn to first.

"Loan sharks are our biggest competitors, and they're killing us," said Dennis
Reeder, executive director of the Washington Heights and Inwood Development
Corporation, a nonprofit group that makes loans to small businesses.

Mr. Reeder says the vast majority of his clients have borrowed money from loan
sharks, often at interest rates as high as 10 percent per week, and his
organization often lends money to help people to pay them off. In a study of the
Washington Heights area, Mr. Reeder's group concluded that there was a local
market of $10 million a year for business loans under $10,000, and that the
demand was being met almost entirely by the prestamistas.

"There is a lot of money to made here," said Tony, a prestamista who says he has
financed dozens of businesses in Washington Heights and the Bronx. In an
interview, Tony refused to reveal his real name.

Informal types of lending like loan sharking have been around for years, but the
volume and variety of recent immigration have brought an array of new types.

Korean immigrants, for instance, make wide use of a system called kye
(pronounced kay), in which members contribute to a savings pool and take turns
borrowing. Some Latino communities use a similar system known as tanda or
sociedad.

In many communities, the moneylenders ask fewer questions and prove remarkably
flexible when a borrower cannot pay.

"These informal lenders are providing a valuable service," said Jay Rosengard, a
faculty member at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, who has studied
informal financial networks in immigrant communities. "People will pay the
interest rates, because they want the access to credit."

Sometimes the lawless financial world turns violent. In May 1998, two well-known
moneylenders in the Korean community were murdered as they sat in their Lexus in
a Queens neighborhood. A Korean grocer who had allegedly owed the couple $34,694
was charged in the murder, but a jury acquitted him after his lawyer argued that
there were many others who may have had a motive to kill.

In New York's Latino neighborhoods, some people say they are following the
tradition of their homelands, where the poor often have no banks and little
money to save. They say they are reluctant to use regular banks because of
questions about their immigration status. Some say they do not keep the detailed
financial records needed to qualify for a loan.

One major reason for the prestamistas' popularity may be the lack of success
many Latinos have had in trying to borrow from banks. Jose Sanchez recently
borrowed $70,000 from a loan shark to take over the lease on a small grocery
store in the Kingsbridge section of the Bronx. Mr. Sanchez says he was turned
down for loans at Citibank and Chase several years ago, and does not bother
trying anymore.

"I don't like the prestamistas, but I use them," he said.

In the world of the impoverished immigrant, where a big telephone bill can
shatter a month's budget, the speed and certainty of loan shark money often
matter more than the high interest rate. Maira Gonzalez, a waitress at a
restaurant in Washington Heights, recently borrowed $2,000 from a local
prestamista to pay for a trip to the Dominican Republic, where her three
children live. The weekly interest is 5 percent.

"Nobody wants to borrow money, but we are poor people and sometimes we have to,"
said Ms. Gonzalez, who earns about $250 a week.

New York law caps interest rates on most bank loans at 25 percent per year, 16
percent on person-to-person loans. The going rate among loan sharks in some
Latino neighborhoods is 2 to 5 percent per week -- or about 104 to 260 percent
per year.

Loan sharking in New York's Latino neighborhoods appears to be flourishing
despite law enforcement efforts. Daniel J. Castleman, the chief of the Manhattan
district attorney's investigations division, said loan sharking prosecutions
were traditionally spun off from inquiries into illegal gambling and often
associated with organized crime. Loan sharking in New York's newly arrived
immigrant communities, he said, is a different phenomenon and hard to pursue.

"There is an ingrained money lending business," he said. "I've always understood
that it worked pretty well. People respect the rules. We don't get a lot of
reports about intimidation."

The business of private lending is also thriving despite the presence of large
banks, which have made mixed efforts to penetrate the city's poorer
neighborhoods. Some public interest groups say bank mergers in recent years have
diminished the number of banks and the quality of services in poor
neighborhoods, making it harder for people to borrow money and all but forcing
them into the hands of the loan sharks.

The big banks say that they have made efforts to penetrate the city's poorer
neighborhoods, but that they face formidable obstacles -- cultural and financial
-- to attracting customers. Federal banking records show, for instance, that the
number of bank loans to businesses with revenues of less $1 million per year in
poor areas of the Bronx nearly doubled from 1996 to 1999 and that the total
dollar value of those loans rose by about 140 percent, to nearly $38 million.

Another reason may be that some prestamistas are willing to drop interest rates
for their best customers. Mr. Sanchez, who recently borrowed $70,000 for the
store in the Bronx, got the money at a 20 percent annual rate for being a loyal
client of his prestamista.

The loan sharks portray themselves as ordinary businessmen providing a service
where their mainstream competitors fear to tread. Tony, the loan shark active in
Washington Heights, says that he and his two partners have lent millions of
dollars to mostly Dominican clients to help start area businesses. One of his
biggest loans, he said, was $2.5 million to start a supermarket in Washington
Heights.

"We do about eight deals a week," said Tony, dressed in an expensive suit.
"Every one of them has been denied at a bank."

Tony, who spoke during an interview at a friend's office in Washington Heights,
said his "bank" was worth about $20 million. He said that he and his partners
disguised their business behind a legitimate mortgage brokering business, and
that they reported little of the income they made from the loans. Tony deals
only in cash and usually charges 5 percent a week.

Tony, like other prestamistas interviewed, said that he did not use coercion to
force repayment from defaulting clients.

Instead, he said that much like a bank, he and his partners secured collateral
to seize if the loan failed -- often property the borrower is trying to lease or
buy. Tony said that was usually accomplished by holding the title of the
property until the loan was repaid. Such an agreement may not be legally
enforceable, he said, but the practice works, even if sometimes it is
accompanied by threats.

"We're not going to break any legs," Tony said, "but we have taken property
back."

Carlos, a South Bronx prestamista who says he lends no more than $3,000 to any
one person, keeps a safety deposit box full of collateral like gold chains and
wristwatches. To ensure that his clients do not disappear, Carlos says he often
holds a borrower's immigration papers until the loan is repaid.

"I know my people," he said.  "They get some money, they'll go to Santo Domingo,
especially at Christmas, spend it all and come back with nothing."

Even with loan sharking thriving in the city's Latino neighborhoods, leaders of
local nonprofit groups say they try to coax people into banking's mainstream.

Milton Balcacer, who operates a tiny grocery store on the Grand Concourse in the
Bronx, said he borrowed $14,000 from prestamistas over the years, and paid back
$28,000 with interest. Then, in 1999, Mr. Balcacer saw an ad in a local
Spanish-language newspaper for Neighborhood Trust, a nonprofit credit union in
Washington Heights, from which he has borrowed several thousand dollars to
spruce up his store.

The interest rates are wonderfully low, he says. "I'll never use the
prestamistas again."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony, a loan shark in Washington Heights, said he dealt only in
cash and usually charged 5 percent a week. Property often is used as security.
(Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
Laborers Wanted (Sometimes)

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 765 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y.


WITH spring in bloom, the grass growing and yards needing tending, the country's
commitment-averse, seasonal romance with day laborers is back where it left off:
Can't live with them, can't landscape without them.

Hector Vlasco has felt both ends of the equation. Every morning, as he stands
outside a fried chicken joint with dozens of other immigrant laborers, the
promise of America comes rolling along in the form of contractors driving by to
offer a day's work for far more than he could make in his native El Salvador.

But he has felt the rougher edge, most recently a few weeks ago when some people
pulled up while he was waiting for a bus home after work. "They came by in a car
and said: 'You Spanish. Go back where you came from,' " he said, repeating a
string of curses he said had been spewed at him.

The welcome wagon has been traveling Farmingville for several years, bellowing
these contradictory messages to the hundreds of immigrant laborers -- many of
them illegal immigrants from Mexico -- who have found an uncomfortable home in
this working-class Suffolk County town.

Like other communities around the country, Farmingville has become the servants'
quarters for laborers who earn a living in wealthier suburbs. Farmingville has
turned angry and divisive as it has tried to find its way in a swirl of such big
forces as record immigration, low unemployment, sprawl and a shortage of cheap
housing.

There is much concern about men waiting outside convenience stores for jobs and
about houses jammed with laborers. Language has turned extreme, followed by
threats of violence. Leaders of a civic group that denounces the men have linked
arms with an outspoken critic of immigration in Los Angeles, Glenn Spencer, who
said the fight here was important to counter the Latino plan "to take the whole
Northern Hemisphere."

Last fall, two Mexican laborers were picked up here by men posing as contractors
who then beat the workers, the police say. County legislators later approved
$80,000 for a hiring center to move the workers off the streets and bring order
to the daily job bazaar. But the county executive, Robert J. Gaffney, vetoed it,
saying it would condone violating labor and immigration laws.

YESTERDAY the Legislature considered overriding the veto, putting Farmingville
back at the center of the country's ambiguous relationship with illegal
immigrants. Carlos Canales, once an illegal factory worker who is now an
advocate for immigrants, was standing outside the session. If the laborers are
such a problem, he said, "how come the government doesn't use its power to throw
us away?" He thinks the answer is the need for cheap laborers who are beholden
to employers. "That's business," he said.

The federal government says it lacks the resources to hunt down illegal workers
beyond the most egregious cases. Yet granting widespread immigration amnesty is
politically thorny. This legal limbo is seen by the most vitriolic critics as
license to treat the immigrants as an infestation.

"We have a right to be angry," said Ray Wysolmierski of the Sachem Quality of
Life Organization, which is leading the fight against the laborers. "If these
guys are beaten up, they don't have a right to be angry. They don't have a right
to be here." With the influx of immigrants, he said, "I'm paying taxes for a
suburban life, but I'm dealing with de facto urbanization."

Others not in the group object with less emotion. John Kinsella, a bricklayer
who came from Ireland nine years ago, said that as a hard-working immigrant, he
was irked by reports that many of the laborers have no green cards and do not
pay taxes. "If they came here and lived like everyone else, there would be no
problem," he said.

Local officials are left to negotiate between the immigration laws they have no
power to enforce or change and the health and safety of all the residents -- new
immigrants and immigrants' descendants alike -- they are obligated to protect.
Paul J. Tonna, the presiding officer of the Legislature, who supports the
hiring-center proposal, compared it to another controversial question: "Do we
give heroin addicts needles to prevent the spread of AIDS?"

The Legislature voted yesterday against financing the center. It was a victory
to those who saw the center as fostering lawlessness. Others wondered.

"Is the status quo a victory?" asked Ed Hernandez, a Farmingville resident who
heads a group called Citizens for Peaceful Solutions. "What is being won here
today? As sure as the sun will rise tomorrow, the streets of Farmingville will
be filled with day laborers tomorrow."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suffolk Veto of Day Laborer Center Is Upheld

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., April 24


The Suffolk County Legislature failed to muster enough votes today to revive a
plan to create a community support center for Hispanic day laborers, a proposal
that became a potent symbol in this county's bitter divide over immigration.

The vote came after eight hours of often angry debate in a chamber filled with
more than 100 residents, politicians and advocates from near and far, some
lining up an at least an hour before the start of the 9 a.m. meeting to get
seats.

In the end, as expected, lawmakers voted 9 to 9 to let stand County Executive
Robert J. Gaffney's veto of a bill to devote $80,000 from the 2001 budget to the
Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rockville Centre to help set up the center
in Farmingville. Twelve votes were needed to override Mr. Gaffney's veto.

The legislation to help pay for the center, drafted by Brian X. Foley, a
Democrat, gained momentum after two Mexican workers were abducted and beaten in
September in what police called a hate crime. The bill quickly won bipartisan
support.

On March 20, legislators voted 12 to 2, with three abstentions, to establish the
center in Farmingville. In the warmer months, hundreds of immigrants, many of
them illegal, line up on busy roadways in Farmingville every day and wait for
trucks to pick them up for landscaping or construction jobs.

Modeled after similar centers in Huntington, Glen Cove and other places around
the nation, it would have offered a central spot where the workers could wait
for employment and obtain educational, legal and referral services.

But Mr. Gaffney, a Republican, vetoed the bill on April 4, saying that
government should not pay for anything that would foster the hiring of illegal
immigrants. Three Republicans who had voted for the site changed their positions
after the veto. They were joined today in upholding the veto by a newly elected
Democrat, William J. Lindsay.

After the vote, supporters of the measure said Mr. Gaffney should offer another
solution for the county's tensions over immigration.

One center supporter, Paul J. Tonna, the Republican majority leader, said his
biggest concern was civil unrest or worse this summer.

"When community tensions are so high, when there is already a history of
violence in that area committed to day laborers, we want to make sure that we
ensure the best, most safe community," he said. "Tensions are percolating."

The hours of debate today drew impassioned arguments from both sides. Those
opposed to the center seemed divided between those who said the center would
waste taxpayer money and possibly worsen tensions, and those who argued against
the center on moral and legal grounds.

Many held signs that read, "Hiring halls promote illegal immigration." " Matt
Reindl of Deer Park said to lawmakers, "If you build this hiring site for people
to solicit jobs illegally, Suffolk County will be sued and then it will be
closed down."

Many in support of the center held placards with drawings of an ostrich and the
words: "S.C. legislators: Don't bury your heads in the sand. Override the veto."

"Why would the Legislature and the community be opposed to such a simple
solution?" Mary Moycik-Aguilera of Coram asked legislators. "I realize that some
people are just afraid of all these brown-skinned workers from Mexico, but I
think it is more than fear. I think that some people are filled with hate and
they just don't want the day laborers here."

Taline Menniti of the Farmingville Civic Association sat silently in the front
row of the spectators' gallery, holding a sign that read, "I'm a taxpayer, not a
racist."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Rush to Say 'I Do' (Want a Green Card);
Immigrants Lining Up to Marry As a Legal Deadline Approaches

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 705 words


"Just go on around and hop in line," the security guard said, gesturing toward
the back of the Manhattan Municipal Building, where some people had been waiting
since 2 a.m.

The woman he was talking to looked as if she had just been asked to join a
picket line, or maybe a prison chain gang. "For marriage?" she said. "That's the
line for marriage?"

Just four marrying days before an April 30 deadline for illegal immigrants
seeking green cards, and just on the brink of peak wedding season, at 9 a.m. the
line snaked around the building on Centre Street where marriage licenses are
issued and rings are crammed swiftly onto fingers. There were white satin
dresses and satiny jogging suits, people hoping they would not be late to work
and people heading for Florida honeymoons.

At the front of the line to enter the building, a woman from Japan awaited her
boyfriend, who had gone to get a passport. Inside, a man from Taiwan put a
soothing hand on the shoulder of the woman from Indonesia who would soon be his
wife.

On Tuesday, the city clerk's office handled 228 applications for licenses and
447 ceremonies, up from 96 applications and 200 ceremonies a year ago.

To accommodate the traffic, an elevator lobby became a maze of line dividers,
business hours were extended and seven extra security guards, including three
who spoke Spanish and two who were fluent in Cantonese, were brought from
another location.

"We probably could use a few more languages," said Denise Collins, a spokeswoman
for the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which manages the
building.

Andy Chan, 25, brought his friends Jian Xun Wang, 23, and Lipin Wang, 18, of
Flushing, Queens. "I think it's hard," he said of their decision to get married
so that Ms. Wang might obtain a green card. "But Chinese, they don't need so
long to know each other before marriage."

Not everyone knew of the looming deadline. By April 30, immigrants who are in
the country illegally can apply for legal status if they have a close relative
who is a United States citizen or legal permanent resident. So yesterday, some
who might have taken their time were leaping into matrimony.

But other people assumed the three- to four-hour wait was nothing unusual. "I
really honestly was shocked at how many people stand in line every day to get
married," a woman who gave her name as S. Garrett said as she waited to enter
the chapel, a bouquet in hand.

Another woman, who identified herself only as Susan, 24, said her immigration
lawyer had told her to get married this week, even though her parents, back in
Slovakia, would not be able to attend. But she wasn't sure why everyone else was
there.

"Maybe spring?" she ventured.

Chris Calvello, 33, of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, looked over his license application
with his bride-to-be, Natalia Bolchedvorova. Although Ms. Bolchedvorova was in
need of a green card, their timing was not based on the deadline, they said. "I
got in love with him, but I couldn't get married with him because I was 17,"
said Ms. Bolchedvorova, who turned 18 last month.

Barbra Scherz, 25, and Rommel Francisco, 27, stood in line to get a license for
their wedding, to be held next month at a Long Island country club. "We picked
the worst possible time to come," Ms. Scherz said. "They told us to come back if
we could wait until May 2."

But the couple were good-humored. "It was interesting to see all the girls in
their dresses, people from all over the world coming to get married," Ms. Scherz
said.

Although the municipal building does not offer Champagne fountains or thundering
organ music, the room where licenses are issued has a unique decorative accent.
Hundreds of people had torn off the perforated borders of their licenses and
slipped them behind the plexiglass that covered the walls, inscribing them first
with messages like "God Bless Freddie and Sylvia" and "Honey to Honey 8/11/99."

Carlos Cuevas, the city clerk, vowed that he would never remove them. "This is
New York," he said with a flourish.

A gracious man, Mr. Cuevas snapped to attention each time he was asked a
question, but he sidestepped one about the number of immigrants who came seeking
legal status.

"Did you ever think," he chided gently, "that it could be love?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the brink of peak wedding season and with the deadline
approaching on a law allowing some immigrants, including illegal ones, to adjust
their status, the line of couples wanting licenses or waiting to be married in
the city clerk's chapel extended outside the Manhattan Municipal Building, top.
Michelle Lopez and Roberto Poveda, below, were married by Blanca Ramos.
(Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing/NEW YORK: BUFFALO: MORTGAGES FOR MINORITIES

BYLINE:  NYT (Compiled by Steve Strunsky)

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 89 words


A total of $200 million in low-cost mortgages will be offered over the next five
years to new immigrants and minorities in Erie and Niagara Counties, officials
announced yesterday. Fannie Mae, the federally chartered mortgage lender, and
CitiMortgage, a subsidiary of Citigroup, have jointly committed to marketing the
program and lending the money to promote homeownership in the two upstate
counties, said Aulin G. Bridges, a Fannie Mae spokeswoman. The National Urban
League and other groups are to inform potential borrowers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Rush for Legal Status

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A filer arrived at 26 Federal Plaza in Manhattan late last night
just before the midnight deadline for a program to allow illegal immigrants
sponsored by relatives or employers to seek legal status without leaving the
United States. Thousands around the country filed papers on the last day. Page
A16. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For China-Born U.S. Citizens, Visiting Homeland Has Risks

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 30


Over the last six months, the State Security Ministry has started detaining
American citizens born in China and questioning them about their affairs in
China in what diplomats believe is a worrisome change in government policy.

It is the first time since the Korean War that American citizens have been held
by China's State Security apparatus, diplomats and China experts said.

Since late last year, six American citizens -- none of them prominent critics of
China -- have been questioned and detained for varying lengths of time by State
Security, a secretive ministry charged with ferreting out threats to China's
national security, largely those from abroad. The group includes businessmen,
writers and academics. Two, Li Shaomin, a professor of marketing at the City
University of Hong Kong, and Wu Jianmin, a freelance journalist, are still in
custody, apparently on suspicion of espionage, although there have been no
official charges.

A number of Chinese citizens with permanent residency status in the United
States have also been held, a Western diplomat here said. But he added that it
was harder to keep track of this group, since the Chinese government is under no
obligation to report such detentions and American officials have no right to
assist green card holders under current consular agreements with China.

The diplomat added that it was "certainly possible" that other detentions had
occurred, particularly those lasting under four days, the time at which China is
obliged to report detentions of American citizens to embassy officials here.

"It was only in December last year that we became aware that there was a shift
in the way Chinese authorities are dealing with this group," the diplomat said.
"What links them all is that they are of Chinese origin -- although obviously
they have settled out of China. All had previously traveled to China, some
frequently."

The detentions highlight new government scrutiny of a group that has become
prominent in China's business and academic sectors in recent years: Chinese
citizens who went to the United States to study in the 1980's and 90's and are
now returning in large numbers to work -- often armed with liberal ideas and a
foreign passport or green card.

In part because of the mystery surrounding the detentions, the State Department
issued a travel advisory last month urging American citizens and green card
holders originally born in China "to carefully evaluate their risk of being
detained," even if they have traveled to China many times before without a
problem.

It suggests that people who have had links to Taiwan or who have "engaged in
activities critical of Chinese policies" should take special care.

Diplomats and scholars both here and abroad say they are unsure exactly what has
prompted the shift, although they note that it comes at a relative low point in
American-China relations. Many point out that the current spate started around
the time that a high-ranking officer in the Chinese Army defected to the United
States, greatly embarrassing China's security forces.

One Chinese source, who provided information on condition of anonymity, said
that a state blacklist of undesirable foreigners, which once contained a few
dozen names, had recently been expanded to 273, and that most of the additions
are people born in China who now live overseas.

The source said several of those who had been detained were on the list, which
tended to aim at people who had a history of contacts with Taiwan -- which China
considers a breakaway province -- or people who were suspected of publicly
discussing delicate information about political or military affairs in China.

Gao Zhan, a green card holder who has been charged with espionage, is a
sociologist affiliated with American University who specializes in women's
issues and had attended conferences in Taiwan -- although the Chinese government
has not said what activities led to the spying charge. Nearly 400 China
specialists from around the world have signed a letter protesting her arrest.

But others in detention, like Qin Guangguang, a green card holder charged by
State Security with leaking state secrets, was a businessman, according to
acquaintances.

Another possible reason behind the detentions is that China's leaders have
repeatedly urged the country's police to be tougher on crime in the last half
year. And that has included specific admonitions from President Jiang Zemin
himself to be more vigilant about possible incursions by hostile foreign forces.

Other scholars speculate that some of the detentions may be linked to the
publication abroad last winter of "The Tiananmen Papers," said to be a
collection of secret documents from the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy
demonstrators in Tiananmen Square.

But the government has offered little information to clarify exactly what
offenses this group of obscure American citizens and green card holders are
supposed to have committed. China's state secrets law is vaguely defined, and
when charges involve state secrets, those detained lose many of formal rights
granted others, including the right to see a lawyer.

"It's really scary, because no one understands what it is about," said a green
card holder who is teaching at a prominent Chinese university. He said some
prominent academics were fretting that "the State Security Bureau is turning
into the K.G.B."

Dai Qing, a writer and social critic here, said, "They never define what counts
as a state secret, so lots of people worry they could be at risk."

Western academics now working in China -- all of whom insisted on anonymity --
expressed concern that getting research funds from Taiwan might somehow be
construed as spying or colluding with hostile forces. Many Chinese specialists
now get research funds from Taiwan's Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation, or give papers
at conferences in Taiwan.

And Chinese research institutes that once welcomed foreign academics have become
skittish about collaborations and risky research topics, Chinese scholars said.
At one recent faculty meeting, professors wondered aloud if some foreign
scholars who had worked in China in the past had been spies for Taiwan.

After the 1989 Tiananmen crackdown, the United State government granted
residence rights to thousands of Chinese students enrolled in American
universities.

On the one hand, the Chinese government -- as well as businesses and
universities -- is actively courting those overseas Chinese back for their skill
and knowledge, offering tax breaks, high salaries and exemptions from the
one-child policy if they had two children while living abroad.

Returnees form the backbone of American multinational corporations in China and
serve as top professors at some of China's most prestigious universities. In one
study, 25 percent of returnees said they had brought technology back with them
-- technology that China desperately needs in its rush to modernize its economy.

On the other hand, the returnees constitute an influential and growing liberal
force in Chinese society, people who are used to living in a democracy and often
inclined to speak their mind.

The latest crop of Chinese-born scholars -- mostly now in their 40's -- have
often retained close ties with friends and family in China, some of whom are now
fairly senior officials. And in a country where personal relationships open many
doors, they have used their "guanxi" -- connections -- to get their hands on
documents and statistics that probably would be inaccessible to true outsiders,
often having a dramatic effect on fields like diplomatic history.

"There has been an outpouring of information in some fields, and the majority of
new studies are being done by people originally from the mainland," said a
professor of political science in Hong Kong.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Li Shaomin, an American professor, is still in Chinese custody.
(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 3, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration's One-Man Bandwagon;
Washington Hears a Dogged but Lone Voice for Caribbeans

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words


For the last four years, Russell T. Hicks has offered a rather personal course
in political science for the Caribbean immigrants in Flatbush, Brooklyn.

They have immigration problems. He has political contacts. Together, they have
embarked on a quixotic journey through the labyrinth of officialdom in search of
favors.

Mr. Hicks has a lively correspondence going with the White House, senators,
members of Congress, the mayor, the City Council, the Police Department and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

He keeps their letters back and forth in a neatly bound book that also includes
the hard-luck stories of 46 men and women from Haiti, Jamaica and Trinidad and
Tobago who have lived in New York illegally for years but fell through the
cracks of programs to help illegal immigrants.

Mr. Hicks, an Army veteran born and raised in the United States, has taken on
their cause as a personal mission, but so far has not reached his goal.

"I didn't know anything about immigration when these people started asking me
for help," he said, "but I knew that wherever there's a law, there's an
exception and discretion, and if you have a problem, you see your local
representative."

Mr. Hicks, 45, is neither a lawyer nor an advocate for the big causes that
occupy the professional immigration organizations. Instead he is a no-fee Mr.
Fix-it for people who do not know their way through bureaucracy, a Republican
with an improbable streak of 1960's-style activism and a knack for pushing
himself onto politicians' radar screens and refusing to go away.

"He is unusual because he is tenacious and continues to push ahead," said United
States Representative Major R. Owens of Brooklyn, who has been on the receiving
end of Mr. Hicks's flood of phone calls and letters. "The word 'access' is
usually associated with making contributions, and he does not have a monetary
contribution to make."

Even officials at the immigration service, which would ultimately be the
dispenser of the favors he seeks for his neighbors, have developed a grudging
respect for Mr. Hicks's persistence.

"The fact that he has gotten responses from the people he has, well, I think
it's impressive," said Alan Atkinson, a spokesman at the I.N.S. district office
in New York. "So far it has not resulted in what he wants it to result in. But I
have to admire his tenacity and his ability to bring his case in front of people
of influence."

But Mr. Hicks is tilting at a behemoth of a windmill. Congress has been
ambivalent, at best, on the issue of illegal immigration. And immigration law as
it stands is complicated, turgid and full of regulations that are exceptions to
rules and rules that explain the exceptions.

As an unintended illustration of the complexity, the immigration service's own
Web site, an exhaustive tour of immigration policy, lists almost 600 acronyms
used in legislation relating to immigrants and would-be immigrants.

There is TPS (temporary protected status) and DED (deferred enforced departure).
There are E visas and H visas and K visas and so on through the alphabet. There
have been special visa programs -- like Nacara and CAP -- to benefit orphans,
religious workers, Irish, Nicaraguans, Cubans and Canadians, as well as waivers
and lotteries and amnesties and late amnesties.

Except for a limited program for Haitians a few years ago, Mr. Hicks said, there
have been no special programs for people of the Caribbean.

"The government has become more restrictive as a result of the change in the
skin color and ethnicity of the immigrants who have come in recent years,
including the large inflow from the West Indies," Representative Owens said. "I
think racism is involved, as Russell says."

Mr. Hicks once worked in mental health programs for veterans. Now his real job
is running a tiny bookstore called Metropolitan Learning Associates, on Hillel
Place near Brooklyn College, where he tutors students and sells material for
schoolchildren studying for standardized tests. He opened it seven years ago
with his Jamaican-born partner, Janet Lovell.

The store is practically invisible among the fast-food restaurants that line the
street. Inside, it is just as nondescript. Multicolored workbooks are piled from
floor to ceiling. A faded American flag hangs limp over a narrow desk.

To get to what Mr. Hicks calls his office, he has to duck under a shelf and ease
himself into a cluttered space no bigger than the front seat of a compact car.

But Mr. Hicks lives large -- at least through his letters to public officials --
by lavish name-dropping, lofty language about his store's mission and loving
tributes to American patriotism and justice.

"When they get these letters, they probably think there's really something big
behind me, some big organization," he said. "But I'm like the Wizard of Oz.
Behind the curtain, there's just this little guy with a typewriter."

A lot of people might consider the illegal immigrants championed by Mr. Hicks to
be causes that deserve to be lost.

Some are people who missed deadlines. (An orphaned Haitian high school student
did not know he could have asked for a special visa.) Others got caught up in
the bureaucracy. (A woman filed her application for citizenship three months too
early and, by the time she was told to file again, found herself at the end of a
long backlog.)

One young woman from Trinidad and Tobago came legally as a student, found that
she had cancer and stayed to get medical treatment. Others came under temporary
worker visas and stayed on after their visas expired.

"His idea is helping people -- the Caribbean people," said a Haitian man named
Pierre, who feared giving his last name because he overstayed his original work
visa by many years.

"I went to lawyers and they told me they couldn't promise anything," he added.
"They would say I had to file again and wait and I would pay them and nothing
happened. Russell told me he would try to help, but he did it as a friend."

Mr. Hicks said he saw political activism as the best way to battle the
immigration system.

He developed a strategy for spinning a pro forma letter from some politician's
office into a battering ram to get through the next politician's door.

Take his exchange with Hillary Rodham Clinton, while she was first lady and then
a Senate candidate.

"As an honorably discharged veteran of the U.S. Army," Mr. Hicks wrote at the
end of a letter making his case for special treatment for his Caribbean
immigrants, "my sense of patriotism longs for satisfaction."

Mrs. Clinton's office responded with a noncommittal letter.

"Organizations like yours show that it really does take a village to raise a
child, and to help new immigrants become acclimated to our state," the letter
said.

"I applaud your efforts," she concluded.

Mr. Hicks pressed on, calling the White House.

"I'd call up and say, 'I'm calling from the Metropolitan Learning Center in New
York about an initiative that's been endorsed by the first lady.' And that would
be a click," Mr. Hicks said. "You have to get some names that trigger a
response."

Finally, he reached the summit. A few weeks before President Clinton left
office, a one-paragraph letter written on White House stationery arrived at Mr.
Hicks's store.

It was signed by Irene B. Bueno, special assistant to the president, and
reported that she had forwarded the requests for special consideration of Mr.
Hicks's 46 clients to the immigration service. More important, in political
dialect, she said she had requested that the I.N.S. meet with Mr. Hicks to
discuss the matter.

The bound folder of requests to help Mr. Hicks's immigrants now rests with the
immigration service in New York and has reached Mr. Atkinson, who is an aide to
the director, Edward J. McElroy.

District directors have a certain amount of discretion, although much less than
they had before restrictive immigration laws were passed in 1996, and can offer
some relief to illegal immigrants who have not committed crimes and are not
otherwise ineligible for resident status.

In some high-profile cases, immigration officials have bent the rules. Residence
status was granted to the Honduran boy who charmed New York City two years ago
with a made-up tale of walking to New York to find his father.

Mr. Atkinson said he could not comment on specific cases, like those in Mr.
Hicks's file. But he said the Congressional liaison office at the district,
which fields requests from politicians for status reports or help on immigration
cases, already gets around 23,000 calls a year.

That means other people have the same idea as Mr. Hicks -- that political
pressure might accomplish what the regulations do not. But he said he would not
be deterred. The process, after all, is as instructive for immigrants as it is
hopeful.

"We structure our government," he said. "We finance our government. Then we
leave it alone like a lofty place we can't control. But what the founding
fathers had in mind was an informed electorate, and that's what I'm working
for."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Russell Hicks has had the ear of senators, congressmen and the
White House, all on behalf of illegal immigrants.; A letter from the White House
is new ammunition for Mr. Hicks's cause. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: QUEENS UP CLOSE;
A Shortage of Seats to Learn Miss Liberty's Tongue

BYLINE:  By JIM O'GRADY

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words


The No. 7 train, known as the International Express for the neighborhoods it
passes through, glided outside the windows of a classroom in Jackson Heights
Thursday morning as 20 English language students said the word "charming."

"Chah-ming," most said.

"Sound out the 'r'," corrected their instructor, Bruce Armstrong. "Charrrming."

Some students seemed bleary-eyed from the lack of sleep that comes from raising
children while working multiple jobs. But they grimly repeated, "Charrrming."

These students were lucky just to have a seat in this English as a Second
Language class, which was held at the Jackson Heights Community Office, a
nonprofit center. There is a shortage of these classes now, even as immigrants
continue to flock to the city, largely because of an influx from
non-English-speaking countries in Asia and Latin America.

Margie McHugh, director of the New York Immigration Center, an advocacy group,
said her agency had found that there were 50,000 places in English-language
classes for one million immigrants in the city who need them. She said the
shortage was especially severe in the Queens neighborhoods of Corona, Jackson
Heights and Ridgewood, where many immigrants live.

"In April, we had room for 54 new students, and 350 people showed up," said K.
C. Williams, director of the center.

Speaker Peter F. Vallone said last month that he had added $5 million to next
year's Council budget for more English instruction. Such programs are usually
financed by government money and private grants.

"The city has fallen behind on this problem," said Jake Lynn, a spokesman for
Mr. Vallone. "But we haven't gotten enough help from the federal government."

In Ms. Williams's office, a 28-year-old Ecuadorean-American woman who did not
want her name used delivered a letter from her counselor at a social service
center. The letter requested a space in a class for the woman. It said she was a
single mother with a 5-year-old son who had been injured while doing her job as
a home attendant. She had little hope of finding other work, the letter said, if
she did not learn English.

Ms. Williams put her on a waiting list.
   JIM O'GRADY

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: It's waiting room only for English-language classes like this
one in Jackson Heights. (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Shadow of the Holocaust

BYLINE:  By Thane Rosenbaum;  Thane Rosenbaum is the author of "Second Hand
Smoke," "Elijah Visible" and the forthcoming book "The Golems of Gotham."

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1037 words


DISPLACED PERSONS
Growing Up American After the Holocaust.
By Joseph Berger.
347 pp. New York:
Scribner. $26.

Nothing evokes the myth of America as a sanctuary more than the tales of how
immigrants become Americans. Yet not all stories of oceans crossed are the same.
It matters greatly what the refugee was seeking refuge from. America may be the
common destination, but the hardships that lead people to come here range from
everyday adversity to historical catastrophe.

Joseph Berger, deputy education editor at The New York Times and the author of
"Displaced Persons: Growing Up American After the Holocaust," understands this
at first hand. As a 5-year-old he was among the 140,000 Jewish refugees who
arrived in the United States between 1946 and 1953; they were a different breed
of refugee, only later known as Holocaust survivors. Berger's book is an
extraordinary memoir, full of pride, tenderness and love. While it tells the
story of Berger's life as a refugee who comes of age in America, the book was
actually written for others. It is a tribute to the dead and a valentine to the
living, not just his parents, but all the tailors, barbers, grocers and chicken
farmers he knew as a child -- a surrogate family that would have no connection
if not for the magnitude of its shared loss.

Berger's parents, both Polish citizens, met in the Soviet Union. As teenagers
they made separate journeys deep into the Ural Mountains to escape the Nazis.
Every member of their immediate families who remained behind in Poland was
either slaughtered in Treblinka or died of starvation. Berger was born in the
Soviet Union, his younger brother in a displaced persons camp in Germany after
the war. That part of the story belongs to Berger's parents, because he has no
real memory of the events that displaced his family. What he does remember --
vividly, poetically and always with a mixture of ambivalence and gratitude -- is
what came after.

That's what makes "Displaced Persons" such a romantic American tale. The streets
around upper Broadway and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx are richly described
as passageways for new European arrivals. Berger, a yeshiva boy only a few years
in this country, is given the role of George Washington in a school play. With
no television set of their own, an under-age Berger and his father sit on
barstools in a neighborhood tavern nursing beers while watching Bob Hope on "The
Colgate Comedy Hour." There are Sunday morning breakfasts of rye bread and
Danish that, as Berger describes it, have a kind of Proustian pull on his adult
memories.

Emboldened by survival, and desperate to lose themselves in their adoptive
country, Berger's parents embraced America as an antidote to their displacement.
Yet at times Berger wanted to escape from them. He was embarrassed by their
accents, awkwardness and unconcealed fright, the ways in which their mannerisms
betrayed how far away they were from ever quite fitting in.

And escape he eventually did. But there was a limit to how far he could go in
breaking away from his parents, since he was always aware of how much they had
lost. As Berger ventured out into the pleasures and mysteries of the Manhattan
night, his mother waited by the window for him to return. Like many Holocaust
survivors, she was disturbed by family separations, no matter how brief. Given
what had happened in Poland, she had trouble distinguishing between a family
that vanishes and a son who simply goes off to college.

Every unspoken Holocaust story is like a dormant volcano -- once provoked or
disturbed, it can erupt and shatter whatever domestic tranquillity existed
before. After half a century of living in America, Berger finally wanted to
learn more about the Europe of his past. Although his father was unwilling to
discuss his experiences, Berger discovered that his mother had been writing her
own memoir all along. "Displaced Persons" is in part a conversation between
mother and son, and includes several selections from the mother's memoir. Joseph
Berger says that he has inherited some of her panic, distraction and grief; on
the evidence of her writing, he has also inherited her facility with words.

What's most impressive about "Displaced Persons" is how unsparingly honest
Berger is about the refugee condition and how it shaped his perceptions of the
world and the relationships he has cultivated. His parents were not exactly well
suited for each other, but the emptiness that comes in the aftermath of disaster
has a way of shifting romantic priorities. Long before his bar mitzvah, Berger
was expected to function as an adult, without any preparation or guidance. He
was consulted on all the important family decisions, and helped raise his
younger brother while his parents were at work.

The title of this book is in some ways a misnomer, for these people don't appear
to be displaced at all. Indeed, there is something improbably upbeat about this
memoir, the return to life of the Berger family, the raucous celebrations with
friends, the reclaiming of lives -- poignantly symbolized by the eventual birth
of an American daughter, the author's sister. Berger's parents apparently
suffered no bad dreams. If there were demons and ghosts, Berger never saw them.
This is very much a Holocaust recovery book. The pain here is more controlled,
less volatile; the Bergers don't fit the stereotype of the pathologically
damaged survivor.

Of course, Berger knows that no matter what goes unsaid in the lives of
Holocaust survivors, Auschwitz is always in the room, taking up most of the
space. This is the ultimate misfortune of the displaced person. You might have a
roof over your head, but inside your head you still have that spiraling feeling
of detachment, where there is no sense of place or of belonging anywhere in
particular. As this important memoir makes clear, the refugee condition is one
in which housing is beside the point; often it's the psyche that needs shelter.

Author's Query
For a new life of P. G. Wodehouse, jointly commissioned by the trustees of the
estate and W. W. Norton with Penguin Books, I would appreciate hearing from
anyone who has recollections, letters or photographs.

Robert McCrum
12 Eldon Road
London W8 5PU
England

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Open to Immigrants Should Germany Be? An Uneasy Country's Debate Deepens

BYLINE:  By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 998 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, May 12


With 7.3 million foreigners, or 9 percent of the population, Germany has the
highest proportion of immigrants of any of the major European powers. But this
presence makes many Germans uneasy and the country is now plunged once more into
an intense debate about how open it should be.

The Christian Democrats this week opened a debate that is certain to be central
to next year's election. "Germany is not a classic country of immigration, and
because of its history, geography and economic conditions, it cannot be one,"
the party said in a new policy paper.

It did not define what classic means here -- although party officials say it is
a reference to countries, like the United States, that were formed by
immigration. But even that statement is a departure from the party's long-held
position under the former chancellor, Helmut Kohl, that Germany was not a land
of immigration -- classic or otherwise.

The Christian Democrats, trying to put pressure on the governing Social
Democrats, who have not yet clarified their position, suggested for the first
time that annual quotas for the admission of foreigners needed in the job market
should be set, but insisted that all foreigners must adhere to "the values of
our Christian culture."

Dropping its explosive call last year for foreigners to accept a German
leitkultur, or guiding culture, but retaining the gist of that appeal, the party
said adherence to German norms and the avoidance of "parallel societies" was
essential. The very mention of the word multiculturalism at Christian Democrats
meetings these days tends to provoke hoots of disdain.

"Our Christian culture, marked by Christianity, ancient philosophy, humanism,
Roman law and the Enlightenment, must be accepted," the Christian Democrats
said. "That does not mean abandonment of particular religious and cultural
practices, but acceptance of our values and organization for living together."

The party's statement -- its platform on immigration for the 2002 elections --
comes as a commission appointed by Chancellor Gerhard Schroder and including
representatives of most political parties is preparing to issue its report this
summer. In effect, the Christian Democrats are trying to pre-empt the
chancellor's initiative.

By far the largest single group of immigrants in Germany are Turks, who first
came as "guest workers" more than 30 years ago and now number more than 2
million, or more than all the foreigners in Germany from European Union
countries put together. Because they are overwhelmingly Islamic, the Turks tend
to regard calls for adherence to Christian norms as a provocation.

Several factors have brought the immigration issue to the center of debate. The
first is a surge in the number of asylum seekers in the first three months of
this year. They totaled 21,042, or 11.2 percent more than in the same period
last year.

In all, between 1990 and 2000, Germany took in close to 2 million asylum
seekers, far more than any other European state. Although many of them
subsequently returned to their homelands, the high number has focused attention
on the fact that trying to close the door to other forms of immigration only
encourages would-be immigrants to seek asylum as their only recourse.

The second factor is that the German birth rate, as elsewhere in Europe, is low,
and several projections suggest that the country's population could fall to
about 60 million by 2050 from the current 82 million if it does not accept
immigrants.

A third factor, with the economy slowing again, is the growing awareness that
unless Germany aggressively joins the global competition for talent that
characterizes the information economy, the country will be at a constant
disadvantage. "We need the best minds," Wolfgang Bosbach, the deputy leader of
the Christian Democratic group in Parliament, said today.

But along with the awareness of the apparent need for some immigration --
expressed in the new proposal for bringing in the qualified through quotas -- a
strong current of suspicion of, or outright hostility to, foreigners persists.

The Christian Democrats proposed that all foreigners be obliged to take
"integration courses" for which they would have to bear part of the cost. These
courses would involve not only learning the German language but also German
values and habits.

Those completing the course should be rewarded by seeing their work and other
permits extended, while those who refused should see their papers canceled or
curtailed, the party said.

It also proposed that current laws allowing foreign children up to age 16 to be
reunited with their parents in Germany should be changed. Instead, only children
up to age 10 would be admitted.

Party officials explained that the change was intended to ensure that Turkish
parents in Germany did not send children, particularly girls, back to Turkey to
be educated, before bringing them back to Germany. The proposal was also
intended to ensure that any foreign child received some German schooling.

The Christian Democrats have made much of the fact that during the last two
decades the number of foreigners has shot up to more than seven million from
about four million, but the number at work has largely stagnated. As a result
the burden placed on Germany's social security system -- through the payment of
unemployment and other benefits -- has greatly increased.

"Foreigners account for 9 percent of the population but 22.4 percent of social
assistance," the party said.

Mr. Schroder, while changing the law to make it easier for foreigners to obtain
German nationality, has been guarded about what sort of immigration policy the
country now needs, in part because he knows that a liberal policy would meet
resistance in his own party.

Only his coalition partners, the Greens, have been forthright in calling for
large-scale immigration. The Christian Democrats now hope that their adoption of
a clear position will provoke further tensions on this issue within the
governing coalition.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 15, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Welcome to America, and to Stock Fraud

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1657 words


When it comes to separating immigrants from their money, few techniques have
gone untested.

A century ago, newcomers were cheated by more seasoned compatriots who met the
boats from Ellis Island with offers of nonexistent jobs or housing. More
recently, they have fallen prey to neighborhood swindlers promising authentic
green cards, cheap phone calls and miracle-working medicines.

Now, the keystone is that quintessential American dream machine, the stock
market.

Over the last few years, an increasing number of immigrants have arrived with
substantial savings to start their new lives. But far fewer have come with
experience in financial markets or much proficiency in English.

Add to that a tendency to trust completely an adviser of the same ethnic
background and the result, say securities regulators, is a rash of recent
complaints against registered stockbrokers from devastated immigrant investors
and a sharp increase in financial frauds perpetrated by, and aimed at,
immigrants.

That type of swindle has become so prevalent, in fact, that the regulators have
given it a name -- affinity fraud.

The North American Securities Administrators Association, an organization of
state officials, calls affinity fraud the second most common investment fraud in
the country. Only the unlicensed sale of securities is more prevalent.

"Fraudsters go where the money and the trust are," said a Securities and
Exchange Commission spokesman, John Nestor. "So we see a lot of problems in
ethnic neighborhoods where a language barrier separates investors from reliable
information.

"Immigrants are a very vulnerable population," he added. "People who lack
experience with investments aren't able to distinguish between an investment and
a gamble."

One immigrant investor with such a complaint is Jeong Hee Hong. She had no job,
a son in college and life savings of about $200,000 when she met a stockbroker
at a party last year.

A recent immigrant from South Korea, Ms. Hong spoke almost no English and knew
next to nothing about the stock market. But she felt at ease with the broker,
who was Korean-American and, in her own language, reassured her of a comfortable
future.

"He told me that even when the market goes down, his clients make money because
he has the magic touch," Ms. Hong recalled recently, speaking through a
translator. "At the time, I needed income to live. I kept telling him to be
careful because it's my last life savings."

The broker, who worked at the UBS PaineWebber branch in Flushing, Queens,
offered to fill out all the paperwork in English to open an account. Ms. Hong
said she accepted gratefully, not realizing that he would then falsely list her
as a speculative investor with 10 years of experience in trading equities, bonds
and even options.

Barely seven months later, she was almost broke. Most of her nest egg had been
lost on volatile technology stocks that she said were bought and sold without
her knowledge. And she had paid out $23,000 in commissions, fees and interest on
margin loans she said she never authorized.

Ms. Hong, as well as six other novice Korean investors, have filed a claim for
compensation and damages with the National Association of Securities Dealers,
which arbitrates disputes between investors and brokers. The brokerage firm has
not yet formally responded to the complaint.

The investors, who include factory workers who invested their life savings and
students who invested their inheritance, accuse the brokers of putting their
funds in high-risk investments unsuited to their circumstances and churning the
accounts to generate excessive fees and commissions.

Most of their money was invested in technology stocks that later collapsed.

"If these customers went in and were informed about margin, about the kinds of
companies these brokers were putting them into, if they had authorized at least
some of the stock trades, then you take the loss," said Christine M. Bae, a
lawyer for the Korean investors. "But that's not what happened."

The claim names as respondents UBS PaineWebber; the Queens branch manager,
Michael Liming Yung; and the brokers Joon Ho Chun, James H. Kwak and Sam Jin.

A spokesman for the brokerage firm, Paul Marrone, declined to discuss the
specifics of the claim. "We take our clients' concerns very seriously and are in
the process of reviewing the matters alleged in the statement of claim," he
said. The three brokers, Mr. Marrone added, voluntarily quit PaineWebber in
early April.

Despite their handicaps of language and their basic investing ignorance,
immigrants have been actively courted, not only by fellow immigrants peddling
investment schemes, but also by established brokerage firms looking for new
customers through ads in foreign-language newspapers.

But innocence is bad investment strategy for anyone, securities experts say.

"The immigrant community is also far less experienced and sophisticated than
Americans," said Kevin P. Conway, a Manhattan lawyer representing dozens of
immigrant investors who have filed complaints against brokers they say duped or
misled them.

"Sometimes we ask the client, 'What did the broker say you could expect in this
market?' " he added. "And they say, '100 percent.' For somebody who has never
invested in a regulated securities market and may or may not have read a couple
of stories about Microsoft going from 2 to 100, it can sound good when someone
from your homeland says to you, 'I can get you 100 percent.' "

Mr. Conway said that one of his clients was a Russian investor who signed up
with an unlicensed day-trading firm in Brooklyn that promised to teach clients
how to make money in the stock market. The owner of the firm also advanced money
to neophyte traders.

The investor did not realize until he had quickly run through his funds that he
was borrowing at the equivalent of an annual interest rate of 38 percent.

"Our client was lured in because the ad was in Russian, the person who owned the
facility was Russian and the client felt comfortable," Mr. Conway said.

It is a testament to the power of hope, and perhaps greed, that promises of easy
money sway even people who lived through pyramid schemes and stock scandals
after the collapse of the Soviet Union.

"An American person, knowing all the tricks of the trade, is suspicious, while a
Russian person doesn't have a chance when confronted with skilled sales
techniques," said Henry Shapiro, a financial adviser in Brooklyn who frequently
writes cautionary articles about the stock market in the Russian-language press.

"A lot of them don't know what they're doing," added Mr. Shapiro, commenting on
the average immigrant investor. "It's like they are buying lottery tickets. They
don't know how it works but they know it pays out big money every once in a
while."

The ignorance of immigrants has also made them prey to outright fraud at the
hands of fellow immigrants.

Affinity fraud victims may be people swindled by members of the same church,
ethnic group or profession. But prosecutors and regulators say immigrants have
increasingly been the targets.

Federal authorities, for example, charged an Indian immigrant in Texas two years
ago with stealing $1 million that people in his church, who also were immigrants
from India, had given him to invest. The man fled before he could be arrested.

Last year, in another variation on the theme, Massachusetts securities
regulators charged an investment counseling company run by Russian immigrants
with imposing excessive fees on its clients, also Russian immigrants.

In a similar case in Kansas, the Securities and Exchange Commission fined a
brokerage firm in 1999 for failing to properly supervise a broker who was born
in Bangladesh and defrauded clients who were immigrants and foreign exchange
students from Bangladesh. The commission also charged Hispanic-run companies
with defrauding Hispanic investors in the last year.

Immigrants have also been hurt by foreign exchange and options trading schemes
recently. The Commodities Futures Trading Commission has fined two separate
Russian and Chinese companies in New York that it says defrauded immigrants from
the same ethnic backgrounds. In Los Angeles, as a result of a 1998 commission
investigation, a judge ordered a Hungarian couple to pay back $1.1 million to
Hungarian immigrant investors defrauded in a commodities futures swindle.

"The cultural affinity issue is very significant," said Mark S. Herr, director
of the New Jersey Division of Consumer Affairs. "In some cultures there is a
strong belief that no one is more trustworthy than a family member, and the
definition of family gets more stretched in the New World than in the old."

Yong Ho Lee, a Korean immigrant who runs a small business in New York City, said
trust in a fellow Korean was what brought his family to the PaineWebber branch
office in Flushing two years ago.

His mother, who lives in Hong Kong, opened an account there because she was
acquainted with the parents of one of the Korean-American brokers in the office.

Her aim, said Mr. Lee, was to generate a safe, steady income to pay the $6,000
monthly living expenses of a second son, Joung Ho Lee, who is paraplegic. The
Lee family is among the complainants in the claim against the brokerage firm.

"He told us that PaineWebber had a special program that would produce a 12
percent return," Mr. Lee said, recalling the conversations he and his mother had
with the broker.

Instead, the family's $630,000 initial investment shrank to $120,000 after 13
months of losses on short-term technology stock trades and charges of more than
$115,000 for commissions and margin interest.

Mr. Lee, who graduated from an American college, said he was vaguely aware of
the activity in the account but hesitated to ask the broker's supervisor about
it.

"At that time I was just starting my company and I didn't really have the time,"
he said. "And with Koreans, you don't want to go behind someone's back. It's not
in our culture."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yong Ho Lee, third from left, and his brother, Joung, left, are
among the Korean families represented by Carlton R. Asher, standing, and
Christine M. Bae in a complaint against a Queens brokerage firm. (Vincent
Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Yong Ho Lee says trusting a fellow Korean
led to investment losses for his paraplegic brother, Joung. (Vincent Laforet/The
New York Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 16, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Stock Scam Has Many Faces

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 159 words


To the Editor:

Re "Welcome to America, and to Stock Fraud" (front page, May 15):

Affinity fraud affects more than recent immigrants to the United States.

State securities regulators are also troubled by the rise of religious affinity
fraud. Hundreds of millions of dollars have been lost in scams like the
Florida-based Greater Ministries International, a so-called gifting program that
was in fact a vast Ponzi scheme (estimated losses: nearly half a billion
dollars).

Earlier this year, the leaders of Greater Ministries were convicted of
conspiracy and fraud and face prison terms, yet the problem continues to grow.
Witness the criminal case involving the Baptist Foundation of Arizona (losses of
more than $600 million). The lesson: Whether you hear it from your pastor or
from a parishioner, if something sounds too good to be true, it is.

MARC BEAUCHAMP
Executive Director
North American Securities
Administrators Association
Washington, May 15, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexicans in the U.S.

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 151 words


To the Editor:

In "Census Shows Big Gain for Mexican-Americans" (news article, May 10), an
immigration expert says welfare rates are higher among Hispanic immigrants.

The 21 million Mexicans living in the United States work, pay taxes, receive few
benefits and fuel certain sectors of the American economy.

According to the Department of Labor, three-fourths of all farmworkers in the
United States are Mexican-born, and earn an average of $5.95 an hour.

Today, many Mexicans live below the poverty line because they perform jobs that
Americans do not want or that pay too little, a fact that is the driving force
behind several bipartisan proposals in Congress to give them worker rights.

Knee-jerk reactions to Mexicans' condition in the United States are not merely
offensive. They are outdated.

PAMELA S. FALK
New York, May 12, 2001

The writer is a professor of international trade at CUNY School of Law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bargain Braiders Battle for Heads;
Hair Stylists From Africa Arrive, Driving Down Prices

BYLINE:  By MONTE WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words


Two decades ago, a black American looking to get her hair braided into a head of
plaits thinner than a knitting needle could spend $100. It could, after all,
take up to 12 hours to get the job done.

But African immigrants arriving in New York began to undercut the prices charged
by African-American salon owners. The same slender braids can now be had for as
little as $125, a lot less than a generation ago when adjusted for inflation.

Yet overhead costs have marched steadily higher. Electricity costs and insurance
bills went up. And the cost of an 850-square-foot storefront space on 125th
Street in Harlem has jumped to $3,500 a month from roughly $1,500, said Inez
Dickens, a partner in the Lloyd E. Dickens Company, a real estate concern.

As more Africans opened braiding salons -- today, there are roughly 130 in the
city's telephone directories -- some African-Americans had to expand into other
hair services, like colors, cuts and curls. Others went out of business.

But as the waves of immigration continued, it seemed that too many Africans had
the same idea, opening shops faster than it takes to get from Nigeria to New
York.  Competition among braiders has caused prices to drop so low that some
salons can no longer afford rent on a decent storefront space. Braiders are out
on the street offering their services to passers-by. The business, some say, has
been almost crippled by too much competition.

But many customers are elated by the economic rivalry. "I'm paying about $80
each time I get my hair done," said Shirley Dinolis, 29, a market data billing
analyst from the Bronx, as a stylist plaited her hair into 50 to 60 cornrows at
Godmother's African Hair Braiding salon in Harlem. "That's the same amount I was
paying five or six years ago. The Africans really do a great job."

Braiding establishments can sometimes resemble sweatshops -- jammed with
braiders in small windowless storefronts as hot as an African plain.

At Elegance African Hair Braiding, on 125th Street in Harlem, nine women work
elbow to elbow in a dim 18-by-6-foot space.  The West African-born owner, Aicha,
who goes by only one name, does not have a set price for braiding. She asks a
potential customer how much she is willing to pay for microbraids.

Like many braid shops, Elegance hires women to drum up business. They call out
softly, "You want your hair braided?" Some braiders stand outside the shops or
subway stations to lure customers.

Even immigrants willing to work for slim profits have found it hard to stay in
business. Touba Camara, 39, who immigrated from Senegal seven years ago, spent
two years working 12-hour days in a factory dying clothing for $225 a week. She
set aside every spare cent, and shared a one-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn with
the daughter of a neighbor in Senegal. (Her husband and son stayed behind in
Dakar.)

With her savings and part of a $3,000 gift from her mother, she opened Touba
African Hair Braiding, not far from Eastern Parkway in Crown Heights, five years
ago.

But it has been hard to stay open. At busy times, she pays her three braiders
$200 for a 40-hour week. But, she said, "some weeks I don't make enough to pay
them." If the shop is not busy, she tells one or more to stay home.

Ms. Camara charges $25 (for two French braids) to $400 (for microbraids using
human hair extensions). Her rent is $1,000 a month for a small storefront, and
her monthly utility bills are roughly $400, in part, because she heats her space
with electric heaters. After paying her workers and her expenses, she said, she
takes home $15,000 a year.

One reason African immigrants have flooded the industry is that few need to
learn the business. "In my country, everyone knows how to braid," said Djeneba
Coulibaly, 40, a co-owner of Mali African Hair Braiding in Harlem.

In Mali's capital, Bamako, Ms. Coulibaly, who immigrated to the United States 11
years ago, worked at an outdoor market owned by the government, where more than
150 braiders toiled under the withering sun. She paid a nominal tax, about 25
cents a day, for the spot.

When Ms. Coulibaly came to New York, she braided hair at an African-owned shop
on 125th Street. She remembers the days when there were few braiding salons and
customers formed lines outside early in the morning. "You would finish one, and
another would come in," she said.

Five years ago, she and a sister-in-law opened Mali, in the rear of a barbershop
on Eighth Avenue near 135th Street. They pay $900 for rent, utilities included.
Business is sluggish, and they cannot afford help.

Sunny Jenkins, 21, a postal clerk and a student at Bronx Community College, has
his hair braided at Mali at least once a month. His shoulder-length hair is
cornrowed into as many as 10 braids or as few as 2. The cost is $10 to $35.
"Braiding really helps my hair grow," Mr. Jenkins said. Some braiders cornrow
too tightly and the hair breaks, he said, but at Mali, "I never have to worry."

The influx of cheap labor from Africa has meant that many American-born salon
owners and workers have had to rethink the business. Francine Toukou, an
African-American who owns Afrigenix, an Upper West Side salon with marble
fireplaces, oak pocket doors, stained-glass windows, 12-foot ceilings and iron
chandeliers, started off doing just braids. But she has expanded into services
like chemical hair-straightening and weaves because of competition from the
Africans.

Now only 40 percent of her clients ask for braids, which cost $125 for simple
cornrows to $2,500 for dreadlock extensions, which, unlike natural dreadlocks,
are braided.

Before opening Afrigenix, Ms. Toukou owned two other braiding emporiums, one in
SoHo, the other in Newark, but had to sell the one in Newark because of
competition from African-owned salons. "They were charging about half of what we
were charging," Ms. Toukou, 34, said. "In fact, we sold to some Africans."

Some people are willing to pay her prices, Ms. Toukou said, because they are
concerned about sanitation and braiding practices in many African-owned shops.
Indeed, many African salons lack the blue disinfectant found at every station in
her salon. And some of her customers, Ms. Toukou said, complain that braiders at
the African salons have used dirty combs or braid too tightly.

Braiders are supposed to have a cosmetology or natural hair styling license. The
license for styling requires 300 hours of study and an exam, said Dan Shapiro, a
spokesman for the New York Department of State, which regulates licensing
programs. Unlicensed stylists risk having their businesses shut down.

There are other advantages to having a license. One unlicensed braider described
a situation that she said was all too common. "A woman came in to get her hair
done, and she waited until there was just one more braid to do," she recalled.
"She said, 'That's it, it's taking too long. I have to go.' She walked out
without paying. I was too scared to call the cops because I don't have a
license. Some braiders don't have licenses. So it happens all the time."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Touba Camara's prices for braided hairstyles range from $25 to
$400. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Top, Touba Camara braids one of
her regulars, Collette Randolph, at Touba African Hair Braiding in Brooklyn.
Competition has meant slim profits for her business. (Photographs by Andrea
Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Test Question: No Simple Answer

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 106 words


To the Editor:

The problem with using standardized tests to make high-stakes decisions like
high school graduation is that no single test can ever measure what all students
know and are able to do (editorial, May 14).

Consider the plight of recently arrived immigrant adolescents, for example, who
are subjected to Regents exams intended for native English speakers. As a
consequence, thousands of intelligent, academically prepared and deserving
students have been denied diplomas on the basis of inappropriate assessments.

ERIC NADELSTERN
Long Island City, Queens
May 14, 2001

The writer is principal of the International High School.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (William van Roden)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business;
A Better Mousetrap? For This Immigrant, It's a Plastic Bag

BYLINE:  By KATE MURPHY

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1057 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


A RIVER of clear plastic, destined to become supermarket produce bags, rushes
past as Rafael Alvarado yells greetings in Spanish to workers on a noisy
assembly line. "Most of them are first-generation immigrants," said Mr.
Alvarado, president and chief executive of Better Bags Inc. here.

An immigrant himself -- he was born in Nicaragua -- he knows what it is like to
come to a new country in search of a better life. Still, he said, "no one is
here as a favor; we all have to prove our value to the company every day."

With that ethic, Better Bags has grown 25 percent a year since 1996. Shoppers at
7,000 grocery stores in 49 states now snatch his plastic bags for their produce.
The bags hang from Mr. Alvarado's patented pull-down dispenser, which releases
and automatically opens them one at a time.

He invented the dispenser in the 1980's, after fleeing Nicaragua during the
Sandinista revolution. He was living in Costa Rica, working as general manager
for a subsidiary of Plasticos de Nicaragua, which makes plastic liners for the
crates used to ship bananas. With a prototype of his dispenser in his luggage,
Mr. Alvarado immigrated to Houston in 1984.

Using credit cards, he and two partners, whom he has since bought out, started
Better Bags as a distributor of plastic wrap and packaging. "It was just the
three of us working 16-hour days, loading and unloading without a forklift," Mr.
Alvarado said. He suffered a herniated disk but still managed to save $150,000.
In 1990, he invested every cent, along with $1.5 million in bank loans and $1.8
million in venture capital, to start manufacturing his pull-down bags and
dispensers.

"It was my trial by fire," recalled Mr. Alvarado, now 47, who did not tell his
wife what he had done with the life savings. "That way at least one of us could
sleep," he said. He transformed Better Bags' distribution warehouse into a
50,000-square-foot plant and hired 30 employees -- mostly Hispanic immigrants.
He recruited them from nearby churches and, though operating on a tight budget,
offered them health insurance, two weeks' paid vacation and the opportunity to
advance if they proved their worth.

"It's worked to his advantage," said Roy Serpa, who advised Mr. Alvarado as
director of the Houston office of the Texas Manufacturing Assistance Center,
which provides low-cost consulting services to small manufacturers and is
subsidized by the state and the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
"The folks on the factory floor are so motivated it's unbelievable," he said.

Four months into production, local grocers started placing orders after Mr.
Alvarado gave them dispensers and refill bags at steeply discounted prices to
try in their stores. Offering an inexpensive trial supply is still a marketing
tool. Better Bags' most recent account, D'Agostino Supermarkets, which has 23
stores in the New York area, tested the company's bags for four months before
signing on.

"You don't like to change stuff in this business," says Daniel L. Steffen,
director of purchasing at D'Agostino. "People get used to the way things are and
complain when you bring in something new." But customers liked the bags.
"There's less waste," Mr. Steffen said, because shoppers do not inadvertently
pull off more bags than they need or discard them out of frustration because
they cannot get them open.

Mr. Alvarado, who became an American citizen in 1995, said, "There's no way we
can compete on price alone." His bags are 20 percent more expensive than the
ubiquitous rolls of bags manufactured primarily by the Inteplast Group, of
Livingston, N.J., a subsidiary of the Formosa Plastics Group of Taiwan.
Inteplast supplies 45 percent of the nation's produce bags, with smaller
companies like Better Bags; BPI Packaging Technologies of North Dighton, Mass.;
and Crown Poly of Los Angeles, battling for the rest of the market, worth an
estimated $170 million to $200 million a year.

"We don't have the economy of scale to have the best price," Mr. Alvarado said,
"so we've chosen to focus on value-added features," like thicker plastic, ease
of use, less waste and six-color printing capability. Bags wound on a roll
usually accommodate only one color.

Thomas R. Furia Jr., general manager of Penn Jersey Paper in Philadelphia, which
distributes bags on the East Coast, says upscale or specialty food markets are
generally the only ones interested in such features. "The big stores just want
cheap," he said, adding that most shoppers are satisfied with any kind of
plastic bag as long as it holds the produce without breaking.

And huge chains like Safeway and Kroger are in a position to use their size to
leverage extremely low prices. Bag companies and grocery stores would not
discuss prices for fear of tipping off competitors, but industry insiders said
they ran from $12 to $24 per 1,000, or a penny or two each.

"Produce bags are a high-volume, low-margin business," said Howard Rappaport, a
plastics industry analyst at Chemical Market Associates Inc., a Houston
petrochemical consulting firm. "The only way to get ahead is to serve a lot of
smaller chains where you can charge more."

That has been Mr. Alvarado's strategy. Better Bags earned $15 million in 2000,
with customers like D'Agostino, Schnuck Markets and Whole Foods Market.

WITH the completion of an additional plant in Toluca, Mexico, Better Bags raised
production capacity this year to more than 260 million bags a month, from about
180 million. "We chose to go there because of the geography," Mr. Alvarado said,
and not to save on labor costs. The cool, dry climate in the mountainous area
around Toluca is easier on the machinery than the brutal heat and humidity in
Houston, he said, and the plant's location will provide easy access to the
Mexican market when the company is ready.

For now, though, Mr. Alvarado said he was concentrating on the American market,
which includes the 1,200 new stores he has landed in the last three months. He
aims to double output in the next four years, so that the company can become
more competitive on cost and can serve larger chains that he now supplies only
on a regional basis.

Mr. Alvarado does not expect to ever overtake a company like Inteplast in volume
or revenue. "Our goal is to be the leader in supplying stores who want a
high-quality alternative bag, a better bag," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joshua White shops at Jefferson Market in Manhattan, a store
that uses Better Bags' products, shown on a pull-down dispenser below.; Rafael
Alvarado, chief executive of Better Bags, at its factory in Houston. It produces
bags for 7,000 grocery stores in 49 states. (Patty Wood for The New York
Times)(Photographs by Carol Halebian for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Beacon to Cuban Emigres Will Shine Again in Miami

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 20


The Freedom Tower, a Mediterranean-style building on Miami's busiest downtown
street, has been the headquarters of a newspaper, home to the homeless and, for
more than half a million Cuban immigrants, the first stop on a 90-mile voyage to
freedom.

In recent years, the tower, built in 1925, stood empty and in disrepair. Now,
the landmark is being preserved with a $40 million restoration as a museum,
library and research center chronicling the Cuban exile experience in the United
States.

The center is scheduled to open next year, the centenary of Cuba's independence.
But on Saturday, the Cuban American National Foundation, which is coordinating
the restoration, lighted the tower and rededicated the building with a party
that attracted tens of thousands of Miamians.

Mayor Alex Penelas, one of dozens of local dignitaries at the party, told the
crowd that it was a day for celebration and appreciation not just for Cubans in
Miami but for a country that "more than 40 years ago opened its arms and has
permitted us to enjoy what in Cuba has not been enjoyed, liberty and the
principles of a democracy."

To many Cuban-Americans the tower has been a symbol of liberty as Miami's own
Ellis Island, the old New York entry point for millions of immigrants. But with
the restoration, which has been in the works for over a year, the project's
backers want to broaden the building's significance to make it an educational
resource for better understanding of Cuban-American history and culture.

The goal took on added appeal after the Elian Gonzalez saga, when many
Cuban-Americans here said they were misunderstood by much of the country.

"Something that Elian taught a lot of people is that we needed to do a better
job of explaining our tragedy," said Joe Garcia, executive director of the Cuban
American National Foundation.

"When our neighbors didn't understand it, it wasn't their fault, it was our
fault; and I think this building is going to serve as part of that
understanding."

Jorge Mas Santos, chairman of the foundation, whose family bought the building
in 1997 to create the center, said in an interview, "What this will do is allow
us, in a first-class professional way, to enable people to feel the emotion of
having to leave one country to make a new home in another country."

The restoration carries out a plan of his father, the late Jorge Mas Canosa, a
powerful leader in the Miami exile community who wanted an institution dedicated
to the fight against Fidel Castro. The family is giving $20 million to the
project, with the rest to come from private donations.

The 76-year-old tower was the original home of The Miami Daily News, and in 1962
the federal government leased the property as a processing center for Cubans
leaving the island after Fidel Castro took power. It was renamed the Freedom
Tower and, until its closing in 1974, more than half a million exiles were
processed there.

"No question this will be ground zero in terms of people talking about the issue
of Cuba," Mr. Garcia said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan Lopez, right, celebrates the rededication of the Freedom
Tower on Saturday in Miami. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Immigration Attorney Accused

BYLINE:  NYT (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 86 words


An immigration attorney with offices in Manhattan and New Jersey has been
accused of filing false immigration papers, said Mary Jo White, the United
States attorney in New York.

The attorney, Silverio Ramirez, was indicted last week. The indictment charges
that he filed fraudulent forms for immigrants with special skills to expedite
obtaining visas for clients. Gerald E. Ross, Mr. Ramirez's lawyer, said the
charges involved a "tiny, tiny part" of Mr. Ramirez's practice and that he would
be found not guilty.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2001 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

THE CENSUS -- New York;
Households Grow and Fewer People Live Alone, Data Show

BYLINE:   By JANNY SCOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words


The immigrant influx and a tight housing market appear to be reshaping the way
many New Yorkers live, according to census figures released yesterday that show
more city residents doubling up, a drop in the percentage of people living alone
and the biggest increase in average household size in 50 years.

The number of boarders, roommates and relatives living in other people's homes
has risen significantly, the data show. Fewer elderly New Yorkers are living by
themselves. Even the percentage of Manhattan residents living alone, long far
higher than anywhere else in the country, has dropped.

The census figures underscore a growing impression of New York as a rapidly
evolving place, where once spacious single-family homes in Queens now
accommodate multiple immigrant families and perhaps others, and where even
Manhattan studio dwellers find themselves more likely to take in a roommate.

"It's fascinating," said Andrew J. Cherlin, a demographer and professor of
public policy at Johns Hopkins University who studies families and households.
"There is no question that immigration and the tight housing market have
affected New York City households."

The numbers also indicate some slowing of the rate of change in the makeup of
New York City families. The number of married-couple households rose in the
1990's after dropping by nearly 9 percent in the 1980's. And the percentage of
households made up of married couples with children under 18 rose slightly.

That small rise, thought to reflect the relatively high fertility rates among
some immigrant groups and an abundance of baby boomer families, is in contrast
to a downward trend in recent decades that continued nationally in the census
numbers reported last week.

Meanwhile, nearly one in five New York City households is now headed by a woman.
While the number of female-headed households with children rose at a rate that
some sociologists said was slower than in the past and slower than the increase
nationwide, the number did continue to rise.

"I think it's interesting that New York is becoming a more child-centered
place," said Kathleen Gerson, a professor of sociology at New York University.
"There are growing percentages of family households, married-couple households
and female-headed households with children."

She added: "New York can only benefit from being a place where children live and
thrive, not simply a place where adults spend some time before or after building
families.

"But this also suggests the challenges the city faces -- educating young
children and providing for their welfare."

The data also shed new light on precisely how much the city's population grew in
the 1990's. While the official count released in March topped eight million for
the first time, planning officials have suspected that the increase was a
product not only of growth but also of better counting.

The new data support their thinking. The number of households rose by more than
200,000 over the 1990 number, or six times the rise recorded for the 1980's --
an increase so improbably large that some say it suggests that the city's
record-breaking population count must have included some households that were
simply missed before.

"It's probably about half and half," said Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City
Planning Commission, suggesting that half the increase in numbers was due to
growth and half to better counting. He said the Department of City Planning
intended to try to come up with a definitive answer over the next few weeks.

The figures, part of a series from the 2000 census being released over three
years, include preliminary findings on who lives with whom. More detailed data
on those households and families, including information about income, education
levels and nation of origin, are due out later.

Professor Cherlin said his calculations indicated that 39 percent of the city's
population growth fell into two census categories: "other relative of head of
household," which includes, for example, grandparents or cousins; and
"nonrelative of head of household," which can include a friend or someone from
an immigrant's village or home country (this category does not include unmarried
partners). Nationally, less than a quarter of all growth fell into those
categories, he said.

"Those are just the kind of people you'd expect to find in a city with many
immigrants and a tight housing market," Professor Cherlin said. "Because
immigrants often double up with host families when they come to a new country,
and because grandmothers may not move to a separate household if they can't
afford the rent."

The percentage of New Yorkers living alone declined slightly to just under 32
percent. While some experts said that the drop in people over 65 living alone
might reflect simply a cyclical decline in the number of people in that age
group, Professor Cherlin pointed out that the number of elderly living alone
nationally rose by 10 percent.

The number of New Yorkers of all ages living alone rose by less than 4 percent,
compared with a 21 percent increase nationwide. The percentage of New Yorkers
living with an unmarried partner rose slightly.

As a result of those changes, the average household size in the city rose to
2.59 people per household, a figure close to the national average. Household
size in the city peaked in 1950 at 3.2, dropped to 2.5 in 1980, then rose to
2.54 in the last census, according to planning department statistics.

Much of the overall increase in household size can be attributed to the large
increase in the average household size in Queens. Similarly, the bulk of the
increase in housing units occurred in Queens, where city officials say they
found the largest share of the units that they say were missing from the Census
Bureau's address list.

The overall number of households rose to 3,021,588. Several demographers said
the number reflected in part the city's efforts to update the Census Bureau's
address list before the 2000 census. The Department of City Planning found
several hundred addresses that it said had been missing.

Mr. Rose of the City Planning Commission said that according to building permit
records, 82,000 new housing units were built in the city between 1990 and 1999.
The roughly 120,000 remaining new units found by the Census Bureau probably
included addresses that the city had unearthed as well as subdivided homes,
especially in Queens, he said.

In the area of family structure, married-couple households now make up just over
37 percent of city households. The percentage of married-couple households with
children under 18 rose to nearly 18 percent. The national percentage dropped to
23.5 percent, according to the numbers released last week.

The percentage of city households headed by women rose to 19.7 percent, compared
with 12.2 percent nationally. Households headed by women with children under age
18 rose to 312,600, or 10.4 percent of the total, up from 9.4 percent in the
1990 census. In the Bronx, however, they accounted for nearly one in five
households.

"I was surprised," said Emmanuel Tobier, a professor of economics and planning
and an expert on the census at the Robert Wagner Graduate School of Public
Service at New York University. "Female-headed families continued to increase,
but not running away as fast as before."

There were also differences borough by borough. For example, the percentage of
households consisting of elderly people living alone dropped in every borough
except Staten Island, which still has the lowest level at 8 percent. The
percentage of households with adults of all ages living alone was nearly 48
percent in Manhattan, but just 23 percent in Staten Island and 26 percent in
Queens. The percentage of households with children under 18 was highest in the
Bronx, at 44 percent, and lowest in Manhattan, at 20 percent.

Homeownership rose. The percentage of owner-occupied units in the city reached
30 percent, up from 23 percent in 1980 and 29 percent in 1990. In a city with
some of the highest rental rates in the country, many experts believe that a
rise in owner occupancy is a healthy sign because homeowners are presumed to
have a greater stake in maintaining their property and the community.

"We're continuing to get a portrait of the city emerging from the census as an
increasingly diverse, fundamentally healthy and stable place that's growing,"
Mr. Rose said. "Which means we have to think in terms of a growth agenda, both
in terms of housing units and employment opportunities for these young people
that are coming through the educational system, as well as infrastructure and
the like. That's the clear message the city can take from this."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 23, 2001



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about an increase in the average household size
in New York City referred incorrectly to efforts by the Department of City
Planning to update the Census Bureau's address list before the 2000 Census. The
department found that several hundred thousand addresses, not several hundred,
were missing.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reckonings;
My Beautiful Mansionette

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 708 words


For most of the past year my wife and I lived in a rented house in central New
Jersey -- a McMansion, also known as a mansionette. It was in a brand-new
development, in what used to be a cornfield, that looks like a textbook
illustration of turn-of-the-millennium urban sprawl. These days they aren't
little boxes on a hillside, they're big boxes on flat ground. But they're all
still made out of ticky-tacky, and they all look just the same.

Our neighbors, however, didn't all look just the same. Most of them were
immigrants, and most were nonwhite; the largest contingent came from India.

Seeing this, some of my recent correspondents would doubtless have felt
confirmed in their prejudices. You see, a few columns back I wrote a piece about
urban sprawl and its attendant traffic congestion, which is becoming a very
serious issue -- a lot more important to the lives of most people than the
dollar or two per day they might eventually get from George W. Bush's tax cut.
And a surprising number of the letters I received in response insisted,
vehemently, that the real culprit behind urban sprawl was population growth, and
that therefore it was all because of immigration.

A quick search of the Internet reveals that my correspondents are not isolated
individuals; they are part of a still small but growing movement. On casual
observation I would say that the anti-immigration movement today is where the
anti-globalization movement was a couple of years before Seattle: not yet large
enough to be a political force to be reckoned with, but quite possibly on its
way to achieving critical mass. And complaints about the alleged linkage between
immigration and urban sprawl is a popular theme.

Like so much of what the anti-globalization activists say, these complaints are
mostly but not entirely off base. The grain of truth in the argument is that
other things being the same, a growing population means more houses, more cars
and hence more sprawl. But population growth is only a secondary contributing
factor to a disastrous pattern of land use driven by skewed incentives that
encourage people to spread out in a low-density sprawl that in turn forces them
to spend more and more of their time in cars. What's really impressive to me is
the way that medium-size metropolitan areas, like Atlanta or Houston, have
managed to mismanage their development so completely that they have worse
traffic congestion than metropolitan New York, which has five times their
population. (I know, I know, I sound like the kind of person Dick Cheney loves
to hate. But as it happens I do own an S.U.V.)

So why the vehemence? Psychoanalyzing a political movement guarantees a fresh
wave of hate mail, but my best guess is that the passion of my correspondents is
ultimately fueled by cultural unease. The changes one sees in central New Jersey
are the same as what one sees everywhere in this country: farms and traditional
towns submerged by a rising tide of malls, highways and McMansions. And since
some of the faces behind the wheel or the fake Palladian window are brown, it's
all too natural to blame them for the trend.

Obviously I don't feel the same way; I am one of those people who feel that
immigration is a good thing -- most of all for the immigrants, but good for
America too. To some extent this position rests on mundane economic arguments.
Foreign-born talent has been crucial in this country's technology boom, and
plays a large role in many less glamorous industries too. (For some reason all
the gas stations around here seem to be run by Sikhs.) And one can make a good
case that demography -- the perils of a low birth rate -- is a key factor in the
economic malaise of Japan and some European countries; America's openness to
immigration is one of the things protecting us from that fate.

And I have my own cultural prejudices. Isn't the immigrant experience part of
what this country is all about? Without immigrant families climbing the social
ladder, what would become of the American dream?

But never mind the rational arguments. Over the horizon new and possibly quite
nasty political storms are brewing. If you think people get angry and irrational
when arguing about taxes, wait till you see them argue about immigration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Boy's Slaying Resonates in a Bedroom City of Immigrant Workers

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS and ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words


The Morris County, N.J., prosecutor urged Hispanic neighbors of a slain
10-year-old Guatemalan boy yesterday to come forward with any information that
might aid the investigation, without worrying about deportation or other
penalties if they are illegal immigrants.

"We've got a murder to solve," said John B. Dangler, the prosecutor, standing
outside the home in Morristown of Walter Contreras Valenzuela, whose battered
body was found Tuesday morning near railroad tracks less than a mile from the
house he shared with his parents and 9-year-old sister. The authorities had been
looking for Walter since early Monday, when he failed to return home from a
local church carnival.

The prosecutor's appeal, on Spanish-language radio and television stations, was
one of many indicators of how much the historic city of richly restored
Victorians and humble two-family homes, has changed in recent years as Hispanic
immigrants flock there in growing numbers. Latinos, including a recent influx of
immigrants from Central America, now make up nearly 30 percent of the town's
18,500 residents, up from 5 percent in 1980 and 14 percent a decade ago.

Morristown, the seat of Morris County, one of the wealthiest counties in the
nation, has been partly reborn as a dormitory town for the men and women who
trim suburban lawns, pave the driveways and clean the area's corporate office
parks. In that regard, it resembles Mount Kisco in Westchester County and
Farmingville in Suffolk, other suburbs among many in the region transformed by
immigration in the last decade.

"Because it is located at the center of one of the state's more robust
economies, Morristown offers immigrants access to opportunities and provides
them with affordable places to live," said James W. Hughes, a professor of urban
planning and policy at Rutgers.

Walter's parents -- his mother is a housekeeper at the Westin Hotel in
Morristown and his stepfather a waiter at the nearby Madison Hotel -- were
comforted yesterday by the Rev. Brando Ibarra, a priest at St. Margaret's Roman
Catholic Church.

"The family is poor," Father Ibarra, who is from Colombia, said outside the
family's home on Abbett Street, wedged between a gas station and a Baptist
church. "They don't have money for his funeral."

But that burden was partly lifted, Father Ibarra said, by two neighborhood men
who went door-to-door collecting money for the family. As of this afternoon,
they had raised $640, the priest said, one dollar at a time.

Eleodora Contreras, the boy's mother, had not realized her son was missing for
several hours on Sunday because she collapsed into bed for a nap after a long
day of changing sheets and cleaning bathrooms. "The only thing they were doing
was working, working very hard," Father Ibarra said of the Valenzuelas and, by
implication, others like them. "But sometimes they can't take care of their kids
as well."

When Walter's mother woke up around 8 p.m. and could not find Walter, she
started a frantic, door-to-door search in the largely Hispanic neighborhood.
"She was in tears when she came here," said Rosa Murillo, 39, whose
11-year-old-son, Jose, often played video games and soccer with Walter.

At midnight, Ms. Contreras called the police, who began searching the
brush-choked banks of the Whippany River, where Walter sometimes went to fish,
and the nearby woods at Historic Speedwell Village, the place where Samuel Morse
perfected the telegraph in 1838.

With tears streaming down her face, Ms. Contreras, 37, told reporters this
morning that her son's face had been so badly disfigured that the police had to
use fingerprints to make a positive identification. Although investigators would
not discuss how the boy had been killed, Mr. Dangler said he had not been
sexually assaulted. "We've got some significant leads," is all he would say.

Those who knew Walter described him as energetic and independent minded, a
tree-climbing adventurer who excelled at soccer and enjoyed collecting turtles
and minnows from the Whippany River.

"He was a happy kid, always having fun, always playing," said Eddie Gonzales, a
neighbor. "He was just a normal boy."

At Normandy Park Elementary School, eight crisis counselors were on hand
yesterday to help Walter's classmates grapple with his death. "There were some
pretty devastated kids," said Bill Cole, a school psychologist. " 'Why' was the
biggest question -- and 'how.' "

Although they were careful not to cast blame on his parents, many residents said
they were distressed to learn that Walter had gone to the carnival alone on
Sunday night.

Lester Walker, 44, a neighbor, said Ms. Contreras had tried to set rules about
where Walter could and could not go, but that she and her husband were not
always around to enforce them. "I guess they were always out working and he had
a lot of free time," Mr. Walker said.

Ruth Klineman, a social worker for the Morris County Office of Hispanic Affairs,
said that many immigrant parents in Morristown lacked the English-language
skills to help them find better jobs. "They try to be good parents but it's
tragic that their work often keeps them away from their children," she said.

Mrs. Klineman, a native of Uruguay, said that many Hispanics are accustomed to
life in small villages, where people look out for one another's children. "They
come here and they live the same way because they do not know about the
dangers," she said. "They shouldn't do that here. But at the same time, they
have to feed their kids."

Speaking to reporters yesterday, Ms. Contreras expressed regret that she was not
always able to watch her son and made a plea for parents to keep an eye on their
children. With grief in her voice, she recounted a conversation she had had with
Walter the day before he disappeared, with her son saying how he would one day
ease her burden. "He said how much he loved me," she said, "and that one day
he'll be able to make a good living and then I won't have to work so hard."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Walter Valenzuela lived with his family in Morristown, N.J.,
which has attracted many immigrants who have found work in Morris County. (Don
Standing for The New York Times)(pg. B5); Walter Valenzuela; Eleodora Contreras
told other parents yesterday to supervise their children carefully. (Don
Standing for The New York Times)(pg. B1) Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Hispanic
Residency Increases"Morristown's Hispanic population has more than doubled in
the last decade, while its white and black population have fallen.
POPULATION1990 -- 16,6592000 -- 18,544% CHANGE -- +11.3% HISPANIC1990 --
2,4132000 -- 5,034% CHANGE -- +108.6% ASIAN% CHANGE -- +79.2% BLACK1990 --
3,9012000 -- 3,068% CHANGE -- -21.4% WHITE1990 -- 9,8902000 -- 9,402% CHANGE --
-4.9% OTHER% CHANGE -- +450.8% (Source: Census Bureau)(pg. B5) Map of New Jersey
highlighting Morristown. (pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Border, Fortification Conflicts With Compassion

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24


With the death toll of illegal Mexican immigrants rising, the Bush
administration is faced with a central conflict: How to create more humane
conditions at the border while increasing enforcement with more guards and
patrols.

President Bush has committed himself to both goals while working hard to have a
close relationship with Mexico's president, Vicente Fox. In one of their first
displays of cooperation, the leaders organized a group, led by both countries'
secretaries of state, to explore ways to stem the illegal flow, possibly through
a guest-worker program.

Their governments took the unusual step today of issuing a joint statement
expressing "deep sadness" over the deaths of 14 migrants this week in the
Arizona desert.

Yet, while the diplomats confer, the Bush administration is seeking to fortify
its side of the border even more. Under the president's budget, the number of
Border Patrol agents would be increased by 1,140 in the next two years. If
Congress approves, the number of guards would reach 11,000 by 2003, a doubling
of personnel in the last six years.

Reacting to the deaths near Yuma, Attorney General John Ashcroft announced plans
to deploy additional helicopters to the Arizona desert in June and temporarily
assign agents to carry out rescues in high-risk areas.

Mr. Ashcroft is nonetheless squarely behind the enforcement drive, which began
in recent years on the border near El Paso, Tex., and later expanded to
California and Arizona. It includes efforts to dismantle smuggling rings that
bring illegal migrants from Mexico and other countries and also traffic in guns
and drugs.

In towns like Douglas, Ariz., where hundreds of thousands of immigrants cross
through each year, a 12-foot-high metal wall blocks passage at familiar
crossings, and armed agents patrol through the night.

But smugglers increasingly try to elude the patrols by taking people through
harsh deserts and mountain ranges. Some immigrants die, though no one knows how
many. Federal officials say more than 400 people died crossing the border with
Mexico last year. Seventeen died in the area around Douglas.

"The federal government continues to think that the only way to solve the
problem is to put more agents on the border," said Ray Borane, the city's mayor.
"It's all eyewash."

Although months ago, Mr. Fox expressed the dream of an "open border" between the
United States and Mexico, he has since suggested that Washington approve a
program to gradually legalize the status of Mexican migrants, allowing them to
live better in the United States.

The Bush administration is considering new strategies, including the guest
worker program. Officials declined to discuss the details, saying they would
present them to Mexican negotiators when the talks resume June 6 in San Antonio.

Plans are also under way to reorganize the agency, separating its enforcement
and service duties. But the efforts are complicated by the fact that Doris M.
Meissner has stepped down as commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the administration's nominee, James Ziglar, has not yet faced
confirmation.

Philip Reeker, a State Department spokesman, said the administration was
committed to work with Mexico to establish a "safe and orderly border." He
added: "These tragic deaths highlight the pressing need for our governments to
continue their work to reach new agreements on migration and border safety."

But some analysts of Mexican immigration questioned Mr. Bush's pledge to protect
the American border in humane ways.

"I never understood what that meant," said Wayne Cornelius, an immigration
expert at the University of California at San Diego. "It is impossible to
continue the current strategy of border operations without a steadily mounting
death toll."

Yet any easing of border controls likely to encourage others to come, said Steve
Johnson, a policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research
group. "Behind them are other Mexicans, and Central Americans," Mr. Johnson
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE CENSUS: The New Melting Pot;
With an Asian Influx, a Suburb Finds Itself Transformed

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

DATELINE: FREMONT, Calif.


It is hard to pin down the elusive tipping point when the old Fremont gave way
to the new one.

Maybe it was when Hillside Drive was renamed Gurdwara Road, for the Gurdwara
Sahib Temple, which Sikh residents built there.  Mayor Gus Morrison recalled the
discussion: "At a public meeting, someone got up and said, 'I can't pronounce
Gurdwara.' Then a Sikh stands up and says, 'I can't pronounce Paseo Padre,' "
referring to a major thoroughfare.

Or perhaps it was during the spate of burglaries of upper-end Asian homes when
the city, on the advice of a Chinese-American citizens' group, placed
advertisements in local Asian newspapers suggesting that families leave shoes on
the porch when going out.

"We finally figured out the crooks knew if they didn't see shoes on the front
porch, no one was home," said Chief Craig Steckler of the Police Department.

Whenever it was, there is little doubt that over the last 10 years, a
blue-collar, lily-white, somewhat anonymous bedroom community, once best known
for churning out Chevys and Toyotas, has essentially disappeared. In its place
has arisen something dazzlingly different: a magnet for immigrants.

The city is a vivid example of a shift in the landscape as Asian immigrants,
particularly new arrivals with professional degrees and entrepreneurial
ambitions, forsake urban enclaves and move to the suburbs in such numbers that
they transform them.

The new Fremonters include Silicon Valley engineers, entrepreneurs of every
persuasion -- from Sikhs owning 7-Eleven stores to Chinese chief executives
living in Mediterranean palazzos -- as well as Fijian Indians, Filipinos and one
of the country's largest concentrations of Afghan refugees. The latest census
figures disclose that the Asian population doubled since 1990 in this city of
206,000 people, to 37 percent from 19 percent.

And as change has come to Fremont, where orchards and cauliflower fields have
been replaced by boulevards and 5,000-square-foot homes, an intense learning
curve has followed, one likely to be replicated in many corners of America.

Nationally, the percentage of growth of the Asian population was 58 percent from
1990 to 2000, and Asians now account for 4 percent of the population. Among
cities of more than 100,000 people, Fremont is one of five with the highest
percentage of Asian residents.

The city, incorporated in 1956 from five towns, is trying to adapt to the
multitude of cultures in its midst, people with widely differing circumstances,
customs and worldviews.

At the elite Mission San Jose High School, whose students are 61 percent Asian,
and where the senior class has 17 students tied for valedictorian, signs for the
school election -- "Amanda Chan for Class Treasurer," "Sadaf Gowani for
Secretary" -- reflect the transformed city.

So did last summer's Fourth of July parade, when a Sikh float decorated with a
model of the Golden Temple in India took its place alongside those of the Furry
Friends animal rescue group and the All Stars Cheerleading Squad.

But it has not gone off without a hitch. Two years ago, three white teenagers
sprayed swastikas and white-pride slogans on a synagogue and a high school. Last
year, county school officials rejected a move by some parents in the affluent
Mission Peak neighborhood to create their own school district, which would have
been over 60 percent Asian, partly because it would have created "an enclave of
privilege."

Like much of the Bay Area, Fremont, where the mean household income has risen to
$93,000 from $71,000 a decade ago, is short on moderately priced housing. The
average rent for a one-bedroom apartment is $1,400. This has profoundly affected
Fremont's 20,000 Afghan refugees, among them an increasing number of
professional women who have fled the country's ruling Taliban and relocated here
through a United Nations program.

In one of many new rituals here, Afghan women meet at a community center on
Wednesdays, after exercise class in their high heels and chador, or head-to-toe
cloaks, and support one another over chapli kebab and coffee cake.

The city's newness and lack of physical cohesiveness -- there is no downtown --
may have served it well.

"There weren't that many old places to undo, and there's been a dedication to
fitting everybody in," said John Landis, a professor of city and regional
planning at the University of California. "Fremont is not afraid of growth and
not afraid of change. That makes it unusual in California."

The complex dance of cultures has changed here in hundreds of tiny ways. On a
typical morning, Sikhs recite the morning prayers, or nitnem, on a live radio
broadcast from the temple, while a few miles away, Thai Buddhist monks in
saffron robes chant in another new temple.

But tensions percolate amid resplendent architecture. Every year, at the
"Festival of India," which has become a mainstream event in the city, Sikhs
demonstrate for Khalistan, an independent nation they hope to carve out of
India's Punjab State.

Another highly emotional issue flared up in Fremont schools over kirpans, the
sacred ceremonial swords signifying baptism, which are worn by Sikhs from
childhood on.  When some parents challenged a school district policy permitting
the wearing of kirpans under certain conditions, Sikhs and the Fremont police
worked out an agreement. Now they can be worn on a chain if concealed beneath an
outer garment and wired into a scabbard. The blade must be blunted and be no
longer than three and a half inches.

"It's a compromise we're doing for now," said Jagmeet Kaur, who is active in the
Sikh community. "But it's not acceptable, really."

Chief Steckler finds himself embroiled in issues he never imagined.

Three years ago, the department broke up a melee in a parking lot after
representatives of the Taliban spoke at a local mosque.

The police have also worked with the local Afghan Coalition and Afghan Women's
Association to educate newcomers on child abuse, spousal abuse and other family
and social issues.

Corporal punishment of children, widely accepted in Afghanistan, "can be a
violation of law in California," Chief Steckler said. The city has sponsored
community meetings about where corporal punishment ends and child abuse begins.

Many old-time Fremonters speak of how their lives have been broadened by the
town's transformation. Yet some find it bewildering.

"You get to learn a lot about different nations," said Lindsey Johnson, a
freshman at Mission San Jose High School. "But then it gets frustrating when
you're in the minority. My best friend and I are blonde, light-eyed and in
honors' classes.

"When we walk into the room you can tell from the body language they're
thinking, 'Why are you in this class?' "

John Sullivan, who was recently laid off from his job at a biomedical company,
reflected on his city of 40 years, saying:

"A lot has been gained. But when jobs are displaced and people see immigrants
living in the hills and young people leaving because they can't afford to live
here, it has to cause resentment. It's human nature."

Fremont, where more than 1,200 new high-tech businesses flourished over the past
decade, has been buffeted by the recent economic downturns. Some start-ups have
shut down; others have laid off workers.  The layoffs are affecting skilled
engineers and programmers from India and elsewhere who flocked here on work
visas, an unknown number of whom are leaving the Bay Area or returning home.

Politics have yet to mirror the changed city. The five-member City Council has
one Chinese-American.

"Very rarely do immigrant populations get integrated into the political system,"
said Richard Orsi, a history professor at California State University in nearby
Hayward. "In Fremont, many of them are accomplished professionals leading busy
lives. But it will come."

Jagmeet Kaur has lived in England and Canada but says she feels most at home in
Fremont. "I see history," she said, standing outside the Gurdwara Sahib Temple.
"I see my culture. It's all here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The face of Fremont, Calif., is changing, as are some exercise
classes, like this one with Afghan women. (Monica Almeida/The New York
Times)(pg. A1); Buddhist monks at a service in their temple in Fremont, Calif.;
Sikhs attended a recent service at the Gurdwara Sahib Temple in Fremont, Calif.,
a magnet for immigrants. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg.
A10) Map of California highlighting Fremont: Fremont's Asian population has
doubled, to 37 percent, since 1990. (pg. A10)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Producer Who Turned Con Artist Is Rearrested In New Fraud Case

BYLINE:  By KATHERINE E. FINKELSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words


Adela Holzer, who gained notoriety first as a bona fide Broadway producer and
then as a con artist, is back. She lives in a well-appointed classic six on the
Upper West Side of Manhattan, has changed her name and has been arrested in
connection with a new scheme: prosecutors say she defrauded immigrants of at
least $50,000 while saying she could help them stay in the country.

Ms. Holzer, 72, is staying over, temporarily, at the Rikers Island detention
complex. Now going by the last name Rosian, she was charged yesterday with grand
larceny and a scheme to defraud. The Manhattan district attorney, Robert M.
Morgenthau, said that Ms. Holzer's victims, Spanish-speaking immigrants, paid
her $2,000 to $2,700 after she convinced them that high-level political friends
of hers in Washington could pass private immigration-relief bills that would
give them permanent resident status.

But after some of Ms. Holzer's clients began to complain about disappointing
results, the police began to investigate her in July. It was not the first time.
In 1990, Ms. Holzer pleaded guilty to defrauding investors out of $4 million
after promising that her supposed secret marriage to David Rockefeller would net
them a fortune.

Ms. Holzer's career as a con artist followed one in show business. In the late
1960's, she enjoyed considerable success on Broadway, helping raise money for
such musicals and plays as "Hair," "The Ritz," and "Lenny."

Twenty years later, she stole the $4 million from people she talked into
investing in fake oil, mineral and land deals. She accomplished this in part by
convincing investors that Mr. Rockefeller thought that the investments were
sound. When clients wavered, Ms. Holzer showed them a bedside photograph of Mr.
Rockefeller, who later told prosecutors that he had never met her.

Even when manacled before the court at the time of the 1990 guilty plea, Ms.
Holzer took a ladylike tack and refused to state her age. Whatever the correct
answer was, she was four years older when she was released from state prison in
1994.

In the newest scheme, prosecutors say, Ms. Holzer also traded on her claimed
access to influential people.  She asked the immigrants to produce medical
reports, photographs and other personal information. She advised them to be
patient, as such high-level intervention takes time. She charged them for trips
to Washington, and instructed them on what to wear for their meetings with
elected officials.

And then there were the letters on Congressional stationery, from supposed aides
to senators, which certainly seemed authoritative. But on closer inspection, the
letterhead was a bit fuzzy from too many trips through the copier. And the
language was even stranger.

One, dated Nov. 23, 1999, was supposed to be from a Bob Spinner, assistant to
Senator Strom Thurmond, the South Carolina Republican. It was written in block
letters to Ms. Adela Rosian, and said of a planned visit to Washington: "We will
issue their passes for the Senate to you and you must give them to the aliens,
when they are at the train station. Happy millennium to all!"

As expected, said prosecutors, Mr. Spinner did not exist. The senator's name was
spelled "Thrumond" in the letter.

Ms. Holzer's court-appointed lawyer could not be reached for comment yesterday.
And there was no answer at the Riverside Drive apartment of a Mr. Rosian, the
man she lives with and whose last name she has assumed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adela Holzer, charged yesterday in a scheme to defraud
immigrants, at an arraignment in 1989. (The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Walter Eytan, 90, Dies; Founded Israel's Foreign Service

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 758 words


Walter Eytan, an early British immigrant to Israel who developed a foreign
service to meet the needs of a new state suddenly at war with its neighbors,
died on May 23 in a hospital in Jerusalem. He was 90.

As first director general of the Foreign Ministry, from 1948 to 1959, Mr. Eytan
faced the challenge of creating a diplomatic service that would help Israel
gather international support, counter the effects of the Arab trade embargo and
encourage immigration.

In "The First 10 Years"(Simon & Schuster, 1958), his account of that era, Mr.
Eytan said Israel was forced to "look for friends in every part of the world,"
seek economic ties "outside the Middle East wherever possible" and be ready to
undertake "political activity in every capital" in a period when the United
Nations was closely involved with its affairs.

At independence on May 14, 1948, a three-member ministry started firing off
telegrams to every country in the world asking them to recognize Israel. The
United States, Guatemala and the Soviet Union were the first to do so.

Although Mr. Eytan's top priority was sending diplomats to Washington, London,
Paris and Moscow, he also moved quickly to open diplomatic offices in cities
like Aden, Algiers, Prague, Shanghai and Tehran to help immigration to Israel,
as well as in Bombay, Rio de Janeiro and Rome to win political support and
develop trade relations.

Mr. Eytan had initially envisioned a lean and nonhierarchical operation to be
represented just by ministers and legations rather than ambassadors and
embassies. But that plan was scrapped when the United States unexpectedly gave
embassy status to its own mission to Israel at a time when America maintained
envoys below ambassador status in several Arab capitals.

From 1960 to 1970, Mr. Eytan was ambassador to France, where in 1967 he was
involved in a diplomatic storm after President Charles de Gaulle, at a news
conference, denounced Israel for starting the Arab-Israel War and described Jews
as "an elite people, domineering and self-assured."

On June 5, 1967, Mr. Eytan called on de Gaulle to tell him that Israel had just
launched a pre-emptive strike to annihilate the Egyptian Air Force.

The president's intelligence chief, Jacques Foccart, who was waiting outside,
was "surprised to hear raised voices" coming from their meeting, according to a
de Gaulle biographer, Jean Lacouture.

"They've just launched a colonial war," de Gaulle reportedly told Mr. Foccart a
few minutes after Mr. Eytan had left. "They'll win it very quickly. But they
won't settle anything that way."

De Gaulle's subsequent controversial description of Jews -- his exact words were
"un peuple d'elite, sur de lui-meme et dominateur" -- led to accusations of
anti-Semitism.

Le Monde published a cartoon that showed a skeletal Jewish inmate of a
concentration with the caption, "Sur de Lui-Meme et Dominateur?" The Chief Rabbi
of France, Jacob Kaplan, said de Gaulle was "giving the highest possible
sanction to a campaign of discrimination."

French relations with Israel, which had been close, especially in the military
sphere, were never the same again. Nevertheless, Mr. Eytan was able to repair
some of the damage later that year, when France published an exchange of letters
between de Gaulle and the Israeli leader, David Ben-Gurion.

While calling the president's remarks wounding, Ben-Gurion also "deplored the
unjustified criticism" by those who "have not examined your observations with
all the attention needed." De Gaulle said he was merely describing "the quality
thanks to which this strong people was able to survive and remain itself after
19 centuries passed under unheard of conditions."

Walter Eytan was born on July 27, 1910, in Munich. His family moved to England,
where he was educated at St. Paul's School in London and Queen's College at
Oxford. He was a lecturer in medieval and modern German at the university from
1934 to 1936. In World War II, Mr. Eytan worked at Bletchley Park on the project
that broke the Germans' Enigma code.

He married Beatrice Levinson, who survives, along with two sons, David, of Tel
Aviv, and Jonathan, of Jerusalem, and a daughter, Ruth Yehoshua, also of Tel
Aviv.

In 1946, Mr. Eytan immigrated to Israel, where he ran a school for diplomats
before moving to the Foreign Ministry. He led the Israeli delegation to the
peace talks with Egypt on Rhodes after the first Arab-Israeli War, in 1948. From
1970 to 1972, he was an adviser to Foreign Minister Abba Eban and, from 1972 to
1978, was chairman of the Israeli Broadcasting Authority.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Walter Eytan

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Eytan in 1970. (United Press International)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Summer Rushes In To the Sound of Reggae

BYLINE:  By MARC FERRIS

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1351 words


LISTENING to reggae in the winter is like trying to fit a puzzle piece into the
wrong slot. Sure, the lilting island rhythms help thaw the chill, but after the
CD ends, frigid air still rattles the windows.

But in summer, reggae is the supreme soundtrack, the music meshing with the
season the way sand goes with surf.

"I love playing in the clubs, but to have a show in the winter, it just doesn't
feel right," said Cedi Dadah, lead singer of the Mount Vernon-based band
Shashamani. "When the people are out in the sun it's a different vibe; you feel
like you're back home."

Just as Willie Sutton robbed banks because that's where the money was, to find
reggae, go where the West Indians are. The 1990 Census identified 19,098
Westchester residents of non-Hispanic Caribbean ancestry. According to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, between 1990 and 1996, the last year for
which figures are available, 3,930 Jamaicans arrived here, the largest number of
immigrants into the county from any single country. Most of them settled in
Mount Vernon, Yonkers, New Rochelle and White Plains.

For an example of the newcomers' influence, head to the heart of downtown Mount
Vernon long after the stores close, climb a flight of stairs behind a
double-paned glass door and enter the Safe Spot. A hangout for Rastafarians --
proponents of an Afrocentric world view that venerates Haile Selassie, the
emperor who ruled Ethiopia from 1928 to 1974 -- this narrow nightclub is more
authentic than a tourist bar in Jamaica.

As the D.J. spins vinyl records culled from reggae's heyday in the 1970's, he
frequently interrupts the slinky, syncopated rhythms with patois-drenched
patter. Bass lines explode like sonic booms. Most of the men, who outnumber the
women by a large margin, wear long robes and tuck their dreadlocks under wool
caps or let them tumble down their backs. The decor is as understated as the
dancing: feet stay planted on the floor as bodies sway back and forth as if
buffeted by a strong wind.

One recent Saturday night, the house band, Shashamani, plugged in at 2:25 a.m.
and backed up a series of singers and rappers, called toasters, who presided
over proceedings that were part concert, part religious revival and part
political rally. The crowd answered repeated shouts of "Haile Selassie!" with
the affirmation "Rastafari," and Mr. Dadah took to the stage to sing the songs
"Penitentiary" and "Diallo," during which he asked, "Four hundred years of
brutality/when is it going to stop?"

Though he is from Trinidad, which is more closely associated with calypso music,
Mr. Dadah makes a living playing and writing reggae music. "I sing about the
truth, that's what people need right now," he said.

The members of the Peekskill-based band UNI, which stands for Under Nazarene
Influence, also hail from the islands. The group, which blends the Bob Marley
style with the more modern dance hall sound, is holed up in the studio until its
first CD is completed and plans to play at tourist spots along the East Coast
this summer.

"Reggae is the indigenous music," said the group's bass player, Dar Chi. "When
you come here you don't want to leave your vernacular or colloquial sayings at
home; that's prevalent in the music. A lot of our songs are social and reflect
what's happening in the community. Some of us are Rastafarians, so there are
some radical political connotations."

In contrast to the underground Rastafarian scene, the Carib New York nightclub
in New Rochelle attracts West Indians from all over the tristate area. On
Saturday nights, when reggae predominates, hundreds of revelers jam the dance
floor. Spinning seamless segues that string together snippets of old hits, the
D.J. frequently drops the volume during choruses and patrons' chants fill the
air.

The place has "put New Rochelle on the map for Caribbean people," said the
club's owner, Ken Williams, a former concert promoter and radio disc jockey who
immigrated from Jamaica in 1981. The club's popularity is partly because of Mr.
Williams's flair for promotion. He produces Carib TV, an hourlong show that is
syndicated to cable providers across the metropolitan region and is broadcast in
southern Westchester Fridays at 8 p.m. The Manhattan radio station WBLS-FM
(107.5) also broadcasts live from the club between 1 and 2 a.m. on Saturdays.

People who aren't from the Caribbean have also come under reggae's spell. Bonnie
Bowers, a Croton-on-Hudson resident, became enamored with the music after she
began collaborating with Perry Winston, a musician, and went to Jamaica to
study. In 1993, she released a CD, "The Best of All Possible Worlds," on which
she sang and co-wrote most of the songs. She has also harmonized on recordings
by such reggae artists as the Wailers and Steel Pulse.

Though she eventually strayed from strict reggae stylings, Ms. Bowers plays bass
and sings in a local band and records tracks in her home studio.

"In America, what goes in people's eye holes is most important," she said. "A
white girl playing reggae didn't cut it, but reggae is under my skin, so it's
central to my sound. I'm working on a hybrid that combines a dance hall
underpinning with rock vocals."

After a trip to Jamaica in the early 1970's, John Ford, a keyboard player from
Peekskill, caught the reggae bug and joined a band called The Next Step, which
played regularly in the county until the bass player, Dennis Cremins, died two
years ago. Mr. Ford plans to re-form the group, but this summer he will sit in
with other ensembles.

"When I play reggae, it's a spiritual thing," he said. "If it's done right, it
takes you to another level. The lyrics say something and it makes people feel
good. It's not misogynistic or gangsterish, like a lot of the music today."

Reggae also has a presence at local colleges. At Purchase College, two
professors, Joe Ferry, who teaches studio production, and James McElwaine, who
specializes in studio composition, have produced and recorded about 20 reggae
tribute albums for New Jersey-based Shanachie Records.

Mr. Ferry's production work for The Skatalites band has helped recruit students
to his program. "Students at Purchase aren't big into the commercial MTV stuff,"
Mr. Ferry said. "Every year we get one or two recruits who want to study with
the producer who worked with The Skatalites."

Ska, a reggae offshoot that blends smoothly with other styles, is particularly
popular among bands based at the school, including one known as What's Your
Problem, Brian, and another called Jesse Daniel.

Until last year, when it was known as L-vation, Jesse Daniel played more reggae.
Now the group incorporates reggae's interlocking rhythms into its funk-rock
fusion. "College kids will always love reggae," said the group's front man,
Jesse Kolber. "It's hypnotic, it's amazing dance music, and it has a lot of
soul."

To hear reggae, check the schedule of local summer festivals. Year-round, bands
turn up at Safe Spot, 6 South Fourth Street, Mount Vernon, (917) 688-1960, and
Carib New York, 435 North Avenue, New Rochelle.  (914) 636-8183 and
www.caribnewyorknightclub.com.

Finding a Bit Of the Islands

Here are places to feel the bass in Westchester this summer.

MOUNT VERNON -- Safe Spot, 6 South Fourth Street. Admission is usually $10 and
proceedings start late. Call for band schedule, (917) 688-1960.

Also African Family Day, July 7 and 8, noon to 9:30 p.m., Memorial Field.
Adults: $1.  Reggae bands will appear, although schedule is not set yet.
Information: (914) 668-1877.

NEW ROCHELLE -- Carib New York, 435 North Avenue. Friday: R & B Night, Saturday:
Reggae Night. Admission: $10 before midnight, $15 after. Call for live band
schedule, (914) 636-8183.

Also The Palladium. 595 Main Street, occasionally presents reggae shows; call
for schedule, (914) 235-2442.

PEEKSKILL -- Downtown Saturday Nights Festival. Foursight, June 16; Wenfield and
the Amex Band, July 28. The Gazebo at the intersection of Division and Park
Streets, at 7:30 p.m.

OSSINING -- Hoppin' John Steel Band. July 19, Ossining Summer Concert Series.
(914) 941-3189. Louis Engel Waterfront Park. 7:30 p.m.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bonnie Bowers, a reggae musician, playing in her home in
Croton-on-Hudson. She became interested in reggae after working with another
musician, and visited Jamaica to get to the music's root. (Meredith Davenport
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

FILM;
Championing Those Who Clean the Office Suites

BYLINE:  By KRISTIN HOHENADEL;  Kristin Hohenadel, who is based in Paris, writes
about film.

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1361 words

DATELINE: PARIS


THE screenwriter Paul Laverty was a law student in Glasgow in 1979 when he first
visited the United States, going to work in a Long Island factory as part of a
summer exchange program and hitchhiking across America with his brother.

"It really made a big impact on me," he said. "I met racist fundamentalist
preachers and black Vietnam vets, the kind of things that happen when you're
going higgledy-piggledy across the country. I don't know that that diversity is
reflected in Hollywood, which does a wonderful job of presenting gangster rap or
white, beautiful, middle-class lawyers living in an elegant manner."

After the summer, Mr. Laverty returned to law school, became a lawyer and later
went to Nicaragua to champion human rights. That experience led to his
collaboration with the British director Ken Loach on the 1996 drama "Carla's
Song." In 1994, having won a Fulbright scholarship for that screenplay about a
Glasgow bus driver who becomes romantically involved with a Nicaraguan refugee,
Mr. Laverty went to Los Angeles to find a story that he hadn't seen in the
movies, about the lives of the city's illegal immigrants.

Arriving in the city, this pale, blue-eyed Glaswegian went without a car. He
rented a room in a single men's boardinghouse in East Los Angeles, where he
would fall asleep to gunfire only to be awakened by the crash of the homeless
rattling their can-filled shopping carts deep into the night. He talked to
people at the Laundromat and the Salvadoran burrito shop. But it wasn't until he
found himself waiting at a bus stop at 2:30 one morning that the gregarious Mr.
Laverty stumbled upon the band of office cleaners from Central America who would
become the subject of "Bread and Roses," a film that opens nationwide on Friday.

"They gave me quite a first impression, this army of mostly women in their
different uniforms at this hour of the morning, just joking," Mr. Laverty said
recently over lunch in Paris. He had stopped here on his way from a human-rights
film festival in Amsterdam to his home in Madrid, where he lives with his
partner, a Spanish actress, and new baby. "Many of them had come over the border
illegally, and they occupy the same physical space as some of the best-paid
people in the world. They're walking out with their mops while the others are
walking in with their laptops."

Soon after, he was listening to public radio when he heard about an advocacy
group for cleaners, the Justice for Janitors Campaign. He went to a meeting, and
began what would become months of research as a volunteer.

"They're illegal immigrants, they don't speak English, they've got no money,
they're frightened, they've got debts at home, many of them are working three
jobs," Mr. Laverty said. "They're living in violent areas, trying to build their
lives and get their kids to school. So you think: How in the name of God are we
going to organize here? Where do you find hope in the middle of all that?"

But the group, Mr. Laverty discovered, was tough and well organized as it
pressed for better pay and health benefits from employers in the high rises of
Los Angeles, where they earned $5.75 an hour without vacation pay or benefits,
less than half of what cleaners had been earning 20 years earlier.

It took several years before Mr. Laverty and Mr. Loach finished the script,
which focused on two sisters from Mexico (played by the Mexican stage actress
Pilar Padilla and the Mexican-born film actress Elpidia Carrillo) and an
idealistic young social worker (Adrien Brody), who tries to help them through a
strike.

Unlike many screenwriters, Mr. Laverty is involved from beginning to end in Mr.
Loach's closely knit, highly collaborative filmmaking process. "It's like
homemade cooking," Mr. Laverty said. "You're doing your own pasta. It takes
forever. This notion of originality is massively overrated. Even the creative
process before the script is written is collaboration, spending time with people
and sharing their lives. To think I'm some private individual and all these
wonderful ideas come from me is total nonsense. The best bits often come from
other people."

Mr. Loach, who also worked with Mr. Laverty on the 1998 film "My Name Is Joe,"
set in Glasgow, spoke about their collaboration by telephone from London. "Paul
has no vanity about his writing at all," Mr. Loach said. "Really, everything is
up for scrutiny, and you can question everything and test everything. And then
what emerges is something that's Paul's writing but everybody's happy with, so
you feel you're inside the script. I find it very difficult to have a script
delivered through the post that you turn up and make, because then you haven't
really got inside it and worked out for yourself why people are doing things and
who they are and what their background is and how this all adds up."

The script was written in English, but Mr. Loach allowed the actors to move
between English and Spanish, using whatever worked best. The actresses playing
the sisters might revert to Spanish to make an insult more felt; as a
second-generation Latino boss, the actor George Lopez might summon bits of
Spanish to intimidate his workers.

"We script it very carefully, but before the beginning and at the end of a scene
we always leave space for something to happen," Mr. Laverty said. To add
authenticity, the filmmakers also used real cleaners in some of the scenes,
often preparing them with only a rough outline of the action in order to capture
their natural speech and reactions.

MR. LOACH said he had always wanted to make a film in America. He made "Bread
and Roses" according to union rules, shooting in 30 days, but all of his $6
million budget came from European financing.

When "Bread and Roses" was first shown at the Cannes International Film Festival
last year, Variety called it "a minor piece of agitprop drama." In London, where
it opened recently, The Daily Telegraph called it "a riveting piece of cinematic
storytelling," and The Guardian said it was "megaphone cinema."

"But like a megaphone," the paper went on, "it is intermittently capable of
crude power and effectiveness."

If this film wears its political heart on its sleeve, it is far from a diatribe.
In one almost slapstick scene, the social activist played by Mr. Brody escapes
the janitors' bosses by hiding in a garbage can and pouring wax on the floor to
slip them up. In another scene -- with cameos by Benicio Del Toro, Tim Roth and
Chris Penn -- Justice for Janitors organizers barge in on an office party of
entertainment lawyers to award the building owner a "golden turkey" for
exploiting his workers.

Mr. Laverty said it was important to capture the spirit of the people he met.
"When you meet these people, they're not all serious, 'Oh, life is terrible, I
crossed the border, I nearly got killed,' " he said. "They're vibrant, tough
people who have tremendous life experiences, and I just tried to show some of
that in the film."

That also meant chronicling the dark emotional fallout between the idealistic
Maya and her older, hardened sister, Rosa. "It's very easy to say it's a
political film and put it up a cul-de-sac," Mr. Laverty said, "but to me the
central relationship is between the two sisters. We'll be accused of making a
stereotypical, propagandistic film, but you could argue that the strongest and
most unrepentant character is totally opposed."

In April of last year, after the film had been finished, the Janitors for
Justice Campaign won wage increases and benefits for many workers throughout Los
Angeles.

"If you look at the scale of the corporations and the odds, this is a success
story," Mr. Laverty said. "It has transformed the lives of these people,
totally, to have health care for their families and to bring money back into
these communities. All you have to do is look around the United States for
another story of people being crushed and brutalized. I wanted a story that
would tap into people's hopes."

Nevertheless, he said, in the film, as in life, there is no such thing as a
happy ending for everyone. "It's always mixed," Mr. Laverty said. "It would have
been false to have the whole film finish with their fists in the air."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigrant janitors protest in a scene from "Bread and Roses."
(Merrick Morton/Lions Gate Films)(pg. 12); Above, Pilar Padilla, left, and
Alonso Chavez in "Bread and Roses," a film about illegal immigrants in Los
Angeles; left, the Scottish screenwriter Paul Laverty. (Photographs by Merrick
Morton/Lions Gate Films)(pg. 9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Village Mourns Mexicans Who Died Emigrating

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1147 words

DATELINE: CHAMIZAL, Mexico, May 26


This is such a small village, five farming families who live in a ramshackle
cluster of houses made from wood and palm leaves, that just about everyone has a
memory of Julian Ambrose Malaga's last day here.

When he left, headed worlds away to seek work in the United States, he wore his
favorite red-and-white striped soccer jersey and carried almost nothing but a
change of clothes and a wad of pesos and dollars in his backpack.

But from their recollections, tinged with grief, regret and longing, Mr.
Ambrose's relatives and friends also made clear that the 24-year-old former
soldier, new husband and expectant father left with a head full of dreams, and
that many of his dreams had become their own.

Mr. Ambrose promised his mother a house with cement walls and a modern stove. He
told his uncle, a corn farmer, that he would buy him a used but reliable truck.
He told his teenage cousins that once he got settled somewhere north of the
border, he would send money for them to join him and help them start new lives.

And Mr. Ambrose's father said of his son, "He promised me that he would always
behave with respect, that he would make me proud."

But his dreams have turned into cruel delusions. Last week, he and 13 other
Mexican immigrants died from exposure near Yuma while trying to cross the
Arizona desert. Another 13 severely dehydrated immigrants survived.

The victims, who were found so dehydrated that coroners said the dead appeared
mummified, had been abandoned for one week in 114-degree temperature by
smugglers who had guided them there.

Once they are formally identified, their names will be added to the hundreds of
others who die each year, generally from drowning or exposure to extreme heat or
cold, while trying to cross illegally into the United States.

Most of those found dead in last week's tragedy -- the deadliest illegal border
crossing in recent history -- came from the lush gulf coast state of Veracruz.

Among their communities, some are so isolated and depressed that they seem to be
clinging for life at the end of the earth. And the overwhelming lure of jobs
north of the border that has begun to suck these communities dry of able-bodied
men shows that the American dream has penetrated just about all of Mexico's
rural core.

"I cried when he told me he was leaving," said Jose Hernandez, an 18-year-old
cousin. "But he said he was going to be the first one to start making life
better for all of us. After a while, we all started to believe him."

In contrast to the inhospitable desert where they died, Veracruz seems a
paradise. Its emerald landscapes produce coffee, tobacco and sugar. The ocean is
rich with seafood and deposits of oil. But declining coffee prices and a
beleaguered national oil industry have forced farmers across the state to
abandon their land for jobs on farms in northern Mexico or north of the border.

Those who survived the incident in Arizona said they were headed to jobs in
North Carolina, where the population of Mexicans soared by 65 percent in the
last decade.

Meanwhile, Gabriel Arnau Oliveros, the mayor of Santiago Tuxtla, a municipality
next to Chamizal, has watched the number of constituents in his communities
decline. Recently elected to a third term, he recalled campaign events in which
he turned to his aides and whispered, "Where are all the men?"

At others, he said, he would stare in wonder at the sight of subsistence farmers
living in nicely furnished houses with satellite televisions. He did not dare
ask in public, but he acknowledged the thoughts that crossed his mind: "Where
does their money come from?"

The answer to both questions was the same.

"Every community around here has people in the United States," Mr. Arnau said,
referring to his municipality of some 60,000 people near the southern edge of
the state. "They go with visions of resolving the biggest problem in this
country: poverty."

More than 40 percent of Mexico's 100 million people live in poverty. "For many
people," Mr. Arnau said, "leaving Mexico seems the only way to escape."

Rafael Temis Gonzalez, 28, a corn farmer from the isolated community of Apixita
(pronounced ah-pee-SHEE-ta), believed that it was his only way out. He tried to
ignore the construction going on across the dirt road from the thatched hut
where he lived with his family -- including his mother, his wife, his year-old
daughter, two sisters and four nieces.

His cousins had gone to the United States, said his mother, Elsa Gonzalez. And
within a year they were building new houses for their families. They offered to
pay Mr. Temis to help with the construction.

"With that, Rafael decided he wanted to go to the United States," said Ms.
Gonzalez, 58. "He said: 'Why should I help someone else build a house? I want to
build my own house.' "

Although she said she had not received official word from the government, Ms.
Gonzalez said she believed that her son was one of the lucky Veracruzanos who
survived the heat of the Arizona desert.

Neighbors reported that he had called the community telephone center. His voice
was weak, neighbors reported, and he could not talk for long, but he wanted to
get word to his family that he was alive.

"I have been so worried about him that I do not know what to do with my soul,"
said Ms. Gonzalez, whose eyes filled with tears. "I go to church every day. I
hold a picture of my son, and I pray, 'My God, I have come to kneel down and ask
you not to abandon my son.' "

Men sitting outside the one neighborhood bodega said more men from the village
were living in the United States than in Apixita. And when asked whether the
recent incident in Arizona might stop the steady human flow north, the men
smirked, shook their heads and tried to explain the hard realities of their
lives.

There are no jobs, they said. Most of the families pay rent for the couple of
acres they use to grow the corn that sustains them. Some days the teachers give
classes, but most days they do not show up for work.

The residents said three young people, including a single mother of two, had
just left the village on Friday. Leonira Temis, a friend of the mother, said,
"There was nothing and no one that could convince her to stay, even though she
knew that she might come back dead."

In Chamizal, Mr. Ambrose's family awaits the arrival of his remains. Until then,
his mother clings to a cluster of old army photos of her son and wishes that she
had not encouraged him to follow such reckless dreams.

His wife of four months waits nervously for the birth of their child, expected
in October. His cousins have resigned themselves to working as corn farmers in
the safety of their own country, "at least for now," said Jose Hernandez. And
when asked if he is proud of his son, Mr. Ambrose's father, Reinaldo, was
adamant.

"Yes, I am proud," he said. "My son risked everything for his dreams, for a
better life. But it was not meant to be."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elsa Gonzalez wept as she told of her son, who is believed to
have survived an ordeal in the Arizona desert in which 14 Mexicans died trying
to migrate illegally to the United States. (Arturo Fuentes for The New York
Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Chamizal: Farmers from villages like Chamizal
and Apixita are going north.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Changing Nueva York

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 609 words


One of the more dramatic findings of the 2000 census was the extent to which
immigration has arrested, and in many cases reversed, population decline in
America's major cities. New York is no exception. Without the arrival of a
million foreigners in the 1990's, the city's population would have declined in
the last decade, instead of surpassing the eight million mark. Forty percent of
New Yorkers are foreign-born, the most since 1910, and they are responsible for
revitalizing many of the city's neighborhoods.

Latin Americans and Asians accounted for much of the inflow. These recent
arrivals, hailing from a growing number of countries, contributed not only to
the city's diversity, but also to the diversity of their own ethnic communities.
Puerto Ricans and Chinese are no longer overwhelming majorities within the
Hispanic and Asian populations, as immigrants from places like Mexico, Colombia,
India and Korea have increasingly made their way to the city.

The demographic shift is especially pronounced among Hispanics, the largest
minority group in the city, numbering 2.1 million people and accounting for 27
percent of the population. This is the largest Hispanic community of any
American city, and an increasingly diverse one. Puerto Ricans, who in 1990 were
a majority, are now 36 percent of the total. Their raw numbers actually declined
by 12 percent in the 1990's, as retirees returned to Puerto Rico. Meanwhile,
immigration from Latin America soared -- the number of Mexicans in the city
tripled, to become the third-largest Latino group, behind Puerto Ricans and
Dominicans.

Though statistics are useful in defining existing population patterns, the
reasons behind the various demographic shifts in the last decade are hard to
quantify. Immigration has long been a mysteriously informal and deeply personal
saga, and so it remains today. Hundreds of thousands of Mexicans came to New
York in the 1990's, for example, because they heard, typically from a neighbor
or a cousin back in the old country, that there were opportunities to be had
here. A few adventurous immigrants from the southern Mexican state of Puebla
came two decades ago, did well and started the flow.

To this day, more than half the city's Mexican population is believed to come
from Puebla, and there are small towns in the depressed, indigenous Mixteca
region of that state whose economies are fed almost entirely by dollars being
sent home from New York. More recent immigrants come from the central states of
Michoacan and Jalisco, and Mexico City, too, and many of them have settled in
Westchester County.

As in the Asian community, the increasing diversity of the city's Hispanic
population should help challenge dated notions. One is that minorities are
monoliths. There is a strong cultural and linguistic bond between Mexicans,
Dominicans and Puerto Ricans, to be sure, but New Yorkers must now stop thinking
of "Hispanic" and "Puerto Rican" as interchangeable terms.

This, in turn, requires city and state agencies to make it a higher priority to
address the pressing social problems affecting immigrants, such as strained
school systems and the abusive treatment of undocumented workers by employers.
The Puerto Rican political establishment, for its part, is beginning to adjust
to the changing reality. Citizenship is one obvious gulf that has traditionally
separated Puerto Ricans from many other Hispanic groups in New York. But in
taking a greater interest in immigration and other issues affecting the broader
Hispanic population, Puerto Rican politicians have an opportunity to help forge
a pan-Latino political identity, and to capitalize on it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Congest, and Improve, Our Towns

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 166 words


To the Editor:

Paul Krugman ("My Beautiful Mansionette," column, May 23) nostalgically muses
over the glories of immigration past as he plays down the connection of
immigration to the problems of rapid population growth. A less emotional
examination would recognize that urban sprawl is the most obvious symptom of
overpopulation as it exists in an industrialized country.

Sprawl is just one indication of voracious demand outstripping supply. From
drought in Florida to energy shortages in California to impossibly overcrowded
schools nationwide, we see too many people requiring more infrastructure and
natural resources.

If America continues to grow as rapidly as it did in the last decade, the
nation's population will double in less than 60 years. That level of
irresponsible growth -- largely fueled by immigration -- will leave a legacy of
lessened quality of life, environmental destruction and decreased individual
freedom. Is that progress?

BRENDA WALKER
Berkeley, Calif., May 23, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Congest, and Improve, Our Towns

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 86 words


To the Editor:

Paul Krugman ("My Beautiful Mansionette," column, May 23) does not mention the
most valuable contribution that the recent immigrants make to his neighborhood.

The influx of immigrant families has helped create ethnically diverse,
academically excellent public school systems here in central New Jersey. My
daughter goes to school with children from all over the world, and as far as I'm
concerned, it takes some of the sting out of the sprawl and McMansions.

MARY DURKEE
West Windsor, N.J., May 23, 2001


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rioting in Britain Gives Voice to Silent Minorities

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1308 words

DATELINE: LONDON, May 28


Curry has replaced fish and chips as this country's favorite dish, and spoken
accents with Caribbean and African intonations and men and women in
chalk-colored dhotis and pastel saris are as much features of modern day Britain
as tweed and tattersall.

But weekend rioting between whites and Asians in Oldham in the English Midlands
and finger pointing in its aftermath by politicians campaigning for the election
10 days from now have exposed volatile tensions in what is outwardly one of
Europe's most stable multi-ethnic cultures and a country where anti-immigrant
politics has held less appeal than on the Continent.

The authorities today blamed members of the white supremacist National Front for
the two nights of rioting in which 30 people were injured, 37 were arrested and
a number of pubs and vehicles were burned and covered in shattered glass.
Officials promised zero-tolerance policing of the depressed former mill town on
the last night of a Bank Holiday long weekend. With rain and a heavy police
presence, the streets of the industrial town were reported relatively quiet
tonight.

While some politicians traded accusations of provocation, Prime Minister Tony
Blair said he did not believe that the incident was typical of race relations in
Britain. But the weekend violence did underline the struggle for identity that
many young people experience in immigrant communities across Britain.

Many of the 15- to 25-year-olds who rampaged through the streets of Oldham are
the sons and daughters of people who came to work in the textile mills in the
1960's. But those mills have since closed, leaving the younger generation with
no work, little chance of advancement in British society and a smoldering sense
of resentment, justified or not, that their backgrounds may be holding them
back.

They are the human ingredient of an ethnic Britain that has relatively minimal
impact on the country's public life. Though the country's minorities make up 5.5
percent of the population, they account for less than 3 percent of the
electorate and just 1.5 percent of the membership of Parliament.

Minority groups here are defined in two broad categories stemming from their
origins in the former colonies of the British Empire. The term Afro-Caribbean
embraces blacks with origins in the West Indies and Africa, while the other
designation -- Asian -- includes people whose background is Indian, Pakistani,
Bangladeshi and Sri Lankan. Of Britain's 59 million people, more than two
million are Asian and one million Afro-Caribbean.

There is little political organization around an identifiable group focus like
that in the United States.  Among the reasons are the proportionately smaller
size of Britain's minority groups, a reluctance to identify issues as ethnic, an
absence of a tradition of grievance redress and mixed residential patterns that
do not produce such high concentrations of individual groups.

In British politics, the Labor Party generally gets 90 percent of the black vote
and 60 to 70 percent of the Asian vote. "Labor has never been obliged or bound
by a need to stand up for U.S.-style affirmative action, either in principle or
in practical terms," said Shamit Saggar, a University of London professor of
political science and author of "Race and Representation."

"Pinning down which issues can be thought of as racial or ethnic issues is far
from straightforward," Mr. Saggar said.

Political parties, he explained, "do little more than dabble and churn over this
task."

Since the election campaign began three weeks ago, Conservatives have come in
for charges of "playing the race card" from Labor and the third party Liberal
Democrats for having tried to make election issues out of crime and the rising
number of foreigners trying to enter Britain.

The Liberal Democrats' Simon Hughes today accused Conservatives of contributing
to racial clashes like Oldham's, saying, "If politicians talk up things that
encourage the view of racial differences, then there is an indirect likelihood
that it will resonate with people, young people, impressionable people."

Labor, running far ahead of the Tories, said it did not share Mr. Hughes's view
and declined to join in the criticism. The Conservatives' Michael Portillo said
he found the Liberal Democrat's accusation "opportunistic and quite
disgraceful," and William Hague, the Conservatives' leader, said it represented
"parties trying to play the race card themselves."

Mr. Hague, who is running far behind Mr. Blair in the June 7 vote, has been
accused of racial insensitivity for his frequent accusations that Labor is
turning Britain into a "soft touch" for "bogus asylum seekers." Mr. Hague has
further proposed the construction of detention centers to hold all new
applicants while their cases are being processed and has promised the immediate
return to "safe" countries on the Continent of any applicants who had traveled
through them to get here.

Mr. Hague has also drawn fire for saying that Britain would become a "foreign
land" if Labor were re-elected. When the government seized on the claim as
evidence that Mr. Hague was stoking white fears of the growing number of
immigrants, he protested that he was talking instead about Labor's handing over
greater authority in Britain to the European Commission in Brussels.

More attacks on the Tories for intolerance followed the refusal by some of its
candidates to sign a pledge not to introduce race into the campaign.

A Tory parliamentarian, John Townend, said immigration was turning Britain into
a "mongrel" nation, a comment Mr. Hague rebuked.  But Lord Tebbit, a former
party chairman, appeared to have caused Mr. Hague a fresh internal problem today
by declaring that the lesson of the Oldham rioting was that multi-ethnic
societies did not work. "Two societies living side by side can lead to difficult
moments," he told The Times of London, adding that the government's failure to
deal with the asylum issue was "possibly storing up further problems like Oldham
in the future."

The government has increased the number of immigration officers and X-ray
machines at Channel ports and airports, and the Home Office reported on Friday
that the number of people seeking asylum fell to a two-year low of 5,000 in
April and that the number of cases in the last three months was 13 percent lower
than for the same period in 2000. The Immigration and Nationality Directorate
said it had cut the backlog of outstanding cases from 100,000 two years ago to
35,000 today.

Applications had hit a record 76,040 last year, more than double the 29,640 in
1996 before Labor came to power. The issue was brought into sharp focus last
June with the discovery of the bodies of 58 Chinese immigrants who had
suffocated in the back of an airtight truck that was stopped by customs
officials as it left a cross-Channel ferry at Dover.

Nick Hardwick, chief executive of the London-based Refugee Council, said the
policies of both Labor and the Conservatives were "deeply flawed and not
credible." He said both parties were "trying to outdo each other in devising
ever more draconian and costly measures against this vulnerable group of
people."

Ashok Viswanathan, 23, deputy coordinator of Operation Black Vote, a group
working to increase minority participation in elections, said that 25 percent of
eligible nonwhite people were not registered to vote, compared with 4 percent of
the general population.

He predicted that voting this June would follow the pattern of 1997, with only
56 percent of registered black and Asian voters turning out, compared with about
70 percent of the total electorate. The three main parties are fielding 57
nonwhite candidates for the 659 seats in Parliament, up from the 43 who ran four
years ago, though many are running in unwinnable districts. There are currently
10 nonwhite members of Parliament, all Labor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A street in the industrial town of Oldham, England, after an
outbreak of racial violence led to a battle between gangs of youths and police
officers. (Agence France-Presse) Map of England highlighting Oldham: Oldham was
the site of racial clashes over the weekend.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Congest, and Improve, Our Towns

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 107 words


To the Editor:

West Windsor, a township in central New Jersey, has many of the McMansions and
immigrants that Paul Krugman describes in "My Beautiful Mansionette" (column,
May 23).

We also have elected our first Chinese-American mayor, Shing-Fu Hsueh; he ran on
a platform of controlling growth and preserving some of our natural environment.

Land management and traffic flow are problems that require innovation. While
immigrants may swell our towns, they also add creativity and suggest novel
solutions to our problems.

As in past generations, the diversity of America will be our strength.

SANDRA SHAPIRO
Princeton Junction, N.J.
May 23, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Immigrant Laborers Win Case

BYLINE:  By Laura Mansnerus (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 114 words


Four immigrant laborers, claiming that they were hired for carpentry work in
Harlem but not paid, have won a judgment for back wages.

The lawyer for the workers, three Mexicans and a Venezuelan, said the verdict
was a victory for such workers, many of them illegal immigrants afraid to
challenge their employers. The award was announced yesterday by the lawyer,
Patricia Ballner, and the Rev. Brian Jordan, the director of a counseling
service for immigrants in Manhattan. A Civil Court judge, Doris Ling-Cohan,
ruled that the workers were owed $3,290 by a subcontractor, Frank Vasquez, who
said he had not hired them. He did not return a call seeking comment.   Laura
Mansnerus (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Germany's East to West, Conservative Tries to Span Gulf

BYLINE:  By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2434 words

DATELINE: TEMPLIN, Germany


In this quaint eastern town surrounded by lakes begins the story of the divided
life of Angela Merkel, the politician who next year could become the first woman
to lead modern Germany.

It is a story with its share of German zigzags, one that has taken a member of
the former East German Communist youth movement to the leadership of that
bastion of conservatism, the Christian Democratic Party. "Nobody else from the
east has ever made it this far," Volker Ruhe, a leading Christian Democrat, said
simply.

In recent months, Ms. Merkel has toured America, chatting with Vice President
Dick Cheney and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. She has seen her party, hit
by a financial scandal last year, consolidate its position in regional polls.
And she has made clear that immigration will be a central plank of her campaign
to be chancellor.

"East Germans were used to a strong state," Ms. Merkel, 46, said. "And now they
see this weak state apparently unable to punish abuses -- the Vietnamese
spreading drugs, the Albanians stealing cars, the high crime rate among illegal
immigrants, and the police doing nothing about it. This is how easterners
think."

It is hard to escape the impression that this is also -- in some measure -- how
Angela Merkel thinks. As elsewhere in Europe, immigration is an explosive issue
here. Germany's lingering doubts about its identity after Nazism, then division,
tend to complicate questions of who is German and who is not.

In theory, Ms. Merkel should be well placed to ease tensions. She understands
the enduring cultural gulf between the east and west of the country. She is
aware that a united Germany is still a work in progress. "We need a common
understanding of what being in Germany means," she says.

But the fact is Ms. Merkel, like 17 million other former East Germans, was
raised in a country almost devoid of foreigners, except for a large Soviet
occupation force and a few thousand Vietnamese, who lived largely sequestered
from Germans.

Now, the idea of a united Germany as a multicultural society of almost 80
million people with more than 7 million foreign-born inhabitants appears to
trouble her. No other nation in Europe has as many foreigners.

"About 75 percent of the Turks in the world who live outside Turkey are in
Germany," Ms. Merkel said. "We don't say that they should not be Muslims. But we
do say that we are a country with a Christian background, and Turks must
understand this."

Muslims are now the largest religious minority here, a status the Jews had in
prewar Germany. Ms. Merkel said the situations were not comparable. "The Jews
were Germans," she argued. "They spoke the German language. But this is often
not the case with Turks."

She speaks calmly, with measured conviction. She is beguiling. She has a wide
smile and a tendency to blush that led Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, to
call her "das Madchen" ("the girl"). But there is also a steeliness to her that
belies the smile and a cool awareness of her unique position at the still
troubled meeting point of two societies.

In the last decade, former East Germans have tended to see heroes demolished
rather than stars rising: they have learned that their gold medal-winning
athletes were doped, their leaders liars, their friends spies.

So the success of Ms. Merkel in a western party long dominated by men is seen by
many easterners as a vindication of sorts. They respond to her plain-spoken
manner, her unadorned style, her pleas for a new German patriotism.

Ms. Merkel, who was recently married, has also been through what an old friend
from the east, Michael Schindhelm, now a theater director in Basel, Switzerland,
called "this strange loss of roots, of identity, of context -- this experience
of a cut that forces you to define yourself anew." It is an experience that
almost all Germans from the east share.

But as she prepares for a likely battle next year with the Social Democratic
chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, for the leadership of Europe's most powerful
nation, the definition of the new Ms. Merkel still appears to be a work in
progress.

Can she convince western skeptics that she is capable of running "Germany Inc."?
Is she a woman of convictions or just an adaptable woman? Is she a new sort of
German nationalist, one raised without the burden of shame carried by many
western Germans?

"It must be normal to sing the national anthem, to feel pride, to have a flag,"
Ms. Merkel said vehemently. "It must be normal at last." Yet there is little or
nothing that fits the description "normal" in this woman's life.

Christian Family Goes East

Angela Merkel was a few months old when she was whisked from her birthplace, the
elegant western city of Hamburg, to the backwater of Communist Templin, where
her father, Horst Kasner, had accepted a job as a Lutheran pastor.

"It's straightforward why we came: we were needed here," said Herlind Kasner,
Ms. Merkel's mother, a woman of startling blue eyes and directness. "We came as
Christians helping other Christians. Some go to Africa. So why could we not go
to the other part of our own country?"

But it was not easy as a religious family in the officially atheist east. Mrs.
Kasner, a trained English teacher, was barred from working; her husband was kept
on the margins of society; the three children absorbed official doctrine at
school.

Still, little Angela thrived. She was a star student, entering nationwide
competitions in Russian and math. "She was outstanding," said Hans-Ulrich
Beeskow, a former teacher. "A friendly, open girl."

It was this friendliness, this desire for social contact that, as Ms. Merkel
explains it, led her into the Pioneer Communist youth movement. She was
communicative; she did not want to be an outsider.

"This was not a political decision," she said. "It was a decision to be among
all the other people." She smiled, as if to say it was all as plain and simple
as her trademark bangs.

But her decision -- a first taste of the compromise she has needed often since
1989 -- was not simple to accept for her devoutly Christian parents, who saw
their daughter blend in beneath the atheistic banners of Communism. "Our
approach is hard to explain in the west," Mrs. Kasner suggested. "But quite
simply the children had a nice time together in these groups."

Ulrich Schoneich, now the mayor of Templin, also grew up the child of a pastor
in East Germany. His parents, resolutely opposed to the Communist state, stopped
him from joining any of the youth movements -- and he suffered for it. "I think
my father was right," said Mr. Schoneich. "But each family must decide for
itself."

Ms. Merkel's view of East German society today is marked by the ambivalence of
somebody who adjusted to survive. Yes, it was oppressive, she says. But there
were family, friends, nature. "The system was evil," she said. "But not
everything was evil. Even in a system like that, Christmas Eve can be nice."

Capitalism can also look less than nice. Unemployment in Templin, as in many
towns in the east, is now 24 percent. The old furniture and textile industries
have collapsed. Employment in the agricultural sector has plummeted.

"The world is not black and white," Mrs. Kasner said. "I went to America in 1986
with my association of churches and saw blacks with crutches lying on the church
steps. Then I came back here and saw doctors living in the same apartments as
workers. As a Christian, you may start to ask which system is better. It is not
easy."

Still, the Kasner family opposed the Communist government. In 1989, as protests
grew, their church was a center for peace prayers and discussion. Throughout the
decades they lived there, Pastor Kasner would defiantly ring the church bell
next to his house to usher in the New Year.

Adjusting Rapidly in East

What Lothar de Maiziere, the last leader of East Germany before unification,
first noticed in Angela Merkel was her succinctness. Her press summaries, he
recalled, "said twice as much in 20 minutes as my other spokesperson said in
40."

She had emerged from a job as a researcher at the East German Academy of
Sciences in 1989, joining a short-lived movement called Democratic Awakening,
and later the Christian Democrats under Mr. de Maiziere. He made her responsible
for the media.

It was a heady time. "We had seen heaven on TV in the Deutsche mark," said Mr.
de Maiziere, who is now a lawyer. "We thought we could have that and justice.
But all we got is the rule of law."

Unlike many East Germans, Ms. Merkel adjusted rapidly. She was diligent,
pragmatic, quick -- and she soon caught Mr. Kohl's eye. Asked why, she replied
with crisp precision:

"I was from the east, a woman and young. As such, I represented three minorities
within the party. That was hard to resist. And so I became a protege of Kohl as
he sought to establish the party in the east."

She moved rapidly through a couple of minor ministerial jobs under Mr. Kohl.
Then, when Mr. Kohl was dislodged by Mr. Schroder in 1998 and a year later
became embroiled in a party financial scandal, she had the courage to confront
her mentor directly.

It was that stand that ultimately projected her to the leadership of the party.
"I came out and criticized Kohl because I really thought the Christian
Democratic Party was in danger," she said. "That is no longer the case.
Christian Democracy is stable."

It is true that German Christian Democracy, unlike Italian Christian Democracy,
has survived the end of the cold war, the discovery of corruption, the decline
of the church, and the erosion of traditional conservative values in Europe. It
has adopted new agendas -- including what British politicians call "the race
card".

Ms. Merkel, who took over the chairmanship of the Christian Democrats last year,
is widely credited with this revival, which has placed her party in opinion
polls within range of the Social Democrats at about 35 percent of the vote,
compared with the governing party's 40 percent. Her fresh image helped stabilize
a crisis-ridden party.

But, naturally, she is also resented by the many party honchos, all of them men,
who had been jostling beneath Mr. Kohl for more than a decade only to find
themselves overtaken by an upstart woman from the east. Being young, female and
eastern is no longer the triple trump card it once was.

Mr. Ruhe, a former defense minister under Mr. Kohl who is now close to Ms.
Merkel, said it was natural that doubts persisted. "The potential sympathy for
her in the country is enormous," he said. "But she has never been a state
premier. The question is: Do Germans believe she can do the job of chancellor?"

In the east at least -- and the electorate there swung the last national poll to
Mr. Schroder -- people do seem to believe in her. Mr. de Maiziere said the main
reason was that she understood the frustrations of the area.

"We have enough trouble defining ourselves," he said. "Where am I in this new
country? Where do I belong? And then a foreigner comes along and tells me how to
live or makes money in front of my face. Frankfurt has a population that is
almost 30 percent foreign. But an eastern town like Leipzig would explode in
those conditions."

Even in Frankfurt, there are tensions. Under a banner saying "Control
Immigration, Promote Integration," Ms. Merkel appears at a rally to promote her
party's new policies. A little overweight, her nails bitten down, her face
moon-like beneath the bangs, she is clearly a far cry from the modern political
products of image merchants and spin doctors. But it is this I-am-who-I-am
stubborn streak that appeals to many Germans.

She knows what she wants. When Wolfgang Bosbach, the deputy chairman of the
Christian Democrats' parliamentary group, rises to declare that "we want a clear
rejection of a multicultural society," she applauds enthusiastically.

Later the debate is opened to the crowd, and a blond woman who appears almost
hysterical with a mixture of nervousness and anger rises. "I do not want Islam,"
she says. "There are lots of them around me. Wherever I go, women are in
headscarves. I do not want Islamic immigrants on the job market and our social
insurance rolls."

Ms. Merkel nods, her lips pursed. Unlike the case in the United States, in most
European countries foreigners arriving are immediately entitled to a range of
social benefits, including free medicine and schooling for their children.

This stokes resentment, and debates rage as to whether European countries are a
"safe haven" or merely a "soft touch" for asylum-seekers.

A number of statistics have been marshaled by Ms. Merkel as she takes her
immigration roadshow around Germany. In the 1970's, there were four million
foreigners, and two million of them had jobs. Now there are seven million, but
the number in jobs has stagnated. "Immigration is not going into our labor
market but into our social security system," she says. "That is the problem."

Staying a Western Nation

Her party's answer is to try to curtail the foreign presence by, for instance,
speeding up deportation procedures for illegals and tightening regulations for
family members to join immigrants already in Germany. At the same time, the
party wants to lure highly qualified foreigners to the country. "For real
specialists," Ms. Merkel said, "We want to offer much better opportunities."

"We must be part of the war for talent in the world," Mr. Ruhe said. That
foreign talent, however, should not undermine the Western, Christian identity of
Germany.

Ms. Merkel is irritated by American calls to bring Turkey swiftly into the
European Union. Membership confers the right to work freely within the Union.
Millions more Turks could pour into Germany. "Imagine," she says, "taking away
the border between Mexico and the United States. It is just not possible in the
forseeable future."

She continues: "Inviting Turkey to become a candidate for European Union
membership was a mistake. There are differences of values. We do not have the
same understanding of human rights. Try opening a Christian church in Istanbul."

Her old friend from the east, Mr. Schindhelm, is dismayed by the views she now
articulates on immigration and German national identity. He had thought of her
as a liberal. When he left the East German Academy in 1986, she gave him a copy
of Gogol's "Dead Souls" inscribed with the words, "Go into the open."

Now he works in Basel, an open city whose population is 40 percent foreign. "I
think she knows in her heart that we need openness," Mr. Schindhelm said. "So
either she does not have the strength to push that idea, or she has adapted
herself to the prevailing forces." He paused before adding, "And yet, I trust
her."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Angela Merkel, whose early years were spent in East Germany, is
leading a revival of the conservative Christian Democratic Party. (Associated
Press)(pg. A1); Angela Merkel last year with her mother, Herlind Kasner, who
moved from West to East Germany in the 1950's with her daughter and Lutheran
pastor husband "as Christians helping other Christians." (Klaus
Franke/Zentralbild/DPA)(pg. A8) Map of Germany highlighting Templin: Templin,
Ms. Merkel's hometown, has high unemployment now. (pg. A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants at Work

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 135 words


To the Editor:

I live in Farmingville, N.Y., the subject of "A Perilous 4,000-Mile Passage to
Work" (front page, May 29). I have seen that the attitudes of residents and
authorities include disregard for the law and outright bigotry.

Many of the numerous Mexican immigrants are hard-working laborers, performing
difficult jobs in construction, agriculture and landscaping. Yet a high portion
are here illegally, some take jobs from local residents, and many violate local
housing ordinances.

The article mentions that a proposal to create a hiring site was rejected by the
Suffolk County Legislature. A sensible compromise would be to create the site,
with a proviso that all laws, like those on immigration and taxes, would be
enforced by all levels of government.

MIKE GLASS
Farmingville, N.Y., May 30, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Willing to Work Hard

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 103 words


To the Editor:

A May 29 front-page article, "A Perilous 4,000-Mile Passage to Work," described
the journey of Mexican workers who travel to Farmingville, N.Y., for jobs.

If illegal immigrants are being offered up to $15 an hour to work hard in the
fields or do unskilled jobs in construction, American citizens must not want
this work, even though the wages are more than the fast-food chains pay.

This says a lot about what has happened to the American work ethic. It should
also remind us that there are too many employers who refuse to pay benefits or
workers' compensation.

ALLAN J. FRANK
New York, May 29, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: RICHMOND HILL;
Once Republicans, Guyanese Immigrants Are Now Turning to the Rival Party

BYLINE:  By JIM O'GRADY

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 352 words


Vishnu Mahadeo, a math teacher at a middle school in Ozone Park, leaned across a
booth in the Atlantic Diner on Thursday and talked about his passion:
registering fellow Guyanese to vote in the United States.

Mr. Mahadeo, who came here in 1983 when he was 24, has been signing up new
voters in Richmond Hill recently. He does not care what party they choose, he
said, though he is a Democrat.

Like many immigrants in Queens, Guyanese have lately been flocking to the
Democratic Party. But this was not always so, Mr. Mahadeo said.

In the first wave of Guyanese immigration to New York, between 1970 and 1985,
most Guyanese registered as Republicans. In Richmond Hill, almost half of
registered Republicans are Guyanese, more than any other ethnic group by far.

"We came from a third world country that was once owned by the British," Mr.
Mahadeo said. "We are very Eurocentric in our views."

That, he explained, meant that Guyanese immigrants felt comfortable voting for
candidates of white European origin, and most of those were Republican. He added
that many first-wave Guyanese were entrepreneurs and supported Republican
pro-business views.

Michael DuValle, 47, came to Queens in 1972. Like many other Guyanese, he
started a business and registered Republican. He even ran as a Republican in
1996 and 1998 for the State Assembly in a district that includes part of
Richmond Hill.

Then he switched to the Democrats. Mr. DuValle said he concluded that the
Republican Party was not concerned with the borough's 50,000 Guyanese, or
immigrants in general. "They only ran me as a sacrificial lamb," he said. "If
I'd had a real chance to win, they wouldn't have let me run."

The latest wave of Guyanese immigrants seem to agree with Mr. DuValle, as least
to judge by the numbers that are registering as Democrats.

Mr. Duvalle said Guyanese should fight their way into office by taking on other
Democrats in the primaries. He plans to do just that in September by running for
the State Assembly against the incumbent, Pauline Rhodd-Cummings, a Democrat.

"Queens politics needs some color in it," he said.   JIM O'GRADY

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vishnu Mahadeo has been registering fellow Guyanese voters in
Richmond Hill. (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wells Klein, 74; Worked to Help Refugees

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 271 words


Wells C. Klein, a longtime advocate for the rights of immigrants and refugees
wanting to settle in the United States, died April 5 at his home in Stowe, Vt.
He was 74.

Mr. Klein had spent most of his life reorganizing and reinvigorating groups set
up to help refugees and immigrants. He also fought for stronger legislation to
protect them.

In 1975 he took over the American Council for Nationalities Service, a largely
moribund organization that had originally assisted refugees from Eastern Europe.
He turned it into a major resettlement agency, which helped many of the 130,000
Southeast Asian refugees in the United States after the Vietnam War.

In 1981 he revived another almost inactive body, the U.S. Committee for
Refugees, and absorbed it into the American Council's structure. The committee
now publishes an annual World Refugee Survey. The American Council became the
Immigration and Refugee Services of America.

He worked with Congress on the Refugee Act of 1980, which for the first time
codified the definition of a refugee. In the early 1980's, Mr. Klein helped
establish the National Immigration Forum, an organization promoting the rights
of immigrants and refugees.

Born in New Haven, Mr. Klein served in the Navy during World War II and then
attended Sarah Lawrence College and Cornell University, where he studied
anthropology. He began his career with refugees working for CARE.

Mr. Klein, who never married, is survived by his brother, Malcolm, of Los
Angeles, and his nieces, Laurie Klein of Northboro, Mass., and Leigh Vanderklein
of Montclair, N.J. A memorial service will be held July 12 in Washington.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Wells Klein

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wells Klein, left, with the Rev. Robert Charlesbois discussing
refugees. (Associated Press, 1973)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thai Boy Used by Smugglers Is Subject of Custody Battle

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 3


As 3-year-old Phanupong Khaisri gravitates between snacks and toy cars in the
courtyard of a Hollywood apartment building, there is little evidence of the
young boy who arrived in the United States last year gravely ill and drugged, a
decoy in a human smuggling scheme.

Detained by Immigration and Naturalization Service officials and later placed in
the care of a Thai social service group here, Phanupong was hospitalized for a
week with chickenpox and pneumonia. Doctors later found that he was infected
with H.I.V. The boy has remained in the United States, and as in the case of
Elian Gonzalez, the young Cuban, an international legal struggle is being waged
over whether Phanupong should be returned to his homeland.

The Thai boy's case is to go back before a federal judge on Monday in a hearing
that could clear the way for his return to Thailand and his paternal
grandparents, who say they have adopted him. The boy's father committed suicide,
and his mother, a prostitute who had hired him out to the traffickers, has given
up custody.

Dorothea P. Kraeger, a lawyer who represents the boy's paternal grandparents,
says that the United States may be a better place to live but that from a
personal standpoint, the boy will be better off in Thailand.

"He'll be with his family," Ms. Kraeger said, "people who really love him."

Advocates led by Peter A. Schey, a lawyer who has fought to keep Phanupong in
the United States, citing health and safety concerns, say too many issues remain
unclear.

Among their primary concerns are whether the boy's grandparents are fit
custodians. The grandmother, Sumalee Khaisri, was convicted of heroin
trafficking and served 12 years in a Thai prison. In addition, Mr. Schey said,
the grandfather, Boonlue Khaisri, is not the person named on the birth
certificate of Phanupong's father. Mr. Schey said he intended to challenge the
legality of the adoption.

Beyond such questions, Mr. Schey said he believed Phanupong would not receive
adequate medical care in Thailand, and he expressed concern that the boy might
be used again in trafficking.

Ms. Kraeger said a security plan had been devised to guarantee the boy's safety
if returned to Thailand.

Phanupong came to the United States in April 2000 with a trafficker who was
helping a Chinese woman enter the country illegally. They posed as a couple on
vacation and pretended the boy was their son. The authorities stopped the group
at Los Angeles International Airport, and the two adults were sent to Thailand.

Phanupong was placed in the care of the Thai Community Development Center in Los
Angeles at the request of the Thai Consul General, and Chutima Vucharatavintara,
a social worker at the center, has been caring for him since.

On Monday, government officials say they will tell Judge Dickran Tevrizian of
United States District Court that Phanupong's application for asylum has been
denied, that the grandparents' adoption is legally binding and that the
advocates' suit should be dismissed.

Mr. Schey said he intended to file for a temporary visa under a trafficking act
passed last year by Congress and to challenge the government's denial of asylum
without the case going before an immigration judge.

Phanupong, who takes multiple drugs for H.I.V., will turn 4 this month. He has
grown several inches and put on weight. He goes to preschool, can pick his name
out from letters and contentedly breaks from playing to put his arms around Ms.
Vucharatavintara.

"He's ready to get a permanent placement when everything is ready," Ms.
Vucharatavintara said. "We just must be sure it's the right place."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phanupong Khaisri, 3, is in the care of Chutima
Vucharatavintara, a Los Angeles social worker. (Monica Almeida/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Learn From Ellis Island

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 129 words


To the Editor:

Re "From Germany's East to West, Conservative Tries to Span Gulf" (front page,
June 1):

During her visits in the United States, Angela Merkel, the leader of the
Christian Democrats in Germany, should have stopped at Ellis Island to learn how
this country was built by the work and cultural diversity of generations of
immigrants.

Perhaps then she would be less afraid of the seven million "foreigners" in her
country. Most of them were born in Germany.

Unlike the descendants of immigrants in the United States, they are not
citizens. They do not have the right to vote, but they do have the duty to pay
taxes, contributing to the parliamentary income of Ms. Merkel, who enjoys
promoting xenophobia as a full-time job.

BERND HENDRICKS
New York, June 1, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Retrial Clears Murder Convict on Death Row

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., June 6


A Spanish man who spent three years on death row before his murder conviction
was reversed was found not guilty today in a retrial.

The defendant, Joaquin Martinez, 30, was convicted and sentenced to death in
1997 in the murders of Douglas Lawson and Sherry McCoy at their home near Tampa
in 1995.

The Florida Supreme Court reversed the conviction last year, citing errors by
the prosecution.

Mr. Martinez's death sentence drew protests in Spain, which does not have the
death penalty. Spain's King Juan Carlos and Pope John Paul II appealed for Mr.
Martinez's life to be spared.

Prosecutors said they had an incriminating tape of a conversation between Mr.
Martinez and his former wife in which he discussed the murders. They said Mr.
Martinez wanted money from the victims.

But the trial judge said the recording was inaudible and ruled that the jury
could not hear it.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service took Mr. Martinez into custody to
determine whether he should be deported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant, a Friendly Boy, And a Murder on a Riverbank

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., June 8


As he appeared before a judge today on charges that he murdered a 10-year-old
boy here last month, a Honduran immigrant was described in and out of court as
an apparent illegal alien who had no steady work, little money and, at times, a
chip on his shoulder.

"He's a wise guy," said Chris Pappas, a landlord who said he had often seen the
suspect, Porfirio Jimenez, walking the neighborhood alone and sometimes arguing
with others. Court records show that Mr. Jimenez, 36, a day laborer, has been
arrested three times since December 1998. The first time he was charged with
threatening a man with a paring knife.

On May 20, Mr. Jimenez's life intersected, the authorities say, with that of
Walter Contreras Valenzuela, a friendly and adventurous boy, in a pretty
neighborhood park and playground bordering the Whippany River about 500 feet
from Walter's home. Within hours, the youth was fatally beaten and his body
hidden in dense underbrush on the wooded banks of the Whippany, about a mile
upstream of the park.

Mr. Jimenez was arrested Thursday on charges of kidnapping, sexually assaulting
and murdering the boy. The Morris County prosecutor, John B. Dangler, said he
was leaning toward seeking the death penalty because the victim was under 14
years old and the killing occurred in connection with other crimes.

The authorities say state police scientists matched the DNA of a saliva sample
that Mr. Jimenez voluntarily gave them on Memorial Day with the DNA of semen
stains found on the boy's body and in his underwear.

Investigators started focusing on Mr. Jimenez after the police search dog that
found the boy's body also found a bloody sweater in the neighborhood park.
Acquaintances of Mr. Jimenez said the sweater resembled one that he often wore.

Walter often fished, sometimes with friends, teenagers or adults he encountered
and befriended along the Whippany River, police officials and neighbors have
said. Investigators said today that they were still trying to learn whether the
boy had met Mr. Jimenez before May 20.

For now, investigators seemed to think that the two met that Sunday in the park,
which Mr. Dangler, the prosecutor, called a "point of contact." But he declined
to offer a precise time for the meeting or say if it occurred after 7:30 p.m.,
when Walter was seen at a church carnival about two miles from his home.

As he did when announcing the arrest Thursday night, Mr. Dangler said that
investigators still knew little of Mr. Jimenez's background. During a 10-minute
court hearing today, in which Mr. Jimenez's bail was continued at $2.5 million,
one of Mr. Dangler's assistants, Thomas Critchley, told Judge B. Theodore
Bozonelis that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had not found any
records showing that Mr. Jimenez had entered the United States legally.

Mr. Critchley also said that Mr. Jimenez had used a false Social Security
number. The suspect's lawyer, Dolores Mann, a court-appointed public defender,
did not oppose the $2.5 million bail, calling it a moot issue. "Mr. Jimenez has
virtually no assets," Ms. Mann said.

The slain boy's mother, Eleodora Contreras, and his stepfather, Rolando
Valenzuela, stared forlornly from the front of the spectator gallery at Mr.
Jimenez.

Later, the couple told reporters that they had changed their minds overnight and
now opposed the death penalty for Mr. Jimenez.

"What we want is for him to spend all of his life in prison so that he never
hurts another child again," said Mr. Valenzuela, 44, who called Mr. Jimenez a
"bad person with an evil heart and an evil soul."

In recent months, Mr. Jimenez shared an apartment with his brother, Manuel, and
Manuel's wife and two children, in a two-family house on Sussex Avenue, where
many Hispanic newcomers settled in the 1990's. Through a closed door today,
Manuel Jimenez said only that his family was grieving for the slain boy. "This
is a very painful case for the whole world," he said.

The 1998 death-threat case against Mr. Jimenez was resolved when Mr. Dangler's
office allowed him, as a first-time offender, to enter a one-year probationary
program. He completed the probation in mid-January 2000.

Last June 30, the Morristown police arrested him on a complaint that he had
tried to steal rings off a man's finger. The charge was later dropped as
groundless, Mr. Dangler said today.

Late in February, Mr. Jimenez was charged with soliciting without a permit in
the neighboring town of Hanover after he went door-to-door asking homeowners for
landscaping work. Officials said today that Mr. Jimenez initially refused to
identify himself and was denied bail and held in the local jail for a month.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eleodora Contreras, the mother of a murdered 10-year-old
Morristown boy, heading to court yesterday with a police escort. (Dith Pran/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Insurance From Albany

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 151 words


To the Editor:

Re "Mr. Pataki Broadens Health Insurance" (editorial, June 4):

New Yorkers should hail Gov. George E. Pataki's action in providing insurance
for the working poor and also the recent ruling by the State Court of Appeals
declaring that the state's denial of Medicaid coverage to qualified immigrants
is unconstitutional.

However, a decision last month by a federal appeals court will leave one of the
state's neediest groups with no coverage for prenatal care: undocumented,
pregnant immigrant women.

Prenatal care is essential in reducing the incidence of infant and maternal
mortality and in preventing long-term problems for newborns, their mothers and
their families. New York State must cover the cost of providing prenatal care to
all low-income New Yorkers, including immigrants who are undocumented.

ELLEN RAUTENBERG
President, Medical and
Health Research Association
New York, June 6, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 13, 2001 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Salute to a Rights Campaigner Who Gave Genocide Its Name

BYLINE:    By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 12


One hundred years after his birth, a largely forgotten immigrant from Poland who
coined the word genocide and pushed a convention outlawing it through the
General Assembly is being honored here, thanks to a small human rights institute
in New York campaigning to keep his story alive.

The immigrant, Raphael Lemkin, a legal expert and linguist who died in 1959 at
58, had fought since 1933 to make genocide, which he first labeled a "crime of
barbarity," a recognized and punishable international offense. The convention,
adopted in December 1948, came into force in 1951. The United States did not
ratify it until 1988, in the waning days of the second Reagan administration.

Felice Gaer, director of the Jacob Blaustein Center for the Advancement of Human
Rights, the organization honoring Mr. Lemkin, said that although 132 countries
had now ratified the convention, and genocide is regarded universally as the
worst of offenses, a number of countries where mass crimes against ethnic or
religious groups have been committed in recent decades have not adhered to the
agreement. Among them are Indonesia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Sudan. Overall,
most African countries and more than half a dozen Latin American and Caribbean
nations have not ratified the convention.

On Wednesday at the United Nations, the Clinton administration's ambassador for
war crimes, David Scheffer, and Secretary General Kofi Annan's wife, Nane Annan,
are to speak at the event focusing on Mr. Lemkin's legacy. (Mr. Annan left
Monday night for the Middle East.) Mr. Scheffer was the chief American
negotiator in the establishment of the International Criminal Court, which will
give a legal home for prosecution of genocide, war crimes and crimes against
humanity.

The treaty establishing the court was signed by Mr. Scheffer on behalf of the
United States on Dec. 31, but the Clinton White House did not try to fight for
its adoption in a hostile Congress and against the strong objections of the
Pentagon, which wants a guarantee that no American will ever be tried.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said here after a meeting with Mr. Annan
earlier this year that the Bush administration would never support the court.
United Nations officials say the administration has quietly asked the United
Nations whether it can rescind Washington's signature.

Mr. Lemkin first took up the cause of endangered minorities as a child in
Poland, where he read "Quo Vadis" and became obsessed with images of early
Christians being torn to death by lions in Rome as the crowds cheered, according
to a new biography by William Korey, a writer on human rights topics. Dr. Korey
is on the board of the Blaustein institute, part of the American Jewish
Committee, which paid for Mr. Lemkin's burial in Queens, where he died after a
heart attack.

By 1933, before the world's attention -- and Mr. Lemkin's -- turned to Nazi
Germany, he was known internationally for his battle as a Polish prosecutor to
codify crimes against humanity and against cultural and artistic works of ethnic
groups, among them the Armenians who were the victims of the Ottoman Turks. He
fled Poland for Sweden in 1939 after the German invasion. His parents died in
the Holocaust nearly a decade later, though he did not know their fate for
several years.

By the end of World War II, and with the establishment of the United Nations,
Mr. Lemkin moved to New York to begin his campaign for a genocide convention.

Writing and teaching law intermittently at Duke University and Yale, he lobbied
endlessly and often annoyingly, according to Dr. Korey, until the Genocide
Convention won a place on the United Nations' agenda.

"Genocide" first appeared in 1944, the Oxford English Dictionary says, in a book
by Mr. Lemkin, "Axis Rule in Occupied Europe," which was published in the United
States by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He told his
contemporaries that he had stumbled on the idea while reading Plato, who used
the Greek word genos to describe a clan or ethnic group.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2001



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about Raphael Lemkin, the legal scholar who
coined the word "genocide," misstated the interval between his flight from
Poland and his parents' death in the Holocaust. While Mr. Lemkin did not know
when they died, the interval could not have been nearly a decade. He fled in
1939, six years before the end of World War II.

An article yesterday about Raphael Lemkin, the legal scholar who coined the word
"genocide," misstated the interval between his flight from Poland and his
parents' death in the Holocaust. While Mr. Lemkin did not know when they died,
the interval could not have been nearly a decade. He fled in 1939, six years
before the end of World War II.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Immigrant Chinese, a Hard Lesson in an Old Ruse

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1000 words


Barely scraping by after arriving from Fujian, China, in the 1990's, Shenghua
Cao and his wife, Chunying Chen, paid $800 to a company in Queens to cut through
red tape and get his niece an American visa.

But about two weeks ago, they found an empty office in Flushing where they and
other recent Chinese immigrants say they paid $400 to $22,000 to Kaitong Inc. to
use the company's insider knowledge and special connections on immigration.

At least 539 people were bilked by the firm's Chinese owner over the last 18
months, according to Sihan Zhou, who has become a leader of those cheated.

"This happens in the immigrant communities all the time," said Sue Rheem, a
director of Asian Americans for Equality, a New York-based advocacy group. But
she said the case was one of the most extreme. "This is definitely one of the
biggest cases I've encountered, in terms of the amount of money and the number
of people involved," she said.

But there was nothing unusual about the ruse that Kaitong is accused of
perpetrating. The owner, listed as Ding Gang Xie, advertised heavily in
Chinese-language newspapers that are popular with new immigrants.

Mr. Xie told a tale of insider connections, many of his customers said. He would
point to a photo of China's president, Jiang Zemin, with an elderly man who he
said was his grandfather, Mr. Jiang's beloved teacher. And frequently, his
employees showed clients a photo of Mr. Xie in a crowd with Hillary Rodham
Clinton, boasting of his rapport with the former first family.

According to receipts and contracts provided by the victims, the customers paid
him hundreds and thousands of dollars, depending on the kind of visa requested
and the customer's ability to bargain. Most seem to have paid between $1,000 and
$2,500. In exchange, they received contracts promising that their relatives
would sail through the application process and get B-1 (business) or F-1
(student) visas in three months. But customers say they received nothing for
their money or trust.

"They were very good at coming up with excuses," said a 22-year-old woman who
said she was in the country illegally.

"They told me the American consulates in Beijing and Shanghai were shuffling
personnel," she said. "Then they said the Americans were busy electing the
president, so they didn't have time to give out visas. Then they said the
American spy plane crashed with a Chinese plane, and the Americans were so mad
that they were not giving out any visas. They always sent me away with some kind
of explanation."

No one answered repeated telephone calls to Mr. Xie's home last week, nor did
anyone reply to messages left on his beeper. There was no response at his door
in Queens last night.

The Queens district attorney's office would not discuss the case or acknowledge
involvement. But John Watts, chief of staff for City Councilwoman Julia
Harrison, said that her office was working with the district attorney's office
on the matter.

New immigrants are an easy target for the unscrupulous. In many cases, they
speak little English and know little about immigration laws. Even when they
learn that they have been duped, many do not know whom to turn to. And those
here illegally are fearful of coming forward.

As a result, the swindlers often get away. In one case last year, almost 1,000
Chinese living in Brooklyn and Manhattan each paid up to $750 to become
naturalized citizens.

But prosecutors have won some cases. A South African citizen, Curtis Van
Stuyvesant, who prosecutors said bilked 300 people of $350,000, was sentenced to
20 to 61 years after being convicted of grand larceny and unauthorized practice
of law in Manhattan in 1999. In another case, William John Newman of Queens was
sentenced to three years of probation in January 2000 for posing as a lawyer
with a practice directed at immigration issues.

In the Kaitong case, details of the extent of the operation have come from a
large envelope left anonymously at the Kaitong office for the victims. It
contained information about the victims, including names, telephone numbers and
amounts paid to the firm. More than 500 people were listed.

Kaitong operated out of a three-room, second-floor office at 36-55 Main Street
in Flushing. The landlord said he was owed $10,000 in back rent but was letting
the victims use the space free to organize. Last Saturday, close to 100 of the
immigrants were there.

"I cannot sleep; I cannot eat," said a man who would identify himself only by
his last name, Bao. Mr. Bao, 47, said he had paid Kaitong $1,000 to bring his
21-year-old son to the United States on a student visa. Gaunt and deeply
wrinkled, he said he can get work only three or four days a week in a garment
factory because production is increasingly shifting to Asia. "It's not easy to
save up the $1,000," he said.

As the victims bemoaned their lost xue han qian -- money earned with blood and
sweat -- emotions flared.

Someone blurted: "I don't even care about money now. I would be willing to pay
an extra $10,000 if anyone can find this guy and beat him up."

But most wanted to find a more legal recourse. And still unresolved is the issue
that first brought them to Kaitong: getting a visa. The immigrants do not know
if the company actually submitted applications for their loved ones.

Officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the State
Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs said they were unaware of the Kaitong
customers' complaints and did not know whether the applications had been
submitted.

Advocacy groups for immigrants noted that while legitimate agencies, including
many that do not charge a fee, help immigrants sort through the bureaucracy of
visa applications, only federal officials can make good on the kind of
guarantees promised in ads by companies.

"There is no such thing as 100 percent guarantee regarding visas or green
cards," said Christopher Rodriguez, an immigration service spokesman. "Only the
I.N.S. or the American embassies and consulates have the ultimate authority."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chunying Chen, with her daughter. Her husband paid $800 to
quickly get his niece a visa.; More than 500 people paid Ding Gang Xie and
submitted their photos to his office in Flushing, Queens, in hopes of securing
American visas. (Photographs by Richard Lee for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Exodus of Migrant Families Is Bleeding Mexico's Heartland

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1403 words

DATELINE: CASA BLANCA, Mexico


The quaint houses on Pancho Villa Street tell lies with their fresh coats of
paint, rooftop satellite dishes and swing sets out back.

Almost no one lives here anymore.

The families -- usually fathers first, followed years later by their wives and
children -- have been swept north by the desperate torrent that carries floods
of immigrants to the United States, leaving widening swaths of central Mexico
abandoned.

Most of the 3,300 people who left Casa Blanca in the last decade moved to Tulsa,
Okla. Fewer than 2,500 remain in this desert village, which is nearly 250 miles
northwest of Mexico City, and many of them speak of their home as a ghost town.

Only two families are left on Pancho Villa Street, a curvy dirt road that winds
off the main square.

Everyone else has gone. The university-trained agronomist, who migrated to Tulsa
10 years ago, had built the pink house on the corner for his wife and three
children. But on his annual visit home two years ago, the
scholar-turned-bricklayer packed up and took his family north.

The woman who lived in the mint green house left to tend to her grandchildren.
There are towels neatly hanging on a rack in her bathroom, and silk flowers on
her dresser.

"The question we always ask is, 'Will our community survive?' " said Gonzalo
Llamas Bernal.

For generations, many farmers made temporary forays up north and sent money
home. But now a shift in migration patterns has squeezed parts of this country's
rural core to the verge of extinction. With a growing American law enforcement
presence on the border, illegal crossings have become so difficult -- and even
deadly -- that many migrants and their families choose to stay in the United
States, rather than to risk a repeated crossing, migration experts say.

And if the trend continues, the kinetic links that migrants have maintained with
their home communities may begin to burn out.

The exodus is hitting central Mexican states hard, ones like Jalisco, Zacatecas
and Michoacan. That state reported that the number of migrants leaving for the
United States has increased to some 50,000 people each year. About half of them
move permanently to the United States, and more Michoacanos currently live in
California, Illinois and Texas than in their homeland.

About 30,000 people migrate north each year from Casa Blanca and other towns in
the drought-plagued state of Zacatecas, where the phenomenon suffuses politics,
music and childhood dreams.

A teacher in Casa Blanca said enrollment had declined from 500 students in 1989
to 100 students this school year. The students who do not move north with their
parents often make the journey on their own once they finish sixth grade, he
said.

A group of third graders at the school, named for the revolutionary Emiliano
Zapata, did not seem worried about the prospect of a Mexico abandoned by all its
children.

Alfredo Navario, an 8-year-old with gelled-back hair, shrugged his shoulders and
said, "Others will be born."

If the migrants were relocating to Mexican cities, rather than the United
States, the abandonment of villages like Casa Blanca would seem little more than
an inevitable progression because declining federal agricultural subsidies have
made it hard for the farming industry to support large numbers of small growers.
But migration is a multibillion-dollar venture for Mexico.

Immigrants send home an estimated $6.3 billion each year. That money -- the
nation's third largest source of income, behind oil and tourism -- has not only
provided relatives money for food, clothing and medicine. Migrants also pooled
their money and filled in for strapped or corrupt local governments by
supporting public works projects that ranged from paving streets and installing
potable-water systems to refurbishing churches and furnishing classrooms with
computers.

Rodolfo Garcia Zamora, a migration expert at the Autonomous University of
Zacatecas, estimated that Zacatecas received about $1 million in remittances
each day, an amount that is greater than the money this state receives from the
national government.

Migration experts worry that having entire families and villages transplanted
north of the border could pose serious economic consequences because incentives
to send money home could wane.

"Money from remittances contributes significantly to the political and economic
stability of the state," Dr. Garcia said. "And if the current trends continue,
there could be deep recessions in Zacatecas and in much of north-central
Mexico."

While he has been a vocal advocate for making the United States-Mexico border
more open to the free flow of Mexican workers, President Vicente Fox, in office
seven months, has also said that he aims to carry out projects that would help
lift rural areas out of poverty to encourage more Mexicans to stay home. Last
week, he inaugurated a micro-lending program aimed at supporting homespun
businesses in the poorest regions of the country. And through a cabinet-level
office devoted to the needs of Mexicans abroad, the Fox administration hopes to
obtain investments from migrants in the United States for educational and
economic projects.

So far, the effects of the trend have left deceiving mirages across states like
Michoacan and Zacatecas. Villages flush with American dollars have many of the
trappings of gentrification: adobe hovels have been transformed into two-story
brick houses; crumbling churches, some dating to the 16th century, have been
restored; new benches and brightly painted litter bins have been placed around
town squares. But up close, the comfortable images give way to distress. The
houses, the pews and the park benches are empty.

Of the 2,200 people who lived in the Michoacan village of Huacao 10 years ago,
only 400 remain -- nearly all of them are women, children too young to trek
across the border, or elderly people who feel too weary. To them, the United
States is a place called "over there." And when they talk about it, their voices
drone with abandonment.

"My husband does not want to take us with him because most of our children are
too young," said 33-year-old Consuelo Cortes, whose husband, parents and seven
siblings have all left Huacao for California. "To keep myself from feeling sad,
I devote a lot of time to taking care of the house. I grow a little bit of corn,
and I take care of my pigs.

"That is my entertainment," she went on. "I spend time with my animals."

Ventura Vega, a 60-year-old grandfather, said all 11 of his children had moved
their families to California. He said that after the children were born he
supported them by migrating for six months every year to pick apples in
Washington. It was the only way to keep the family fed, he said.

Nothing has changed for families since then.

"Everyone is leaving," he said. "Just look in all the houses and you see that
there's no one. Once we had a group of musicians that performed in the plaza.
Even they have gone. And now we are left with no music."

Migrants from these regions have traveled to the United States for so long that
people talk about illegally crossing an international border as if it were a
weekend getaway. News about the 14 immigrants who died from exposure in the
Arizona desert in May stirred little public panic in Zacatecas because, people
said, such tragedies happen rarely to migrants from this state.

Mario Garcia, mayor of a Zacatecas migrant community called El Cargadero, said
most people who go have reliable guides -- their fathers, brothers, and uncles
who are part of informal community "social networks" -- and they take routes
that have been tested by time.

"Sometimes our people get caught by the migra," Mayor Garcia said, "but they
just keep trying until they get across."

However, the mayor sounded a rare note of anger about the flight of all his
constituents. The farmers who stay, he said, often have to import workers from
states farther south because people in Zacatecas refuse to work for average
Mexican wages. Small assembly plants in the state have been forced to close
because they could not find workers who would accept $4-a-day wages.

"The people here can make more money by staying at home and waiting for a check
from the United States, so many of them do not work," said Pedro Chavez, who
runs a pig farm in the area. "At least they do not want to work in Mexico.

"People here have one thing in mind," he said with a scowl, "and that is to go
to the United States."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Empty streets in Guadalupe, in rural central Mexico, attest to
the flood of families who have swept north and stayed in the last decade.;
Children in a class in Zacatecas, where many leave after sixth grade.
(Photographs by Arturo Fuentes for The New York Times)(pg. 8) Map of Mexico
highlighting Casa Blanca: Most of those from Casa Blanca have moved to Tulsa,
Okla. (pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

COUNTY LINES;
Father's Day Labor

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 678 words


FATHER'S DAY? It's really no big deal to Tony Sosa, 28, who admits, "I was
always a bit of a mama's boy." Mr. Sosa, a Mount Kisco resident by way of Los
Angeles by way of Mexico, is waiting for a van to pull over and offer him a
day's work.

It's 7 a.m. and he has been waiting since 5.

Mr. Sosa, who introduced himself as "Tony Sosa, like in Sammy," is at Neighbors
Link, a nonprofit community center for immigrants on Columbus Lane in Mount
Kisco. Up to 150 day laborers gather here each day in the hope that a
contractor, landscaper or homeowner will pull in and roll down their window with
a cash offer for a day's work.

As they wait, the immigrants, almost all South American, play pool and foosball,
watch television, sit on the curb or talk. On rainy days, when only about 15 of
them find work, Neighbors Link offers English classes and other services.

Mr. Sosa is not particular about the type of work he lands. He'll dig holes,
weed, lay down lime, cart construction waste or build a stone wall. Provided no
rain comes and the vans do, Mr. Sosa will be working on Father's Day too.

"See," he explained, "I never really had a father figure."

There were, of course, a number of uncles and also a brother and, whether he
finds work today or not, he'll try to call them all. They live in California,
Chicago and back in Mexico, where Mr. Sosa's father died only weeks before he
was born.

Mr. Sosa, who was "the baby one in the family," was sent to live with his
grandmother so his mother could go to Los Angeles and create a better life
before sending for him. But when Mr. Sosa's grandmother died, his mother came
back to Mexico and took him to Los Angeles.

It wasn't until five years ago that Mr. Sosa came to Mount Kisco, beckoned by
his girlfriend. "But," he said with a rueful smile, "right after I came here,
she dumped me." Not knowing anyone, he got a job working at a deli, where he
learned to cook.

"I make meals now," he said, "I used to eat at McDonald's all day every day. But
now that I can cook, I hate McDonald's."

When the deli closed, Mr. Sosa turned to day labor.

The life of a day laborer is not rife with leisure time, but Mr. Sosa tries to
get into Manhattan once a month to see museums or go to the Empire State
Building, which he has visited many times. He also collects action figures:
"Star Wars, G.I. Joes, I've got a bunch. I got a few Star Wars when I was little
and then, why not?"

As Mr. Sosa speaks, a man nearby sings a song that keeps winding back to a
refrain of "Gracias a Dios," another man weaves a leather bracelet and two more
stare at a schedule of eagerly anticipated soccer games: Bolivia versus
Venezuela, Trinidad and Tobago versus Honduras, and Uruguay versus Brazil.

All are waiting for work and most want to work on Father's Day.

"We can't do much on Father's Day because every father is in another country,"
said Danilo Contreras, the hiring site coordinator at Neighbors Link. He is 23
and from Guatemala.

Eleodoro Colin, 36, is also from Guatemala, where he was a teacher. He will be
working on Father's Day too, to send money back to his three children.

"Everybody does that," Mr. Contreras explained. "We all work to send money back
to the family."

Immigration is what the pundits call a substantive issue, the type that merits
big-notion editorials and multiple pages in political platforms. Everyone has a
position on the subject, though a survey of many hard-liners may reveal a
grandfather or great-grandfather who risked all to come to America, where they
stood roadside for day work.

Last one in close the door, please.

But Mr. Sosa's daily focus is far removed from the larger themes of the debate.
He only wants work, and if it's on Father's Day, that doesn't matter.

Mother's Day, of course, is an entirely different matter for a man who admits to
being a mama's boy.

He'll never forget the one that just passed.

"My mother," Mr. Sosa explained, "she had died three months before." There was a
catch in Mr. Sosa's voice as he said this, though he still stood, as he had
since 5 a.m., waiting for that van.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

MONEY & MEDICINE;
Patients Without a Country: Who Pays?

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER;  Jennifer Steinhauer covers health care for The
Times. Her column on the economics of health care appears the third Sunday of
each month. E-mail: jestei@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 777 words


ANY minute now, the men and women of Congress will hunker down to discuss
prescription-drug benefits under Medicare, and the rights that Americans should
have if they are enrolled in H.M.O.'s.

In the meantime, however, a more complicated insurance problem is brewing, with
serious public health implications, and few lawmakers have been willing to take
it up: Who should pay for the health insurance of immigrants?

A provision of the welfare reform law of 1996 barred immigrants who arrived
after that year from receiving Medicaid, the health insurance program for the
indigent, during their first five years in the United States.

There may be little political impetus to change that portion of the law, but
economic and public health issues have undeniably risen from it. New census
figures show that one of every 10 people now living in the United States is
foreign-born, the highest level since the 1930's, and cities with declining
populations are trying to figure out how to attract some of those immigrants to
stem labor shortages. But denying government insurance programs to immigrants at
a time when more employers are considering backing away from health benefits in
general seems to contradict this municipal bear hug.

There is ample evidence that immigrants who work are underinsured, compared with
the rest of the nation. A new study from the Commonwealth Fund, a health care
research foundation, found that among full-time workers in 1999, some 80 percent
of whites and 75 percent of blacks in general received health-care coverage from
their employers, versus only half of Hispanic immigrants.

The study also found that among the Hispanic population, half of those born
outside the United States were uninsured in 1997, versus one-fourth of those
born in the country.

And the issue of who will foot the bill for requisite care for even illegal
immigrants can be murky.

Last year, a 14-year-old illegal immigrant showed up at the door of Kings County
Hospital Center, a public hospital in Brooklyn, needing a liver transplant,
without which he would have died. The hospital does not perform transplants, so
Kings County Hospital started calling medical centers around the city that did.
All refused him because he was not insured, according to a complaint filed by
New York's public hospital system with the Health Care Finance Administration.
When the public hospital agreed to enroll the boy in its own managed care
program, which would no doubt suffer a loss on this procedure, doors opened. The
insurance kicked in at midnight, and Mount Sinai Hospital took him in at 3 a.m.
and performed the transplant.

Kings County could not have turned him away. Under federal law, hospitals are
required to stabilize any patient who enters the emergency room. But does
"stabilizing" include a liver transplant? And if not, who is supposed to pay for
it?

The economic fallout from such questions tends to land on the public hospitals
and clinics around the country, which labor under low reimbursement rates for
primary care and treat many uninsured patients in their emergency rooms. In
turn, these hospitals tend to look to the government for increased help or to
close clinics at which they lose money.

This month, the New York State Court of Appeals ruled that the state had
violated the state Constitution by going along with the federal government in
denying Medicaid benefits to legal immigrants. But it is likely that other
states will still not choose to pay to insure this group.

Offering public health insurance, even at small premiums, to at least those
immigrants who pay taxes has some universal benefits. The cost of treating the
sickest uninsured eventually comes back to the general population through tax
increases passed on as subsidies to hospitals, or through higher insurance
premiums.

AND the fact is, whether immigrants import health problems or become sick more
often because they lack regular medical care, public health threats can stem
from the uninsured in general. Children who lack immunization can spread
disease, as was seen last year in a rubella outbreak in the South.

Many uninsured people work in service industries, said Judy Wessler, director of
the Commission on the Public's Health System, a health care advocacy
organization. "If they do not have access to health care services and have
direct contact with lots of people, illnesses can be spread," she said, citing
restaurants and other food outlets as obvious examples.

Barring a prudent change in the welfare law, legislators in search of pork
projects could consider a special line item that would insure immigrants. Maybe
the Frozen Yogurt Stand Improvement Act?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 20, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why Juan Won't Save;
Financial Services Industry Fails to Reach Many Hispanics

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1732 words


Guadalupe Avita has been living in the United States for 10 years, but only
recently opened a bank account.

An immigrant from Sinaloa, Mexico, Ms. Avita used to keep thousands of dollars
in her home in the Los Angeles area. Without proper documentation for
identification -- like a Social Security number -- she assumed it would be
impossible to open a bank account. After her sister was robbed, Ms. Avita, a
single mother, was fearful that she, too, would lose her savings. "I always
worried," she said.

Then, three months ago, a local advocate for Hispanics told her she could apply
for a taxpayer identification number, which some banks will accept instead of a
Social Security number as a form of identification. The Internal Revenue Service
does not share data about those who apply for a taxpayer ID with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, a spokesman for the agency said. Using the ID, Ms.
Avita was able to open a bank account at a local branch of Washington Mutual.

Increasingly, banks and credit card companies are seeking ways to reach recent
immigrants like Ms. Avita, as well as more established middle-class Hispanics,
who tend to be less likely to invest than the average American, according to
government statistics and other studies.

But many financial institutions' efforts at selling themselves to Hispanics are
limited to translating brochures into Spanish, sponsoring the occasional Cinco
de Mayo celebration and other half-hearted efforts that have yet to capture the
attention of Hispanics.

Few institutions realize that a more subtle approach is required, advocates and
marketing experts say. Hispanics are, after all, a diverse group: a pitch that
appeals to Mexicans, the largest subgroup, could fall flat with Cuban
immigrants. And, advertising and banking executives said, many Hispanics arrive
in the United States with a bias against banks, thanks to corruption or
instability among financial institutions in their homelands.

It is easy to see why banks are interested in Hispanics. They are the
fastest-growing ethnic group in the United States in terms of sheer numbers. The
Hispanic population grew 58 percent from 1990 to 2000, while the overall
population increased 13 percent, according to the Census Bureau.

Yet relatively few banks or credit card companies have won over Hispanic
consumers, advertising and marketing executives say. Fewer than half of all
Hispanics have credit cards, according to recent data from MasterCard
International, compared with 80 percent for the population over all. A 1997
report by the comptroller of the currency noted that 58 percent of Hispanic
households had deposit accounts with banks or brokers, compared with 71 percent
of black households and 93 percent of white households.

To a growing number of banks, that gap means opportunity for gain. Wells Fargo
demonstrated its commitment to Hispanic customers last month, when it agreed to
accept an identity card issued by the Mexican consulate in Austin, Tex., as a
valid form of identification. Since the program began on May 2, more than 250
accounts have been opened, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman said.

Citigroup followed up less than two weeks later when it agreed to buy Grupo
Financiero Banamex-Accival, Mexico's second-biggest bank, for $12.5 billion. It
hopes to knit together a powerful financial institution on both sides of the
border.

"The Banamex deal is huge," said Adriana De La Mora, a Chicago stockbroker
affiliated with Salomon Smith Barney, a division of Citigroup. "I can't even
comprehend how this will all roll out in the months ahead."

Even with Banamex, however, Citigroup faces a challenge. Ms. De La Mora, a
32-year-old native of Guadalajara, Mexico, said she has had a hard time
attracting Hispanic brokerage clients, despite her close ties to Mexicans in
Chicago.

"When I started in the brokerage business four years ago, I thought it would be
easy to get these accounts," she said. Instead, Hispanics amount to fewer than
10 percent of her customers.

One reason for that disappointing performance is that Hispanics were largely
left out of last decade's economic boom even as they became more visible. Partly
because newer, poorer immigrants dragged down the whole group, the average
Hispanic household's net worth actually fell 24 percent from 1995 to 1998 -- the
most recent figures available -- according to an analysis of Federal Reserve
data by the National Council of La Raza, an advocacy group.

To attract more Hispanic savers, banks need to hire professionals in communities
where Hispanics tend to live, marketing experts say. "At a time when banks are
trying to move away from the branch, Hispanic customers still require a softer
touch," said Simon El Hage, director of strategic marketing at Lopez Negrete, a
communications firm in Houston that has developed campaigns for Bank of America.

Hispanics generally prefer direct contact, said Mr. El Hage, and new immigrants
particularly need a person to explain savings and investment choices to them.
"The branch employee is part ambassador, part social worker," he said.

To try to meet that preference for the personal service available through branch
banking, one bank that caters to Hispanics, Banco Popular, has expanded to 96
branches from just 10 branches in 1989. Banco Popular, which is based in Puerto
Rico, operates in six states with large Hispanic populations -- California,
Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas.

"Many Latinos say they do everything on the Internet. But in greater proportions
to the population over all, they like to go to the branch," said Jorge A.
Junquera, president of the bank's North American operations.

Even established middle-class Hispanics are often wary of banks. Those whose
families have moved to the United States relatively recently have memories of a
precarious banking industry in their home countries.

In Mexico, for example, banks were nationalized by the government in 1982, and
then privatized as part of a $100 billion bailout just over a decade later. That
spawned widespread uncertainty. "Anything connected with the government was not
to be trusted," said Silvia Malo, an account director with Reynardus & Moya, an
ad agency that specializes in pitching to Hispanics.

Ms. Malo, who arrived in the United States three and a half years ago from
Mexico City, has been working on a campaign for the LaSalle Bank of Chicago, a
subsidiary of ABM Amro of the Netherlands. "More important than translating
deposit forms into Spanish is developing a sense of trust," she said.

The biggest challenge for banks, Hispanic advocates say, is to attract the huge
number of illegal immigrants who do not have bank accounts.

"Money is money, whether it comes from an immigrant or not," said Felipe Kofman,
a Los Angeles advocate who has helped hundreds of immigrants, including Ms.
Avita, open bank accounts.

Immigration officials estimates that there are five million illegal immigrants
in this country, but the number may be far higher, according to Luis Plascencia,
associate director of the Texas office of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, a
nonprofit policy and research organization.

Illegal immigrants are often singled out by criminals, who know they are likely
to have cash on hand because they do not use banks and are unlikely to go to the
police for fear of being deported. In Austin last year, for example, nearly half
of all reported robbery victims were Hispanic, the police said, far above their
share of the population.

Credit card companies have their own hurdles in marketing to Hispanic consumers:
many lack credit histories.

Those who do have such histories are ideal candidates because they typically are
quicker to pay their debts than the average American, said Michele Turkel, a
credit card industry consultant in Scarsdale, N.Y. And their ratio of delinquent
loans to total debt outstanding is half that of borrowers generally, she said.

For Hispanics without a credit history, banks are offering secured credit cards,
which are backed by a set amount that the customer deposits in a bank. If the
customer fails to pay his bill in 60 days, the bank can use the money to pay the
outstanding debts.

"After these customers prove themselves, we graduate them to regular unsecured
cards," said Joseph Hoffman, head of marketing at the Metris Companies, a
financial services company in Minnetonka, Minn.

Metris, which decided three years ago to focus on the Hispanic market, has
worked carefully to win consumers' loyalty. It started out offering a credit
card to customers at La Curacao, a Los Angeles home furnishings and electronics
retailer that caters to the Hispanic market.

Last year, Metris bought the credit card portfolio of Banco Popular. "The next
step is to build our own brand from scratch," Mr. Hoffman said.

Metris is working with MasterCard, the most aggressive marketer to Hispanics
among the major credit card operations. Last December, MasterCard introduced a
Spanish-language Web site and is trying to have other companies like Metris
market to Hispanic consumers through the site.

Both banks and credit card companies need to be mindful of cultural or
linguistic differences among Hispanic groups. Financial institutions, for
example, have learned not to hire telephone representatives with Cuban accents
to call Mexican-Americans. "We use a Walter Cronkite-type accent," said William
Bralye, who runs Hispanic marketing at Wells Fargo.

And Spanish words can take on different meanings from country to country. Astrid
Rial, president of Arial International, a consulting firm in University Place,
Wash., focuses on teaching companies what she calls "business Spanish."

"We try to teach people to speak neutral Spanish," she said. "The accent is not
as big a concern as using the right words."

Of course, Hispanics might respond better to the banks' pitches if there were
more Hispanics employed by the financial services industry, some executives
said. A survey by the Securities Industry Association estimated that just 3
percent of Wall Street professionals are Hispanic. Ms. De La Mora, the Smith
Barney broker, said fewer than 1 percent of her colleagues at Salomon Smith
Barney were Hispanic.

"The financial services industry has to develop a Hispanic hiring initiative,"
said Mr. El Hage, the Houston ad executive. "You can have dozens of branches,
but if the staff can't relate to their customers, it's use

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wells Fargo redesigned this branch office in South Gate,
Calif., to try to attract more business among Hispanics.; Hispanics are not only
less likely than other Americans are to entrust their money to banks and
brokerage firms, they are also less likely to be employed by them. Adriana De La
Mora, a broker in Chicago, says fewer than 1 percent of her colleagues at
Salomon Smith Barney are Hispanic. (Above, Stephanie Diani for The New York
Times; Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. C1); One bank that caters to
Hispanics is Banco Popular, which is based in Puerto Rico. This branch office is
on Castle Hill Avenue in the Bronx. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. C17)
Chart: "Bank Shy"Households with deposit accounts (savings, checking, money
market or brokerage accounts): All households: 88%Hispanic: 58%Black: 71%Asian:
86%White: 93% Workers who are very confident they will have enough money to live
comfortably in retirement: All workers: 22%Hispanics: 13%Blacks: 23%Asians:
33%(Sources: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 1997; Employee Benefit
Research Institute, 2001)(pg. C1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Both Jailer and Parent To a Child Without a Nation

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 18


For more than 13 months, an 8-year-old Nigerian girl with pigtails and a
thousand-watt smile has been held in custody here by immigration officials,
abandoned by relatives after she arrived alone in the United States and now
trapped in a legal limbo.

The girl, nicknamed Fega, celebrates the rites of childhood in a squat,
mustard-colored building that serves as an emergency shelter for unaccompanied
immigrant children who have slipped into the country illegally by crossing
borders or landing at airports with false papers.

In October, shelter officials surprised Fega with a special cake on her
birthday. Last week, she graduated from a kindergarten class taught here. And
almost every night for more than a year, someone has read her a bedtime story.

She has no family to speak of. She gets no mail or phone calls. Her friendships
with children here are fleeting. Since Fega arrived 406 days ago, almost 350
youngsters have come and gone, most reuniting with relatives. The average stay
is 16 days.

But Fega is still here, watching all this like a tiny windswept island in a
swirling sea, wondering when her turn will come. Time seems to be taking a toll
on the child, who has been here so long that shelter officials say she has
learned some Spanish, Creole, Chinese and English from the children that pass
her by.

"She used to ask me, 'When am I leaving?' " said Christina M. Kleiser, a lawyer
with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center who represents Fega and visits her on
Wednesdays. "She doesn't ask me that anymore."

For months, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has sought a relative,
here or abroad, to take in the girl, whose father no longer wants her and whose
mother has vanished, fearing deportation if she steps from the shadows to claim
her.

Fega's plight is hardly unique among the thousands of unaccompanied children,
infants to teenagers, detained annually by the immigration agency, which assumes
complete control over their lives as it seeks to deport them for entering the
country illegally.

Over the last year, immigrant advocates say, a 7-year-old girl from India was
detained for eight months in a shelter near San Diego. A 16-year-old boy from
China spent more than a year in detention in Chicago and Texas. A 16-year-old
boy from Liberia spent 18 months in Pennsylvania jails, before he was granted
asylum. Immigration officials say these cases are exceptions.

Acting as both caregiver and captor for roughly 500 children on any given day,
the immigration service is caught in an untenable conflict of interest, critics
say.

"The I.N.S. is playing two irreconcilable roles with these children: one as
their caregiver and another as the law enforcement agency seeking their
deportation," said Wendy Young, head of government relations and United States
programs for the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, a private,
nonprofit advocacy group.

The detention of immigrant children at shelters and juvenile jails across the
country has seized the attention of Congress and legal groups. Legislation is
pending in both the House and Senate to create an Office of Children's Services
within the Department of Justice.

As the number of children in detention has soared to 4,600 from 2,400 in 1997,
pilot programs are springing up in states like Arizona to ensure that all
children in the immigration agency's custody get a lawyer.

The children have the right to speak to a lawyer, if they can hire one or find
one, like Ms. Kleiser, to work free. Information is posted on bulletin boards,
and Ms. Kleiser is constantly on the lookout for newly arrived children who
might need her help. But many children cannot find legal help, and end up being
deported after trying to defend themselves in immigration court against seasoned
I.N.S. lawyers, immigrant advocates say.

"This girl's story is just one of far too many cases in which bureaucracy trumps
compassion, logic and the moral and legal obligation of this country to protect
children," said Senator Bob Graham of Florida, a Democrat who has contacted the
I.N.S. on the girl's behalf.

The conflict over the best interests of detained children is especially apparent
in Fega's case.

For months, Ms. Kleiser has urged the immigration agency to allow a state
juvenile court judge to review Fega's file and decide whether to place her in
foster care. Ms. Kleiser said her own agency has identified an African family in
the Miami area who would be perfect.

But immigration officials here denied Ms. Kleiser's request in January, citing a
confusing series of claims from purported aunts, uncles and cousins, as well as
a suspicion that Fega's parents were faking her abandonment to secure her
permanent residency in a better life in America, even if with foster parents.

Immigrant advocates say the I.N.S. sees dark plots where none exist, and are
letting their law enforcement bias interfere with Fega's well-being. "They're
not child-welfare experts," said Ms. Kleiser, whose agency has handled 23,000
immigrant cases since its founding five years ago.

In fact, the immigration service's juvenile coordinator in Florida, Dean Caputo,
was a sports trainer and Marine Corps security guard before he became a
deportation officer nearly three years ago.

By last month, even senior lawyers at I.N.S. headquarters in Washington said
that enough was enough and recommended that Fega be granted a special visa for
abandoned children, allowing her to be placed in foster care.

But detention officials here and in Washington said no, although they may soon
relent.

"We want to try one more time to locate and identify the parents," said David J.
Venturella, a senior detention official at the agency's headquarters. "We are
going to put some closure on this."

To keep up the pressure, Ms. Kleiser is seeking asylum for Fega on the grounds
of abandonment. A hearing is set for Aug. 7.

Much of Fega's story, like that of many illegal immigrants and asylum seekers,
is murky. This is what her lawyer and immigration officials say they know:

She arrived by herself at Kennedy International Airport in New York on May 8
last year aboard a Lufthansa Airlines flight from Nigeria via Frankfurt.
Immigration inspectors quickly determined her passport and visa were fake. When
no one claimed her, inspectors whisked Fega away to airport detention.

Hours later, a woman arrived at the airport claiming to be Fega's mother but
disappeared when she discovered the girl was gone. The next day, the immigration
agency received a letter signed by the purported mother stating: "Sorry I cannot
come to meet you. As I have no legal status in this country, I am afraid to
come. Please return my child to my family in Nigeria."

But a man in Nigeria who says he is Fega's father has told caseworkers that he
does not want the child back.

So on May 9 a year ago Fega's life began at the 32-bed shelter here called
Boystown, which is run by the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Miami
under contract to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Fega was sent here
from New York because authorities believed it was the best setting for her and
there was space available.

As shelters go, Boystown ranks near the top, immigrant advocates say. The
government pays $157 a day per child. There are two dormitories, called cottages
by the shelter officials, one for boys and another for girls and all children
under 10. The buildings are light and airy, with small bedrooms flanking a
living room. There are no bars on the windows, and most doors are unlocked, yet
the shelter prides itself on having only a small number of runaways each year.

The children receive new clothes and three meals a day. They study math, history
and science with Miami public-school teachers who specialize in teaching
students who speak no English.

Almost immediately, shelter workers said, Fega stood out among the children from
places like Cuba, Haiti and China, who range in age from 2 to 17.

"When she first came, she was very hyper and was identified as having
attention-deficit disorder," said Francisco Brizuela, Boystown's administrator.
"But she was very smart. There's something amazing about her. She's always
smiling, always hugging."

Indeed, when a visitor and photographer arrived at breakfast, Fega rushed to
embrace them, a huge smile spreading over her face. She nodded shyly in response
to questions, but did not talk.

Fega was just getting over a bout of chicken pox, which turned out to be a mixed
blessing. She had to stay in her room to avoid the other children, but that also
meant extra care from shelter workers who read to her and brought a television
into her room. "She loved the extra attention," Mr. Brizuela said. "She felt
like a queen."

This is a girl who shelter officials say loves to paint pictures (a yellow
ladybug drawn on a paper plate adorns the dormitory bulletin board), watch "Toy
Story" on video and gobble up Chinese food on the occasional supervised outing
the children take to a restaurant.

As the days roll by, even Mr. Brizuela questions the logic of keeping Fega here
any longer.

"The I.N.S. is doing their best, they really are," said Mr. Brizuela, who is a
doctoral candidate in educational leadership and management. "But maybe it's
time for her to have a family. She needs a family."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fega, a Nigerian girl detained at a Miami immigration shelter,
ate breakfast recently with the help of Yanine Manigat, a house parent. (Andrew
Itkoff for The New York Times)(pg. 1); An abandoned girl, nicknamed Fega, has
celebrated the rites of childhood in a squat, mustard-colored building in Miami
that serves as the I.N.S.'s emergency shelter for unaccompanied illegal
immigrant children. (Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times)(pg. 17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Measures Aim At Violence Along Border

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23


The United States and Mexico have announced several steps to improve safety
along the California border, including a pilot program to arm Border Patrol
agents in San Diego with nonlethal weapons that fire marble-size pepper pellets
to disperse crowds.

Border Patrol agents are now equipped with batons and pepper spray, but those
devices are effective only at close range. The new nonlethal weapons, which
officials said were used by several police departments in the United States, can
hit targets 100 feet away.

The measures, including better mapping of remote desert areas and improved
sharing of intelligence to combat immigrant smugglers, were announced on Friday
and were to begin immediately. They come in response to the May deaths of 14
Mexicans abandoned by smugglers in an Arizona desert.

American and Mexican officials in San Diego and in Mexico City said the new
measures would reduce violent -- sometimes deadly -- clashes along the border.

"Mexico has long insisted that it is one thing to have a person cross the border
in search of work," Deputy Foreign Minister Enrique Berruga said, "and it is
another to have that person be subjected to attacks by authorities. We are most
interested in preventing people from being hurt simply because they have crossed
the border, and this is a very important advance."

Mr. Berruga said Mexico hopes to avoid incidents like the immigrants' deaths and
the fatal shooting of an immigrant, Roberto Chavez Resendiz, by a Border Patrol
agent near Sells, Ariz.

Mexican officials said that by the end of the year they intended to increase by
40 percent the presence of immigration agents on the Mexican side of the border.
The agents, called Grupo Beta, try to discourage immigrants from crossing the
border by warning them of the dangers.

The agents advise immigrants of their rights and have helped to rescue them from
drowning and dehydration. But, by Mexican law, the agents cannot forcibly stop
immigrants from trying illegal crossings.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rulings on Funding and Fairness

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 563 words


The Supreme Court issued two important decisions yesterday. It moved to preserve
the integrity of federal campaign contribution limits, and in so doing gave
fresh impetus to legislation before the House that requires a broader ban on
so-called "soft money" contributions to political parties. It also agreed to
remedy an obvious inequity in the nation's treatment of immigrants.

On campaign finance the court, by a 5-to-4 margin, rebuffed a Republican Party
challenge to the constitutionality of longstanding federal limits on the money
that parties may spend in coordination with individual Congressional candidates.
Such coordinated spending could be used to circumvent the limits on
contributions to individuals.

The Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Committee had argued that the
party-expenditure provision violated the free speech rights of political
parties. But Justice David Souter, arguing for the majority, recognized the
provision's critical role in preventing widespread evasion of the individual
limits. He thus reaffirmed an important facet of the landmark Buckley v. Valeo
decision in 1976 that held that Congress was constitutionally justified in
seeking to avoid corruption or the appearance of corruption of the political
process.

The decision also fits squarely with last year's ruling in a Missouri case
reaffirming the validity of the $1,000 limit on individual contributions to
candidates for federal office. Yet the outcome had not been a sure thing, in
part because of the court's increasing solicitude for the First Amendment rights
of political parties, combined with statements by several justices expressing
dissatisfaction with the relevant laws. While the court stressed that parties
remain free to make unlimited expenditures that are "truly independent" of
candidates, its ruling yesterday closes a potentially huge loophole.

The case dealt only with hard-money limits -- contributions that are subject to
strict federal restrictions as to size. But the ruling's effect was to add
tremendous momentum to the effort to win House approval for the soft-money ban
contained in the McCain-Feingold bill recently passed by the Senate. Coming at a
sensitive moment in Congress's deliberations on the issue, the new ruling should
undermine the argument advanced by opponents of campaign finance reform that
banning soft money is unconstitutional.

The important result of yesterday's immigration decision was to bring the
nation's immigration practices closer into line with American ideals by
neutralizing harsh provisions of changes to the federal immigration law that
were approved in 1996. Those changes, the government argued, required the
automatic deportation of aliens -- including productive legal immigrants with
families -- who had once pleaded guilty to even minor crimes. Speaking for a
5-to-4 majority, Justice John Paul Stevens said that Congress could not
foreclose judicial review of challenges to deportation policies set by the
executive branch.

For those who had pleaded guilty before the 1996 changes were imposed, the court
also restored the right to apply for waivers from deportation. Such waivers used
to be granted by the attorney general to more than half the people who applied.
As Justice Stevens aptly observed, many aliens relied upon the likely
availability of a waiver when they decided to forgo their right to a trial.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRENDS;
With Jobs Plentiful, Latest Immigrants Have Found It Easier to Fit In

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 231 words


Illegal immigrants got most of the headlines in the 1990's, but they were only a
small percentage of the immigration wave that poured into the country over that
decade. In fact, recent census figures confirmed what many people already knew
-- legal immigrants have become the biggest source of growth in the population
and, not surprisingly, in the labor force.

Years ago, many Americans viewed new arrivals as threats to their job security.
This time, though, few had much to worry about; the Internet-fueled economic
boom lowered the jobless rate to the current rate of 4.4 percent from 7.8
percent in June 1992, and even created widespread labor shortages. As a result,
immigrants often provided a vital source of labor, according to John Mollenkopf,
director of the Center for Urban Research at City University. Nowhere was this
more true than in New York State, where they filled the void created by people
leaving for opportunities elsewhere.

If anybody suffered, it was those struggling the most to make ends meet, said
Steven Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies. The
latest immigrants were "less educated relative to natives than previous
immigrants," he said, so they competed for the lowest-paying jobs. He said that
drove down wages for people at the bottom of the economic ladder by 7 percent in
real terms over the decade.   DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charts Graph shows the SHARE OF POPULATION GROWTH FROM LEGAL
IMMIGRATION (Five-year moving average) from 1955-2000. Graph shows LEGAL
IMMIGRANTS ENTERING THE LABOR FORCE from 1955-2000. CHANGE IN NUMBER OF LEGAL
IMMIGRANTS IN THE LABOR FORCE AND TOTAL CHANGE IN THE LABOR FORCE FOR SELECTED
STATES IN THE 1990'S Biggest immigrant increases: CaliforniaChange in immigrants
in labor force (thousands): +1,053Overall change in labor force (thousands):
+1,404 Biggest immigrant increases: TexasChange in immigrants in labor force
(thousands): + 484Overall change in labor force (thousands): +1,603 Biggest
immigrant increases: FloridaChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): +
481Overall change in labor force (thousands): + 893 Biggest immigrant increases:
New YorkChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): + 425Overall change in
labor force (thousands): + 39 Biggest immigrant increases: ArizonaChange in
immigrants in labor force (thousands): + 261Overall change in labor force
(thousands): + 559 Biggest immigrant declines: MassachusettsChange in immigrants
in labor force (thousands): -60Overall change in labor force (thousands): +56
Biggest immigrant declines: ConnecticutChange in immigrants in labor force
(thousands): -27Overall change in labor force (thousands): -124 Biggest
immigrant declines: D.C.Change in immigrants in labor force (thousands):
-8Overall change in labor force (thousands): -5 Biggest immigrant declines:
MontanaChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): -3Overall change in
labor force (thousands): +73 Biggest immigrant declines: North DakotaChange in
immigrants in labor force (thousands): -3Overall change in labor force
(thousands): +19 (Sources: Census Bureau; Economy.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 29, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE SUPREME COURT: THE ISSUE OF CONFINEMENT;
Supreme Court Limits Detention In Cases of Deportable Immigrants

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28


In its second decision this week affirming the rights of immigrants, the Supreme
Court ruled today that the government may not detain deportable aliens
indefinitely simply for lack of a country willing to take them.

The 5-to-4 decision rejected the government's view, as argued by both the
Clinton and Bush administrations, that immigration law authorized and the
Constitution permitted indefinite, even lifelong detention of immigrants
adjudged deportable but unable to be repatriated.

Justice Stephen G. Breyer's majority opinion said that because interpreting the
law in that way would present a "serious constitutional threat" under the Fifth
Amendment's guarantee of due process, the court would construe the law to permit
only "reasonable" detention. Justice Breyer said that after six months of
detention, if deportation did not seem likely in the "reasonably foreseeable
future," the government would have to come up with special reasons for keeping
someone in custody.  Excerpts, Page A20.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy objected in dissent that the court was unwisely
substituting "judicial judgment for the executive's discretion and authority,"
in effect establishing a rule that after six months, "foreign relations go into
judicially supervised receivership."

The immigration decision, along with three others, came on the final day of the
court's 2000-1 term, a quiet day devoid of the fireworks of the closing days in
recent years that were marked by justices' reading angry dissents from the
bench. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist was not in court, instead attending a
judicial conference in Hot Springs, Va. Rumors of his impending retirement,
which reached a peak here the last few days, proved premature, and there will
evidently be no scheduled retirements from the court in the near future.

The immigration decision, Zadvydas v. Davis, No. 99-7791, will have an immediate
impact on at least several thousand people. Many, like one of the two immigrants
whose cases the justices reviewed, are natives of Cambodia, which has no
repatriation agreement with the United States.

A Cambodian man, Kim Ho Ma, who was admitted to the United States as a refugee
when he was a child and was later convicted in a Washington State court of a
gang-related killing, was one of hundreds of people within the jurisdiction of
the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to challenge their
prolonged detention.

That court, which sits in San Francisco and covers nine Western states, ruled in
Mr. Ma's case in April 2000 that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
lacked statutory authority to detain a deportable alien for more than a
reasonable time beyond the 90 days required by the law. Mr. Ma, who had already
served a state prison sentence for his crime, was ordered released from
immigration detention after two years in custody.

The Supreme Court combined the government's appeal in his case with an appeal
brought by Kestutis Zadvydas, who had lost a similar challenge before a
different court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in
New Orleans. Mr. Zadvydas was born in 1948 to Lithuanian parents in a displaced
persons camp in Germany. The family was admitted to the United States when he
was a child. He compiled a long criminal record, served prison time and was
eventually taken into immigration custody and ordered deported to Germany in
1994.

But Germany refused to accept him, because he is not a German citizen. Lithuania
also disclaimed any responsibility. He remained in custody for three years until
a federal district judge in New Orleans granted his petition for a writ of
habeas corpus in 1997 and ordered him released. The Fifth Circuit overturned
that decision and, declaring that immigration matters were "largely immune from
judicial control," found no constitutional problem with his continued detention.
The appeals court allowed Mr. Zadvydas to remain free while he appealed his
case.

The decision today was a forceful repudiation by the Supreme Court of the kind
of deference to immigration policy that the Fifth Circuit invoked and that the
government urged on the justices. Congressional and executive branch power over
immigration "is subject to important constitutional limitations," Justice Breyer
said. In what amounted to a civics lesson, he also observed that "the Due
Process Clause applies to all 'persons' within the United States, including
aliens, whether their presence here is lawful, unlawful, temporary or
permanent."

The statute before the court requires a 90-day period of confinement for
immigrants subject to a "final removal order," after which the government "may"
continue the detention. These provisions were adopted as part of the same 1996
immigration law that the court reviewed in its decision on Monday that also
rejected the government's legal interpretation and gave immigrants a right to
judicial hearings to challenge deportation policies.

Another provision of the same 1996 law, the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act, for the first time made detention mandatory for
various categories of immigrants who are involved in deportation proceedings but
who have not yet received a final order.

The case today did not address that provision, but Judy Rabinovitz, a senior
staff counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union's immigrants' rights
project, said the decision would offer significant help to legal challenges,
currently under way, over the manner in which the mandatory detention policy is
being carried out. The ruling "shows that the court is applying constitutional
scrutiny to immigration policy and that immigrants are protected by the
Constitution," Ms. Rabinovitz said.

Some 20,000 immigrants are now in I.N.S. detention. Under current policy and the
court's interpretation today, those who are released from detention are not
necessarily free of all restraint; they may be placed under various restrictions
in the community, similar to probation. In addition, Justice Breyer said cases
of terrorism or other special circumstances might require a form of preventive
detention that is not justified in the ordinary case.

The majority opinion was joined by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, John Paul
Stevens, David H. Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

Chief Justice Rehnquist joined Justice Kennedy's dissenting opinion, as did
Justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia. Justice Scalia also wrote in
dissent to say that the case came down to "a claimed right of release into this
country by an individual who concededly has no legal right to be here."

"There is no such constitutional right," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Justice Stephen G. Breyer, left, wrote the opinion restricting
detention of immigrants adjudged deportable. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, center,
dissented, and Justice Antonin Scalia was among those joining him. (Photographs
by Associated Press)(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 29, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE SUPREME COURT;
Excerpts From Opinions in Ruling on the Detention of Immigrant-Criminals

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3028 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28


Following are excerpts from the Supreme Court's ruling today that immigrants who
have committed crimes in the United States cannot be confined indefinitely even
if they cannot be deported. The vote in Zadvydas v. Davis and Ashcroft v. Ma was
5 to 4. Justice Stephen G. Breyer wrote the majority opinion; Justices Anthony
M. Kennedy and Antonin Scalia wrote dissents.

FROM THE DECISION
By Justice Breyer

The post-removal-period detention statute applies to certain categories of
aliens who have been ordered removed, namely inadmissible aliens, criminal
aliens, aliens who have violated their nonimmigrant status conditions, and
aliens removable for certain national security or foreign relations reasons, as
well as any alien "who has been determined by the attorney general to be a risk
to the community or unlikely to comply with the order of removal." It says that
an alien who falls into one of these categories "may be detained beyond the
removal period and, if released, shall be subject to certain terms of
supervision."

The government argues that the statute means what it literally says. It sets no
"limit on the length of time beyond the removal period that an alien who falls
within one of the Section 1231(a)(6) categories may be detained." Hence,
"whether to continue to detain such an alien and, if so, in what circumstances
and for how long" is up to the attorney general, not up to the courts.

"It is a cardinal principle" of statutory interpretation, however, that when an
act of Congress raises "a serious doubt" as to its constitutionality, "this
court will first ascertain whether a construction of the statute is fairly
possible by which the question may be avoided." We have read significant
limitations into other immigration statutes in order to avoid their
constitutional invalidation. For similar reasons, we read an implicit limitation
into the statute before us. In our view, the statute, read in light of the
Constitution's demands, limits an alien's post-removal-period detention to a
period reasonably necessary to bring about that alien's removal from the United
States. It does not permit indefinite detention.

A statute permitting indefinite detention of an alien would raise a serious
constitutional problem. The Fifth Amendment's due process clause forbids the
government to "deprive" any "person . . . of . . . liberty . . . without due
process of law." Freedom from imprisonment -- from government custody,
detention, or other forms of physical restraint -- lies at the heart of the
liberty that clause protects.

And this court has said that government detention violates that clause unless
the detention is ordered in a criminal proceeding with adequate procedural
protections, or, in certain special and "narrow" nonpunitive "circumstances,"
where a special justification, such as harm-threatening mental illness,
outweighs the "individual's constitutionally protected interest in avoiding
physical restraint." The proceedings at issue here are civil, not criminal, and
we assume that they are nonpunitive in purpose and effect.

There is no sufficiently strong special justification here for indefinite civil
detention, at least as administered under this statute. The statute, says the
government, has two regulatory goals: "ensuring the appearance of aliens at
future immigration proceedings" and "preventing danger to the community. But by
definition the first justification, preventing flight, is weak or nonexistent
where removal seems a remote possibility at best. As this court said in Jackson
v. Indiana (1972), where detention's goal is no longer practically attainable,
detention no longer "bears a reasonable relation to the purpose for which the
individual was committed."

The second justification, protecting the community, does not necessarily
diminish in force over time. But we have upheld preventive detention based on
dangerousness only when limited to specially dangerous individuals and subject
to strong procedural protections. . . .

The civil confinement here at issue is not limited, but potentially permanent.
The provision authorizing detention does not apply narrowly to "a small segment
of particularly dangerous individuals," say suspected terrorists, but broadly to
aliens ordered removed for many and various reasons, including tourist visa
violations. And, once the flight risk justification evaporates, the only special
circumstance present is the alien's removable status itself, which bears no
relation to a detainee's dangerousness.

Moreover, the sole procedural protections available to the alien are found in
administrative proceedings, where the alien bears the burden of proving he is
not dangerous, without (in the government's view) significant later judicial
review. This court has suggested, however, that the Constitution may well
preclude granting "an administrative body the unreviewable authority to make
determinations implicating fundamental rights." The Constitution demands greater
procedural protection even for property.

The serious constitutional problem arising out of a statute that, in these
circumstances, permits an indefinite, perhaps permanent, deprivation of human
liberty without any such protection is obvious.

The government argues that, from a constitutional perspective, alien status
itself can justify indefinite detention, and points to Shaughnessy v. United
States ex rel. Mezei, U.S. 206 (1953), as support. That case involved a once
lawfully admitted alien who left the United States, returned after a trip
abroad, was refused admission, and was left on Ellis Island, indefinitely
detained there because the government could not find another country to accept
him. The court held that Mezei's detention did not violate the Constitution.

Although Mezei, like the present cases, involves indefinite detention, it
differs from the present cases in a critical respect. As the court emphasized,
the alien's extended departure from the United States required him to seek entry
into this country once again. His presence on Ellis Island did not count as
entry into the United States. Hence, he was "treated," for constitutional
purposes, "as if stopped at the border." . . .

The government argues that, whatever liberty interest the aliens possess, it is
"greatly diminished" by their lack of a legal right to "live at large in this
country." The choice, however, is not between imprisonment and the alien "living
at large." It is between imprisonment and supervision under release conditions
that may not be violated. And, for the reasons we have set forth, we believe
that an alien's liberty interest is, at the least, strong enough to raise a
serious question as to whether, irrespective of the procedures used, the
Constitution permits detention that is indefinite and potentially permanent. . .
.

In early 1996, Congress explicitly expanded the group of aliens subject to
mandatory detention, eliminating provisions that permitted release of criminal
aliens who had at one time been lawfully admitted to the United States. And
later that year Congress enacted the present law, which liberalizes pre-existing
law by shortening the removal period from six months to 90 days, mandates
detention of certain criminal aliens during the removal proceedings and for the
subsequent 90-day removal period, and adds the post-removal-period provision
here at issue.

We have found nothing in the history of these statutes that clearly demonstrates
a congressional intent to authorize indefinite, perhaps permanent, detention.
Consequently, interpreting the statute to avoid a serious constitutional threat,
we conclude that, once removal is no longer reasonably foreseeable, continued
detention is no longer authorized by statute. . . .

The Fifth Circuit held Zadvydas' continued detention lawful as long as "good
faith efforts to effectuate . . . deportation continue" and Zadvydas failed to
show that deportation will prove "impossible." But this standard would seem to
require an alien seeking release to show the absence of any prospect of removal,
no matter how unlikely or unforeseeable, which demands more than our reading of
the statute can bear. The Ninth Circuit held that the government was required to
release Ma from detention because there was no reasonable likelihood of his
removal in the foreseeable future. But its conclusion may have rested solely
upon the "absence" of an "extant or pending" repatriation agreement without
giving due weight to the likelihood of successful future negotiations.
Consequently, we vacate the decisions below and remand both cases for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.

It is so ordered.

FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Kennedy

The court says its duty is to avoid a constitutional question. It deems the duty
performed by interpreting a statute in obvious disregard of Congressional
intent; curing the resulting gap by writing a statutory amendment of its own;
committing its own grave constitutional error by arrogating to the judicial
branch the power to summon high officers of the executive to assess their
progress in conducting some of the nation's most sensitive negotiations with
foreign powers; and then likely releasing into our general population at least
hundreds of removable or inadmissible aliens who have been found by fair
procedures to be flight risks, dangers to the community, or both.

Far from avoiding a constitutional question, the court's ruling causes systemic
dislocation in the balance of powers, thus raising serious constitutional
concerns not just for the cases at hand but for the court's own view of its
proper authority. Any supposed respect the court seeks in not reaching the
constitutional question is outweighed by the intrusive and erroneous exercise of
its own powers. In the guise of judicial restraint the court ought not to
intrude upon the other branches.

The constitutional question the statute presents, it must be acknowledged, may
be a significant one in some later case; but it ought not to drive us to an
incorrect interpretation of the statute. The court having reached the wrong
result for the wrong reason, this respectful dissent is required.

The Immigration and Nationality Act (I.N.A.), 8 U.S.C. Section 1101 is
straightforward enough. It provides:

"An alien ordered removed who is inadmissible under section 1182 of this title,
removable under section 1227(a)(1)(C), 1227(a)(2), or 1227(a)(4) of this title
or who has been determined by the attorney general to be a risk to the community
or unlikely to comply with the order of removal, may be detained beyond the
removal period and, if released, shall be subject to the terms of supervision in
paragraph (3)."

By this statute, Congress confers upon the attorney general discretion to detain
an alien ordered removed. It gives express authorization to detain "beyond the
removal period." . . .

Congress, moreover, was well aware of the difficulties confronting aliens who
are removable but who cannot be repatriated. It made special provisions allowing
them to be employed, a privilege denied to other deportable aliens. Congress'
decision to ameliorate the condition of aliens subject to a final order of
removal who cannot be repatriated, but who need not be detained, illustrates a
balance in the statutory design. Yet the court renders the other side of the
balance meaningless.

The risk to the community posed by a removable alien is a function of a variety
of circumstances, circumstances that do not diminish just because the alien
cannot be deported within some foreseeable time. Those circumstances include the
seriousness of the alien's past offenses, his or her efforts at rehabilitation,
and some indication from the alien that, given the real prospect of detention,
the alien will conform his or her conduct. This is the purpose for the periodic
review of detention status provided for by the regulations. The court's
amendment of the statute reads out of the provision the congressional decision
that dangerousness alone is a sufficient basis for detention, and reads out as
well any meaningful structure for supervised release. . . .

It is to be expected that from time to time a foreign power will adopt a
truculent stance with respect to the United States and other nations. Yet the
court by its time limit, or presumptive time limit, goes far to undercut the
position of the executive in repatriation negotiations, thus ill serving the
interest of all foreign nationals of the country concerned. Law-abiding aliens
might wish to return to their home country, for instance, but the strained
relationship caused by the difficult repatriation talks might prove to be a
substantial obstacle for these aliens as well.

In addition to weakening the hand of our government, court ordered release
cannot help but encourage dilatory and obstructive tactics by aliens who,
emboldened by the court's new rule, have good reason not to cooperate by making
their own repatriation or transfer seem foreseeable. An alien ordered deported
also has less incentive to cooperate or to facilitate expeditious removal when
he has been released, even on a supervised basis, than does an alien held at an
Immigration and Naturalization Service detention facility. Neither the alien nor
his family would find any urgency in assisting with a petition to other
countries to accept the alien back if the alien could simply remain in the
United States indefinitely.

The risk to the community posed by the mandatory release of aliens who are
dangerous or a flight risk is far from insubstantial; the motivation to protect
the citizenry from aliens determined to be dangerous is central to the
immigration power itself. The government cites statistical studies showing high
recidivism rates for released aliens. One Government Accounting Office study
cited by Congress in floor debates on the Antiterrorism and Effective Death
Penalty Act of 1996, put the figure as high as 77 percent. It seems evident a
criminal record accumulated by an admitted alien during his or her time in the
United States is likely to be a better indicator of risk than factors relied
upon during the I.N.S.'s initial decision to admit or exclude. Aliens ordered
deported as the result of having committed a felony have proved to be dangerous.

Any suggestion that aliens who have completed prison terms no longer present a
danger simply does not accord with the reality that a significant risk may still
exist, as determined by the many factors set forth in the regulations.
Underworld and terrorist links are subtle and may be overseas, beyond our
jurisdiction to impose felony charges. Furthermore, the majority's rationale
seems to apply to an alien who flees prosecution or escapes from custody in some
other country. . . .

The court today assumes a role in foreign relations which is unprecedented,
unfortunate, and unwise.

FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Scalia

A criminal alien under final order of removal who allegedly will not be accepted
by any other country in the reasonably foreseeable future claims a
constitutional right of supervised release into the United States. This claim
can be repackaged as freedom from "physical restraint" or freedom from
"indefinite detention," but it is at bottom a claimed right of release into this
country by an individual who concededly has no legal right to be here. There is
no such constitutional right.

Like a criminal alien under final order of removal, an inadmissible alien at the
border has no right to be in the United States.

In Shaughnessy v. United States ex rel. Mezei (1953), we upheld potentially
indefinite detention of such an inadmissible alien whom the government was
unable to return anywhere else. We said that "we did not think that respondent's
continued exclusion deprives him of any statutory or constitutional right."
While four members of the court thought that Mezei deserved greater procedural
protections (the attorney general had refused to divulge any information as to
why Mezei was being detained), no justice asserted that Mezei had a substantive
constitutional right to release into this country. And Justice Jackson's
dissent, joined by Justice Frankfurter, affirmatively asserted the opposite,
with no contradiction from the court: "Due process does not invest any alien
with a right to enter the United States, nor confer on those admitted the right
to remain against the national will. Nothing in the Constitution requires
admission or sufferance of aliens hostile to our scheme of government." Insofar
as a claimed legal right to release into this country is concerned, an alien
under final order of removal stands on an equal footing with an inadmissible
alien at the threshold of entry: He has no such right.

The court expressly declines to apply or overrule Mezei, but attempts to
distinguish it, or, I should rather say, to obscure it in a legal fog. First,
the court claims that "the distinction between an alien who has effected an
entry into the United States and one who has never entered runs throughout
immigration law." True enough, but only where that distinction makes perfect
sense: with regard to the question of what procedures are necessary to prevent
entry, as opposed to what procedures are necessary to eject a person already in
the United States. . . .

We are offered no justification why an alien under a valid and final order of
removal, which has totally extinguished whatever right to presence in this
country he possessed, has any greater due process right to be released into the
country than an alien at the border seeking entry. Congress undoubtedly thought
that both groups of aliens, inadmissible aliens at the threshold and criminal
aliens under final order of removal, could be constitutionally detained on the
same terms, since it provided the authority to detain both groups in the very
same statutory provision. Because I believe Mezei controls these cases, and,
like the court, I also see no reason to reconsider Mezei, I find no
constitutional impediment to the discretion Congress gave to the attorney
general. Justice Kennedy's dissent explains the clarity of the detention
provision, and I see no obstacle to following the statute's plain meaning.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Supreme Court Exits

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 706 words


The Supreme Court concluded a tumultuous term on Thursday with important 5-to-4
decisions on immigration, tobacco advertising and the rights of property owners.
It was an appropriate ending for a session in which 26 of the 85 cases were
decided by a one-vote margin -- including the term's defining case, Bush v.
Gore, a historic verdict in which the conservative majority handed the
presidential election to the conservative candidate, George W. Bush.

There were bright spots, including this week's decisions upholding campaign
finance limits and ending indefinite incarceration of deportable immigrants. In
these two instances the swing justice Sandra Day O'Connor joined with the
court's more reliable moderates -- John Paul Stevens, David Souter, Ruth Bader
Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer. But other decisions curtailing federal power to
protect civil rights and the environment have merely reinforced fundamental
concerns about the distressing direction this court has taken -- concerns
deserving of notice as the Senate considers the decidedly hard-right cast of
President Bush's judicial nominations. That process will be aided by a promising
series of hearings that Senator Charles Schumer, the New York Democrat, has
begun to examine the proper role of ideology and other issues related to the
judicial confirmation process.

In the immigration case, the court correctly held that the government may not
indefinitely imprison immigrants who committed crimes in the United States when
their home countries refuse to take them or no longer exist. At issue was the
open-ended incarceration of about 3,000 deportable aliens who, having served
their sentences, remained locked up in a troubling legal limbo.

"Freedom from imprisonment lies at the heart of the liberty protected by the Due
Process Clause," Justice Stephen Breyer wrote for a majority that also included
Justices Stevens, Ginsburg, Souter and O'Connor. Addressing concerns about
public safety, Justice Breyer stressed that those released would be supervised
"under release conditions that may not be violated." That decision came just
three days after another 5-to-4 majority, this time with Justice Anthony Kennedy
contributing the deciding vote, affirmed the basic right of judicial review in a
second deportation case. Together these new rulings should persuade Congress to
overhaul several harsh provisions that remain on the books as part of the 1996
immigration law. These provisions offend American constitutional values and
create needless chaos for many immigrant families.

At issue in the tobacco case were restrictions on the location of cigarette
advertising enacted in Massachusetts to discourage children from taking up
smoking. While sympathetic to the state's social and health objectives, the
justices correctly observed that banning all tobacco advertising within a
1,000-foot radius of schools and playgrounds would impose an excessive burden on
free commercial speech aimed at adults as well. But the court veered off course
when it barred Massachusetts, New York City and other jurisdictions with similar
bans on the books from enacting more finely tuned versions. It argued,
unpersuasively, that federal law governing the content of cigarette ads
pre-empts traditional local authority to regulate the location of such ads.

In a regrettable turn for environmental protection, the court chose to allow the
owner of 20 acres of Rhode Island waterfront property to bring a lawsuit
challenging development restrictions even though the restrictions were already
in place when he bought the property. The conservative five-justice majority
could not finally decide whether the original restrictions on filling in
wetlands amounted to an unconstitutional "taking" of property without just
compensation. But as a practical matter, the decision to uphold an owner's claim
even when he had clear notice of the restrictions governing the property will
make it more difficult and expensive for state and local governments to protect
environmentally sensitive wetlands. This disturbing outcome simply compounds the
damage inflicted by another lamentable 5-to-4 ruling earlier in the term that
stripped federal regulators of authority to preserve isolated wetlands.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Year of Florida Vote, Supreme Court Also Did Much Other Work

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 4026 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 1


The year the court picked the president: the Supreme Court's 2000-2001 term will
always be known as that, and undoubtedly, in the view of many people, it will be
remembered for that extraordinary event alone.

But there were many other elements to the term, and many lenses through which to
view the 79 decisions the court issued.

Through one lens, the term was a fascinating report card of sorts on how the two
elected branches of government behaved during a previous election year, 1996,
when conservatives in Congress were in the ascendancy and Democrats were on the
defensive on a range of issues bearing on crime, immigration and social policy.
Bills passed that year and signed into law by President Bill Clinton have
spawned a great deal of litigation, with several cases reaching the court this
term.

Over the last several years, including this term, the court has upheld most
restrictions the 1996 Congress placed on the ability of prison inmates to gain
access to court. That is not surprising, because the 1996 legislation in effect
codified a number of the Rehnquist Court's own initiatives, which reduced
federal court jurisdiction over cases brought by state prisoners.

But the justices' response to the 1996 immigration laws was different,
significantly so. In two decisions this term, a narrow majority viewed laws that
cut back on immigrants' ability to challenge deportation and detention policies
as a threat to the principle that the Constitution protects noncitizens as well
as citizens. The court curbed the reach of the 1996 legislation and refused to
give the traditional judicial deference to immigration policies adopted by the
executive branch.

Examining another portion of the 1996 legacy, new restrictions on the ability of
lawyers paid with federal money to provide legal services to poor clients, the
court ruled that restrictions on the type of arguments that the lawyers could
make in welfare cases violated the First Amendment.

Through another lens, the term was a continuation of the Supreme Court's
federalism revolution, arguably the most consequential development in
constitutional law of the last decade. By the same 5-to-4 vote by which it has
decided half a dozen related cases, the court ruled that Congress did not have
the constitutional authority to open state governments to lawsuits by their
employees for violations of the Americans With Disabilities Act.

The decision in Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama v. Garrett
reflected a sharply narrowed view of Congress's power to enact legislation to
enforce the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection. Even more than the
earlier decisions, it raised the question of how far the court was prepared to
go in curtailing the authority of Congress to make national policy binding on
the states.

As it has every term since the mid-1990's, the court invalidated at least parts
of several federal statutes. This term, it rejected the provision of the
disability law the court addressed in the Garrett case; the restriction on
welfare suits in the legal services law; a law requiring mushroom producers to
pay for a government-sponsored program that advertises mushrooms; and a
provision of the federal wiretap law under which the press could be found liable
for publishing intercepted material.

Through still another lens, the term offered evidence that even some of the more
conservative justices were beginning to share the public's discomfort with the
privacy implications of some current law enforcement strategies. The court found
unconstitutional the warrantless use of thermal imaging devices that can detect
patterns of heat emerging from private homes; police roadblocks that use trained
dogs to sniff cars for illegal drugs; and secret drug tests on unconsenting
pregnant women seeking care at a public hospital.

On the other hand, the court gave the police broad discretion to make full
custodial arrests, with the consequent power to conduct searches, for minor
offenses.

The term was also notable for what did not happen. In a campaign finance case
from Colorado, the court did not repudiate its long-held view that tight limits
on campaign contributions do not violate the First Amendment. In a tobacco
advertising case from Massachusetts, the court invalidated the advertising
restrictions while finding no need to revisit its longstanding approach to
commercial speech.

The court turned down two cases raising constitutional questions about
affirmative action in public university admissions -- an issue that nonetheless
appears to be heading inexorably for a place on the court's docket within the
next term or two.

Despite seven years without a change of membership on the court -- the longest
such period since the 1820's -- and despite feverish speculation, no one
retired.

During the term that began last Oct. 2 and concluded on June 28, the court
received about 7,700 new cases and agreed to decide 99. It issued 79 decisions
(with the remaining cases to be argued and decided in the next term), up
slightly from the 73 decisions in the previous term but many fewer than the 150
or so that the court routinely decided in the 1980's.

Voting statistics provide a window on the court's divisions, which are at once
more stark and more malleable than they might appear. Twenty-six of the 79
cases, or 33 percent, were decided by votes of 5 to 4, the highest proportion of
such votes since the current justices began serving together in the 1994-95
term.

In 1999-2000, 20 out of 73 decisions, or 27 percent, were by 5-to-4 votes. The
statistics for the previous five years are: 1998-99, 16 out of 75, 21 percent;
1997-98, 15 out of 91, 16 percent; 1996-97, 17 out of 80, 21 percent; 1995-96,
12 out of 75, 16 percent; and 1994, 16 out of 82, 20 percent.

The cases on which the court divided 5 to 4 ranged from the monumental, like
Bush v. Gore, to the more routine or obscure, like a dispute between the United
States and Idaho over title to submerged lands under Lake Coeur d'Alene. Six out
of nine civil rights cases were decided by 5-to-4 votes.

As in the past, the bloc of Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices
Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas, Anthony M. Kennedy and Sandra Day O'Connor
dominated in the closely divided cases, prevailing in 14 of the 26. The four
more liberal justices -- John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg
and Stephen G. Breyer -- prevailed in eight. (The remaining four cases did not
conform to either pattern.)

Last year the division was even sharper, with the more liberal justices
prevailing in only one of the 5-to-4 cases, when Justice O'Connor joined them to
invalidate a Nebraska abortion ban. This term, Justice O'Connor joined them five
times and Justice Kennedy joined them in three other cases.

Justices Kennedy and O'Connor continued to hold the balance of power on the
court. They were the only two justices to dissent fewer than 10 times during the
term: Justice O'Connor dissented nine times and Justice Kennedy seven times. In
six of those cases, he signed another justice's dissenting opinion. He felt
moved to write his own dissenting opinion only once, in an immigration case
decided on the term's final day. In the 5-to-4 cases, each voted in the majority
20 times, more than any other justice.

During the term as a whole, Justice Stevens dissented most often, 25 times,
followed by Justice Breyer with 23 dissents and Justice Ginsburg with 21. On the
right, Justices Scalia and Thomas were also frequent dissenters, with 19 and 18
dissents, respectively. Justice Souter had 16 and Chief Justice Rehnquist had
14.

Following is a summary of the term's most important decisions:

The Presidential Election

In its quest to preserve an infinitesimal margin in Florida and win the state's
decisive 25 electoral votes, the Bush campaign brought two cases to the court,
which decided them over an intense 18-day period culminating with the 5-to-4
ruling that determined the outcome of the election.

The first case, Bush v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Board, No. 00-836, was an
appeal from the Florida Supreme Court's Nov. 21 decision that added 12 days to
the deadline for certifying the vote. Argued on Dec. 1, this case resulted on
Dec. 4 in a unanimous, unsigned and opaque opinion vacating the state court's
decision and requesting clarification of the basis for it.

Without answering the justices' questions, the Florida Supreme Court then turned
to the Gore campaign's contest of the newly certified results and ordered a
statewide manual recount of ballots that when counted by machine had not
indicated a choice for president. The Bush campaign appealed immediately and, as
the recount got under way, won a stay from the justices by a vote of 5 to 4.

The court then heard the case, Bush v. Gore, No. 00-949, on Dec. 11 and decided
it the next day in an unsigned opinion that contained two conclusions: that the
lack of uniform standards for the recount violated the 14th Amendment guarantee
of equal protection, and that there was no time for the state to fix the problem
and keep the recount going. Thirty-six days after election day, the 2000
election, and the Supreme Court's role in it, were history. The election was
over. The five in the majority were Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices
O'Connor, Kennedy, Scalia and Thomas.

Criminal Law

Three decisions interpreting the Fourth Amendment's prohibition against
unreasonable searches indicated that the court shared the country's concern
about the impact of some modern law enforcement strategies on personal privacy.

In Indianapolis v. Edmund, No. 99-1030, the court ruled 6 to 3 that police
roadblocks aimed at discovering drugs in cars through the use of trained dogs
are unconstitutional. Justice O'Connor said in her majority opinion that unlike
drunken driving roadblocks, which the court has upheld on public safety grounds,
narcotics roadblocks serve a general law enforcement purpose and so cannot
escape the Fourth Amendment's requirement that searches be based on suspicion of
individual wrongdoing. Chief Justice Rehnquist dissented, along with Justices
Scalia and Thomas.

By the same 6-to-3 vote, the court ruled that a public hospital cannot
constitutionally test maternity patients for illegal drug use without their
consent if the purpose is to alert the police to a crime. Justice Stevens wrote
the opinion in Ferguson v. Charleston, No. 99-936, a challenge to a drug-testing
program the city of Charleston, S.C., put in place at its public hospital at the
height of concern over so-called crack babies a decade ago.

In the third case, the court ruled 5 to 4 that the police may not use a thermal
imaging device, which can detect suspicious patterns of heat emerging from a
private home, without obtaining a warrant. Justice Scalia said in his majority
opinion that the Constitution's framers would have regarded such technology as
sufficiently intrusive to require the same warrant they demanded for physical
entry into a private home. Justices Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg and Breyer joined
the majority in Kyllo v. United States, No. 99-8508.

But in a fourth case, the court upheld broad discretion for the police by ruling
5 to 4 that an officer who observes even a minor infraction, like not wearing a
seat belt, may make a full custodial arrest even if the maximum penalty for the
offense is a fine without jail time. The decision in Atwater v. City of Lago
Vista, No. 99-1408, upheld the arrest of a Texas woman who was driving her
children home from soccer practice without seat belts when she was taken in
handcuffs and placed in a jail cell until she posted a $310 bond for the $50
offense. Justice Souter wrote the majority opinion, joined by Chief Justice
Rehnquist and Justices Scalia, Kennedy and Thomas.

The court overturned the death sentence of a retarded man, Johnny Paul Penry, on
the ground that the instructions given to the Texas jury that sentenced him did
not meet the standards the justices set when they previously considered his case
in a 1989 decision. The flawed instructions did not guarantee that the jury
would be able to weigh Mr. Penry's retardation and childhood experience of abuse
as factors in their decision, Justice O'Connor said for the 6-to-3 majority in
Penry v. Johnson, No. 00-6677. Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices Scalia and
Thomas dissented. Next term, the court will consider the deeper question that
this case did not pose: whether the Constitution bars executing the retarded.

Federal Authority

The court's federalism revolution, which over the last six years has resulted in
new constraints on Congressional authority and a corresponding expansion of the
states' immunity from federal power, continued with a 5-to-4 ruling that state
employees cannot sue for damages for violations of the Americans With
Disabilities Act.

Chief Justice Rehnquist's majority opinion in Board of Trustees of the
University of Alabama v. Garrett, No. 99-1240, held that while Congress intended
to open the states to such lawsuits, it had not validly done so, for two
reasons.

First, the court said, the 1990 law lacked an adequate legislative record
showing that discrimination by the states themselves, as opposed to society in
general, against people with disabilities was a problem of sufficient dimension
to justify Congressional intervention. Second, the court said, Congress cannot
place burdens on the states that go beyond the Constitution itself, and
discrimination against employees with disabilities, while violating federal
policy, does not violate the Constitution. The others in the majority were
Justices O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy and Thomas.

In the term's most important regulatory ruling, the court unanimously rejected
an industry attack on the Clean Air Act and ruled that in setting air quality
standards, the Environmental Protection Agency is to consider only public health
rather than the cost-benefit analysis proposed by the industry challengers. The
broad discretion Congress gave the agency did not amount to an unconstitutional
delegation of legislative authority, Justice Scalia said for the court in
Whitman v. American Trucking Associations, No. 99-1257.

Interpreting the Clean Water Act, the court overturned a 15-year-old Army Corps
of Engineers regulation and held that the law does not authorize the government
to regulate the dredging and filling of isolated ponds and wetlands. The vote in
Solid Waste Agency v. United States Army Corps of Engineers, No. 99-1178, was 5
to 4, with a majority opinion by Chief Justice Rehnquist joined by Justices
O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy and Thomas.

Ruling on the scope of federal drug laws, the court held 8 to 0 that Congress
has not recognized a "medical necessity" exception to the prohibition on
distributing marijuana. The decision, upholding a federal court injunction, was
a blow to the marijuana-distribution co-ops that have grown up in California and
other states where state law authorizes the use of marijuana to relieve symptoms
of various medical conditions. But the decision, United States v. Oakland
Cannabis Buyers' Cooperative, No. 00-151, did not directly address the state
laws and left many questions unanswered. Justice Thomas wrote the opinion.
Justice Breyer -- whose younger brother, Charles, ruled on the case as a federal
district judge in San Francisco -- did not participate.

Speech and Press

The court ruled 5 to 4 that Congress violated the free speech rights of lawyers
in the federally financed legal services program when it barred them from going
to court on behalf of indigent clients to challenge the validity of welfare laws
and regulations. The 1996 law was an effort to insulate the new federal welfare
law from legal attack. But the law "distorts the legal system," Justice Kennedy
said for the majority in Legal Services Corporation v. Velazquez, No. 99-603.
Justices Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg and Breyer joined the majority.

Giving the edge to the public's right to know over claims of personal privacy,
the court ruled 6 to 3 that the press may not be held liable for publishing
illegally intercepted information if the subject is of "public importance" and
the press did not participate in the interception. The majority opinion by
Justice Stevens thus created a narrowly defined First Amendment exception to the
federal wiretap law, which imposes liability on anyone who discloses the
contents of illegally intercepted communications. Justices Kennedy, Souter,
Ginsburg, Breyer and O'Connor joined the majority opinion in Bartnicki v.
Vopper, No. 99-1687.

The court ruled 6 to 3 that as a matter of free speech, public schools must open
their doors to after-hours religious activities on the same basis as any other
after-school activity. The decision, Good News Club v. Milford Central School,
No. 99-2036, was a victory for a nationwide evangelical Christian organization
that seeks to operate after-school Bible clubs for young children. To exclude
this activity while permitting others would be unconstitutional viewpoint
discrimination, Justice Thomas said for the majority. Chief Justice Rehnquist
and Justices O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy and Breyer were also in the majority.

The court reiterated its view of the potentially corrupting influence of money
in politics, upholding a federal limit on the amount parties may spend in
coordination with their own candidates. To exempt parties from the limits, as
the Colorado Republican Party requested, would be to invite circumvention of
other limits, Justice Souter said in Federal Election Commission v. Colorado
Republican Federal Campaign Committee, No. 00-191. Justices Thomas, Kennedy and
Scalia and Chief Justice Rehnquist dissented.

The court upheld the right of the tobacco industry to advertise its products to
adult consumers, striking down a far-reaching advertising ban in Massachusetts.
While taking different approaches to the case, all nine justices basically
agreed in Lorillard Tobacco v. Reilly, No. 00-596, that the ban violated the
tobacco advertisers' First Amendment rights. The court also found the state
restrictions on advertising for cigarettes, as opposed to cigars and smokeless
tobacco, to be pre-empted by federal law. The pre-emption analysis was 5 to 4.
Justice O'Connor's opinion was joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist and by Justices
Scalia, Thomas and Kennedy.

The court ruled that an assessment on mushroom growers to pay for generic
mushroom advertising under a federal agricultural program violated the First
Amendment right against compelled speech. Justice Kennedy wrote the opinion in
United States v. United Foods, No. 00-276. Justices Breyer, Ginsburg and
O'Connor dissented.

Finally, there was a statutory rather than constitutional decision that involved
the press. In New York Times v. Tasini, No. 00-201, the court ruled that a group
of publishers, including The Times, infringed the copyrights of freelance
contributors by making the freelancers' work accessible without permission on
electronic databases after publication. The court did not decide what remedy the
freelance writers should receive. Justice Ginsburg wrote the 7-to-2 decision,
with Justices Stevens and Breyer dissenting.

Civil Rights

The court looked in both directions in civil rights cases, indicating a deep
split that may play out in future cases.

A 5-to-4 decision upheld the latest boundaries of North Carolina's long-disputed
12th Congressional District, ruling that the circuitous 47 percent black
district was the permissible result of partisan considerations rather than an
unconstitutional racial gerrymander. Justice Breyer's majority opinion in Easley
v. Cromartie, No. 99-1864, introduced some pragmatic flexibility into the
court's treatment of legislative districts drawn with an eye toward racial
composition as one of several factors. Justice O'Connor, who had previously led
the court in striking down race-conscious districts, joined the majority, as did
Justices Stevens, Souter and Ginsburg.

Another 5-to-4 decision substantially limited the effectiveness of one of the
most important civil rights laws, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
which bars discrimination in programs that receive federal money. In an opinion
by Justice Scalia, the court ruled that Congress did not intend private
individuals to be able to bring suits under Title VI except for intentional
discrimination. Federal regulations barring actions that have a discriminatory
impact, regardless of intent, could not provide a basis for private lawsuits, he
said. Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices O'Connor, Kennedy and Thomas joined
the opinion in Alexander v. Sandoval, No. 99-1908.

In an interpretation of the Americans With Disabilities Act, the court ruled 7
to 2 that Casey Martin, a golfer with a disability that prevented him from
walking the course, was entitled to use a golf cart during tournament play
despite the opposition of the P.G.A. Tour. Writing for the majority in P.G.A.
Tour v. Martin, No. 00-24, Justice Stevens said the cart would not fundamentally
alter the game, the essence of which is shot-making, and was the kind of
reasonable accommodation the law required. Justices Scalia and Thomas dissented.


Immigration

By a 5-to-4 vote, the court rejected the White House view that Congress in 1996
had stripped federal judges of the authority to hear challenges to deportation
policies. Reviewing one such policy, the court said deportation was not
automatic for immigrants who had pleaded guilty to crimes before Congress
changed the law and barred administrative waivers of deportation for "criminal
aliens." To give harsh new consequences to old plea bargains made the law
impermissibly retroactive, Justice Stevens said for the court in Immigration and
Naturalization Service v. St. Cyr, No. 00-767. Chief Justice Rehnquist and
Justices Scalia, O'Connor and Thomas dissented.

The court ruled that the government cannot keep a deportable alien in indefinite
detention for lack of a country willing to receive him. Zadvydas v. Davis, No.
99-7791, was another 5-to-4 decision. This time, Justice O'Connor voted with
Justices Stevens, Breyer, Souter and Ginsburg, while Justice Kennedy dissented
along with Justices Scalia and Thomas and Chief Justice Rehnquist.

By a 5-to-4 vote, the court rejected a constitutional challenge to an
immigration law provision that makes it easier for a child born to unwed parents
overseas to be deemed an American citizen if the mother rather than the father
is an American. The American father of a son born in Vietnam to a Vietnamese
mother challenged the law as violating his equal protection rights. But Justice
Kennedy said for the majority that the law properly reflected "basic biological
differences" between men and women, with mothers' identity not needing further
proof because they are inevitably present at birth. Chief Justice Rehnquist and
Justices Stevens, Scalia and Thomas were the others in the majority in Nguyen v.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, No. 99-2071.

Labor

A 5-to-4 decision gave employers a major victory by holding that companies can
enforce agreements to submit all workplace disputes to binding arbitration
rather than litigation. Justice Kennedy wrote the decision in Circuit City
Stores v. Adams, No. 99-1379, which resolved a dispute over whether the Federal
Arbitration Act applies to ordinary contracts of employment. Chief Justice
Rehnquist joined the majority opinion, along with Justices O'Connor, Scalia,
Kennedy and Thomas.

Property Rights

The court ruled 5 to 4 that someone who bought property after restrictions on
development were in place could still challenge the restrictions as an
unconstitutional "taking" of private property. The court reinstated a lawsuit by
a waterfront landowner in Rhode Island who acquired his 20 acres after the state
put landfill restrictions in place. The question for future cases is what weight
courts will give to the date of ownership in weighing the reasonableness of a
landowner's development expectations. Justice Kennedy wrote the opinion in
Palazzolo v. Rhode Island, No. 99-2047, with Chief Justice Rehnquist and
Justices O'Connor, Scalia and Thomas voting in the majority.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Major Rulings"Justices who voted with the majority are
denoted by a darker image. Presidential electionBush v. GoreThe Florida recount
violated equal protection and there was no time to fix the problem.
FederalismBoard of Trustees v. GarrettStates are immune from job discrimination
suits under the Americans With Disabilities Act. Free SpeechGood News Club v.
Milford Central SchoolEqual access for after school religious clubs. Seat belt
arrestAtwater v. Lago VistaPolice can make custodial arrests for minor offenses.
Illegal searchKyllo v. United StatesUse of thermal imaging devices is a search
requiring a warrant. Campaign financeFederal Election Commission v. Colorado
RepublicansUpheld limits on party spending in coordination with candidates.
Voting rightsEasley v. CromartieUpheld North Carolina's 12th Congressional
District against racial gerrymander challenge. ImmigrationImmigration and
Naturalization Service v. St. CyrFederal courts keep jurisdiction over
deportation policies. Illegal searchFerguson v. CharlestonTesting pregnant
women's urine for drugs without consent is unconstitutional. Illegal
searchIndianapolis v EdmundRoadblocks where trained dogs sniff cars for drugs
are unconstitutional. Clean Air ActWhitman v. Amer. Trucking Assns.E.P.A. may
consider only public health and not cost in setting new clean air standards.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 4, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

LESSONS;
True or False Or a Bit of Both

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein;  E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 774 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A COMMON indictment of public schools is that they no longer offer upward
mobility to most immigrants. It is said that in the first half of the 20th
century, children learned English, went to college and joined the middle class
but that many of today's immigrants are more likely to drop out, take dead-end
jobs or end up in prison.

Many true accounts reinforce these beliefs. But less noticed are equally valid
anecdotes pointing to an opposite claim.

Policy by anecdote is flawed because too often we notice only what confirms our
preconceptions. California's recent experience with Mexican immigrants provides
ample material for stories about school failure. But on a day to celebrate the
American promise, we might also turn to anecdotes of another kind.

Recent college graduations in California featured many immigrants from
impoverished families whose first language was Spanish, who came through
much-maligned bilingual education programs, learned English and now head for
graduate schools or professions.

At California State University at Fresno, for example, about 700 of 4,000
graduates this spring were Latino, typically the first in their families to
attend college. Top-ranked were Pedro Nava and Maria Rocio Magana, Mexican-born
children of farm and cannery workers.

Mr. Nava did not settle in the United States until the third grade. Before that,
he lived in migrant labor camps during harvests and in Mexico the rest of the
year. His California schooling was in Spanish until the fifth grade, when he was
moved to English instruction. Now, with a college degree, he has enrolled in
management and teacher training courses.

Ms. Magana did not place into English classes until the 11th grade. Now fluent
in both academic and conversational English, she will soon begin a Ph.D. program
in anthropology at the University of Chicago.

Their achievements are not unique. Both credit success to their mothers'
emphasis on education. Both mothers enrolled in English and high school
equivalency courses at the local community college.

Across California, these two-year institutions play an especially important role
for immigrants.

Lourdes Andrade just finished her junior year at Brown, having transferred there
after getting associate of arts degrees in history and liberal arts at Oxnard
Community College, 40 miles northwest of Los Angeles.  She arrived here at age 4
and all through elementary school worked with her mother making beds and
cleaning bathrooms in hotels. She, too, attributes her success to her mother's
strong academic pressure and also to mentoring she received in a federally
financed program to give extra academic support to migrant children.

The program's director, Lorenzo Moraza, also grew up speaking only Spanish. Now
a school principal, Mr. Moraza estimates that about 30 percent of the immigrant
children he has worked with acquired public school records that led them to
college. Those who receive bachelor's degrees are many fewer, but Mr. Moraza
says he thinks most drop out of college for economic reasons, not academic ones.

At the Fresno campus, nearly two-thirds of the immigrants and children of
immigrants who enter as freshmen eventually graduate. The university operates
special support services to help them do so.

You cannot spend time in California without noticing an extensive middle class
of Latino teachers, doctors, lawyers and small-business people. Many are recent
immigrants. Some attended Catholic schools but most are products of the public
system. Many had bilingual education in the 1970's, 80's and 90's. California
has now banned such instruction, assuming it failed.

Anecdotes are plentiful to support a claim that schools fail immigrant children
or an equally persuasive claim that schools serve them well. Getting better
statistics should help. Government numbers do not distinguish between students
who are immigrants (or whose parents immigrated) from Hispanics with American
roots for several generations.

To help interpret California's experience, the best federal data tell only that
in 1996, there were 100,000 college students nationwide who were American
citizens born in Mexico. This is less than 1 percent of all college students.
But uncounted are even larger numbers of those born here to recent migrants.

Even a balanced collection of anecdotes that include successes as well as
failures cannot determine whether California schools are less effective than we
should expect, and whether wholesale change is needed to move more immigrants to
the middle class. But the answer is certainly more complex than the stereotypes
of systematic failure that pervade most accounts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 8, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SOAPBOX;
Instant Green Card

BYLINE:  By NICOLE KARSIN;  Nicole Karsin is a recent graduate of the Columbia
University Graduate School of Journalism.

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 851 words


I GOT off the 7 train on Roosevelt Avenue on the border of Elmhurst and Jackson
Heights, Queens, and roamed around. A man in his 50's stood in front of a store.

"Do you know where I could buy a card?" I asked in Spanish.

"What kind of card do you want?"

"A green card."

"You don't look Hispanic, like you need a green card. Where are you from?"

People tell me I look Latina, but I'm an American mutt, a mix of Ukrainian,
Irish and Sicilian. I didn't tell the man I was a journalism student who had
come to this heavily Mexican neighborhood to see how easy it would be to buy a
green card, the permanent resident alien cards issued by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service that permits foreigners to live and work in the United
States legally.

I shook my head and started to walk away.

"Look, don't get involved in this," the man said. "It is very dangerous. If they
find you using these papers, they'll put you in prison."

"Thanks very much," I replied. This was not going as I had planned.

"Wait a minute," the man said, beckoning me back. "This is very dangerous. Where
are you from? Are you Colombian, Peruvian?" Again I did not respond.

But the man kept talking. "When you walk down the street, there will be many
young boys who will come up to you, offering green cards and Social Security
cards," he said. "Among them there are also many policemen, like myself."

As I walked away, I wondered whether he really was a cop.

After lunch at a diner, I hit the street again. Roosevelt Avenue was lined with
taco stands and women selling cooked and boiled corn, just as they did at the
plazas in Mexico where I lived for several years.

On an island between two streets, a patch of sidewalk with an entrance to the
subway, a makeshift outdoor market sold more than food. Sandwiched between a man
selling $2 boxes of tangerines and a women selling tamales was a teenager, maybe
16, mumbling "social seguridad" in a low voice. I had found what I was looking
for.

I bought a tamale, smoked a cigarette and observed the scene. A few minutes
later I saw that the teenager had strolled across the street and was huddling
with three friends around a phone booth. One of them seemed to be in his late
teens and had a tough street sense that reminded me of the young men I used to
see on the sidewalks of Mexico City. He looked as if he could get me the papers
I wanted.

I approached him and asked in a low voice, "How much does a green card cost?"

"Do you have photos with you?" he replied.

"Yes, but tell me how much it costs."

"The Social Security is $30, and the green card is $60. Maybe my friend can get
you a little better deal." He whistled loudly, and the young man I had first
seen approached on a child-sized bike. "She wants to buy," the older one said to
his friend.

I walked with the younger man to the corner. "What do you want?" he said.
"Social Security is $30 and green card is $50."

"I want both."

"Do you have your photo?"

"Yes."

"Do you have your name and birth date written down?"

"No."

I fumbled in my purse for a pen and a piece of paper. After scribbling my real
name and my birth date, I handed the paper to him with $80. I also gave him a
passport-size photo.

"How long will it take?" I asked.

"Come back in a half hour," he replied.

As I strolled around the neighborhood, I could see the young man on the island,
his eyes sweeping the area for clients. I caught his eye, and he crossed the
street and walked over to the phone booth. I followed. After hunching over the
phone for a few seconds, he casually sauntered away. Passing me, he muttered,
"Make sure everything is O.K."

I ADVANCED toward the phone. Lying on the metal shelf was a folded white paper.
Inside were a Social Security card and my green card, officially the Resident
Alien Card. I slipped them into my pocket, said thanks to the young man and
headed toward the No. 7 train.

My false Social Security card and green card, which cost $80 and a half hour,
were just two drops in the sea of false papers that flows from the black market
serving more than five million undocumented immigrant and migrant workers in the
United States. It was no coincidence that I bought them in a Mexican
neighborhood because Mexicans are the largest group of undocumented workers.

False papers are the "open sesame" for Mexican workers who come to the United
States. And though the journey north can be life-threatening -- as was
demonstrated by the death of 14 Mexicans in the Arizona desert in May as they
crossed the border -- the promise of treasure awaits them.

Using false Social Security and green cards is grounds for deportation and bars
to future entry, but most Mexicans in need of work have no other options. The
fake green card symbolizes the obstacles to entry into this country. It makes
you think of the families left behind, whom the card holder supports by toiling
to send money home. It signifies the silence in which the worker lives, forever
anxious about deportation.

On the train back to Manhattan, I examined my purchase. My date of birth was in
the space reserved for my alien number and vice versa, and my last name was
spelled wrong.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 11, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In New York, Bush Visits Sites Evocative of His Philosophy

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words


One hundred and seventy-one days after he was sworn in, George W. Bush paid his
first visit as president to New York State yesterday, proposing ways to ease
immigration and paying tribute to Cardinal John O'Connor. But Mr. Bush expressed
something short of pure delight at being back in the state that he lost by
nearly 25 percentage points last November and that his advisers view as
politically out of reach for 2004.

"How do you like New York, Mr. President?" a reporter asked Mr. Bush as he posed
for a photograph with a small cluster of Democrats and Republicans in front of
New York Harbor, moments after leading 29 new citizens at a V.I.P.-packed
naturalization ceremony on Ellis Island in the Pledge of Allegiance.

"It's a beautiful day," Mr. Bush responded tersely.

Fellow Republicans at his side, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov.
George E. Pataki, froze for about five awkward seconds, and Mr. Bush
reconsidered his response. "I love New York," he proclaimed, to the evident
relief of his hosts.

In all, Mr. Bush spent just six hours in New York, a state where he won the
Republican primary only after a draining battle with John McCain, the senator
from Arizona who ran with Mr. Giuliani's warm encouragement, and that he
effectively conceded in the general election to Vice President Al Gore.

The president made no references to his New York campaign encounters during the
course of two public speaking appearances that lasted, combined, barely 20
minutes. Indeed, he went to places that broadly evoked central aspects of Mr.
Bush's political philosophy and appeal.

In the morning, he went by boat to Ellis Island (which might arguably be called
a presidential visit to New Jersey) to propose changes in immigration policy,
including a six-month time limit for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to process immigration applications. The proposals won praise from New York's
senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, both Democrats.

In the afternoon, he headed for St. Patrick's Cathedral on Fifth Avenue (no
jurisdictional disputes there) to present a posthumous Congressional Gold Medal
to Cardinal O'Connor, who died at 80 in May 2000.

The president drew a prolonged ovation as he praised Cardinal O'Connor as "the
gallant defender of children and their vulnerability, innocence and their right
to be born." Even politicians who do not join in Mr. Bush's opposition to
abortion rights -- among them, Mr. Pataki, Mr. Giuliani, Mrs. Clinton and Mr.
Schumer -- rose to their feet for the ovation, which lasted for 71 seconds, the
longest of the afternoon.

When it came his turn to speak, Mr. Bush, who had just had a private lunch at
the Waldorf-Astoria with Mr. Pataki, Mr. Giuliani and others, seemed to make
amends for his earlier remarks. Cardinal O'Connor, Mr. Bush recalled, used to
tell of being greeted at the Vatican by Pope John Paul II with the question,
"How is the archbishop of the capital of the world?"

Looking down from the lectern at Mr. Giuliani, who was seated in the first row,
Mr. Bush said, "For me, on my first visit as president, it is a pleasure, Mr.
Mayor, to be in the capital of the world."

Still, Mr. Bush's mere presence in the nation's third-largest state -- he
visited 32 states as president before putting New York on his schedule,
according to the White House -- served as a reminder of just how little interest
Mr. Bush has displayed in the state, and of just how little influence New York
Republicans are enjoying in Washington these days. So it was that Democrats
praised Mr. Bush for finally visiting yesterday, while Republicans came to his
defense, if tersely.

"He's a very busy man," Mr. Giuliani said. "He's got lots of places to go." He
said the president was very accessible and always took his calls, adding, "I
think he's been a very good president for New York."

Mr. Pataki dismissed questions about the visit. "What matters is not how many
times he comes here, and what matters are what his policies are," Mr. Pataki
said.

Mr. Schumer praised Mr. Bush. "I think it's very good," the senator said. "I
visited all sorts of areas of New York State that I didn't win and it helped me
do my job better. And I think the same will be true for the president."

It was, presumably, a poignant day for Mrs. Clinton, who found herself back on
Air Force One for the first time since leaving the White House. When she arrived
at Andrews Air Force Base yesterday morning, New York's junior senator headed
for the steps at the back end of Air Force One, which are used by Secret Service
agents, White House aides and reporters. A steward escorted her to the front
steps, the entrance for presidents, first ladies -- and senators.

If Mr. Bush had reason to dislike New York, those feelings were returned by 500
protesters who assembled outside the church to greet him, holding signs reading,
"He's not my president," and chanting, "Bush, Cheney, got to go."

The St. Patrick's gathering offered Mr. Bush a primer of New York's political,
religious and social world. There were past, current and, possibly, future
governors and mayors. All six major Republican and Democratic mayoral candidates
were in the pews. Mr. Giuliani sat in the front row with Governor Pataki; the
mayor's estranged wife, Donna Hanover, sat several rows back.

The medal was accepted by Cardinal O'Connor's sister Mary Ward, who referred not
only to the cardinal's opposition to abortion but also to the death penalty. She
called him "above all, an outspoken champion of human life from conception until
natural death."

Former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said the comments about abortion had called to mind
the debate over whether the federal government should support embryonic stem
cell research, an issue Mr. Bush has been wrestling with in the last few weeks
but did not mention yesterday.

At Ellis Island, Mr. Bush, speaking in a hall that included two dozen empty
seats, spoke warmly about immigration, as he listed several changes that he said
would make it easier for people to deal with the immigration service. "New
arrivals should be greeted not with suspicion and resentment, but with openness
and courtesy."

Then Mr. Bush stood to lead the new Americans in the Pledge of Allegiance.
"Right hand up, please," he said, raising his arm but then stopping himself.
"Actually, right hand on your heart."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush's visit to New York began yesterday morning with
a boat ride to Ellis Island, where he talked about the benefits of immigration
and appeared with Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer, Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki. (Stephen Crowley/The New York
Times)(pg. A1); President Bush went to St. Patrick's Cathedral yesterday with
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Cardinal Edward Egan and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert,
right. He delivered a tribute to the late Cardinal John O'Connor. (Stephen
Crowley/The New York Times); Lexington Avenue was blocked off for President
Bush's motorcade yesterday, making tourists like Brittany Wilson, 13, of
Detroit, wait before they could hail a taxicab in front of the Waldorf-Astoria.
(Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Personal Business;
As Rules Ease, More Citizens Choose to Fly 2 Flags

BYLINE:  By AMY CORTESE

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1292 words


ORAZIO GIGLI was a teenager in 1972, when he and his family left behind the
orange-scented hills of his native Capaci, outside Palermo, Sicily, in search of
greater economic opportunity in the United States. When he became an American
citizen five years later, he had to renounce his Italian citizenship, but he
never let go of his memories of playing street soccer with a ball made of rags
or of the close-knit community of family and neighbors that shared his life.

"In my heart, I will always be an Italian," said Mr. Gigli, 45, a labor union
executive who now lives in White Plains with his wife, Marina, 48, and his grown
daughters, Michelle and Felicia.

And now, because of a change in the laws in Italy, he will always be an Italian.
In 1992, the government there began allowing dual citizenship, enabling Mr.
Gigli to reclaim his Italian nationality.

The United States has long been a beacon of welcome for immigrants. In the last
five years alone, nearly four million foreigners became American citizens, but
an inverse trend is taking hold. A growing number of Americans, either born in
this country or naturalized citizens like Mr. Gigli, are taking advantage of
more liberal policies in other countries and in the United States to become dual
citizens.

The reasons for doing so are as diverse as the people seeking the dual status.
But several factors are fueling the trend, including a growing interest in
genealogy and a desire to connect with family roots, the changing meaning of
national boundaries, as in the European Union and the former Soviet Union, and
the forging of trade alliances like the North American Free Trade Agreement. (Of
course, it can also be a status symbol for the upwardly mobile businessman or
businesswoman.)

"E.U. citizenship is a big deal," said Matthew Shultz, an immigration lawyer at
the law firm Baker & McKenzie. Someone who is a citizen of one European Union
country, he added, can live or work in any of the others.

Many foreign countries are putting out the welcome mat for various reasons -- to
stem a talent brain drain, for example, or to attract the tax revenue of
cash-flush retirees looking for places to spend their golden years. Under its
Economic Citizenship Program, intended to reward individuals who contribute to
its economy, the tiny Caribbean nation of Belize allows anyone willing to pay
$50,000 in fees to become a citizen. The new Belizeans are allowed to retain
their native citizenship and may take advantage of Belize's lenient tax laws,
which include no capital gains or estate taxes and no tax on income earned
outside Belize.

DOZENS of countries have smoothed the way for people, with or without ancestral
ties, to have their feet firmly planted in two or more lands. And in many of
those countries, citizenship can be passed on to children. The United States has
also steadily relaxed its policies over the last two decades, thanks in part to
the end of the cold war and a 1967 Supreme Court ruling that the United States
could not strip away American citizenship because of a person's attachments to
another nation.

T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a law professor at Georgetown University and director
of the Comparative Citizenship Project at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, sees the dual-citizenship trend continuing because of the
more liberal laws and policies and the fact that 10 percent of the American
population is foreign-born.

While some critics call dual citizenship "political polygamy," contending that
multiple allegiances cheapen the notion of citizenship, others see many benefits
in an emerging global economy. For starters, dual citizenship allows someone to
live and work more freely in another country or, in the case of the European
Union, any of the 15 member nations. In some countries, like Mexico, dual
citizens living abroad can even vote in elections. Citizenship can also make it
easier to own property and businesses.

Many dual citizens born in the United States also cite the benefits of traveling
without a United States passport, which can mean shorter lines at overseas
customs and avoiding anti-American sentiment in some parts of the world.

There can be pitfalls, too. Unless they research the rules in advance, dual
citizens may be surprised to learn that they may have to serve in the second
country's military, or be subject to its taxes. Foreign consulates in the United
States can answer most questions about citizenship requirements and eligibility.

Although the rules and procedures vary by country, getting dual citizenship can
be a long, complicated process. And the processing fees can total $200 or so.

Generally, Americans become eligible for citizenship in another country in one
of two ways: by a direct bloodline (called ius sanguinis in Latin, or right of
blood), for those with a parent or grandparent who was born in the second
country, or through naturalization for others, including those who marry
nationals.

Many American citizens whose parents or grandparents were immigrants are finding
that they may be eligible for citizenship in their ancestral homelands. In some
countries, like Ireland, simply having a parent or grandparent who was born in
the country may be enough. But elsewhere the rules are often much more
complicated: In Italy, for example, you may be eligible if at least one of your
parents was an Italian citizen at the time of your birth, even if he or she
lived in the United States. But that applies only if you were born after 1948,
and if neither you nor, in certain cases, your parent renounced Italian
citizenship.

In most cases, you will have to produce some proof -- birth, death, marriage and
immigration documents of family and ancestors -- and fill out plenty of
paperwork. Finding those documents may require a visit to the ancestral
homeland.

Many dual citizens say they were helped in their searches by their friends or
family overseas. The Internet can ease the process, too. Ellisislandrecords.org,
for example, can help track down information on the more than 22 million
immigrants who passed through New York's Ellis Island from 1892 to 1924.

Once all the paperwork is in, the wait for citizenship can be anywhere from a
year to up to 10 years -- as in more restrictive countries like Japan and
Germany.

Daniel Kealy, 33, a furniture maker in New York, figures that he spent 15 to 20
hours to apply for Irish citizenship, which was granted within a year. Mr. Kealy
was eligible because his maternal grandfather, Daniel O'Keefe, was born in
Ireland.

Growing up, he was part of the Irish-American community in New York City, where
that grandfather was a police officer and his paternal grandfather, William
Kealy, a second-generation Irish immigrant, was a firefighter. Mr. Kealy and his
mother, Ellen Mary Kealy, 58, both applied for Irish citizenship in 1995 after
Mr. Kealy's aunt, Nancy O'Keefe, had successfully done so.

Mr. Kealy said he did not have the same identification with his Irish heritage
as his grandparents did, but that he and his wife, Alexandra, 35, a pet-store
owner, might someday like to live in Ireland or elsewhere in the European Union.
Mr. Kealy also figures that it may become harder to get an Irish passport as the
country's economic situation improves.

MR. GIGLI, meanwhile, has done his best to keep Italian traditions alive in his
family. For the younger generation, he said, the Italian way of life "is
slipping away."

So Mr. Gigli sings in an Italian-American dinner band and serves as vice
president of the local Italian-American soccer league. And he has taken his
daughters to Italy several times over the last few years.

The next time they visit, they, too, will go as Italian citizens, because Mr.
Gigli's dual citizenship extended to his children.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: When Orazio Gigli became a naturalized American, he gave up his
Italian citizenship. A 1992 change in Italian law let him reclaim it. (Michelle
V. Agins/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 16, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Movie Made for Russia Roils Brighton Beach

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1566 words


The day begins calmly enough. An elegantly plump Russian grandmother strolls
with her gentleman friend along the boardwalk in Brighton Beach, reminiscing
about the old country.

Then her daughter is attacked in the subway, after escaping from a blind date
with a Russian emigre professor who displays a creepy penchant for metal-studded
leather underwear. Meanwhile, her Americanized granddaughter succumbs to the
entreaties of her cocaine-snorting boyfriend and borrows money from an uncle,
who happens to employ a pair of long-legged Russian prostitutes who happen to
have just witnessed the murder of a Russian limousine driver.

Ah, the immigrant life in Brooklyn, U.S.A. It makes Moscow look invitingly tame
-- or it would if it were true. And there's the rub.

This story line does not come from a Hollywood caricature of Russian immigrants
or, for that matter, an old Soviet one. It is a summary of the two-hour pilot
for a Russian television series called, in its English translation, "Permanent
Residence," which is written, produced and acted entirely by New York-area
immigrants from the former Soviet Union.

American audiences would probably not be shocked at its portrayal of a modern
urban neighborhood as a thicket of lonely hearts, slackers and thugs. But when
the pilot was screened recently for audiences at a theater in Brighton Beach,
the heart of the Russian-speaking community, it was as if a depth charge had
been set off in a pond.

"It's the biggest topic of discussion out here," said Yana Levin, who plays the
muddled young granddaughter, also named Yana. "People say, 'How dare you show
the community in such a light: the daughter does coke, the mother gets raped,
the brother is a bandit! Why not show people who are successful?'

"And I tell them, listen people. In order to have a plot, you've got to have a
problem. If the girl is good and doing her homework, you wouldn't watch it. And
who knows?" added Ms. Levin, owner of the Blue Velvet Lounge in Brooklyn. "Maybe
by the sixth episode, she will be a good girl."

The beleaguered producers keep telling everyone that "Permanent Residence" is,
after all, just a story, not reality television. "This is a movie," insisted
Georgi Gavrilov, the Russian-born director and producer, who said he thinks of
the plot as a cross between "The Sopranos" and "Sex and the City."

The episode is the first in what Mr. Gavrilov hopes will be a series. He is
searching for more financing and has been negotiating with television stations
in Russia, where he said he has found substantial interest in the project.

For weeks, "Permanent Residence" has been the paramount topic of discussion in
the Russian-language media. Hundreds of people have weighed in with opinions
about the camera angles and the script. Talk show hosts have plumbed its images
for deeper significance. Letter writers have argued at length about whether it
is art or slander or simply commercial television.

The debate has all the passion and bruised feelings of a family quarrel. One
faction complains that the community's imperfections are exaggerated. Another
says the problems are real. The rest argue that, in any case, outsiders should
not know the family secrets -- especially when the outsiders are people back in
Russia who would be pleased to think the immigrants' American life is worse than
the one they left behind.

"I love America so much that any word said against it, I can't stand it," said
Anna Levin, mother of Yana and author of a novel in Russian, "Marriage Immigrant
Style," that was the basis for the characters in the pilot's all-female
household.

"When I see everything bad on the screen, I feel bad," she said. "How come they
didn't show something good, something bright?"

Mrs. Levin, who came to New York from Russia in 1987 at the age of 41, has been
one of the more outspoken critics of "Permanent Residence." She described her
1994 book as a realistic story of immigrant loneliness, based loosely on her
personal experience as a newly arrived divorced woman who worked as a computer
programmer by day and took her chances on nightmarish blind dates by night.

She is particularly dismayed at what the scriptwriters did with the character of
the mother, who is called Anna and also works as a computer programmer. On the
screen she is shown covering for the incompetence of another Russian programmer.

"This is not right and it gives a bad image," Mrs. Levin said. "Look at the
computer programming world here. It's all Russians. What do we see in the movie?
That one person can do nothing and the other has to do the job. That's a fairy
tale."

Few aspects of "Permanent Residence" have escaped comment. One Brooklyn man
wrote to a Russian-language newspaper to complain that the best seats at one
screening in Brighton Beach were given to "healthy young men" instead of the
more elderly members of the audience. What's more, he wrote, the pilot left a
lot of unsettled questions about the characters and their lives.

Mr. Gavrilov, the exasperated director, said he hears the same complaint over
and over.

"I tell people, it's like a novel," he said. "You can't just pull out the first
20 pages and know how the story is. In 'Anna Karenina,' Anna dies. But you don't
have to have her die in the first chapter."

Even the Russian title, a Russian acronym for "permanent residence," evokes
criticism. The Soviet regime used the term as a shorthand reference to Jews and
others who emigrated. The acronym is used in the internal passports of
criminals, who are often barred from certain cities when released from prison.

"When I heard the title, I didn't want to see the movie," said Albert
Pisarenkov, who was a comedian and a prisoner of conscience in the Soviet Union
and now lives in New York. "It's offensive."

After the initial shock, the tide has appeared to turn in favor of the pilot, or
at least in sympathy with its makers. A call-in program on Russian radio last
week featured dozens of people speaking out against the critics.

"The reaction in the beginning was predictable," said Oleg Sulkin, the talk show
host and a columnist for the newspaper Novoye Russkoye Slovo. "The older Russian
thinks film has to teach, to educate people. This is Soviet mentality, the
so-called socialist realism, that says everything in art must show the dominance
of good over evil."

Besides, Mr. Sulkin added, "Permanent Residence" is a commercial venture, made
for sale to Russian audiences in Russia.

"If this film would show happy faces and everybody living good and in nice
circumstances, it would have no chance to be shown in Russia," he said. "In
Russia today there are a lot of anti-American sentiments flying around. If they
see immigrants leading a miserable life, they will feel themselves much better
off."

In many ways "Permanent Residence" was a family affair for Brighton Beach, which
might explain the intense scrutiny it has received.

The neighborhood itself -- the elderly Russians in their wheelchairs parked on
the boardwalk, the surly livery car drivers, the cranky Russians who come from
the suburbs to sit in the cafes -- was a character. Some of the bit players were
well-known doctors; others ended up in parts by serendipity.

One man was hired after a scriptwriter saw him spraying for cockroaches and
decided he had the right look. A cast member's friend, who in real life flies
advertising banners over the beach, was recruited to play a Chechen criminal who
dies in the pilot. He proved so popular with audiences that the producers
promised to bring him back, as the dead man's twin, in the future.

The stars were also practically family. Some were luminaries of the Soviet
cinema who have had a hard time finding steady acting work in the United States
but are still seen by fellow immigrants as celebrities.

The grandmother, for example, is played by Yelena Solovei, who played the lead
in several films by the Russian director Nikita Mikhailkov. The gentleman who
courts her is played by Boris Sichkin, a well-known actor in the Soviet Union
who is best remembered for his portrayal of a Red Army spy called Booby
Kostorsky.

For these elders of the Russian arts scene, "Permanent Residence" provided a
welcome spot at center stage again. And they have been some of its strongest
supporters.

Mr. Sichkin, who has twice portrayed Leonid Brezhnev in American films, said no
one should conclude from any film, even this one, that Russians in the United
States are criminals.

"Americans are always talking about the Russian mafia," he said. "What is mafia?
It's organized crime. You need 200 to 300 people for organized crime. Here
you've got maybe two or three guys who sit around and drink vodka and talk like
that." Still, he said, maybe Mr. Gavrilov, the director, could have spared
viewers some of the violence in his Brighton Beach story. "I told him, you don't
need so much blood," Mr. Sichkin recalled. "Here in the United States they're
already doing plenty without you."

For the young Russian immigrants who made the pilot -- most of them raised here
and living anywhere but Brighton Beach -- the community response has been no
more melodramatic than the community itself.

"The film is not a documentary and it's not a caricature," said Stanislav Libin,
28, one of the scriptwriters. "Anyway the caricature of Brighton Beach is
Brighton Beach and its real people. It is like this and it's amazing how it
doesn't change."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boris Sichkin, who has a part in the pilot "Permanent
Residence," was a well-known actor in the Soviet Union. (Nancy Siesel/The New
York Times)(pg. A1); Yelena Solovei and Boris Sichkin share an umbrella and
memories of Russia in "Permanent Residence," a pilot made for Russian
television. (pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 16, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

BASEBALL: YANKEES NOTEBOOK;
Team Says Morales Lied About Age

BYLINE:  By BUSTER OLNEY

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, July 15


The Yankees have cut their contractual ties with the Cuban defector Andy
Morales, arguing that he misrepresented his age to the team, and Morales now
faces immigration complications.

In a sport where lying about age is commonplace, it is a precedent that could
have ramifications in cases in which players have fudged their birth dates.

Morales and the Yankees agreed in the spring to a four-year deal worth $4.5
million, and he had to go through an application process with the Justice
Department before the contract was completed. Foreign players who are under
contract receive work visas to play in the United States.

According to a person with knowledge of the negotiations, Morales was repeatedly
asked his age and told the Yankees that he was born in 1974, contrary to some
evidence that he was born in 1971. The Yankees continued to research Morales's
background after they signed him and generated information supporting their
belief that he was born in 1971; as a result, the team recently voided the
contract.

Morales reported to the Yankees' training camp in March, and immediately there
was concern about his skills. Morales batted only .231 with one homer in 48
games for Class AA Norwich, and he was waived off the team's 40-man roster.

When the Yankees signed Morales they thought he might have a chance to replace
Scott Brosius as the third baseman in 2002, but he has recently been nothing
more than a minor-league utility player. With such doubt about Morales's
ability, the Yankees benefit from having the contract voided.

It is common for age discrepancies to arise in players signed from other
countries. According to Major League Baseball and the Yankees, for example,
pitcher Orlando Hernandez is 31, but papers from a court proceeding indicate
that Hernandez was born in October 1965 and is 35.

Hernandez signed for $6.6 million with the Yankees in March 1998 and has become
one of the greatest postseason pitchers. The Yankees have not contested his
contract over the age discrepancy.

Mets shortstop Rey Ordonez, another defector from Cuba, signed a four-year
contract worth $19 million before the 2000 season. Ordonez said in 1997 that he
was born in 1971, not in 1972, which Major League Baseball lists as his year of
birth. The Mets have not tried to void the Ordonez deal because of age
discrepancy.

An Unexpected Blow

Yankees Manager Joe Torre was criticized before the All-Star Game for selecting
seven Yankees as reserves, and he absorbed another shot this weekend -- from
George Steinbrenner, the principal owner. According to a report today in
Newsday, Steinbrenner said: "The All-Star Game has turned into too much of a
festival. I told Torre he shouldn't have taken so many people for the team. They
looked like they needed sleep."

Steinbrenner was referring to the Yankees' one-sided losses in Florida on
Thursday and Friday, when pitchers Mike Mussina and Ted Lilly were ripped for 18
hits and 13 runs in five and two-thirds innings. "Winning the Series is what's
important," Steinbrenner said, "not the All-Star Game."

Torre said today that Steinbrenner suggested in past years to limit the number
of Yankees picked as All-Stars. "He didn't tell me that this year," Torre said.
"He likes to see a lot of guys make it because it's a credit to the team, but he
also wants them to rest. That's his opinion."

Torre paused and added, "Besides, the two pitchers who got their rear ends
kicked didn't go to the All-Star Game."

Wohlers Struggles

Mark Wohlers could have vetoed his trade to the Yankees, but he welcomed the
move and pushed for it to happen. Yankees officials were just as excited,
feeling Wohlers, a hard-throwing right-handed reliever, would be an upgrade over
Brian Boehringer.

But Wohlers is struggling terribly in his first weeks with the team, allowing an
average of about three base runners an inning. Wohlers was inserted in
Saturday's game against Florida with a one-run lead in the bottom of the 10th
inning, and two of the three batters he faced reached base before Ramiro Mendoza
was called on to finish the game.

Today, the Yankees were losing 5-3 in the bottom of the eighth, and Joe Torre,
who likes to give players a chance to redeem themselves quickly, went to
Wohlers, hoping to keep the game close. But Wohlers allowed a single, a double,
a walk and a single in succession, and the game evolved into a blowout.

Wohlers has pitched four and a third innings and surrendered 9 hits, 4 walks and
7 runs, 6 earned. "He'll be fine," Torre said after the game.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 16, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Workers Die at Higher Rate

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1201 words


Often hired for low-end jobs like construction labor and meatpacking, Hispanic
immigrants in the United States die from workplace injuries at a far higher rate
than other workers.

In recent years the rate of on-the-job deaths for all Hispanics has been 20
percent higher than for whites or blacks, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has
found. The death rate for Hispanics in construction, an industry that has hired
many immigrants in recent years, is even higher, occupational experts say.

Job safety officials say that Hispanic immigrants, often unskilled and often
here illegally, are hired disproportionately into many of the most dangerous
jobs, like roofing, fruit picking and taxi driving.

Recent occupational safety reports say Hispanic construction workers have died
when they have slipped off wet roofs and when the trenches they have been
digging have collapsed and buried them. These reports also detail numerous
incidents in which migrant farm workers died when crowded vans crashed while
their foremen were driving them to the fields.

Dana Loomis, a professor of epidemiology at the University of North Carolina who
has studied racial disparities in occupational injuries, said, "There is a long
history of discriminatory hiring in the United States involving immigrants, with
the result that for many, many years, immigrants have done the dirtiest and most
dangerous jobs."

"In many parts of the country," Professor Loomis said, "recent Latino immigrants
are being hired because they will accept lower wages and poorer working
conditions than U.S.-born workers."

Authorities on occupational safety point to another factor behind the higher
injury rate. Hispanic immigrants, partly because many do not speak English,
often receive less job and safety training than American-born workers do. Safety
experts say language barriers often contribute to the higher Hispanic injury
rate, noting, for instance, that at many job sites, safety instructions and
warnings appear only in English.

"If someone yells, 'Watch out,' you don't necessarily act as fast if it's not
your native language," said James Platner, associate director of the Center to
Protect Worker Rights, an educational arm of the Building Trades Department of
the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

A workplace injury last year in Colorado involved a 19-year-old Hispanic worker
who slipped off a wet roof, broke his back and was paralyzed. His supervisor did
not speak Spanish and said that made it difficult to tell the worker, who did
not speak English, that the roof was dangerously slick. In Texas, job safety
officials say, a Hispanic worker died from carbon monoxide poisoning because he
was not able to read a warning telling workers not to use power cleaners in
enclosed spaces.

Occupational safety experts say one of the most startling statistics is that the
number of Hispanic construction workers who died in workplace accidents rose to
223 in 1999 from 133 three years earlier. That was a 68 percent jump; by
contrast, the number of Hispanic construction workers rose by 20 to 30 percent
in that three-year period, industry officials estimate.

"Part of it is that Hispanic workers, with their limited job prospects, are more
likely than U.S.-born workers to do things that are more dangerous because they
are more afraid about losing their job if they refuse to do it," said Tom
O'Connor, executive director of the North Carolina Occupational Safety and
Health Project, a nonprofit education group. "And part of it is these workers
might be more afraid to speak up about dangerous things on the job. And part of
it is they are more likely to be employed by fly-by-night contractors who are
more likely to cut corners."

In its most recent Census of Fatal Occupational Injuries, the Bureau of Labor
Statistics found that in 1999, Hispanic workers had a fatality rate of 5.2 per
100,000, compared with 4.4 for white workers and 4.1 for black workers. The
rates were nearly identical for those groups in 1998. The bureau found that 725
of the 6,023 occupational deaths reported in 1999 involved Hispanic workers.

Rafael Moure-Eraso, a professor of work environment at the University of
Massachusetts in Lowell, said the federal statistics probably underreported
deaths and injuries to Hispanic workers because many employers are reluctant to
report incidents involving illegal immigrants.

"Hispanics are overrepresented in two of the most dangerous industries:
agriculture and construction," said Rosemary Sokas, associate director for
science at the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which is
part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "People who have
migrated for agricultural work often move into construction work, which is
really high risk as well."

With the construction industry booming in recent years, many contractors have
relied increasingly on day laborers picked up to fill job openings.

"If you're a day laborer who gets picked up at a local 7-Eleven and paid cash
for that day, there's no opportunity to learn about safety on the job," Mr.
Platner said. "They're not going to spend a day teaching you about safety."

Hispanic immigrants are often funneled into the most dangerous construction
jobs, like roofing, trench digging and carrying heavy materials. In 1999, the
fatality rate for roofers was six times the average for all jobs, and for
construction laborers, the least skilled building workers, it was eight times as
high.

In a survey of 50 Hispanic construction workers by Mr. O'Connor's safety
project, the workers said they were frequently given dangerous tasks that
American workers did not want. The workers, who said they had little information
about their right to safe conditions, said they believed that Hispanic employers
were worse to work for than Americans because they were less caring about safety
and working conditions.

Another reason for the high fatality rate, safety experts said, is that Hispanic
immigrants are usually newer to their jobs than Americans. One Bureau of Labor
Statistics study found that 12 percent of serious injuries occurred during a
worker's first day at a job site.

And part of the problem is cultural, some Hispanic workers say. "We are not
really used to working in a very safe manner," said Dan Garcia, a roofer and
safety instructor in Santa Clara, Calif. "On top of that we are often not well
informed by the employers on safety precautions."

Carolyn Guglielmo, director of safety services for Associated General
Contractors, an industry association representing more than 20,000 building
contractors nationwide, said there was a big communication gap between Hispanic
workers and many building contractors.

Ms. Guglielmo said that many companies were trying to teach their supervisors to
speak Spanish and that her association was promoting Spanish videos to teach
Hispanic workers how to take precautions at work and protect themselves.

Dan Milinazzo, safety director for Associated General Contractors in Colorado,
predicted that the death rate for Hispanics would decline as the immigrants
moved into safer jobs higher up on the economic ladder and as more Hispanics
moved into supervisory positions, enabling them to provide more bilingual
training.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Hispanic Deaths On the Job"Hispanics have a
high rate of fatal industrial injuries largely because they work so often in
dangerous industries. Fatal industrial injuries per 100,000 workers, 1999.
WHITE: 4.4BLACK: 4.1HISPANIC*: 5.2 Fatalities to Hispanic workers in the
construction industry. Graph showing the number of deaths of Hispanic workers in
the construction industry, from 1993 to 1999. *Hispanics may be of any
race.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 18, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Nominee Could Face Firestorm at Hearing Today

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 790 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17


With Capitol Hill roiling over the possibility that President Bush will back a
plan to let millions of illegal Mexican immigrants earn legal residency, the
first official target for lawmakers' queries and criticisms will be an untested
player in an unfolding geopolitical drama.

James W. Ziglar, Mr. Bush's choice for commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, readily admits that he knows next to nothing about
immigration.  Nor has he been involved yet in the high-level talks that State
and Justice Department officials have been holding with their Mexican
counterparts on border and immigration issues.

But on Wednesday, when he appears at his confirmation hearing before the Senate
Judiciary Committee, Mr. Ziglar could face a firestorm. "I'm not intimidated,"
he said in a brief phone conversation today as he put the finishing touches on
his testimony. "Maybe I'm not smart enough to be intimidated."

Both his friends and his critics say Mr. Ziglar, a former managing director of
Paine Webber and once a law clerk to Justice Harry A. Blackmun, is very smart.
The question is, Can a man who is now the Senate sergeant-at-arms, in charge of
matters like Senate security and the Senate telephone system, be up to the task
of guiding one of the government's most maligned and fastest-growing agencies?
(The I.N.S.'s budget has grown nearly fourfold, to $5.5 billion, in roughly a
decade, and it now has 33,000 employees.)

While immigration experts voice doubts over Mr. Ziglar's lack of experience in
the issues that now confront him, he has won bipartisan support in the Senate
for his easygoing style and meticulous organization. Confirmation is not
doubted.

"When he came to talk to me about the job, I said, 'Are you crazy? Just say no!'
" said the Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, who has known
Mr. Ziglar since they were boys in Pascagoula, Miss., singing together in the
church choir. "But it's typical of Jim that he was interested in a real
challenge."

The first challenge for the 55-year-old Mr. Ziglar will be jumping into the
debate over whether to legalize the status of more than three million Mexicans
living in the United States illegally. Legalization would be a gradual process,
under an expanded guest-worker program that the Mexican government is now
discussing with the United States.

In Milwaukee today, President Vicente Fox of Mexico kept up the pressure on
Washington, telling a cheering convention of Latino rights advocates that his
goal was to legalize and make safer the migration flows between the two
countries.

"There should be a clear and consistent path to permanent residence for those
migrants who want and are otherwise eligible to do so," Mr. Fox said.

Democrats, labor unions, religious groups and Latino rights advocates applaud
the proposal, but Republicans are divided. Supporters like Senators John McCain
of Arizona and Chuck Hagel of Nebraska say it is time to recognize the millions
of illegal workers who pay taxes, buy homes and are raising American-born
children here. Opponents say that providing a route toward permanent residency
would only reward lawbreakers.

"Rather than considering amnesty for illegal aliens," said Representative Marge
Roukema, Republican of New Jersey, "our government should be working to
strengthen our border controls, lower immigration quotas and crack down on
illegal aliens and those who employ them."

Senator Lott gave the legalization idea some support today, saying in an
interview that he opposed a blanket amnesty for illegal immigrants, as Mr. Bush
does, but was open to a "steady process that moves them into legal status" over
time, depending on employment record, family ties and time already spent in the
United States.

A daunting variety of other tasks will also face Mr. Ziglar as commissioner. Mr.
Bush has promised to split the immigration agency into two parts, with one
focusing on border enforcement and the other on immigrant benefits.

"Jim Ziglar is an experienced manager who will work diligently to reform the
I.N.S.," Mr. Bush said when he nominated Mr. Ziglar in April.

But while Democrats also express support, immigration professionals remain
skeptical, saying Mr. Ziglar will need to surround himself with policy experts
to succeed.

"It's a tough field to come into without any background," said David A. Martin,
a University of Virginia law professor and former I.N.S. general counsel. "There
are a lot of hidden traps and legal technicalities."

Indeed, no one seems happier to see Mr. Ziglar arrive than Kevin Rooney, the
acting commissioner, who recently summed up his feelings toward his interim job
by saying, "Probably the nicest thing about this experience is that it's going
to end soon."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. Ziglar, the nominee to head the immigration service.
(Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 19, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In U.S. Unions, Mexico Finds Unlikely Ally on Immigration

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 18


It is rare for foreign officials to address labor conventions, much less raise
their fist in solidarity with the union members.

But when Mexico's foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, did so on Tuesday night,
saying at the hotel workers' convention here that illegal Mexican immigrants
should be given legal status to prevent their exploitation, he got a rousing
ovation.

For years, Mexico and the American labor movement were at loggerheads, with
unions denouncing the North American Free Trade Agreement for dragging down
American workers' wages and job conditions. But now Mexico's government and
American unions are making common cause on an issue that long divided them,
immigration.

Both are urging the Bush administration to grant legal status to millions of
illegal Mexican immigrants.

After decades of hostility toward immigrants, arguing that they push down wages,
the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has changed course and concluded that the best way to prevent
immigrants from undercutting American wages is to grant them legal status and
unionize them. American union leaders also recognize that allying with Mexico on
the issue will help unions attract immigrants to their ranks by improving the
image of unions in the eyes of immigrants.

Mr. Castaneda has spearheaded Mexico's effort to improve ties with American
unions because he recognizes that organized labor is one of the strongest voices
to advance President Vicente Fox's goal of winning legal status for Mexican
illegal immigrants in the United States.

Mr. Castaneda spoke at the convention of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant
Employees International Union as President Bush and President Fox are
negotiating changes in American immigrant policy to reduce the dangers of
crossing the border and to improve the lives of Mexican immigrants.

"Their lack of legal status makes them vulnerable to employers who undercut the
competition by exploiting these immigrants," Mr. Castaneda told a crowd of 400
union delegates who gave him four standing ovations.

Raul Hinajosa, a researcher at the University of California at Los Angeles, who
serves as a consultant to the Fox administration on immigration, said, "If they
want to move this issue forward in the United States, they know U.S. labor can
play a make-or-break role on an issue Mexicans care about."

Noting that President Fox has met with several American labor leaders, Mr.
Castaneda said the Mexican government was eager to strengthen ties with American
labor after labor's bitter fight against the North American Free Trade agreement
soured relations with Mexico.

The Mexican government and organized labor are pushing to give legal status to
illegal immigrants as the Bush administration has faced intense opposition from
conservative Republicans not to agree to such a step.

Organized labor is looking to Mexico to advance its call for amnesty for the
more than five million illegal immigrants, a position that the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
adopted last year after decades of hostility to illegal immigrants. But unions
are now reaching out to immigrants, seeing them as a source of growth and
energy, rather than a threat.

"Immigrants are in every workplace in the United States, and they're not
leaving," said John Wilhelm, the president of the hotel employees' union and the
chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s task force on immigration policy. "We have to
make it clear to immigrant workers that we're on their side."

Labor leaders support granting legal status to illegal workers because that in
theory makes them less vulnerable to exploitation since it enables them to make
workplace demands and assert their rights without fear of deportation. In
demanding legalization, the labor movement also gains favor with not just
illegal immigrants -- who are allowed to join unions -- but also legal
immigrants who want legal status for relatives or for friends from their
hometowns who are here illegally.

Eager to reverse its membership slide, organized labor is focusing increasingly
on recruiting immigrant workers, especially low-wage ones, and has had some of
its greatest recent success unionizing Mexican immigrants who work as janitors,
hotel maids, hospital aides and farm workers. Many Mexican immigrants, reared to
idolize Cesar Chavez, the legendary Mexican-American farm workers' leader, see
unions as the best way to climb the American economic ladder and secure better
wages and fairer treatment on the job.

The American labor movement and the Fox administration have worked intensely to
improve ties, partly because they share an interest in improving the lives of
Mexican immigrants. In January, Mr. Fox met with John Sweeney, president of the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., and on Monday he met in Detroit with James P. Hoffa, the
Teamsters president, and Stephen Yokich, president of the United Auto Workers.

Last month, Mr. Wilhelm and the presidents of the service employees, farm
workers and laborers unions went to Mexico to meet with Mr. Castaneda to discuss
legalization of illegal immigrants and labor's concerns about the business
community's push to expand the guest worker program.

"I frankly think the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s new position in immigration has had a big
impact on having people think that fundamental reform will be possible," Mr.
Wilhelm said.

In a half-hour speech, Mr. Castaneda said the Mexican government would not agree
to the Bush administration's business-backed proposal to allow in far more guest
workers each year unless there was also some agreement on granting legal status
to illegal Mexican immigrants.

Mr. Castaneda said Mexico also wanted the United States to agree on ways to
promote economic growth in Mexico and on a higher annual quota for permanent
legal immigrants from his country.

"It's either the whole enchilada or nothing," Mr. Castaneda said.

To add momentum to the push for legalization, the hotel workers' union voted
today to establish what it called an Immigrants Freedom Ride, modeled after the
freedom rides of the 1960's civil rights movement. Under the union's proposal,
buses carrying illegal immigrants would drive from California and other states
to Washington, D.C., daring immigration authorities to arrest them while
publicizing the legal limbo and job difficulties faced by these immigrants.

Mr. Wilhelm said, "The reason I think there is an opportunity for significant
immigration reform is both parties, but most especially the Republicans, who I
think are smarter on this than the Democrats, are figuring out that the new
citizens' vote is likely to be the determining factor in what will probably be a
close set of elections in 2002 and 2004."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexico's foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, greeted union
members yesterday at a labor convention. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg.
A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 19, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

QUOTATION OF THE DAY

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words


"Immigrants are in every workplace in the United States, and they're not
leaving. We have to make it clear to immigrant workers that we're on their
side."

JOHN WILHELM, chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s task force on immigration policy.
A22

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Aspiring Americans, New Hope and Concern

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1325 words

DATELINE: SOCORRO, Tex., July 19


The old military barracks in this farming town just across the Rio Grande from
Mexico are empty except for a room where seven students are studying to become
American citizens. The instructor, Vincent Ramirez, moves quickly from the War
of 1812 to the Civil War before segueing to a familiar subject, immigration.

Mr. Ramirez, 50, who became a United States citizen in 1972, asks his students
about the possibility that the Bush administration would allow millions of
illegal Mexican immigrants to earn legal status, and everyone seems pleased. Yet
when Mr. Ramirez questions how such a policy would be carried out, how so many
people could be processed in an orderly manner, his skepticism brings knowing
nods.

"I do believe that Bush is trying to do something right," Mr. Ramirez said. "But
he's just got to set his plan up right, something logical. We're talking about
millions and millions of people who are going to be coming out of the closet."

The non-word in vogue in Washington and Mexico City is "regularization," as in
the need to bring clarity and coherence to immigration policy along the border.
But even as there is hope along this stretch of the border near El Paso that
President Bush, as a former Texas governor, will bring a unique understanding to
the issue, people know too well that life here is rarely regular.

The complications and contradictions of immigration policy are on full display
here. Families can often be divided between those who are legal and those who
are not, and the same government that is now considering granting legal status
to millions of illegal immigrants has also armed agents at the border to keep
more from coming in.

The news that Mr. Bush is considering ways to help illegal Mexican immigrants
thrills many people. But others express concern that there are not enough jobs,
that any new promises of legalization will bring more chaos to the border, not
less.

In fact, the old barracks and the lives of the people who come here for help
provide a history lesson in the failings of past efforts to grapple with Mexican
immigration.

The barracks once served as a processing center for thousands of Mexican farm
hands as part of the bracero guest worker program that ended amid charges of
exploitation in 1964. And several of the students in Mr. Ramirez's citizenship
class were among the millions affected by the last major initiative intended to
stem illegal immigration on the border -- the amnesty program passed under
President Ronald Reagan in 1986.

"It's one of those things that is always happening here, and we're just used to
it," Mayor Raymond Caballero of El Paso said of the vagaries of immigration
policy, while endorsing any plan that would allow illegal immigrants to earn
legal status.

In the El Paso area, across the Rio Grande from sprawling Ciudad Juarez in
Mexico, a policy jolt came in 1993 with the crackdown by the United States
Border Patrol known as Operation Hold the Line. Before then, people flowed back
and forth across the Rio Grande with only mild interference; a bus even carried
maids from Juarez to houses in El Paso. The lack of resistance also made it easy
for criminals and smugglers.

But the huge buildup of border patrol officers stamped out much of the illegal
foot traffic and, as a result, many Mexicans simply stayed illegally on the
American side.

Maria de la Torre, then seven months pregnant, fled Mexico in the early 1990's
and now finds herself in a fairly common tangle in the immigration process. She
and her two oldest children are illegal residents; her two youngest children,
born in the United States, are citizens.

Ms. de la Torre, who volunteers at a community center in the barracks complex,
applied for citizenship in 1996 with her sister, a legal resident, as her
sponsor. Five years later, she is saving money to pay for physical examinations
with a doctor chosen by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Meanwhile,
she and her husband have separated, and she supports her children by working as
a maid. She regarded the news that the Bush administration was looking for ways
to legalize millions of Mexicans like herself as a godsend.

"I am hoping and praying that it will come true," she said, speaking through a
translator.

Another woman at the community center, who gave her name only as Maria,
illustrated the potential complexities of any new immigration program. Her
husband, a construction worker, became a legal resident as part of the 1986 law
that created general amnesty for illegal immigrants who could prove residency
for four years and offered special amnesty to farm workers. Maria sneaked across
the river nine years ago with their children to join her husband.

But her own immigration efforts have been entangled. When her father became ill,
she went to Mexico. When she tried to return after his death, she was detained
twice, placing a violation on her record. She returned to El Paso on her third
trip, but now she says she must fill out a form to clear her record -- at a cost
of $175, a large sum for her -- to apply for citizenship.

Maria said she took comfort in the fact that Mr. Bush had emphasized compassion,
and she hoped a legalization program was instituted. "I believe that Bush
believes that families should be together," she said.

Carlos Marendes, director of the Border Agricultural Workers Center, which
offers support services for migrant farm workers, said that those considering
any new policy should learn from failings in the past.

Perhaps the most famous immigration policy for Mexicans was the bracero program
for farm workers that began in the labor shortages of World War II. This guest
worker policy funneled Mexican field hands to American farms for limited
periods. Ultimately, the program brought complaints of exploitation, low pay and
poor working conditions. This year, a class-action lawsuit was filed in
California seeking hundreds of millions of dollars on behalf of thousands of
Mexican farm workers who claim they were bilked out of part of their earnings.

Mr. Marendes said much of the next generation of Mexican farm workers gained
legal status under the 1986 amnesty program. But that policy's other goal --
reducing the tide of illegal immigration -- failed.

"If they want to solve the problem," he said, "they have to do an amnesty that
is humane, that is flexible and that is fair."

The I.N.S. estimates that there are now 6.5 million to 7.5 million illegal
immigrants in the country, including roughly 3 million Mexicans. There are no
current figures, but a 1996 study showed that about 700,000 illegal immigrants
lived in Texas.

Peter Maldonado, 70, a native Mexican who became a United States citizen during
the 1986 amnesty, worries that the number of illegal residents is even greater
and that the promise of citizenship would bring waves more across the Rio
Grande.

"If they get it right, it's O.K.," Mr. Maldonado said. "But is there an
opportunity for them? Are there jobs?"

Mr. Ramirez, the citizenship teacher, said he believed Mr. Bush was uniquely
qualified to address the Mexican immigration problems, but he worried about the
unintended consequences of any new policy.

He said unemployment was already acute in El Paso and along the border, where
many legal residents live in ramshackle developments. He also questioned how a
bureaucracy that takes 18 months to 3 years to complete the citizenship process
could handle a sweeping legalization program. "And we're talking about three
million people they are trying to get legalized?" he asked. "Come on. You've got
to have some sort of plan set up. Like the braceros. They promised all those
things and never got it."

One student, Yolanda Chairez, a legal resident, has a cousin in California who
was detained, jailed and awaits deportation to Mexico. Ms. Chairez said a
legalization plan would "help a lot of Mexicans who don't have their rights yet
and would protect them from abuse."

But no one thinks it will be easy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria de la Torre, right, in Vincent Ramirez's citizenship class
in Texas, is "hoping and praying" for a plan to give residency to illegal
immigrants. (Bruce Berman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
Immigration Critic's New Project: Billboard Lawsuit

BYLINE:  By TARA BAHRAMPOUR

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 306 words


Nine months after the city removed his last billboard warning against
immigration to the United States, the man who put it up has sued for the right
to erect his signs in the city.

Craig Nelsen, whose organization, ProjectUSA, calls for restriction on
immigration, filed suit on Thursday in Federal Court for the Southern District
of New York against the city, the Port Authority, the Brooklyn borough president
and the City Council speaker, Peter Vallone, for violating his group's right to
free speech.

In 1999, Mr. Nelsen said, the city removed two signs he had put up in Brooklyn
and Queens calling for the curtailing of immigration. Last summer, the city
removed a third sign on a Port Authority building near the Brooklyn Bridge. The
sign read, "Immigration is doubling U.S. population in our lifetimes."

City officials said Mr. Nelsen did not have permits for the 1999 signs, and a
spokesman for the Port Authority said his agency had not been consulted about
the content of the sign erected on their building.

In his suit, Mr. Nelsen said the removal of the signs was unconstitutional and
has created "a climate of fear and intimidation."

"It prevents us from engaging in democratic debate with our fellow citizens over
an important issue," he said.

The suit asks that ProjectUSA be allowed to erect its signs and asks for an
acknowledgment that the defendants had violated the group's First Amendment
rights.

Officials of the city and the Port Authority said they did not believe that the
suit had merit.

Donna Lieberman, interim director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said
that the organization had not been approached by Mr. Nelsen, but that it would
consider supporting the case.

"We believe very strongly that the city does not have the authority to impose
its viewpoint on the billboards," she said.   TARA BAHRAMPOUR

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Port Authority removed this billboard, and a suit was born.
(Steve Hart for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 25, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Chinese Residents of U.S. Sentenced to Prison by Beijing

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 24


A court today convicted two Chinese citizens with permanent residency in the
United States of spying for Taiwan and sentenced them to 10 years in prison. A
third person, a local Chinese scholar, was sentenced to 13 years.

The sentences sent a chill through the academic world, where the activities for
which the three were convicted are not considered unusual.

Lawyers for one defendant, Gao Zhan, a sociologist and researcher at American
University in Washington who was sentenced to 10 years, said she had told the
court that she was unaware that documents she had received from the local
scholar, Qu Wei, could be considered "state secrets."

Less is known about the case against the other permanent resident who was
sentenced today, Qin Guangguang. He had been a visiting scholar at several
universities in the United States before returning to China to work in the
pharmaceutical industry.

The sentences drew immediate criticism from the White House and cast a shadow
over the planned visit here by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who is
scheduled to arrive on Saturday.

"We're following it carefully and we'll see what happens next," Secretary Powell
told reporters after landing in Vietnam for a meeting of the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations in Hanoi.  Page A8.

Lawyers for Ms. Gao immediately applied for medical parole, saying she has a
heart ailment. There was some hope that China would grant the parole and release
her before Secretary Powell's arrival.

"Medical parole is our only hope," Ms. Gao's husband, Xue Donghua, said before
attending a rally in support of his wife at American University.

In Hanoi, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Sun Yuxi, told reporters
that China had "irrefutable evidence that Gao Zhan worked for Taiwan espionage
agencies and received funds from them," adding that Ms. Gao had "openly admitted
her crimes."

Ms. Gao's lawyers said she had given photocopies of the speeches, book excerpts
and magazine articles that she had collected to Li Shaomin, a Chinese-born
American citizen and fellow scholar who was convicted last week of spying for
Taiwan and ordered deported, presumably because of his nationality.

A United States Embassy spokesman in Beijing confirmed that Mr. Li was en route
to San Francisco and that a State Department official would be there to assist
in his entry to the United States and his reunion with his family. Mr. Li is
expected to arrive in San Francisco at 9:20 a.m. on Wednesday.

Mr. Li had been teaching at a university in Hong Kong, which is now Chinese
territory, and it is not clear whether he will be allowed to return there.

The cases are of particular concern to scholars who do research in China,
because collecting photocopied materials like those gathered by Ms. Gao is one
of their primary activities. Contact with Taiwan government agencies and
academic foundations, often a source of financing for such research, is also
common.

It is often unclear what China considers secret. Even information in the public
domain is sometimes considered intelligence if it is sent abroad.

Last year, a court sentenced a well-known Muslim executive to eight years in
prison for mailing newspapers from the restive northwest to her husband
overseas. In August 1999, Song Yongyi, a researcher at Dickinson College in
Carlisle, Pa., was arrested for sending intelligence abroad but later released.

In April, the State Department issued a warning to Chinese-born American
citizens and permanent residents that they risked detention in China if they had
written critically of the Chinese government or had contacts with Taiwan.

Other cases that have attracted Washington's attention include that of Wu
Jianmin, 46, a naturalized American who was arrested on April 8 in China on
suspicion of having collected and sent abroad Communist Party documents related
to the pro-democracy protests of 1989. Those documents were published last
January in the United States as the "The Tiananmen Papers."

Ms. Gao, 39, spoke in her defense at least eight times at the three-hour trial
today at the Beijing First Intermediate People's Court, according to one of her
lawyers, Bai Xuebiao. He said Ms. Gao was depressed by the sentence, which she
thought too severe.

Her lawyer from the United States, Jerome Cohen, said that Ms. Gao had "some
sort of cardiac episode" a few days ago and that her Beijing lawyers had
requested copies of cardiograms to document her history of heart trouble.

Mr. Xue, her husband, said that the question of medical parole had to be made by
prison authorities and that the decision could take 10 days or longer. If
medical parole is denied, he said, Ms. Gao's lawyers would file an appeal,
though verdicts are almost never reversed in such high-profile cases.

He said he would wait until all options to secure his wife's release had been
exhausted before deciding on further actions. He said he might bring lawsuits in
China and the United States against the Chinese officials responsible for the
abuse that he and his 5-year-old son suffered when they were detained along with
Ms. Gao in January.

Mr. Xue and his son, who was already an American citizen, were separated and
held for 26 days without anyone being notified, as required by law and United
States-China bilateral agreements. Mr. Xue was denied a visa to attend his
wife's trial.

Ms. Gao's arrest, along with those of other China-born scholars with ties to the
United States, has complicated improving relations between Beijing and the Bush
administration, which is under pressure from conservative Republicans to give
China's human rights record a larger role in that relationship than it had in
the Clinton administration, when commercial engagement was the top priority.

Mr. Powell's trip is meant to ease remaining tensions created by the collision
of an American reconnaissance plane and a Chinese fighter jet in April and to
capitalize on the good will engendered by Washington's neutrality on Beijing's
effort to invite the 2008 Summer Olympics, which it won this month. Beijing may
have intentionally delayed the trials until after the Olympics decision.

But a month ago, the House of Representatives approved a nonbinding resolution
that called for President Bush to put the detained scholars atop the
administration's agenda with China. This month, Mr. Bush telephoned President
Jiang Zemin of China and asked him to resolve the outstanding cases quickly.

A spokesman for the White House, Sean McCormack, told reporters today, "We
continue to call on the Chinese government to release Gao Zhan and Qin
Guangguang on humanitarian grounds."

Some China experts suggested that Beijing's tough stand was intended as a rebuke
of Mr. Bush's strong position on Taiwan, over which the mainland wants to
recover control. Mr. Bush angered Chinese officials by saying the United States
would do "whatever it took" to help Taiwan defend itself in the event of an
attack by the mainland.

"Gao's stiff sentence may have been intended as a tit-for-tat response to the
Bush administration's in your face style of diplomacy in the Taiwan Strait,"
said Richard Baum, a political scientist at the University of California in Los
Angeles.

Nevertheless, many people say they believe that the impact of the convictions on
United States-China relations will be fleeting.

"The tone for Bush's October state visit to Beijing is largely set," said
Suisheng Zhao, program director of the Center for China-U.S. Cooperation at the
University of Denver.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Xue Donghua, husband of a researcher sentenced to 10 years in
prison in China, at a rally for her at American University in Washington.
(Associated Press)(pg. A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 26, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 29 words


An article on Sunday about a prenatal clinic in Brooklyn that treats immigrant
women misspelled the surname of its social worker. She is Josette Crevecoeur,
not Crefvecoeur.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Says Plan For Immigrants Could Expand

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26


President Bush raised for the first time today the possibility that millions of
immigrants from countries other than Mexico who are in the United States
illegally might be able to earn permanent legal status over time.

A task force headed by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General
John Ashcroft recommended last week that the administration allow some of the
three million Mexicans who are here illegally to apply for permanent status.
Congress would have to approve any plan.

Democrats and other critics have complained that the plan would exclude millions
of other illegal immigrants from equal treatment.

White House aides have replied that no decisions have been made yet on an issue
that is being closely watched by immigrant groups, notably Hispanics, whom Mr.
Bush is strongly courting for his re-election campaign in 2004.

When asked at the White House today whether the immigration proposal now before
him would be expanded to consider other immigrants, Mr. Bush said, "We'll
consider all folks here."

Seeking to clarify Mr. Bush's comments, a White House spokesman, Scott
McClellan, later said that all options were on the table, and that while the
Powell-Ashcroft task force was focusing on Mexico, "its recommendations do not
stipulate who it will apply to."

"Nothing's been ruled in and nothing's been ruled out," Mr. McClellan said.

While Mr. Bush did not elaborate on which illegal immigrants might be eligible
to apply for legal status, he underscored his opposition to the type of "blanket
amnesty" law that President Ronald Reagan enacted in 1986. That law eventually
allowed about three million undocumented residents from all countries to gain
permanent residency. Many have since become citizens.

Mr. Bush's first public comments on the matter reflect how the president is
being pulled into a fast-moving policy debate that has major domestic political
repercussions as well as implications for Washington's foreign policy with
Mexico.

Any legalization plan would be part of an expanded guest-worker program to meet
labor shortages claimed by employers like farmers and restaurant owners.

Under such a program, new workers with temporary visas could earn permanent
legal residency over time, based on their job history and length of residency,
and so could immigrants already living here unlawfully.

As they weigh their options, the president and his aides are picking their words
carefully to avoid alienating two rival constituencies: potential Hispanic
supporters and many Republicans who are suspicious of a legalization plan that
they say rewards lawbreakers.

Mr. Bush, for instance, emphasized that he was not considering amnesty, a word
that has been stricken from the vocabulary of the working group and replaced by
the terms "regularization" and "earned adjustment."

"Let me make this very clear to people" Mr. Bush said. "A word was creeping in
the vernacular about this issue, called amnesty. I oppose blanket amnesty. The
American people need to know that."

Indeed, if Mr. Bush pushes ahead with the legalization plan, he will face a
tough selling job on what the proposal is and is not.

"The White House has said all along that the president has made no decisions
about the exact groups that may be liable for more humane and legal treatment as
a part of an expanded or improved guest-worker program," the White House
spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters after Mr. Bush's remarks. "The president
is considering various ideas about how to apply changes in the guest-worker
program, and to whom those changes should apply."

Mr. Fleischer continued, "One of the biggest problems when people come to this
country from Mexico is they have been entering in ways that have led to
tragedies, human tragedies."

He said, "If we can create a new guest-worker program that addresses some of
those concerns, we can protect the lives of people who come to this country for
opportunity."

Mr. Bush said, "We ought to make it easier for people who want to employ
somebody, who are looking for workers, to be able to hire people who want to
work. And I know we can do so in a humane way that treats people with respect."

The president was broad in his praise for the working group that produced the
recommendations, including the idea of limited legalization, and for the working
group's negotiations with their Mexican counterparts that he and President
Vicente Fox of Mexico set in motion when they met in Mexico in February.

Mr. Bush said the bilateral talks were "making good progress on making sure
relations with our neighbor to the south are strong and cohesive, and there's a
strategy that works and is respectful."

Aides say Mr. Bush hopes to announce a major immigration initiative when he
presides over his first state visit in early September, with Mr. Fox.

Democrats welcomed suggestions that Mr. Bush was expanding the plan's scope. "It
sounds like he's moving closer to where we have been and where we are, and if
that's the case, that's good and that's progress," Representative Richard A.
Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, said in a telephone
interview. He said a new policy should not apply to just one group.

Immigrant advocates said expanding the legalization proposal beyond Mexico would
electrify immigrants across the country, from Guatemalans and Salvadorans in Los
Angeles and Houston, to Colombians in New York and Miami, to Chinese in Seattle
and San Francisco.

"This would resonate well with non-Mexican Latinos," said Harry P. Pachon,
president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, a research organization in
Claremont, Calif.

Other immigrant advocates reacted cautiously to Mr. Bush's remarks, wary of
overinterpreting some casual remarks to reporters.

"Certainly, Bush has heard some of the reaction, and he doesn't want to get
anyone else bent out of shape on this," said Demetrios G. Papademetriou,
co-director of the Migration Policy Institute, a research and policy
organization here. "He's also heard how the Democrats are advocating for
everyone else besides the Mexicans, and he's jockeying for position to take some
of that space back."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 30, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Far From Mexico, Making a Place Like Home

BYLINE:  By KEVIN SACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1550 words

DATELINE: EAST POINT, Ga., July 26


Here, the Mexicans live in run-down apartment complexes rather than in small
houses of sun-baked brick. They work in a factory casting toilets and sinks
rather than fishing for tilapia in Chapala Lake. They practice soccer on a lush
high school field rather than on a dusty pebble-strewn pitch.

And yet, for Mexican immigrants who have moved here from the village of Ejido
Modelo in the state of Jalisco, East Point feels much like home. In this city of
40,000 people, just under the flight paths of Atlanta's Hartsfield International
Airport, former residents of Ejido Modelo have essentially recreated their old
hometown by moving by the hundreds into a neighborhood of a few square blocks.

Neighbors there are now neighbors here, and the same holds true for classmates,
co-workers and team members. Los Pumas, a local soccer team that recently won a
prestigious regional tournament, consists almost entirely of Ejido Modelo
natives. Half of the students in some classes at Oak Knoll Elementary School
here were born in the village. Even a local youth gang, the Trece Locos, or 13
Crazies, recruits its members almost exclusively from Ejido Modelo families.

"When I walk on the street, I see all of my people," said Sigifredo Rodriguez,
42, the first of 11 siblings to move from Ejido Modelo to the same two-block
stretch of East Point. His younger brother, Daniel Rodriguez, 36, nodded in
agreement. "Sometimes," he said, "I feel like I'm in my country."

It is not a new phenomenon. For more than a century, immigrants to America,
particularly those from non-English-speaking countries, have settled close to
one another, forming enclaves of familiarity in an alien culture.

But the practice has become particularly pronounced among Hispanic newcomers
here in the South, where a huge wave of migration in the 1990's has created
large pockets of Latino culture where there had once been none.

Elsewhere in Georgia, for instance, nearly 100 natives of the small town of
Janicho have settled in Gainesville, a poultry-processing center, while the
carpet mills in Dalton are kept running by Mexicans from the state of
Guanajuato.

"In many ways, history is repeating itself," said Nancy Foner, an anthropologist
at the State University of New York at Purchase and the author of "From Ellis
Island to JFK: New York's Two Great Waves of Immigration" (Yale University
Press, 2000). "Like today, immigrants a hundred years ago often settled near
their relatives and friends from their home communities -- in the same
neighborhood and sometimes on the very same block. In New York's Little Italy a
century ago, you might have found people from one small district clustered on
one side of a city block while people from another district lived on the
opposite side."

It is hard to know precisely how many natives of Ejido Modelo live in the
apartment complexes and clapboard houses along East Point Avenue and its side
streets. A safe figure, several residents say, would be 400, though some put the
number at more than 1,000. Many are illegal immigrants, but a number of others
have been here long enough to have qualified for the 1986 amnesty granted by the
Reagan administration and to have become citizens.

Their pilgrimage began in 1984, several residents said, when a few men from the
village heard of good jobs and reasonable rents here. The farm economy at home
was stagnant at best, with pollution killing the fishing industry and irrigation
made difficult by the draining of Chapala Lake by nearby plants. The pioneers
gradually summoned wives and parents and children, and before long word had
spread throughout Ejido Modelo that this town just south of Atlanta was a
welcoming destination.

Last Saturday, two childhood friends from Ejido Modelo, Alfredo Fonseca and
Carlos Rodriguez, sat in the stands at a middle school football field, sipping
from cans of beer as they watched Los Pumas decimate a team of Salvadoran
immigrants. In their younger, more agile days, the two men both played for the
team.

Now they work as casters for Japanese-owned Toto USA Inc., making $13.50 an hour
to pour clay into molds for toilets and sinks. Half of the 65 workers at the
plant were born in Ejido Modelo, and supervisors say the bond among them has
made for a productive, cooperative work force.

On the field, in the neighborhood and on the job, the men said, they have found
comfort in being with their fellow villagers.

"We're feeling great because we've stayed together with our people, with our
friends," Mr. Rodriguez, 32, said. "You have a feeling of security."

Mr. Fonseca, 35, said: "If you lose your job, you have someone to lean on. If
you need money you can ask your friends. If you need a ride, if you need someone
to take care of your child, someone will do it."

The men explained that the community gathers frequently to celebrate weddings,
saints' days, soccer victories and quinceaneras, when girls pass into adulthood
at the age of 15.

"When someone's family member dies," Mr. Rodriguez explained, "we all get
together and pool resources to send the body back to Ejido Modelo."

Part of the Mexicans' comfort in East Point is racial. Three-quarters of the
city's population is black, and some of the newcomers said they felt less
hostility from black Americans than from whites. Several black neighbors said
there had been no trouble between them and the Mexican community, and an East
Point police captain, Patricia A. Boyce, said there had been few complaints
other than occasional calls about loud music or public drunkenness.

The 2000 census found that 7.6 percent of East Point's population was Hispanic,
almost all of it Mexican. Throughout metropolitan Atlanta, where the Hispanic
population increased by 133 percent in the 1990's, Mexicans now form the
foundation of trades like construction, landscaping and roofing. Signs in
hardware stores, commercials on sports radio stations and automated messages on
directory assistance lines now come in English and Spanish.

Along East Point Avenue, many apartments and houses sport tiny satellite dishes
so that residents can receive up to 20 Spanish-language television channels, as
opposed to the two available on conventional cable. Amplified mariachi music
flows from open windows and from the booming stereos of passing trucks.

For blocks and blocks, Spanish can be heard under the shade trees and raised car
hoods where Mexican men congregate. On steamy front porches, young mothers offer
their toddlers bits of chocolate and strips of spiced pork while waiting for
their husbands to return from construction sites and road-paving jobs. Children,
the most bilingual members of the community, race scooters along the sidewalks
and coast on bicycles with their feet propped nonchalantly on the handlebars.

Today, Maria Hernandez, a 58-year-old mother of 10 with an infectious laugh, was
sitting in the un-air-conditioned kitchen of her apartment in Beverly Manor,
grating onions with a knife into a large plastic bin. Ms. Hernandez would use
them to spice the pork tacos that she sells from the apartment on the weekends
to help her husband pay their $600 monthly rent. Back home in Ejido Modelo, she
sold enchiladas and tostadas from a table in front of her house.

"When I am making my food here it reminds me of Mexico because you can't really
compare the restaurant food," she said. "So it's like a real taste of Mexico.
Even the blacks and whites around the neighborhood come by and say they are the
best tacos they ever had."

Just down the block is El Progreso, a small commercial mall distinguished by a
brightly painted mural of the Virgin of Guadalupe. The teeming center, where
pinatas hang from the ceiling, features a taqueria, a beauty parlor, a music
store selling the latest Mexican releases, a money-changing booth and a market
that sells a variety of merchandise, including tortillas and glittery crowns for
the quinceaneras of neighborhood girls. A clinic advertises in Spanish that "we
worry about your health, not your legal status."

The impact of the migration is just as clear in Ejido Modelo, a farming village
that does not appear on many maps.

The Mexicans here say the population of the village is being gradually depleted,
though high birth rates have compensated somewhat for the loss. It is, they say,
as if much of the town of about 3,000 people had simply been lifted from Jalisco
and transplanted to Georgia.

"The town is getting abandoned," said Mr. Fonseca, who came here in 1988,
"because everybody is coming here."

And yet Ejido Modelo has also benefited from the dollars sent home from East
Point, helping farming families build houses of brick to replace those of adobe.
At Christmastime, many of the transplants return to Ejido Modelo to visit
relatives. Often the visitors will form a soccer team to challenge the locals.
"Sometimes we win, sometimes they win," Mr. Fonseca said.

Similarly, it is common for people from Ejido Modelo to visit family members in
East Point. Patricia Donan, who was cooking pork for her son at the end of a
monthlong visit, said she was amazed at how many people she knew here.

"At least 50 percent of the population of Ejido Modelo has moved to East Point,"
Ms. Donan said. "Once you're accustomed to being here, you don't really miss
your town because everybody from your town is here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many buildings in East Point have tiny satellite dishes,
enabling the residents to pick up as many as 20 Spanish-language television
stations.; Natives of Ejido Modelo, Mexico, now living in East Point, Ga., cheer
their new local soccer team, Los Pumas. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The
New York Times)(pg. A14) Map of North America highlighting Ejido Modelo and East
Point: Hundreds of people have moved from Ejido Modelo to East Point. (pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Scouts Found

BYLINE:  NYT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 89 words


Four teenagers from Tanzania who had been missing from a Boy Scout gathering in
Virginia since Sunday were turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The boys, ages 14 to 17, presented themselves to the Washington police on Monday
evening, said an I.N.S. spokesman, William Strassberger. He said he could not
comment on whether they had requested asylum. The boys left the Scout gathering
on Sunday afternoon, slept on the side of a road that night and then hitchhiked
to Washington on Monday, Mr. Strassberger said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2001 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Gays Seeking Asylum Find Familiar Prejudices in U. S.

BYLINE:   By JOHN LELAND

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1280 words


By the time he came to the United States in 1999, Gerson Platero, 29, had had
his fill of life as a gay man in Latin America. He had been attacked by the
police in El Salvador because he is gay, he said, and shot at after moving to
Guatemala. He fled to the United States, to attend an AIDS conference, and
applied for asylum based on his sexual orientation.

His application was granted last March.

But Mr. Platero, like many other gay men and lesbians from abroad, found that
even in the United States there was antigay animus. As he was walking through a
Hispanic neighborhood near his home in Washington recently, he said, a man
yelled slurs and attacked him.

"It's like being in Latin America," Mr. Platero said. "They're living here, but
they bring with them the culture and the church prejudices."

Mr. Platero is one of a small but growing number of gay men and lesbians who
have won asylum here in the last decade. They fled abuse or threat of death,
either perpetrated or condoned by foreign governments and police departments.

Many leave dire circumstances, only to face what lawyers describe as a uniquely
fraught road to asylum, with the worst rejection often coming from their fellow
countrymen. Established immigrant communities, which historically function as a
lifeline for newcomers -- helping with the language, the law, employment and
credit -- often reject or even menace gay men and lesbians seeking asylum.

"It's the same homophobic community," said Wilfredo Valencia, 34, who applied
for asylum in the San Francisco Bay area last November, after what he said were
repeated attacks from the police in El Salvador.

Mr. Valencia is awaiting judgment on his application.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service does not keep figures on how many
people seek or receive asylum based on their sexual orientation, but the agency
and lawyers who represent gay asylum seekers say there are hundreds.

What they often find here is isolation. A Lebanese woman who agreed to be
identified only by the initial N said she got asylum after her family threatened
to report her to the police in Beirut, where homosexuality is a crime.

But at her first job in the United States, she said, she found herself
surrounded by other Arab professionals, in constant fear that they would
discover that she is gay. Now she isolates herself from other Arabs in her New
Jersey community, and especially hides her sexual orientation.

Like Mr. Platero, she misses bonds of culture and language. But seeing other
Arabs, she said, "made me relive my fears from Lebanon, and I did not come out
to them."

Lawyers who handle such cases say the number of gay asylum seekers has steadily
increased since 1994, when the Board of Immigration Appeals published a decision
that a gay man was eligible for asylum, and Attorney General Janet Reno
instructed immigration officers and courts to use the decision as a precedent.

The United States grants asylum to people with a well-founded fear of being
persecuted because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
social group. The 1994 precedent established that gays constituted a social
group.

Persecution of gays is global, human rights groups say. A June report by Amnesty
International describes abuses in 30 countries throughout Latin America, Eastern
Europe, Africa, Asia, the Caribbean and the Middle East. It also criticized
police abuse and antisodomy laws in the United States.

The report cited Namibia, for example, where Jerry Dkandjo, the home affairs
minister, reportedly urged new police officers to "eliminate" homosexuals. In
Chechnya, under the Muslim Shari'a criminal code, punishment for male homosexual
acts can include execution. Interpretations of the Shari'a code extend
throughout the Islamic world.

The list of countries from which gay men and lesbians have been granted asylum
includes Albania, Bangladesh, Belarus, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, El
Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Jamaica, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan,
Peru, Romania, Russia, Singapore, Syria, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine,
Venezuela and Yemen.

For many gays, leaving these countries can be just the beginning of the
struggle, said Flavio Alves, who has interviewed 287 such asylum seekers for a
book about gay men and lesbians fleeing persecution.

Mr. Alves, 31, was a gay activist in Brazil until death threats forced him to
flee; he received asylum in the United States in 1998.

Suhardy, 29, an Indonesian who said he fled the threat of an "honor killing"
from a lover's family, spent 27 months in an immigration service detention
center in El Paso. Mr. Suhardy said another inmate raped him because he is gay.
(Like many Indonesians, Mr. Suhardy does not have a first name.)

Gays are often isolated in detention centers to protect them from such attacks.
But this isolation also prevents them from using the law libraries in the
detention centers, a particular hardship for those who cannot afford lawyers.
Mr. Suhardy, who did not have money for a lawyer, was unable to convince the
courts that he faced likely persecution if returned to Indonesia. In July, he
lost his final appeal; he is now living in a homeless shelter in Brooklyn,
awaiting deportation.

"I feel fear," he said. "I have no appetite to live."

Under a 1998 revision in the asylum law, visitors to the United States must
apply for asylum within a year of entering the country. But many do not know
that sexual orientation can be grounds for asylum.

"Even a lot of immigration lawyers don't know the law," said Suzanne Goldberg, a
law professor at Rutgers University and member of the Lesbian and Gay
Immigration Rights Task Force, a nonprofit group in New York.

Pedro Luis Abosolo, 31, came to Houston in 1998 on a temporary visa after, he
said, the police in Mexico City arrested him, threatening him and demanding
money. The first two lawyers he consulted told him he could not get asylum based
on his sexual orientation, Mr. Abosolo said. An immigration court eventually
denied his application, but Mr. Abosolo has appealed, a process that often takes
years to resolve.

Like many other asylum seekers, Jeremy, who would not allow his full name to be
used, said he had been so terrorized by the authorities in his native Brazil
that he had been afraid to ask the immigration service for help.

Jeremy said he fled Rio de Janeiro after his mother discovered he is gay and
went after him with a knife, vowing to kill him. At a Starbucks in New
Brunswick, N.J., in June, he pointed to a thin lattice of scars on his right
arm, and a burn on his torso, reminders of his mother's attacks and those of a
Brazilian death squad, which also beat him because he is gay, he said.

In his first months in the United States, he was depressed, lost weight and ran
out of money. He had nightmares almost every night. When he finally went to an
asylum officer, he said, "I thought he was going to say, 'Fags must die.' I
thought they'd say, 'Aren't you ashamed?' "

Jeremy's application was granted in May. The headaches passed, but he said he
was still "afraid to spit in the street," afraid that he would be deported. New
Jersey has been a haven, yet he does not feel secure. He clings to a boyfriend
who he said treats him poorly.

"I have no family," he said. "I need someone to give affection, to get
affection."

Mr. Platero, the Salvadoran who was attacked by another Latino, said this
isolation compounded the abuse he had endured back home. He does not like to
walk through Hispanic neighborhoods in Washington.

"That's the worst torture," Mr. Platero said. "I lost my whole background, my
family."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2001



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about gay asylum seekers referred incorrectly
to the circumstances that led a Lebanese woman, identified as N., to seek
asylum. She said she feared that someone in Beirut, where homosexuality is a
crime, would report her to the police. Her family did not threaten to report
her.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Flavio Alves, 31, above, formerly of Brazil, is writing a book
about gay asylum seekers. Pedro Luis Abosolo, 31, below, a gay man from Mexico
City, is appealing a court's decision to reject his asylum application. (Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times); (Patty Wood for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 2, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

City Seeks to Prevent Swindling of Immigrants Over Visa Lottery

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 224 words


The New York City Department of Consumer Affairs said yesterday that it would
seek to steer immigrants from unscrupulous businesses that claim to help them in
a lottery for visas.

Through its Diversity Immigrant Visa Program, the federal State Department will
award 50,000 visas granting permanent residency to applicants.

In the past, people, sometimes posing as immigration lawyers, have cheated
immigrants of thousands of dollars, often falsely assuring them that that they
will win the lottery.

The commissioner of Consumer Affairs, Jane S. Hoffman, said: "It is very
important to realize that you don't need to pay any person, any lawyer or any
business to apply. You cannot pay a lawyer or business organization to get a
green card or to automatically become a citizen. If anyone is telling you that,
it's a scam."

As part of its campaign to prevent such schemes, her department will distribute
a brochure in nine languages -- English, Spanish, Russian, Chinese, Arabic,
French, Haitian-Creole, Italian and Korean.

The brochure advises immigrants to take precautions, such as not to pay in cash
and to be wary of people claiming to have inside connections.

Ms. Hoffman said that immigrants should report schemes to her agency, which does
not typically report information on illegal immigrants to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Supporters of Immigrant Laborers Hold Pre-emptive Rally on L.I.

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER and SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., Aug. 3


As they gathered here for a protest rally, advocates for the rights of Long
Island's immigrants insisted today that an anti-immigrant teach-in this weekend
would amount to no more than a circus sideshow of right-wing extremists.

But in the next breath, many said they worried that the event could help sway
mainstream public opinion in this stretch of Suffolk County, where the presence
of Hispanic day laborers has incited fears about crime and property values,
leading to legislation and even violence.

Sideshow or pivot point? The question hung in the air here as a local group, the
Sachem Quality of Life Organization, prepared for a two-day "educational
conference" on Saturday and Sunday, at which several anti-immigration leaders
from around the country will talk about the dangers of illegal immigration and
how the fight against it in Suffolk County has lessons for the rest of the
country. Saturday's session, "A Day of Truth," is open to the public, while
Sunday's is restricted to the movement's leaders.

No one, including Sachem leaders, seemed to know how many people would show up
for the conference, to be held at a Veterans of Foreign Wars hall in Centereach,
or how its message would be received. Many people interviewed today on the
streets in Farmingville, ground zero in the debate over the day laborers, said
they had no clue the event was taking place.

The conference comes at a crucial moment in the conflict over immigration on
Long Island. In Riverhead, about 30 miles east of here, the trial started this
week for one of two white men charged with luring two Mexican day laborers from
Farmingville to an abandoned warehouse last fall and beating them. The crime
underscored the tensions between some longtime residents and the
Spanish-speaking immigrants who wait on street corners for construction and
landscaping jobs.

Those tensions flared again today as a shouting match broke out at the rally by
immigrant advocates.

The advocates said that they had planned the rally for the day before Sachem's
conference to avoid a confrontation and that they would not protest at the
event. But even before they unfurled their flags and set up their megaphones for
the rally, Sachem members arrived and spoke to reporters. As the two sides vied
for reporters' attention, they tried to drown each other out with shouts.

The Sachem group says its conference is intended to "put illegal immigration,
the massive violation of our borders and the demise of our national sovereignty
into the debate."

Among the scheduled speakers are several veterans of the battles in California
in the 1990's to stop bilingual education programs and deny services like public
schooling to illegal immigrants. They include Glenn Spencer, founder of Voices
of Citizens Together, also known as American Patrol; Barbara Coe, chairwoman of
the California Coalition for Immigration Reform, and leaders of the American
Immigration Control Foundation, who have warned that large-scale immigration
threatens "America's culture, customs and language."

The meeting will most likely provide a platform for a host of issues and
theories that have little to do with the original dispute in Farmingville, a
hamlet of 16,500 people in an industrial stretch along some of Long Island's
busiest highways.

Edward Hernandez, an immigrant advocate with the Brookhaven Citizens for
Peaceful Solutions, said at today's rally that most Long Islanders would reject
Sachem's message. He said the conference could not be ignored but admitted that
the pre-emptive rally called more attention to it.

"They have abandoned the mainstream a long time ago," Mr. Hernandez said. "The
only thing is, they get the attention and they make it look like something is
going on that is not. This group needs to be isolated and defined for what it
is. It is a fringe group. It is not representative of the majority of people on
Long Island."

But Barbara J. Olshansky, assistant legal director with the Center for
Constitutional Rights in Manhattan, was not so sure. She said she worried that
the Sachem meeting could change how people view immigrants.

"These kinds of views end up pervading a lot of the public discourse," she said.
"And what happens is, that kind of animosity and hate goes down really to like
the very basic level to where I've gotten calls from schoolteachers out here in
Suffolk County to come and teach diversity in the classroom because she sees
kindergartners and first graders calling each other names."

The coming conference has sent a chill of fear through many of the day laborers.

"It's like we are in the eye of the hurricane right now," said Alberto Celeste
Rodriquez, a worker from Mexico City who has lived in Farmingville for four
years.

Others, those in the overwhelmingly white majority, were less informed about the
Sachem group's meeting, though many had strong feelings about immigration.

One woman, Carol Janickey, said she knew nothing about the meeting -- whether it
was pro- or anti-immigrant, or even which nations the immigrants in question
hailed from. But as she loaded some plants into her car in a shopping center
parking lot, she said she was embarrassed to be living in a place with a
fast-growing reputation for violence.

"They are supposed to be able to come here to make lives of their own," she said
of the immigrants, most of whom are from Mexico. "That's the American dream."

Across the parking lot, however, Debbie Lippis, said she had two words for the
illegal immigrants: "Deport them."

She also did not know anything about the Sachem's meeting. When told, however,
that it was being held by those opposed to illegal immigration, her son Matt
Costello, 13, stopped loading groceries, raised his arms in mock victory and
gave a little cheer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rally yesterday in Hauppauge, N.Y., for immigrants' rights,
before a conference at which anti-immigration leaders will discuss the dangers
of illegal immigration. (Katrina Hajagos for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In U.S. Illegally, Immigrants Get License to Drive

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

DATELINE: GARNER, N.C., Aug. 1


The roofer climbed down from the scaffolding around the new strip mall, pulled
out his wallet, and fondled the little plastic card inside as if it were
enchanted. Though he does not speak English, he was delighted to point to the
words on the card: "State of North Carolina Driver License," and underneath, his
name, Alejandro.

"I used to have a Mexican license, which the police didn't like," he said
through an interpreter, declining to give his last name because he is in this
country illegally. "But here in North Carolina they said I could have this, a
real license, and I couldn't believe it. Now I get insurance, and I don't have
to worry so much when I get in the car."

Three other workers on the same job site in this suburb south of Raleigh said
they also had licenses despite their illegal status, and said they get paid as
much as $2 an hour more because of the extra versatility the license gives them
on the job.

For these and hundreds of thousands of other illegal immigrants who have taken
advantage of North Carolina's liberal rules for a license, driving is no longer
a furtive affair, conducted under cover of night and only when absolutely
necessary. Their card and the sense of identity it confers allows them at least
a partial entry into the mainstream of the United States, a sense of security
above the underground of menial jobs and makeshift communities.

The validation conferred by a license, of course, is precisely why most states
do not provide them to immigrants in the country illegally, out of concern that
it would induce more people to cross the border in violation of national law.
Only three other states -- Tennessee, Utah and Virginia -- give licenses to any
state resident who can pass the driving test, regardless of their legal status.
Other states, including Illinois and New Mexico, have considered the
possibility, weighing North Carolina's argument that the licensing and testing
process will improve highway safety and see to it that more drivers have
insurance.

"In 9 out of 10 cases, people who move here for jobs and opportunities are going
to drive, whether they have a license or not," said Wayne J. Hurder, North
Carolina's director of driver's license certification. "We think it's in the
best interests of everyone in the state if we can get them to learn the laws of
the road and get insurance. It's not our job to get into national immigration
policy -- this is a purely practical decision."

But that argument, which has been made most vociferously by President Vicente
Fox of Mexico, has failed to persuade many of the largest states, where benefits
to immigrants remain a touchy emotional and political issue, rather than a
matter of practical policy. Even in some states that have begun to extend some
benefits, like in-state college tuition, a driver's license is still considered
a touchstone of citizenship that remains jealously guarded.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service say they are not happy
with licensing procedures like North Carolina's, but that there is nothing they
can do about it.

Tennessee's decision in May to grant licenses to illegal immigrants may be an
indication of their increasing acceptance in society, and the legislatures in
California and Texas have also approved such measures in the last year. But the
governors in the two states, a Democrat and a Republican respectively, vetoed
the bills, and some states, including Georgia, Minnesota and South Carolina,
have moved to tighten restrictions, making licenses far more difficult to obtain
for those who cannot document their legal status.

"These are criminals, who slip stealthily and evasively into this country and
remain here as fugitives, and I don't think we should reward that kind of
behavior with the privilege to drive," said John Graham Altman III, a Republican
member of the South Carolina House of Representatives. "North Carolina obviously
isn't serious about observing the law, but I think if you encourage the invasion
of the illegals, you'll just get more of them."

Earlier this year, Mr. Altman introduced a bill that would ban licenses for
illegal immigrants, making explicit a policy already followed by the state. The
measure passed the House but was not taken up by the Senate. Independent of that
effort, the state motor vehicles division recently decided to require applicants
to produce either a Social Security card or a letter from the Social Security
Administration stating that the applicant is in the country legally.

North Carolina asks for a Social Security number to comply with a federal law
seeking people who do not pay child support, but if an applicant does not have
one, the state accepts other identification, including a Mexican military I.D.
card and voter registration cards from other countries. In May, Gov. Don
Sundquist of Tennessee, a Republican, signed into law a similar policy,
producing waiting lines so long that some legislators wanted to repeal the
measure. (The lines have since returned to a manageable size.)

The divergence in the states' policies can easily be seen in the waiting rooms
of their motor vehicles offices. In North Carolina and Tennessee, branch offices
are full of people speaking Spanish, and many can barely keep the Spanish
translations of their driving manuals in stock. In South Carolina offices, there
is far less Spanish to be heard, and many immigrants say they want nothing to do
with the licensing bureaucracy.

"If you go in there and speak Spanish, they give you a big hassle and want to
see all kinds of proof," said a welder from Mexico in Spartanburg, S.C., who
crossed over illegally. "So we just drive anyway, and stay under the speed limit
and hope no one stops us." He added that he had no auto insurance.

North Carolina immigrants, on the other hand, can not only get insurance, but
many who were fearful of driving without a license are free from the dependence
those who could drive, particularly in an area with almost no public transit.

"My brothers used to take me places, and a friend of mine drove me to work every
day," said a woman from El Salvador who repairs uniforms at a rental company and
who got her license in Cary, another Raleigh suburb. "It was bad when I had to
wait outside in the cold for a ride. But now I can go anywhere by myself."

The Legislature never formally approved the state's policy, but it began to
evolve in the late 1980's when immigrants began arriving in the state in large
numbers. Today the state has the nation's fastest-growing Hispanic population,
and businesses are eager to see their work force licensed and insured.

Since 1997, Mr. Hurder said, the state has issued more than 400,000 licenses and
ID cards to people lacking Social Security numbers, more than 260,000 of whom
were Hispanic. Officials say they believe the policy has reduced the number of
fake ID's and Social Security numbers often used elsewhere by immigrants.

Some of those, he acknowledged, were not North Carolina residents. The state's
policy has become well-known among immigrants across the country, and people
from Florida, South Carolina and the northeast have flocked to North Carolina to
get a license and then return to their home states. A high school student from
Huntington, New York, who was born in El Salvador, said he was in the Garner
branch office today for precisely that purpose.

"I need a license in New York in case I get stopped," he said. "Back home, lots
of people have a North Carolina license."

To restrict that practice, a bill is now under consideration in the State
Legislature to require license applicants to show proof that they are North
Carolina residents, which could be a pay stub or a utility bill. But legislators
say they do not plan to require applicants to be legal United States residents.

"The ability to drive is very helpful to our newest residents in getting their
lives established here," said State Senator Wib Gulley, a Democrat from Durham
who is chairman of the transportation subcommittee. "They play a crucial role in
our economy, which would be severely hurt if we put a wall up around the state."

In recent months, that message has been carried around the country by Dr. Juan
Hernandez, appointed by Mr. Fox as the director of the Office of Mexicans
Abroad. Dr. Hernandez said in an interview that he had met with about a dozen
American governors, urging them to follow North Carolina's lead, but has
encountered considerable resistance.

"Politically, they feel it's a very hot issue for them right now," he said. "But
what we tell them is, these people did break one law coming here, but they
shouldn't be forced to break other laws. These are the people who are building
the roads of America, but they're not allowed to drive on them."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: North Carolina officials cite safety concerns in their policy
of allowing illegal immigrants to acquire driver licenses. Above, Alejandro, a
worker in Garner, N.C., showed off his card. Below, an illegal immigrant who
lives in Huntington, N.Y., traveled to Garner for a license. (Photographs by Bob
Rives for The New York Times)(pg. A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER SIX MONTHS, BUSH TEAM PLANS CHANGE OF FOCUS

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1743 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4


Midway through his first year, President Bush is planning a significant change
in focus that includes renewed attention to issues like education and
immigration and a vigorous discussion of values.

According to interviews with many administration officials, Mr. Bush wants to
move beyond the conventional Republican agenda of tax cuts and energy production
that mainly defined the beginning of his presidency and tackle issues and themes
that strike Americans in a more emotional, personal way.

He hopes to put an extra emphasis on what he has called the "compassionate"
nature of his conservatism with events and remarks this month, during a summer
vacation in Texas, and with the initiatives he pursues when he returns to the
White House after Labor Day. His aides, and Republican lawmakers who are up for
re-election in 2002, hope that in the process Mr. Bush will improve his and his
party's standing with moderates, independents and women.

The president's effort will also include a shift in the staging of his events,
as aides look for ways to shove aside lecterns and put Mr. Bush in less formal
settings, with small groups of voters. Administration officials and their allies
have long bemoaned Mr. Bush's stiffness and, in some cases, clumsiness in front
of a microphone, and they have worried that his public appearances do not
demonstrate the warmth that they see in him, or his firm grasp of policy.

"We want to let the country get a glimpse of the real George W. Bush," said
Nicholas E. Calio, the administration's chief liaison to Congress, adding that
the administration also wanted Americans to "see the ease with which he
understands and talks about issues."

"We've got to find a way to bring those elements out," Mr. Calio said.

As Mr. Bush pivots from his first six months in office to the rest of a year
fraught with political dangers, the important adjustments that he and his aides
are deliberating and making partly reflect his movement from old to new items on
his legislative and political check list.

But these changes also underscore a recognition by administration officials that
while the president is leaving for his summer break today with a seemingly solid
job approval rating and several important legislative victories under his belt,
he could be doing much better and has numerous political vulnerabilities.

In particular, Mr. Bush continues to battle many Americans' perceptions of him
as someone who does not necessarily understand their problems or worry as much
about them as he does about business. Polls suggest that most voters like and
respect him, but that many find him, in a sense, ideologically aloof.

"That's one of the big frustrations," a Republican strategist with close ties to
the administration said. The strategist then recalled the way Mr. Bush sought to
sell himself during the presidential campaign.

"Remember the term 'different kind of Republican'?" the strategist said. "They
want to get back to that. So far, in fact and in perception, be it the tax cut
or the pro-business regulatory moves, Bush is a fairly orthodox Republican."

So he will do less orthodox things over the coming months, his aides and allies
say. He will push for a prescription drug benefit for elderly Americans and for
a more accommodating approach to illegal immigrants, something he has already
begun advocating.

He will talk more about values and possibly promote government initiatives to
help parents protect their children from certain cultural influences and to
reduce teen pregnancy through abstinence-based programs. He will exhort
Americans to pitch in and help those who need it, instead of relying on the
government to do so.

And while some of this is traditional music to socially conservative ears, the
administration is looking for a broader audience and trying to accomplish more
than solidifying its support on the right.

Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, said Mr. Bush had his work cut out for him
in convincing Americans that he was a champion of their basic concerns, because
many voters see his tax cut as a gift to the rich and believe he is sheltering
corporations from environmental responsibility.

"He is perceived to be too much on the side of wealthy, big-business, monied
interests, and it's really starting to permeate broad assumptions about him,"
Ms. Lake said. "This fall will be very telling."

One senior administration official said having Mr. Bush address issues like teen
pregnancy and adoption would give voters "a glimpse of George Bush the man and
the things he cares about" and would focus on "the commonality that he has with
the others in the country."

Another official said this values-based discussion, occurring under the rubric
"Communities of Character," was a way to "put some emphasis on his commitment to
compassionate, activist government."

Mr. Bush will essentially begin doing that this month, with sporadic events
during trips from his ranch in Crawford, Tex. His aides have given the month a
theme, "Home to the Heartland," and Mr. Bush on Friday offered a preview of how
he will seek to position himself.

"We must help disadvantaged Americans find opportunity," he said, foreshadowing
what he planned to discuss over coming months. "We must show that our welcoming
society values the ideals and contributions of immigrants. We must challenge
Americans to be citizens, not spectators, in the renewal of their neighborhoods
and their cities."

Mr. Bush and his aides are also bracing for what they acknowledge will be one of
the biggest -- and perhaps most defining -- decisions of his presidency, whether
to permit federal financing for research on embryonic stem cells and under what
conditions. He said today that he intends to make his decision before Congress
returns in September.

In the process, he could reassure or alienate conservatives, and he could
strengthen or surrender a claim to the center. Republicans who think Mr. Bush
has tilted too far to the right see the stem cell decision as a critical
opportunity for him to find a different political equilibrium.

Kenneth M. Duberstein, a former chief of staff for President Ronald Reagan,
envisioned a way in which the coming weeks and months could, in his view, work
powerfully to Mr. Bush's benefit.

"If you have him in the Rose Garden surrounded by Republican and Democratic
legislators signing a patients' bill of rights, and then he makes what I would
term the right decision on stem cell -- i.e., federal funding for it -- then he
has put real meat on the bones of compassionate conservatism," Mr. Duberstein
said.

Administration officials say moral principle, not political calculus, will guide
Mr. Bush's stem cell decision. But whatever he decides, these officials concede
that his fluency in talking about it, and persuading Americans that he put
intense thought into it, is crucial. The administration has been exhaustively
deliberating how to handle the announcement.

Aides have weighed possibilities as disparate as a televised address from the
Oval Office and the release of a written document stating Mr. Bush's position.
The likeliest scenario, several administration allies say, is some kind of news
conference.

"I believe that the explanation is probably just as important as the decision,"
said Andrew H. Card Jr., Mr. Bush's chief of staff, adding that this was much
"bigger than traditional policy decisions."

The administration's determination to present Mr. Bush as thoughtful and
ruminative dovetails with its desire to focus on issues that are not simply
about dollars and cents.

In both cases, Mr. Bush and his aides would like voters to see him as more than
a tax-cutting conservative. A more rounded portrait could help the
administration -- and the party -- during the inevitable battles over
appropriations bills this fall, when Democratic leaders will say the tax cut Mr.
Bush signed is starving vital spending.

Their hand could be strengthened considerably by the new surplus estimates the
Congressional Budget Office will probably release later this month. Economists
and lawmakers expect those estimates to be smaller than previous ones,
buttressing many Democrats' claims that the tax cut was not affordable.

That will also complicate another of Mr. Bush's goals: military reforms,
including national missile defense.

"Because of the budget implications, they have to get that done sooner rather
than later," said Charlie Black, a Republican strategist who has advised the
administration. "That's going to be a big sales job."

In addition, Mr. Bush's record on foreign policy will come under fresh review
when he takes the most ambitious of his overseas trips as president, traveling
to China in October.

Political analysts said that his break with allies on a global warming treaty,
other decisions related to the environment and his focus on the tax cut last
winter combined to emphasize Mr. Bush's conservatism.

"He needs to do more for the center," said Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania
Republican.

Mr. Specter said that Mr. Bush was being personally attentive to moderates like
him, but that the president "has to do more on the issues." Mr. Specter added
that stem cell research, which he favors, would be a perfect place to start.

Mr. Bush's aides feel that inadequate attention has been paid to what they see
as his centrist credentials and accomplishments on education. Mr. Bush dropped
vouchers from education bills that, in different forms, were passed by the House
and Senate, and he and his aides are intent on seeing those bills successfully
reconciled and sent to his desk.

"We've got to get that education package through the conference committee," Mr.
Card said, later adding, "He's going to keep talking about education, even after
he signs education into law."

"He's also going to do an awful lot on the environment," Mr. Card said, although
he did not specify what that would be.

What was clear was that, bit by bit, the administration would try to address Mr.
Bush's vulnerabilities and cast him as someone who cares deeply and can talk
articulately about Americans' noneconomic concerns. The administration is
hatching ideas for addressing those issues.

"They want him to connect more with average citizens," said the strategist who
worried that Mr. Bush had not established himself as a "different kind of
Republican."

"If you're stuck in box of Republican orthodoxy," the strategist said, "and you
came on the scene as a different kind of Republican, you better get flat to it."


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush joined members of his cabinet in prayer at the
beginning of a meeting on Friday afternoon. (Paul Hosefros/The New York
Times)(pg. 1); President Bush leaving the Oval Office for a cabinet meeting on
Friday. Later, in the Rose Garden, he assessed his first six months in office.
(Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words


INTERNATIONAL   3-10

En Route to United States, Perils in Mexico's South
Along Mexico's southern border, would-be immigrants to the United States are
preyed upon by bandits and corrupt officials and, according to government
statistics, a soaring number of them are dying.   1

Palestinian Survives Attack
The Israeli army fired missiles at a convoy carrying Marwan Barghouti, the West
Bank leader of the Palestinian uprising, in what he called an assassination
attempt. Israeli officials denied he was the target.   4


North Korean Leader in Moscow
Kim Jong Il repeated a promise to suspend ballistic missile launches until 2003,
saying in a declaration with President Vladimir V. Putin that the missile
program "does not present a threat to nations respecting North Korea's
sovereignty."   6

Iran Reformist Is Delayed
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, ordered a postponement in the
inauguration of President Mohamed Khatami, adding to a struggle to maintain the
status quo.   9

Bosnian Muslims at The Hague
Three high-ranking Bosnian Muslim officers indicted by the United Nations war
crimes tribunal on murder charges arrived at the detention center in The Hague.
(Agence France-Presse)

NATIONAL   12-22

After His First 6 Months, Bush Is to Change Focus
President Bush, midway through his first year, is planning to move beyond the
conventional Republican agenda of tax cuts and energy and devote renewed
attention to issues like education and immigration, administration officials
say.   1

Dispute Over Scientist's Book
Wen Ho Lee, the former Los Alamos scientist who was charged with security
violations and jailed for nine months, may be at odds with the government over
his forthcoming autobiography.   1

High-Tech Jobs Fall in Dallas
More than 10,000 high-technology employees in the Dallas area have lost their
jobs this year, in a sign of how far the industry's troubles have extended past
the Silicon Valley.   20

Democrats Differ on Vieques
Behind the scenes, the Democratic Party is bitterly divided over the Navy's
presence in Vieques, P.R.   12

Education Chief's Struggle
Rod Paige is now seeking a higher profile as education secretary after what was
seen as a slow start.   16

News Program Revamped
CNN will soon begin an updated version of "Headline News," part of an effort to
attract younger viewers.   1

NEW YORK/REGION   25-31

In Both Substance and Style, Successor Will Not Be Giuliani
A series of interviews with the six major candidates for mayor of New York City
suggested that the differences between Mr. Giuliani and the men trying to
succeed him are more stark than the candidates want voters to think.   1

Mother Dies; Baby Is Delivered
A baby was delivered after a pregnant woman, her son and a sister were killed in
Brooklyn by a car driven by an off-duty police officer, police and hospital
officials said.   28

Fresh Air Fund   30

OBITUARIES   32

Chess   31
Sunday Q & A   22
Cong. Vote   29
Weather   33

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

CENSUS DATA SHOW A SHARP INCREASE IN LIVING STANDARD

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1843 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5


American standards of living increased markedly throughout most of the country
in the 1990's, bringing gains in education, housing and mobility along with
higher incomes, according to comprehensive new census data being released on
Monday.

But if people's homes are bigger, so are their mortgages, and if they own more
cars, they also commute more hours to work, the new survey shows. "It's the
American dream updated," said Robert E. Lang, an urban analyst with the Fannie
Mae Foundation, an independent research organization.

And the survey provides the latest evidence that the magnet of readily available
jobs is attracting immigrants at an ever faster pace. About 44 percent of the
nation's 30.5 million foreign-born residents, or 13.3 million people, arrived
here in the 1990's. Immigrants make up 11 percent of the country's population,
the largest share since the 1930's, and nearly one in five Americans does not
speak English at home.

Much of the nation's wealth is still concentrated in the Northeast, but that
region lost some of its edge in the decade as jobs and people migrated to
fast-growing, economically vibrant areas like the Southeast and the West.

It is no surprise, of course, that the latter half of the 1990's in particular
was a boom time. But these new figures provide fresh details about the pinpoints
of prosperity, especially useful to government planners and businesses because
they are available a year earlier than usual after a decennial census. And they
show the pockets of impoverishment where governments are struggling to provide
services for the needy.

These are among the highlights:

*More than two million grandparents are rearing their grandchildren, the first
time the Census Bureau has kept track of that statistic.

*In 2000, 82 percent of people 25 and older had graduated from high school and
25 percent had at least a bachelor's degree. In 1990, the figures were 75
percent and 20 percent, respectively.

*More than 90 percent of households owned a car, van or truck in 2000, the
highest share ever, and 18 percent owned three or more vehicles. Seventy-six
percent of workers drove to work alone, up 3 percent from 1990. People are
spending more time driving to work, often from rural settings where
better-paying jobs are scarce. West Virginians logged the largest increase, to
an average of 25.5 minutes each way in 2000 from 21 minutes in 1990, as jobs in
the Washington suburbs beckoned. More than four million people worked at home in
2000, a sharp increase over a decade ago.

*The incomes of families grew and so did their homes, as more than one in four
homes has seven rooms or more, up slightly from 1990. This confirms data showing
that nearly one of five new houses exceeds 3,000 square feet. In 2000, the
median monthly mortgage was $1,307, much higher than a decade ago.

In a preview of official 2000 census data to be issued next year from the
questionnaire known as the long form, the Census Bureau on Monday will release
these and other results of a test survey of 700,000 households conducted
simultaneously with the decennial head count.

Census officials want to replace the detailed long form, which yields important
demographic and socioeconomic figures once a decade, with an annual survey that
would provide similar information every year. In effect, it would be a rolling
annual census, but a statistical sample rather than a comprehensive count.

Both questionnaires are designed to measure education, housing, population and
commuting characteristics, information that is used by the federal, state and
local governments in an array of activities, including planning environmental
protections, building roads, and developing health care programs for the
elderly.

The survey shows that in 2000, New York became the first state where residents
commuted more than 30 minutes on average each way to their jobs. Reflecting
population shifts in the West, nearly one in four Nevadans lived in a different
residence in 2000 than in 1999. Thirty-five percent of adults in Massachusetts
had at least a four-year college degree. And 40 percent of Californians spoke a
language other than English at home.

The Census Bureau is asking Congress to make this new method permanent, which
would represent perhaps the biggest shift in the federal gathering of statistics
since sampling techniques were introduced in the 1940 census. With some
lawmakers worried that the new approach might duplicate other surveys or violate
citizens' privacy by asking new questions, census officials and their allies
hope this kind of useful detail will help them sell the idea.

A yearly survey would "enable local government decision makers to remove some of
the guesswork and insert hard evidence into their decision-making process,"
Barbara Welty, the clerk of Kathio Township, Minn., told the House subcommittee
on the census in June.

J. Gregory Williams, the Alaska state demographer, said the new approach would
help Alaska officials track the impact of military base closings, assess the
impact of floods and other natural disasters, and monitor the social
consequences of the volatile logging, mining and fishing industries.

If approved, the new annual sampling, called the American Community Survey,
would by 2004 begin producing yearly estimates for geographic areas and
population groups of 65,000 or more. Estimates for smaller areas would be
available by 2008. Official population counts would continue to come from the
shorter census form that all households are required by law to complete every 10
years.

The data to be released have limitations. The survey included only residential
households and excluded troops in military barracks, students in college
dormitories and people in other group quarters. Many characteristics, like
income and poverty statistics, are not directly comparable to similar data from
the 1990 or 2000 counts.

For example, nearly 48 percent of Hispanics responding to the 2000 Census
identified themselves as white and 42 percent said they were "some other race."
In the test survey, which used highly trained enumerators to follow up with
households that did not respond by mail, 63 percent of Hispanics identified
themselves as white and 29 percent said they were "some other race."

"It certainly means we need more information about how Latinos are viewing race
and what it means about how the census collects that information," said Sonia M.
Perez, a demographer with the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy
group.

That said, demographers who reviewed the test survey results before their public
release said they discovered intriguing trends about the nation's standards of
living.

There are still troubling signs from the test survey of groups being left
behind. Nearly 13 percent of the country was living in poverty in 2000, down
slightly from 1990 levels that are not strictly comparable. Among the poor are
17 percent of children under 18 and 11 percent of adults 65 or older. Seventeen
percent of households received some sort of public assistance. About 530,000
homes lacked plumbing and 3.2 million households did not have telephone service,
although both figures represent sharp declines from 1990 levels.

In a surprising development to demographers that may reflect housing shortages
in the booming economy or more profound changes in the nuclear family, 42
percent of grandparents living in the same house as their grandchildren were
responsible for the youngsters. More than one-third of those two million
grandparents had been taking care of the grandchildren for five or more years.

"In terms of looking at family situations," said Martin O'Connell, chief of the
Census Bureau's fertility and family statistics branch, "this shows that we have
to extend our horizons beyond Mother and Dad."

Over all, though, the test survey results show a prosperity that is shifting
geographically. Eight of the 20 states with median household incomes above the
national average of $41,343 in 2000 were in the Northeast. New Jersey ranked
first with $54,226, edging out Connecticut, with $53,108.

Wendell Primus, director of income security at the Center for Budget and Policy
Priorities, a research group, noted that a swath of Northeastern states from
Maryland to Vermont lost ground over the decade in household income.

The booming economy attracted many new immigrants, who arrived lawfully and
unlawfully. Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer with the Urban Institute, a social
policy research group, said the test survey results supported his estimates that
eight million to nine million immigrants now live illegally in the United
States, including 4.5 million to 5 million Mexicans. The figures for both
categories are about 1.5 million more than the Immigration and Naturalization
Service estimates.

Reflecting this new diversity, 18 percent of all residents who were at least 5
years old spoke a language other than English at home, up 4 percent from 1990.
Of those people, 60 percent spoke Spanish, and 43 percent reported that they did
not speak English "very well."

Immigrants are also dispersing across the country, as earlier census figures had
shown. According to William H. Frey, a demographer at the University of
Michigan, the populations of 27 states are now at least 5 percent foreign-born,
compared with 14 states in 1980. States with large populations of new immigrants
tended to ride the economic upswing. In a dozen states, including Nevada, more
than half the population was born in other states or overseas, Mr. Frey said.
Those states tend to have younger age structures and are more economically
vibrant. Conversely, he said, those states with large proportions of residents
who were born in the state, like Louisiana and Pennsylvania, have fewer migrants
and have been economically stagnant for decades.

In another measure of mobility, about 15 percent of the population lived in a
different residence in 2000 than the previous year. In five Western states --
Nevada, Alaska, Oregon, Colorado and Arizona -- more than 20 percent of
residents had moved within the year, reflecting overall growth as well as
transient college and military populations.

As the economy thrived, the nation's average commuting time to work increased to
24.3 minutes in 2000, from 22.4 minutes in 1990 and 21.7 minutes in 1980. (The
2000 figures are slightly inflated because of a difference in counting methods,
but they still show that Americans are spending more time in their cars.) In
2000, 14.6 percent of workers 16 or older had commutes of more than 45 minutes,
compared with 12.5 percent of commuters a decade ago.

"The trick with these numbers is that you don't know whether the same trip is
taking longer or people are taking longer trips," said Alan E. Pisarski, a
transportation specialist in Falls Church, Va., and author of "Commuting in
America." "It's very likely a little bit of both."

Car-pooling continued to decline, to 11 percent from 13 percent in 1990, while
use of public transportation to get to work hovered just above 5 percent,
unchanged from 1990.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "FINDINGS: Glimpses of a Changing America"Some results of a
survey of 700,000 households done simultaneously with the 2000 census. The
Census Bureau hopes to do a similiar survey every year instead of using the
longer, more detailed questionnaire that 19 million households filled out in the
2000 census. Data based on that questionnaire, known as the long form, will not
be released until next year. MEDIAN INCOMEMedian income of households New
Jersey: $54,226Connecticut: 53,108Alaska: 52,876Maryland: 52,436Hawaii:
51,046United states: $41,343Kentucky: 32,843Arkansas: 32,714Mississippi:
31,955Louisiana: 31,034West Virginia: 28,569 COLLEGE EDUCATIONPercentage 25 and
older with a bachelor's degree or higher Dist. of Columbia: 41.1%Massachusetts:
34.9Colorado: 33.4Connecticut: 33.3Maryland: 31.5United states:
25.1%Mississippi: 18.6Nevada: 18.3Kentucky: 17.2Arkansas: 16.6West Virginia:
14.1 NON-ENGLISH SPEAKERSPercentage of population* speaking a language other
than English at home California: 39.5%New Mexico: 35.5Texas: 32.0New York:
27.5Hawaii: 26.1United states: 17.6%Arkansas: 3.8Kentucky: 3.5Alabama:
3.3Mississippi: 2.9West Virginia: 2.2 COMMUTING TIMESAverage travel time to
work, in minutes New York: 31.2Maryland: 29.2New Jersey: 28.7Dist. of Columbia:
28.5Illinois: 27.0United states: 24.3Wyoming: 17.1Nebraska: 16.1Montana:
16.0South Dakota: 15.6North Dakota: 15.4(Sources: Census 2000 Supplementary
Survey: average travel times calculated by Alan E. Pisarski, author, "Commuting
in America")(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2001 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Races for Council Reveal Shifts In Demographics of City Politics

BYLINE:   By JONATHAN P. HICKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2138 words


One Council race in the Bronx bristles with nothing less than a longstanding
feud between a political machine and a borough dynasty. A contest in Brooklyn is
shot through with passionate charges of nepotism over the Council seat held for
nearly 20 years by a candidate's mother.

In Queens, the Democratic Party organization's prestige is on the line as a
young insurgent with ties to the Clinton White House battles a candidate
handpicked in the party's office in Forest Hills. And in Staten Island, a black
woman is running in a largely white but increasingly diverse district against an
Irish-American man and an Italian-American man, both of whom have deep political
roots. In several boroughs, immigrants from all over Asia are excitedly watching
races in Flushing and Chinatown, hoping to see the first Asian-American elected
to the Council.

From borough to borough, the imposition of term limits on 35 of the City
Council's 51 members and the retirement of two others has swung the election
open like a floodgate, allowing hundreds of candidates -- flush with public
campaign matching funds -- to run for office. The composition of this broad
field of more than 300 candidates sprouts right out of the 2000 census data,
reflecting New York City's diversity and its surging immigrant population more
closely than any other election year in memory. There are candidates from
Guyana, nearly every island in the Caribbean, Russia, India, Taiwan and Peru, to
name a few.

And while native politics is infusing some races with multiple candidates,
old-style borough politics dominates the campaign chatter in others. A little
more than a month before the September primary, party organizations in several
boroughs are leading court fights this week against the petitions of outsider
candidates, trying to bump as many as possible off the ballot.

Given that most races will be decided in the Sept. 11 primary and the subsequent
runoff, the Council's complexion for 2002 will be largely decided within a few
months. But it will be much longer before anyone can determine whether the
seismic turnover in the Council has any effect on the balance of power between
the Council and a new mayor, or on the Council's ability to achieve consensus
and pass meaningful legislation.

The Council was once considered a sleepy junior partner in government; its
members were not even required until 1974 to go to City Hall to vote in person.
In the mid-1960's, then-Councilman Henry J. Stern, now the parks commissioner,
deemed the Council "less than a rubber stamp, because a rubber stamp at least
leaves an impression."

Since the Council was expanded a decade ago after the Board of Estimate was
abolished, however, it has enjoyed broader powers, ranging from making decisions
on land use to approving the city's budget. But it has been overshadowed in the
last eight years by the strong mayoralty of Rudolph W. Giuliani.

"This is a whole new political environment that we are entering," said Stan
Altman, dean of the School of Public Affairs at Baruch College. "There will be
an increasing amount of diversity in the City Council and the relationship
between the Council and the mayor will undergo some significant change."

Mr. Altman predicted that the office of the mayor, with its huge resources, vast
law department and network of employees, would become even more powerful as the
term-limited Council becomes weaker with the turnover now required after its
members serve two consecutive four-year terms.

"It will be much harder for the City Council to have a balance with the mayor,"
he said. "There will be little in the way of relationships between the mayor's
office and the new members of the City Council."

While that view is far from universal, the discussion has permeated the mayoral
race, with at least one candidate, Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, a Democrat,
contending that one of his primary qualifications is that only he can span the
chaotic gap that's bound to exist between a new administration and the crowd of
Council newcomers.

"In terms of the crisis that we're about to have, what I'm asking the people to
consider is this: Everybody's leaving office," Mr. Vallone said in a recent
interview with editors and reporters at The New York Times. "You have 15 council
members that are left. There won't be any staff left because there's no one to
hire them on the City Council side of the ledger."

Mr. Vallone said the Council could be a chaotic mess next year. "We've had
almost a Camelot-type relationship in terms of a legislative body working with
an executive branch for the last 11 years," he said. "That could all go right
down the tube."

City Council candidates themselves, however, are not as pessimistic about the
uncharted frontier.

"I can't see that the power of the Council will be diminished," said David I.
Weprin, a lawyer seeking the seat in the 23rd District in Queens. "Had there
been an already existing, incumbent mayor, that might not have been the case.
But you're going to have a largely new City Council and all new citywide
officials, including the mayor."

Another factor in weighing how well the Council functions next year is the
likelihood that not all the newcomers will be strangers to New York politics or
to the government's inner workings. So much seat trading and cross-endorsing for
various offices has occurred that experienced legislators hold highly favorable
odds for City Council seats.

In Brooklyn, there is Albert Vann, an assemblyman from Bedford-Stuyvesant who
was first elected to the Assembly in 1974. And in Queens, former Assemblywoman
Melinda Katz is vying for a seat in Forest Hills. And there is Larry B.
Seabrook, a former state senator and assemblyman from the Bronx who lost a
bitter primary race for Congress last year.

Some of these experienced candidates are already boldly angling for the
speaker's job, pitting themselves against the few incumbents who also want the
leading role.

With so much competition and the vacuum left by term limits, some politicians
worry that the city's Democratic Party leaders will try to dictate who gets the
second most powerful job at City Hall.

"The danger is that the various political county leaders will come to power
again in terms of running things," warned Mr. Vallone, who became speaker after
a battle among the Democratic bosses in 1986. "The various county leaders would
very likely try to take control of their borough delegations in the Council and
wield control in this case, too. Of course, I believe in party organizations.
But I don't think they should run government."

Party leaders in some of the boroughs dismissed Mr. Vallone's concerns, even
though they are vigorously backing a slate of candidates with endorsements to
help influence voters. Some have publicly promoted names for the speaker's job.

"I think that is a rather overexpansive notion of the power that county leaders
have," said Roberto Ramirez, the chairman of the Bronx Democratic Party
organization. "Term limits, and the fact that there are so many open races have
created a new dynamic in the city that includes labor and ordinary citizens in
the process in a way they haven't been in it before. It is a new political
world."

The party bosses wielded considerable influence in the past, and incumbents
generally received their backing. And they still steadfastly try to knock off
the ballot any challengers not favored by the party.

But they have far less control over the district races this year because of two
new factors: the intensive competitions derived from term limits and a more
level playing field under the city's campaign finance system -- which matches
most contributions of $250 or less with city funds at a 4 to 1 ratio for
candidates who agree to spending limits.

At the same time that new candidates are emerging from all over the city, voter
rolls are changing, with 250,000 voters registered since last year. While
there's no way to tell how many are new immigrants, the numbers seem to mirror
the waves of immigration rippling through the city's politics.

"Many of the Council districts have undergone dramatic shifts because of
immigration," said Gene Russianoff, a senior lawyer at the New York Public
Interest Research Group. "But without term limits, they would continue to be
represented largely by white incumbents who might never have been seriously
challenged.

"The question is whether things will change or whether some people will be
successful at recreating some of the old system," Mr. Russianoff said. "And for
now, it's just too early to tell. But we'll be watching."

KEY RACES
Ten Contests to Watch

Manhattan

DISTRICT 1 In a crowded race to fill the seat held by Kathryn E. Freed, the
contest in this district, which includes Chinatown and Lower Manhattan, is
likely to be a high-spending competition because one candidate, Alana
Wachs-Posner, is not participating in the city's program of public financing for
campaigns. That lifts the spending limits for the other six candidates. Another
question: Will this district, with three Asian-American candidates, elect an
Asian-American Council member?

DISTRICT 8 The incumbent councilman, Philip Reed, is facing a primary battle
against Felipe Luciano, a television reporter and anchorman and a co-founder of
the Young Lords. The district includes East Harlem and a slice of the Bronx.

DISTRICT 10 This district in Washington Heights, the city's Dominican heartland,
has attracted eight Democratic candidates, all Dominican. But the race is the
latest installment in the battle between the surrogates of the city's two
Dominican elected officials: Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat and City Councilman
Guillermo Linares, who cannot run again because of term limits.

Bronx

DISTRICT 16 In a three-way race to succeed Councilman Wendell Foster, a 24-year
veteran, the competition is fierce. One candidate is Helen Foster, the daughter
of the incumbent. Her most significant opponent is Michael Benjamin, a
Democratic district leader who has been endorsed by the Bronx Democratic Party
organization. And the party's prestige is on the line in the race in this
district, which includes Morrisania and Highbridge.

DISTRICT 17 The race in the Mott Haven and Hunts Point sections of the Bronx is
an intense battle between the sons of two of the Bronx's best-known politicians.
Councilman Pedro Gautier Espada, the son of State Senator Pedro Espada Jr., is
in the battle of his political life against Jose Marco Serrano, the son of
Representative Jose E. Serrano. The race also highlights a boroughwide feud
between the Espada family and its political operation and the Bronx Democratic
organization, which is supporting Mr. Serrano.

Queens

DISTRICT 26 Matthew Farrell, an aide to Councilwoman Karen Koslowitz, is the
choice of the Democratic organization to succeed Walter L. McCaffrey. But Eric
Gioia, a lawyer who worked in the Clinton White House, has raised more money and
gathered more labor support. Patrick O'Malley, the brother of the mayor of
Baltimore, is one of three others running. This race places the prestige of the
party organization on the line in Woodside and Sunnyside.

Brooklyn

DISTRICT 35 Several candidates have emerged in a highly competitive race to
succeed Mary Pinkett in a district anchored in Fort Greene and Clinton Hill.
Letitia James has been endorsed by the Democratic Party; she faces Peter
Williams, an official with the National Urban League; Bill Saunders, a
Democratic district leader, and James E. Davis, a police officer who once
narrowly lost an Assembly race to Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr.

DISTRICT 39 The race to succeed Stephen DiBrienza has produced an assortment of
high-profile candidates. They include Bill de Blasio, who ran Senator Hillary
Rodham Clinton's campaign, and Steven Banks, a Legal Aid Society lawyer, and
other candidates, including Paul Bader, a small-business owner and longtime
community activist who is married to Representative Nydia M. Velazquez.

DISTRICT 45 The diversity within the Caribbean community in this Flatbush
district is reflected in the seven candidates seeking to succeed Lloyd Henry.
Six hail from West Indian countries. Most have worked for politicians, and each
is describing himself as part of a new generation of black leadership.

Staten Island

DISTRICT 49 While Jerome X. O'Donovan runs for Staten Island borough president,
the race to succeed him in the Council has turned into a battle between two
Democratic factions. Michael E. McMahon, a lawyer, has the support of elected
officials, while Jon R. Del Giorno, an official at the city's Board of
Elections, has the backing of the borough's party organization. Also
aggressively campaigning is Deborah Rose, a college administrator, who is
seeking to become Staten Island's first black elected official in a district
that has grown increasingly diverse.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: COUNCIL CONTESTS: A Crowded Field

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2001



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Monday about the coming City Council
elections referred imprecisely to the rules. Candidates are elected by
plurality; unlike the contests for mayor and other citywide offices, these are
not decided by runoffs in case of a close first round. A chart with the article
misspelled the name of a candidate in District 1, which includes Chinatown. She
is Elana Waksal-Posner, not Alana Wachs-Posner.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Diversity Within The Districts"Colors show which group is
largest in each area. Darker shades of a color show more homogeneous
neighborhoods; lighter shades, more diverse. Map of the five boroughs shows
group's percentage of population as black, hispanic, white, and asian. Maps of
the boroughs show percentage of residents who are hispanic, asian, and black.
(Source: Analysis of 2000 census data by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College
sociology department. Data are mapped by census block group)(pg. B4) Chart/Map:
"Snapshots of Council Districts"Maps of the five boroughs show the
following:Districts where incumbent cannot run againNumber of candidates for
council as of July 26Median household incomeMedian agePercentage with a high
school diploma(Source: City Council; N.Y.C. Board of Elections; Andrew A.
Beveridge, Queens College sociology department from Census 2000 data and 1997
census estimates.)(pg. B4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 9, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pockets of Protest Are Rising Against Immigration

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: MASON CITY, Iowa, Aug. 7


At a City Council meeting here last month, Duane Crum objected to Iowa's plan to
use this prototypical Midwestern town as a "model city" to recruit immigrants to
help ease the state's labor shortages by replacing aging workers.

"We are not racists nor are we bigots," said Mr. Crum, 51, a former meatpackers'
union steward. "We are not interested in doing anything other than preserving a
way of life."

By the time a mostly pro-immigrant crowd of 300 people gathered at a town hall
meeting a few days later to debate the plan, Mr. Crum had gained more
supporters. About 1,400 residents had joined him in a petition drive intended to
pressure the city to reject a $50,000 state grant to carry out a strategy that
he contends would "reduce the standard of living" here.

In Fort Dodge, another designated model city 60 miles southwest of here, 1,400
residents signed a similar petition, many fearing that new immigrants would take
jobs and "the bread off our table," said Greg Nolting, a city councilman who
opposes the state's plan.

The protests caused Gov. Tom Vilsack, the plan's champion, to pull back and say
that the pilot programs were not, in fact, contracts required to recruit
immigrants, but agreements under which the cities would consider the idea.

Both Mason City and Fort Dodge, as well as the third city offered a grant,
Marshalltown, decided to accept them.

But the unease over immigration in Mason City and Fort Dodge is hardly unusual
in largely white areas where immigrant populations have sprung up quickly,
though immigration experts say it does not approach the backlash against
immigrants of the early and mid-1990's.

Yet with United States and Mexican cabinet officers meeting in Washington on
Thursday to discuss a proposal to legalize some of the three million Mexicans
living in this country illegally, anti-immigrant views are being heard in
pockets all over the country.

The protests range from isolated beatings of migrant laborers, as on Long
Island, to a small but vocal cry in the halls of Congress that the flow of legal
and illegal foreigners threatened to clog schools and take jobs from American
workers.

Groups that back restrictions on immigration, like the Federation for American
Immigration Reform and Project U.S.A., which had lost much of their audience in
the past five years, have gotten a second wind.  They are seizing on the new
fears of immigration and providing money and advisers to local campaigns,
including the one here in Mason City, a town of 29,000 people that is 93.4
percent non-Hispanic white, according to 2000 census figures.

In the past two years, groups advocating restrictions on immigrants have sprung
up in Colorado, Georgia, North Carolina, Oregon and South Carolina. A national
coalition that opposes increased immigration, led by the federation of
immigration reform, ran more than $500,000 in radio and print advertisements in
10 states in April and May condemning any new agreement with Mexico to expand
immigration. The same group paid for new advertisements broadcast in New York
City last week.

But the political climate is far less conducive to a backlash than it was seven
years ago, when Californians passed a proposition barring public services to
illegal immigrants (ruled unconstitutional) and Republicans like Gov. Pete
Wilson of California tried to exploit those resentments.

Now, pro-immigrant sentiments abound, and Democrats and Republicans alike are
courting Hispanic voters. Some states are issuing drivers licenses to illegal
immigrants to ensure public safety.

For the first time, labor unions and employers have joined to back a temporary
guest-worker program that allows new migrants, as well as illegal ones already
here, to earn their permanent residency over time. But the spread of immigrants
to states like Iowa and North Carolina -- the first significant influx of
foreign workers and families to such places in nearly a century -- is bringing
cultural and demographic change.

Anti-Latino sentiment in Siler City, N.C., where poultry operations have
attracted thousands of Mexican immigrants, grew to the point last year where
David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader, was invited to help stem the migrant
wave.

Here in Mason City, an unemployment rate of just over 2 percent, residents are
divided over Governor Vilsack's plan.

"If we're not actively recruiting immigrants, then we should," the Rev. Terry
Hamilton-Poore, 39, a Presbyterian minister, said at the town hall meeting. "We
can't stay the same. It's not an option. Look at our aging population. I see it
in my church. I see it in my neighborhood, I see it in our schools."

Jose D. Barragan Jr., 40, a Mason City native of Mexican descent who owns an
auto body shop, agreed.  "What was America built on?" Mr. Barragan asked. "The
home of the free. Did Columbus have a green card?"

Opponents like Janice Easley, 69, see things differently. With help from Project
U.S.A., Ms. Easley and others have towed around town a mobile billboard called
"The Truthmobile." It reads: "In Your 20's? Immigration Will Double the U.S.
Population in Your Lifetime."

"I hope by speaking up, it will bring about changes," Mrs. Easley said. "This is
for our city, our state, our country."

Jordan O'Donnell, 18, a sales clerk at B. Dalton bookstore, said, she discussed
immigration issues in classes last year at Mason City High School.  "We've got
to take care of our own people, and then we can start taking care of others,"
she said.

Mason City's tiny immigrant population is watching the debate mostly from the
sidelines. Francisco Marquez, 27, assistant manager of a Mexican restaurant
here, was born in Chicago, but reared in Mexico and still struggles with his
English.

"Sometimes people here are scared of people who speak a foreign language or have
different traditions," said Mr. Marquez, who came here two years ago for work.
"But it doesn't matter what country you're from. What matters is if you're a
good person and work hard."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opponents of an Iowa plan intended to help recruit immigrants to
fill jobs towed this sign around Mason City, which adopted the program. (Janice
Easley)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S.-Mexico Talks Produce Agreement on Immigration Policy

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9


The United States and Mexico agreed in principle today to an expanded temporary
worker program that would allow some of the estimated three million Mexicans
living here unlawfully to earn permanent legal residency, officials from both
governments said.

After meeting for nearly two hours, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and
Attorney General John Ashcroft joined their Mexican counterparts, Jorge G.
Castaneda and Santiago Creel, at a news conference to announce what Mr. Powell
called a "shared commitment" to employ a "humane, family-friendly" migration
policy.

While much work lies ahead on specific details, Mr. Powell made it clear that
some Mexicans living in this country illegally -- those who have jobs, pay taxes
and rear children who are American-born United States citizens -- would be
included in an expanded temporary worker program.

"The program will rest on a carefully worked-out partnership between the sending
and receiving countries, one that recognizes also the contributions that
undocumented Mexicans are making in the United States and that brings together
willing workers and willing employers," Mr. Powell said.

The American and Mexican cabinet officers met here to begin laying the
groundwork for a meeting in early September between President Bush and President
Vicente Fox of Mexico.

Aides on both sides, who had recently held out hopes that the presidents could
announce a detailed framework agreement in September, sought today to play down
expectations of any quick accord.

Tacitly acknowledging the policy complexities as well as the political hurdles
to clear, Mr. Powell said that putting together a well-designed temporary worker
program that enjoyed public support could not be rushed.

"We're in no hurry," Mr. Powell told reporters. "We have to do this right. We
have to do this in a careful way, a way that will be seen as fair and equitable
by both nations, by the people of both nations."

State Department spokesman Richard Boucher was more categorical, telling
reporters later that, "I wouldn't expect that it'll all be finished by the time
the presidents get together."

Mexican officials, whom some Americans had privately accused of pushing the
legalization plan too aggressively in recent months, also sounded a cautionary
note today.

"We are making important progress," said Mr. Castaneda, adding that the overall
goal is "to achieve a good agreement in whatever time frame is necessary, and
that takes into account the needs of the economy in the United States and the
rights that Mexicans need."

But Mr. Creel appeared to voice more of the private satisfaction Mexican
officials said they felt after today's talks. "We have taken a very important
step on an issue that is essential for Mexico, finding a solution for our
countrymen who work and live in the United States," he said.

There is now a small-scale, cumbersome plan that allows "guest workers," mostly
agriculture laborers, to get temporary visas. Under proposals discussed today,
an expanded pool of new migrants employed in service jobs like hotels and
restaurants could apply for temporary work permits with the possibility of
earning permanent residency over time.

And at least some of the illegal Mexicans already in the United States could
earn permanent lawful status if they could certify that they had been living and
working in the country for a specified time, and had been paying taxes.

"There is broad agreement in principle about how and what kind of program we
want to design," Mr. Boucher said. "We got into the discussion of the various
factors and elements that need to be worked in and balanced as we go into that
program. The senior experts and officials that are going to try to work out the
details of the program have a lot more structure and guidance."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 141 words


Immigration Accord
Many of the estimated three million Mexican immigrants living illegally in the
United States could become permanent legal residents under a new plan.   PAGE A4


Inhalers Linked to 10 Deaths
At least 10 asthma patients may have died after using drug inhalers that were
later recalled by Schering-Plough, according to reports filed with regulators.
The F.D.A. is investigating the reports.   PAGE C1


Italy Defends Genoa Policy
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi defended police actions at the Group of 8
conference in Genoa last month, while European officials questioned the heavy
force used against demonstrators.   PAGE A3

Ovitz Project Struggles
Michael S. Ovitz, who formed a management company three years ago to restore his
status as a Hollywood power broker, is facing serious economic strains that
threaten his project.   PAGE C1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detained Nigerian Girl, 8, Finds Home With a Cousin

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9


An 8-year-old Nigerian girl who has been detained for 15 months in a Miami
shelter was released tonight to live with a cousin in Hartford, United States
immigration officials said.

The release ended a legal limbo for the girl, nicknamed Fega, whose lawyers say
was abandoned by her parents after she arrived in the United States alone with
false papers in May 2000.

Immigration officials had failed to find her mother, who was believed to be
living in the New York area at the time, and her father had told caseworkers in
Florida that he did not want her sent back. The girl's case was described in a
front-page article in The New York Times on June 24.

Shortly after that article was published, United States immigration officials
sent a deportation officer to London, where the father had moved. In that
meeting, the father said he had not severed ties with his daughter, and
officials began working with him to find a temporary guardian in the United
States.

Immigration officials in Florida and Washington enlisted the aid of 20 agencies,
Nigerian community leaders in Miami and the Nigerian consulate in Atlanta to
help unite Fega with her cousin. Officials asked that the cousin, a married
woman with children, not be identified, but said she had very strong
qualifications for taking custody of the child: She is an investigator with the
Connecticut children's services department.

"Fega is the happiest child in the whole wide world right now," Francisco
Brizuela, an administrator who oversees the shelter, said in a telephone
interview. He said shelter officials threw a farewell party for Fega today.

Fega's release was assured today when her father, back in Nigeria, met with the
acting United States consul general in Lagos. American officials said the father
produced documents proving Fega was his daughter, and then signed a statement
authorizing his cousin to take custody of the girl until her immigration status
could be resolved.

"This is wonderful news," said Christina M. Kleiser, a lawyer for the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center, which has represented Fega.

Ms. Kleiser has been seeking asylum for the girl on the grounds that her parents
abandoned her. A hearing is scheduled in Miami for Aug. 21, but Ms. Kleiser said
she would now consult with Fega's cousin to determine what steps to take next.

For the last 15 months, Fega has been living in a squat, mustard-colored
building that serves as an emergency shelter for unaccompanied immigrant
children who have slipped into the country illegally by crossing borders or
landing at airports with false papers.

The 32-bed shelter, called Boystown, which is run by the Catholic Charities of
the Archdiocese of Miami under contract to the immigration service, ranks near
the top for quality of care at such shelters, immigrant advocates say.

Still, the average stay at the shelter is 16 days. Since Fega arrived, more than
400 youngsters have come and gone. She has been at the shelter so long that she
has learned some Spanish, Creole, Chinese and English from the children who have
passed her by.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fees for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 77 words


To the Editor:

Re "Citing Costs, U.S. Seeks to Raise Fees for Immigrants' Applications" (news
article, Aug. 7):

The frequency with which the Immigration and Naturalization Service raises
immigration fees is becoming worrisome. It is very important that exorbitant
fees not become an impediment to poor people who seek United States citizenship.


NIRAN MALAOLU
Lagos, Nigeria, Aug. 7, 2001

The writer is deputy editor in chief of The Anchor, a Nigerian newspaper.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 12, 2001 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

James A. Corbett, 67, Is Dead; A Champion of Movement to Safeguard Illegal
Refugees

BYLINE:   By DOUGLAS MARTIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 912 words


James A. Corbett, a rancher and Harvard-educated philosopher who helped start a
movement to guide Central American refugees illegally across the United States
border, died on Aug. 2 at his home in the Arizona desert, about 30 miles from
Benson. He was 67.

The cause was a rare brain disease, paraneopalpic cerebellar syndrome, his wife,
Patricia, said.

Mr. Corbett's crusade to help the illegal immigrants, most of them from El
Salvador and Guatemala, came to be called the sanctuary movement. Its adherents
believed that the Central Americans streaming to the United States to escape
political oppression were equivalent to slaves escaping their masters in the
years preceding the Civil War, and likened their effort, which involved hundreds
of churches, to the Underground Railroad.

"After the Second World War, the U.S. government bound itself by law never again
to expel or return refugees to any country in which they would face
persecution," Mr. Corbett wrote in an essay in 1988. "Consequently, our
transporting of refugees is not an act of civil disobedience."

But prosecutors insisted that the Central Americans were economic refugees, not
political ones. In a trial in 1986, in which Mr. Corbett was one of 11 people
charged with breaking immigration laws, Judge Earl H. Carroll said, "Good motive
is not a defense to intentional acts of crime."

Mr. Corbett and two others were found not guilty on all charges. Six of the
defendants were convicted of conspiracy and two of lesser charges. They were
sentenced to probation.

"The work of sanctuary will continue exactly as it has," Mr. Corbett said
immediately after the verdict. "We'll stand trial as often as we have to. It'll
continue as it has because the refugees and their needs actually set the
agenda."

As the Central American refugees dwindled, the sanctuary movement gradually
faded.

James Albert Corbett was born on Oct. 8, 1933, in Casper, Wyo., a descendant of
Blackfoot Indians, Kentucky pioneers and Ozark Mountain mule traders.

His father had given up a law practice in Missouri and gone to Wyoming to teach
in high school. His mother brought in extra money by substitute teaching. In the
summer they moved to an Indian reservation, where they kept food on the table by
foraging for berries and fishing for trout.

Mr. Corbett won a scholarship to Colgate University and graduated in three
years. He went to Harvard on a Woodrow Wilson fellowship and completed a
master's degree in philosophy in a year. He married and took his wife to live on
a Wyoming ranch. She did not like ranch life, and they divorced after a few
years of marriage and three children.

He joined his parents at a ranch they had bought near Tombstone, Ariz., hoping
to recover from his marital breakup and the first signs of the arthritis that
would eventually almost cripple him. He decided to study library science at the
University of Southern California.

There, he met Patricia Collins, married her, and moved to Douglas, Ariz., where
Mr. Corbett was head librarian and a philosophy instructor at Cochise Junior
College.

When college officials censored a book on an instructor's reading list and a
work by a visiting artist, he notified the American Civil Liberties Union. His
contract was not renewed.

Mr. Corbett took several teaching jobs in California, became a Quaker in the
early 1960's and organized efforts against the Vietnam War. He then returned to
Arizona to ranch and work on projects like the development of a bee hive and
goat husbandry techniques for use in poor countries.

By 1977, his arthritis had worsened, and the couple moved to Tucson, near where
a fence had been built to deter illegal border crossings. At first, Mr. Corbett
had no interest in immigration issues.

"I took the fence for granted and had never been particularly interested in
border problems," he wrote in an essay in 1988. "The only time I had ever gone
over the fence was to stop a grass fire in Mexico."

But on May 4, 1981, he heard about a Salvadoran refugee who had been caught by
the Border Patrol. Mr. Corbett found the refugee in jail in Nogales, Ariz., then
followed him to an immigration detention center in California, where he said he
discovered hundreds more Central Americans who had fled wars and persecution in
their home countries.

Mr. Corbett was soon housing two dozen refugees in his home. Fluent in Spanish,
he would sometimes lead groups from the Guatemalan border all the way to
Arizona. He mailed 500 letters to Quaker groups throughout the United States,
asking for their help.

Mr. Corbett realized his home and his finances could not accommodate the flood
of Central Americans. He went to John M. Fife III, pastor of the Southside
Presbyterian Church in Tucson, who agreed to harbor refugees and helped organize
a system for passing illegal immigrants from church to church across the
country.

In addition to his wife, Mr. Corbett is survived by his daughters, Laurie
Longtin and Megan Schaefer, both of Casper; his son, Geoffrey Corbett of
Buffalo, Wyo.; and three grandchildren.

In recent years, Mr. Corbett devoted himself to providing simple housing for
those seeking solitary retreats in the Arizona desert. He was also active in the
Saguaro Juniper Corporation, a group of property owners and leasers in
southeastern Arizona interested in wildlife protection and other environmental
concerns.

He and his friends had been discussing the possibility of a new sanctuary
movement for Haitian refugees, Ms. Corbett said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: James A. Corbett

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2001



CORRECTION: An obituary on Aug. 12 about James A. Corbett, a founder of the
sanctuary movement for Central American refugees, misspelled the name of his
illness. It was para neoplastic cerebellar syndrome, not paraneopalpic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James A. Corbett (Associated Press, 1985)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 12, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

URBAN TACTICS;
For the Elderly, a Test Of Civics and Mettle, Too

BYLINE:  By MISHA KRATOCHVIL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 830 words


WHY is the president's time in office limited to two terms?" Menachem Sperling
asked this spring as he sat in front of his 10 elderly students at the offices
of the Brooklyn Refugee Project, a nonprofit group in Brighton Beach. "Eight
years," replied Yevgenia Pivovarova, 72. Mr. Sperling, frustrated at the wrong
answer, exclaimed, "Why?" Ms. Pivovarova replied apologetically in her broken
English, "Big problem to see the American speech."

Ms. Pivovarova and many other elderly immigrants, are trying hard to learn
English and basic American civics. They are applying for citizenship, and to
reach their goal they must pass a face-to-face interview with an immigration
officer. The examination, which is conducted in English and costs $250 for two
tries, includes questions about personal information, American history and an
exercise in writing dictated sentences.

Since 1952, federal law has required applicants for citizenship to pass such a
test in English. But age makes it harder to learn the language. At the same
time, access to certain benefits these days may hinge on passing the
examination. For example, there is a citizenship requirement for some senior
housing, and under a 1996 law, refugees could lose Social Security benefits they
get upon arrival if they have not become naturalized within seven years of
entry.

According to a 1997 census study, there were 1.1 million immigrants over the age
of 60 who were eligible for citizenship. For many, the test has become a major
concern.

Mastering the nuances of English seems to be the toughest task. Jay Chun, who
teaches a citizenship class at the Korean American Senior Center in Flushing,
Queens, said, "People can learn the information required, but the real challenge
is to understand the adjudicator and answer him in English."

When Anna Kaufman, a 70-year-old refugee from the Ukraine, was asked by Mr.
Sperling what the Emancipation Proclamation did, for example, she answered, "It
freed slavery." A book of 100 questions and answers that she is supposed to
memorize says the correct answer is, "It freed the slaves."

One of the elderly students' biggest fears is that the test-giver's American
accent will be too heavy to understand. "I ask God," Ms. Kaufman said, "to send
me a good and polite officer."

Mr. Chun, the Flushing teacher, noted that Russian at least shares some
similarities with English. "For Koreans it's even harder to learn English
because its structure is completely different from Korean," he said.

He added that many elderly Korean applicants have little education, and that
some are illiterate even in their own language.

Kyung Yang Pach, 80, a Korean immigrant in Mr. Chun's class, explained in
Korean, how embarrassed she is that she has not really learned English in the 11
years she has been here. "I would love to take the citizenship test in Korean,"
she said.

Age compounds the difficulties. Lydia Lotarevich, a Russian refugee in Mr.
Sperling's class, said, "After 65 years of my life to be a student, I was not
able to imagine."

And at one point this spring, Ms. Kaufman patted her forehead and said, "I must
remember all the names and dates exactly, and it is very hard for my old head."

If elderly applicants are physically or mentally impaired, they may become
citizens without taking any test. Sue Fox, associate director of Shorefront Y, a
community center on Coney Island Avenue in Brighton Beach, said that some
elderly people tried to persuade their doctors to attest to their disability so
they could sidestep the exam. Such stories have prompted proposals to allow all
elderly immigrants to take the test in their native tongue.

"How can the lawmakers expect a 70- or 80-year old to learn a new language?"
asked Jan Gurvitch, a coordinator with the Women's Labor Zionist Organization of
America who teaches English to elderly refugees at Brighton Beach. "Just think
for a minute about your own grandma."

In March, Representative Jerrold L. Nadler of the Upper West Side, introduced an
act two years ago to eliminate the language hurdle.

Representative Peter T. King of Long Island opposes Mr. Nadler's bill. "To be an
effective voter you really need to have familiarity with English," Mr. King
said. For refugees, he said, a better idea is to remove naturalization as a
requirement for continued Social Security benefits.

But some elderly refugees say government benefits are not the only incentive for
taking the test. "I love America," said Ms. Kyung, who said only that sentence
in English in an interview with a reporter.

Ms. Kaufman's prayers for a good test-giver were answered. "The officer was a
nice young man," she said as she left the Immigration and Naturalization Service
center in Garden City, N.Y., where she took the test. "He was polite and I
understood him well. He even gave me compliments for my English."

Ms. Kaufman passed the test. But she said she would never forget the fear and
the stress that it caused.

"I didn't need new gray hairs," she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elderly immigrants like Anna Kaufman, right, find it hard to
learn English for the citizenship test. Jay Chun, above, teaches English to
elderly Koreans in Queens. (Richard Lee for The New York Times); (Phil Marino
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 12, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

COMMUNITIES;
Making a New Home North of the Border

BYLINE:  By ANNE RUDERMAN

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1027 words

DATELINE: PRINCETON


The trip is a long one. Six hours by bus from Putla to Oaxaca City. Then 13 more
from Oaxaca to Mexico City. The lucky ones then take a six-hour flight from
Mexico City to Newark International Airport. The rest travel 1,400 more miles
north and jump the border.

"They come walking through the desert; they sometimes spend a month walking,
trying to get through," said the Rev. Javier Diaz, who holds a weekly Spanish
Mass at St. Paul's Catholic Church on Nassau Street. "It's very painful and hard
for them to come here."

When they arrive in the United States, the former residents of Putla bypass the
traditional city-to-suburb immigrant pattern and head straight for Princeton --
an unlikely destination for an agricultural population from a remote southern
Mexican town -- where family and friends await.

"People follow the crowd," said Felipe Cruz, who came to Princeton from Mesones
Hidalgo, a town near Putla, a decade ago. "You don't want to go somewhere by
yourself. People come here directly from Mexico because they have people they
know here, and they have relatives. Half of my hometown now lives here."

Patricia Fernandez-Kelly, a Princeton University sociologist who studies
immigration, explained it this way: "Increasingly, both Mexicans and other Latin
Americans are choosing nontraditional places in order to escape the punitive
practices of the immigration authorities."

As for the Putlecans in Princeton, while they are not entirely reinventing the
American immigrant story, they are giving it a few twists of their own.

The story begins with a pair of bachelor brothers who came to the United States
in the late 1970's looking for a better life. They fell into work with a
Nicaraguan woman by the name of Ruth Alegria, who owned a Mexican restaurant in
New York City. When Ms. Alegria decided to open a second place in Princeton, she
persuaded the brothers, Christian and Gildardo Guzman, to come with her.

"Gildardo came to Princeton two or three times before he actually said yes," Ms.
Alegria said. "But Princeton is clean, it's a small town and it's quiet. It's
everything New York City isn't. The small-town feel was a comfortable one and
the Guzmans persuaded three more brothers to join them here.

"The hopes and dreams of everyone who comes here is to return home and live like
a millionaire," she went on. "But once you get used to the little things like
air-conditioning and running hot water and running cold water, it becomes much
more difficult to go back."

Soon wives, girlfriends, sons and nephews were on their way to Princeton.

Gildardo Guzman and his wife, Dora Vasquez, now live in Atlantic City, where
there is also a sizable Putlecan population. Much of their extended family still
lives here, however, and they have opened Mexican groceries and other small
businesses in Princeton's Witherspoon neighborhood.

"Normally you do not have a high number of people involved in business among
Mexicans," Professor Fernandez-Kelly said. "But in Princeton you have a very
small, but nonetheless very important, number of Putlecan-owned businesses."

At Felipe Cruz's restaurant, the Taste of Mexico, above a refrigerated case
filled with Jarritos a Mexican soft drink, and Diet Coke, an American flag hangs
alongside a Mexican one. Mr. Cruz first worked at one of the Olive Garden chain
of Italian restaurants before saving enough to open his own business.

Since then, he has helped others like himself, lending money and sharing his
expertise. For instance, a year ago he gave a gardener, then working for a
landscaping company, a boost to start his own business. That landscaper now has
42 clients and three men working for him.

Not that all is milk and honey -- or salsa and refried beans -- in the promised
land. Housing and work are continual worries, as is legal status.

The Putlecans in Princeton also continue to see themselves as Mexicans, sending
hard-earned money back home and making integration difficult, particularly in
the schools, where immigrant children are confronted with the wealth and
accelerated curriculum of Princeton's professional community.

In addition, the black residents of the Witherspoon neighborhood tend to see
them as a "large and sudden growth" in the middle of what used to be a
predominantly black area. Though instances of outright racial violence have been
few, the Princeton Township Police say, an unspoken sense of resentment remains.

"I'm sure there's some folks who have been rubbed the wrong way by the change,"
said George Cumberbatch, the 17-year owner of a soul food restaurant in the
Witherspoon neighborhood. "If it was a more gradual change, maybe people
wouldn't feel so uneasy about it."

Moreover, Mr. Cumberbatch complained that the area had become overcrowded,
claiming that when a black family moved out of a home, twice as many Hispanic
residents moved in.

Recognizing the situation, the Princeton Borough passed a housing ordinance last
May making it easier to identify and prosecute the owners of overcrowded
buildings.

Although the ordinance has not yet been enforced, one borough official said that
those at the Princeton office of the Mercer County Hispanic Association worry it
may make an already difficult situation even worse.

"A lot of people need to live together because rent here is so expensive," said
Madalys Rosario, who works for the association. "I think it will effect the
community a lot."

But the Hispanic association itself is in peril, having recently learned that
the Princeton office would have to close because of a lack of funds, with no
plans of reopening soon.

"It's a real shame because a lot of people come here," said Ms. Rosario. "They
know we're needed here, but we don't get any help from the township or the
borough."

What will survive is an informal network of cash loans, ad hoc housing
arrangements and job leads from relationships begun in an agricultural region
far removed from suburban New Jersey.

"Because everybody's related, they go to people they trust," Mrs. Cruz said.
"You try to help somebody out because you want to see people do well and to
work. Princeton is similar to home. But it's a lot cleaner here. We find our own
Putla here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Felipe Cruz, above, owns "Taste of Mexico," a restaurant in
Princeton, and Mariano Cruz, below, runs "La Mejicana," a grocery. (Photographs
by Jeff Zelevanksy for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Rust Must Go, But the Ghosts Linger;
Restoring Ellis Island's Forgotten Side

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

DATELINE: ELLIS ISLAND, N.J., Aug. 9


Inside a narrow room, with its grimy concrete floor, a rusted iron cot still
sits forlornly by a tall window that faces the Statue of Liberty. A corroded fan
hangs motionless above the bed.

There are ghosts in this room. A cool breeze may have blown over a sickly
immigrant here. Another man, misunderstood because of language and cultural
differences, may have waited here until some doctor declared him sane or healthy
enough to pass through the Golden Door.

The room is in a crumbling building on the grim southern side of Ellis Island, a
part that most tourists arriving by ferry barely notice as they walk through the
canopied entrance of the stately and restored Ellis Island Immigration Museum,
which is on the north side.

Most of the buildings on the 27-acre island have not been used since 1954, and
show the effects of time and weather. The spirits of thousands of immigrants,
many of whom spent time here healing or being evaluated, still seem to inhabit
the abandoned buildings.

But work crews are beginning to push back the cobwebs and rescue the buildings
from decay.

"It's been called the forgotten side of Ellis Island, but it's forgotten no
more," said Cynthia Garrett, the superintendent of the island, which is run by
the National Park Service.

Federal and state officials, as well as preservation experts, are ironing out
details of a $300 million plan approved last year by Gov. Christie Whitman to
rebuild the complex, which the Supreme Court ruled in 1998 was mostly New
Jersey's territory.

Some workers are replacing steel-framed windows that have rusted out. Others are
working on a tile roof for the Ferry Building. Stairways that had collapsed are
being righted. Debris and asbestos have been carted away.

But the construction crews that have started work to stabilize and reclaim the
buildings have, like anthropologists, also uncovered evidence of a lost land of
illness and rejection.

"It is haunting," Ms. Garrett said recently. "It tells us that our history isn't
all positive stories and success."

To many of its nearly two million visitors a year, the Ellis Island museum,
which opened in 1990, represents the triumph of people who traveled long
distances to make their fortunes in America.

Between 1892 and 1954, more than 12 million immigrants landed here. They came
with hope and with dreams, and most alighted here only briefly before departing
to begin their new lives in various parts of the country.

But the 30 abandoned buildings that remain covered in weeds tell a different
story. This is where time stood still for those immigrants declared too ill,
insane or infirm to be allowed into the United States. And this is where 250,000
immigrants were told that they had come all that way for nothing; they would
have to go back.

Photographs on display at the museum document how some immigrants came to be
held here.

One photo shows doctors using button hooks to turn people's eyelids inside out
so they could check for trachoma, a contagious eye disease.  Another exhibit
explains that 9 of every 100 immigrants going past examiners were marked with a
chalky X on their lapels and sent to mental examination rooms for further
evaluation.

Around the detained immigrants a great city grew up, devoted to life and death.
As the total number of immigrants seeking entry into this country mounted year
by year, Ellis Island itself literally grew. Landfill was used to enlarge the
island several times; by 1911 more than 15 buildings were devoted to medical
care, with 40 doctors assigned here. They provided specialized care for pregnant
women, the insane and those with infectious diseases.

In half a century, 355 babies were born here, and 3,500 immigrants died,
including three suicides. The hospital wards had more than 700 beds, including
quarantine areas. There was a giant laundry room, with washing machines large
enough to hold 10 people inside, and a baggage and dormitory building that
briefly held the worldly belongings of newcomers while officials decided whether
they were in or out.

It is these buildings that are now being reclaimed.

"One reason they should be saved is that they complete the story of how the
Ellis Island immigration center operated," said Diana Pardue, chief of the
museum's services division.

The park service began a three-phase effort to stabilize the buildings and
prevent further decay in 1999. The effort was joined by Congress and New Jersey,
which together committed the $8.6 million to complete the work by 2002. But
stabilization is only a first step.

In 1999 the park service was awarded a $1.15 million grant from the national
Save America's Treasures program, which was matched with state funds from New
Jersey, to restore the exterior of the Ferry Building. Its soaring Art Deco
tower guarded by four cast-iron lead eagles is one of the first things visitors
see when ferries land.

The Save America's Treasures group also awarded a $500,000 grant to help restore
the hospital laundry and has offered to help raise $855,000 to do the same for
the interior of the Ferry Building. When a final reuse plan is announced,
efforts to raise private restoration funds will begin in earnest, said Judith
McAlpin, president of Save Ellis Island Inc., a nonprofit corporation.

Almost everyone involved in the reclamation effort agrees on what the buildings
should not become.

"Ellis Island already has a world- class museum," said Ms. McAlpin. "Turning the
rest into a museum doesn't make a whole lot of sense."

The reclaimed buildings will probably be used as a conference center for groups
devoted to the study of immigration or public health, said Clement A. Price, a
professor of history at Rutgers University, who was named by Mrs. Whitman last
year to serve on an advisory committee to help decide on the reuse plan.

Dr. Price said that when Mrs.  Whitman appointed him to the committee, he was
somewhat taken aback. As an African-American, he said, he did not feel that
Ellis Island could speak to his ancestors' entry into the United States as
slaves. But now, he said, he has become convinced that the setting is a good way
to tell the broader story of immigration. "Ellis Island is a very powerful place
emotionally," he said. "It could serve as a touchstone for all Americans to
consider or perhaps reconsider the appropriate way that immigrants should be
treated, documented and brought into the country."

In a private tour of the buildings that are being reclaimed, Ms. McAlpin takes
visitors through the Ferry Building, administrative offices and the measles,
maternity and psychiatric wards.

Although wildlife, vegetation and the elements have taken their toll on the
buildings, there is still beauty in the Beaux-Arts structures. In an old
operating room, with its white-tiled walls and porcelain scrub sinks, a robin's
tiny blue egg sits in the middle of the floor. Another room on the second floor
had a tree growing out of it.

In the psychiatric ward, there is that one room where the iron cot still rests.
Its patients had a view of New York Harbor to the south.

And the hospital wards, built around once-pastoral parklands, offered the sick
immigrants a little healthful refuge.

"This place gave them somewhere to heal," Ms. Garrett said. "When you turn the
corner into the interior area, it's quiet. You're in this major metropolitan
area, and it's peaceful. You can hear the birds. It's like you've gone into a
completely different place. Although they were on hold, that might have been
soothing to them and helped them, hopefully, as they waited to start their new
lives."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The buildings on Ellis Island's southern side once included a
ward for immigrants with measles, left. Tourists would be unlikely to notice
this rather grim part of the island. Below, Judith McAlpin, president of Save
Ellis Island Inc., leaving the old hospital building. (Photographs by Keith
Meyers/The New York Times); Officials examined new arrivals to the United States
for ailments. (Associated Press, early 1900's)(pg. B1); Time and weather have
taken their toll on an abandoned room in the old psychiatric hospital at Ellis
Island. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Ex-Producer Charged

BYLINE:  By Katherine E. Finkelstein (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 94 words


Adela Holzer, who gained notoriety first as a bona fide Broadway producer and
then as a con artist, was charged yesterday with 39 more counts of grand larceny
and scheming to defraud for trying to defraud immigrants, Manhattan prosecutors
said.

As part of the scheme, Ms. Holzer convinced Spanish-speaking immigrants that if
they paid her $2,000 to $2,700, she could get prominent political friends in
Washington to pass private immigration-relief bills that would give immigrants
permanent resident status, the authorities said.   Katherine E. Finkelstein
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 11, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
U.S. to Honor Officers In Seizing of Cuban Boy

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 10


The Immigration and Naturalization Service officers who seized Elian Gonzalez at
his Miami relatives' home last spring will be honored by the federal government,
Attorney General Janet Reno said today, because they conducted a difficult raid
"without anybody getting hurt."

Doris M. Meissner, the commissioner of immigration, will present the awards next
Monday or Tuesday at a private ceremony at the agency's training center in
Glynco, Ga.

On April 22, 131 immigration agents participated in the raid. Eight heavily
armed Border Patrol agents entered the house where Elian, 6, was living with
relatives who were fighting orders to return him to his father in Cuba.
Protesters reacted angrily to the government action.

Elian returned to Cuba with his family on June 28.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 17, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Immigrants Say Clinics Fill a Need for Inexpensive Care

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 630 words


The way Wayne Chang saw it, it was one thing to go to a Chinese medicine clinic
for acupuncture or herbal treatments, quite another for a medical procedure.

"I would go to a straight-up American doctor for Western medicine," Mr. Chang, a
Flushing resident, said as he stared down the block at the New York Beijing
Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, a clinic that investigators shut down
on Tuesday after charging its staff with practicing unlicensed medicine. "But a
lot of people around here don't care. It's cheap."

Clinics that specialize in traditional medicine fill a niche in communities of
Chinese immigrants. Illegal immigrants, people who cannot speak English and
those who cannot afford insurance or uninsured hospital care often turn to them
for medical attention. Few people care if the clinics are licensed. Dozens
thrive in the neighborhood.

There is a strip of the clinics on the second floors of buildings along 41st
Avenue near Main Street, said Cheng Wang, a Flushing truck driver who seeks
massage therapy for back pains. And on that block, at least three shops sell
pungent herbal medicine from sidewalk stands. Sometimes the clinics are run from
the back rooms of apartments.

"The one thing that concerned me when this was brought to me," said Richard A.
Brown, the Queens district attorney, "was if I moved forward on this, will I be
keeping people from medical attention that they otherwise might not be able to
get?"

The investigation began in May after Mr. Brown's office learned of a lawsuit
filed by a patient, Chunxi Qiao, who contended that the clinic had botched the
removal of an intrauterine device. The authorities have charged six unlicensed
practitioners at the clinic, including its owner, Shou Dong Wang.

Hugh H. Mo, a lawyer for the defendants named in the civil lawsuit, said his
clients were disputing that they gave improper treatment.

Many Flushing residents do not see a problem with most of the traditional
medicine clinics. Mr. Wang, the truck driver, said he had gone to three
different clinics for back pain until he found one on Roosevelt Avenue that
could relieve his suffering with a $35 massage.

But the problems come when the clinics practice Western medicine, which they
sometimes do for relatively low prices, several Flushing residents said.
"They're not doctors," said Sprinz Chou, the manager of a hair salon next to the
shuttered clinic. "I think people are crazy to go there."

Ms. Chou, who moved to the United States 30 years ago, said that she had a
customer who complained two months ago about treatment she had received at the
clinic.

"I said, 'If it's not so good, why did you go?' " she said. "She said she wanted
to check it out after a friend recommended it."

Ms. Qiao, the woman who sued the clinic, said in an affidavit that she first
went there last November for neck pains. But, according to her affidavit,
clinicians botched the aftermath of a subsequent IUD removal.

That took place on Nov. 13, lasting 10 to 15 minutes. Afterward, Ms. Qiao said,
the clinic gave her herbal medicine for her recovery.

That afternoon, Ms. Qiao said, she took the medicine. For two days, she
experienced stomach pains and other symptoms.

On Nov. 15, a frightened Ms. Qiao went to the clinic, where she discovered that
a doctor had mistakenly switched her medicine with that of another patient, she
said. She was given another medicine, but her symptoms continued, she said. The
next morning, she went to Flushing Hospital, where doctors put her on
intravenous medication. She filed a lawsuit with the State Supreme Court for
medical negligence in January.

"No one should have to go through such pain like I went through," she said in
her affidavit. "No one should have to feel as I do now."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 20, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For Many Immigrants, a Health Care System Underground

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1883 words


When investigators last week shuttered a large, unlicensed medical clinic in
Flushing that they said offered Chinese and Western remedies, they provided a
glance behind a curtain that shrouds an expansive underground health care system
serving hundreds of thousands of the city's immigrants.

While the clinic, the New York Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
may have been more brazen than other centers -- it advertised in a local Chinese
paper and ran a Web site promising care for a variety of ills -- it is only one
of perhaps thousands of clinics, herbalists, spiritual centers and makeshift
medical offices where many of the city's immigrants go for medical care.

Stymied by a lack of health insurance, fearful of the medical centers' potential
connections to immigration authorities and longing for familiar remedies
dispensed by someone who speaks their language, many of the city's immigrants
have been driven to create their own complex methods of getting health care.

The landscape of their alternative medical sources is as vast and textured as
the city's immigrant population, comprising herbal healers used by many people
from the Caribbean and South and Central America, voodoo priests frequented by
some Haitians, pharmacists who double as internists and doctors, from regions
ranging from Russia to India to Poland, who lack an American license but set up
shop offering some form of care to those who seek them.

"There is a whole unregulated sector of medicine at work in New York," said Dr.
Francesca M. Gany, the executive director of the New York Task Force on
Immigrant Health.

About 65 percent of the hundreds of immigrants in Queens who responded to a
survey said they used an alternative source of care in addition to or instead of
the city's larger health care system, Dr. Gany said. She added that she believed
the same held true for the city's broader immigrant population.

And the treatments doled out by these centers vary: herbal remedies used to
treat stomach aches and cradle cap; exorcisms for patients with chronic stomach
pain; amulets attached to babies to ward off evil spirits and antibiotics that
are dubiously obtained and unwisely administered.

Most often, patients who are new immigrants mingle in two medical worlds, the
city's vast array of hospitals and clinics, and a second sphere, where folk
remedies are obtained. A few avoid the American medical system entirely,
believing they cannot afford it or fearing the doctors, and rely totally on
other healers. Others get no health care at all, relying on home remedies until
they become terribly ill and end up in a hospital emergency room.

Maria Sambrano, an immigrant from Honduras, said she inhabited both worlds,
depending on her needs. "I think some plants work better than medicine," said
Ms. Sambrano, who was waiting to meet with a spiritualist at Botanica Santa
Barbara in Washington Heights last week.

While many doctors say some folk treatments like herbs are harmless or even
beneficial, health care experts are concerned that vast swaths of immigrant
groups lack access to conventional health care, and that more centers like the
one in Queens may be offering wholly unregulated medicine that they are
ill-equipped to provide.

And patients may end up paying more for some care than they could be getting at
city clinics that charge on a sliding scale based on income.

"In the minds of our patients, alternative medicine is the standard of care and
what we do is alternative medicine," said Dr. Guillermo Santos, the medical
director of Betances Health Unit, a community health center on the Lower East
Side.

"This poses two problems," Dr. Santos said. "People may have serious illnesses
they may be trying to cure at home. Or they don't tell providers what they are
using out of fear." The center's doctors try to stay current on the herbs that
patients tend to use, and have worked with neighborhood shamans, showing them
how to spot the basic symptoms of diseases like tuberculosis.

Some alternative centers clearly operate outside the law. Law enforcement
officials said the New York Beijing Hospital gave thousands of patients, mostly
Chinese, treatments they were not authorized to offer. And pharmacies that hand
out drugs without a prescription are illegal.

Certain practices are as dangerous as they are unlawful. Investigators for the
Queens district attorney were tipped off to the center in Flushing when a
patient sued, charging that she became infected after workers there removed an
intrauterine device, according to court filings. Investigators say they were
looking into a similar clinic in the neighborhood.

Dr. Jackson Kuan, the assistant director of gastroenterology at Flushing
Hospital, said he occasionally saw patients who had misused herbs on the advice
of alternative healers. He said he recently saw a Korean patient who had been
given an herbal concoction that led to fatal liver failure.

And health care workers have been alarmed in recent years by the increased use
of mercury among Caribbean residents, especially in the Crown Heights section of
Brooklyn.

Illegal centers usually operate far below the radar screen of law enforcement,
advertising mostly by word of mouth or through subtle marketing in the language
of their intended customers, an increasingly diverse group.

"It is hard just to become aware of the various services that are being
provided," said Wayne M. Osten, director of the State Department of Health's
Office of Health System Management. Mr. Osten said the department closes 20 to
25 unlicensed medical centers a year. "We are looking to hire staff with those
skills to better police it, because as you get more and more communities it does
become a tougher problem to monitor."

Yet many healers operate legally, if on the fringes. For instance, according to
Dr. Gany and other experts, some of the centers serve as entrees to the larger
medical world, where new immigrants are directed to clinics and hospitals and
assured that immigration officials will not be notified if the immigrants are
patients.

Further, understanding how immigrants use alternative centers helps doctors
better treat patients who do not share their language and culture. "I don't
think these places are necessarily an impediment to care," said Dr. Mary McCord,
a pediatrician in Washington Heights who had an intern conduct a study of her
patients' herbal use.

"If we can get people to tell us what they are doing, we can negotiate, because
people do make choices," Dr. McCord added. "They might say, 'I have asthma but I
have heard bad things about those medicines so let me try honey and onions.' So
maybe we can get them to use honey and onions and something else. One skill in
being a doctor is to accept where people are coming from and to be willing to
negotiate according to their beliefs."

The folk healers range greatly from group to group, neighborhood to
neighborhood, with much overlap. Hispanics, Russians and people in the Caribbean
alike use herbal medicine, although often in different preparations. Russians,
according to health care workers, lean more toward vitamins. Shamans have
different functions, sometimes performing voodoo ceremonies for Caribbean
clients, or doing what they say is healing work with their hands.

The Chinese gravitate toward herbal treatments and acupuncture, as do some
Koreans. Southeast Asians often practice yoga and use medicines from their
countries.

Each nation offers its own folk remedies, herbs and medical concoctions -- rose
water for nerves; shark oil for various flu symptoms; cordial de monell, a
sedative mixed with oil, for teething; and anise for nausea, to name just a few.
These treatments are most often purchased at botanicas, stores that specialize
in herbal medicines, oils and religious wares. At Botanica Santa Barbara, one
can find fresh rosemary, dozens of ointments, creams and oils to keep away evil
spirits, ignite romance or invite prosperity.

Lisa Garcia, a card reader, helps customers with personal problems and says she
removes pain with her hands.

"Sometimes people go to the doctor and when it doesn't work, come here," said
Antonio Mora, the store's owner.

But while many immigrants prefer many folk or home remedies to conventional
medicine, far too many are shut out of the health care system because they lack
insurance or are unaware of what is available to them cheaply, experts said.
About 40 percent of legal immigrants are uninsured, said David Sandman, a
program officer at the Commonwealth Fund, a private philanthropic organization
in New York. Among illegal immigrants, the number is far higher, he said.

Federal welfare reforms contributed to the number of uninsured by making even
legal immigrants who arrived after August 1996 ineligible for Medicaid for five
years. But New York also has several systems in place to insure many immigrants,
even those lacking documentation. There is a Medicaid program available to all
immigrants for emergencies, a state-financed program for pregnant women
regardless of their status and a state insurance program for children of illegal
immigrants.

However, many immigrants have no idea about these services, and are cut off from
any pipeline to them. Others are fearful that if they use them, health care
workers will tip off immigration officials. And some groups shun public
assistance as a shameful handout they would rather live without.

And then there is the intense distrust many immigrants feel toward the medical
establishment. Dr. McCord said that many of her Dominican patients had negative
notions about asthma medicine. Dr. Santos said many Jamaican patients shunned
hypertension medicine, preferring herbs. And some Asians are afraid to have
blood drawn because they think it will only weaken them, said Dinah Surh, the
administrator of Sunset Park Family Health Center in Brooklyn.

Her center, with its diverse staff, has gone to great pains to attract many
immigrant groups. It set up a mosque for Muslim patients to pray in. It offers
acupuncture -- now used by patients around the world -- as one way of attracting
Chinese patients.

The center went for other touches, Ms. Surh said. "We wanted to have a fish
tank. Some Chinese groups said we need gold-colored fish for good luck so we
added those. But the tank is right below a skylight, and they told us the good
luck would go out of the skylight. So we put a shade there."

Many doctors said that thousands of years of herbal medicine are nothing to
sneeze at, and pointed to a highly increased interest among American patients in
Eastern techniques like yoga and acupuncture. Indeed many large hospitals have
adopted these types of practices in recent years.

And conventional doctors have a few tips to learn from folk and traditional
healers, some experts concurred, like advertising in various languages and
getting the word out through community groups. But still, many, many immigrants
will always rely on a mix of services.

"I use conventional medicine," said Ray Gongora, who immigrated from Cuba in the
1960's and often turns to herbs. "But emotionally I don't get what I need. They
give you a blood test and send you on your way, but if you're not prepared
mentally, you get depressed."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Bobe, who says he has the ability to heal both physical
and spiritual ills, shopped for herbs in Washington Heights last week at a
botanica that stocks many alternative medicines, left. (Photographs by Ruth
Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 38)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Ends Bid to Deport Bronx Student

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 797 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday abruptly backed off an
effort to deport a 16-year-old Bronx high school student to Trinidad after an
apparent mix-up involving his family's residency papers.

The student, Ricky Ramoutar, who moved to the United States at age 3 with his
family, received a terse I.N.S. notice at his Bronx home in April ordering him
to appear before an immigration judge. If he failed to show up, the notice
warned, he could be arrested and jailed.

The teenager had come to the agency's attention after playing on an American
junior chess team at the World Youth Games in Moscow in 1998. The trip required
permission from the I.N.S.

When he received the notice, Ricky Ramoutar said in an interview, "I was
crushed."

At that time, his family's application with the I.N.S. for permanent residency
was pending, but the paperwork had been stalled for more than two years. Before
Ricky received the notice, family members had assumed that the application was
proceeding, albeit slowly.

"When I went in for the appointment, they told me they would write me," said
Ricky's father, Barminth Ramoutar. "They never told me there was any problem."

Robert Murtha, the boy's lawyer, said in an interview that after the Ramoutar
family came to the United States, the parents split up. Mr. Ramoutar, a welder,
married an American citizen. In 1997, based on that marriage, Mr. Ramoutar
applied for permanent residency status, seeking what is known as a green card
for himself and his two sons.

When Ricky traveled to Moscow with the chess team from Middle School 118 in the
Bronx, he received written permission from immigration officers. But that also
brought the young man under scrutiny. In April, they sent the "notice of
removal" to his apartment. Oddly enough, it applied only to Ricky, not his
father or brother.

"What they said was, 'Show us a reason he should not be kicked out, "' said Mr.
Murtha, an immigration lawyer. "The reason he got stuck in court was the trip to
Russia."

The Ramoutars appeared for two interviews with I.N.S. officials, and after that
heard nothing about their application. Green-card reviews typically take about
15 months to process, Mr. Murtha said. He said the Ramoutars' application
appeared to have fallen through the cracks.

"I.N.S. is understaffed and overworked, and things do go wrong," the lawyer
said. "They are doing their best."

After he received the immigration notice, Ricky called Marley Kaplan, the
executive director of Chess-in-the-Schools, a New York City program that
captured his interest. Ms. Kaplan said she was shocked that immigration
officials had wanted to deport him.

"This is a terrible thing that is happening to a great kid," she said. "He goes
off to represent the United States as a champion, and this is what happens to
him."

The young man had been on the Middle School 118 team that won the national
championship in Arizona two years ago, and he still has the trophy. The victory
was a great source of pride for the school and the neighborhood, Ms. Kaplan
said, and the team's subsequent appearance at the tournament in Moscow was "a
real triumph." She has also sponsored Ricky at the Roman Catholic high school he
attends now.

After hearing about Ricky's plight, Ms. Kaplan swung into action, calling
Senator Charles E. Schumer's office and the news media. When the Ramoutars
appeared in immigration court in Manhattan yesterday morning, the tiny courtroom
was crowded with reporters and family friends.

Mr. Murtha conferred with the I.N.S. lawyer, and the judge adjourned the case
until immigration officials could check on the status of the Ramoutars'
green-card application. By late afternoon, the agency had changed its position.

"We have been looking into the specifics of the case," Mark Thorne, a spokesman
for the immigration service, said in an interview. "We have asked the
immigration court to terminate these proceedings."

Mr. Murtha said the case was not over because the Ramoutars' application for
permanent residency was rejected. He said that according to records that he
reviewed with the agency's lawyer yesterday, the application was denied on Aug.
16 because the Ramoutars did not appear for another meeting with immigration
officials.

But Mr. Murtha, who did not represent the Ramoutars on the application matter,
said Mr. Ramoutar never received notice of a meeting or of the denial of the
green card. He said he hoped that the I.N.S. would cancel the denial and reopen
the review.

"Somebody has got to get on this case and make a motion to get the thing
rescheduled," he said. "They have got to get this case back on track."

Mr. Thorne said he could not comment on whether the immigration service would
reconsider the application.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A trip to Moscow brought Ricky Ramoutar to officials' attention.
(Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

For Immigrants, An Insurance Void

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 187 words



To the Editor:

You reported (news article, Aug. 17) that New York City shut an unlicensed
medical clinic serving Chinese immigrants, most of whom lacked health insurance.
And an Aug. 19 news article described the survivors of the West Nile virus,
including a Polish immigrant in Westchester County who is eligible only for
emergency Medicaid, which covered her hospitalization but not rehabilitation
services.

These are the faces behind the changes in federal law that effectively deny
Medicaid and State Child Health Insurance to most immigrants who entered the
country after August 1996. Last year, 46 percent of immigrants in New York City
did not have health insurance.

New York has extended its Child Health Insurance Program to immigrant children,
legal and undocumented, and has considered making Medicaid or its new Family
Health Plus Program available to low-income adult immigrants. The growing
numbers of immigrants without health insurance will require New York to step
into the void created by the federal government.

DEBORAH BACHRACH
New York, Aug. 21, 2000

The writer is a lawyer.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigration Mailing Roils Rockland Community

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Aug. 24


A mailing from an anti-immigration group has angered residents in Sparkill,
N.Y., a mostly white town in Rockland County that has begun to experience an
influx of newcomers from other countries, especially Hispanics.

The official-looking letters were sent by a group called American Immigration
Control, which is based in Washington. A copy found its way this week to the
mailbox of the Dominican Sisters of Sparkill, on Route 340, a convent that
provides services to a growing local Hispanic population.

The letter requested donations for anti-immigration lobbying and warned of tax
dollars being spent on bilingual education programs for immigrants and "the
printing of voting ballots in foreign languages."

Thom Kleiner, the supervisor of the town of Orangetown, which includes Sparkill,
called the mailing "inappropriate propaganda that doesn't reflect the view of
our residents." He said the copy sent to the convent was the only one that had
come to his attention.

The mailing included an "Immigration Impact Survey," which asked questions like,
"Have you noticed an increase in foreign languages in your community?"

And it warned, "There are substantially increasing levels of immigration
projected for your area," adding, "Are you concerned about what the statistical
increase in crime associated with the growing immigration rates may mean to the
Sparkill area?"

One of the sisters gave the mailing to Gail K. Golden, a chairwoman of
Rockland's Immigration Consortium, a coalition of community groups that offers
help to new immigrants for school, health care and other services.

According to the 1990 census, Sparkill is 88 percent white and 8 percent Asian.
The town recorded only 36 immigrants, mostly Southeast Asians, between 1990 and
1996, but Ms. Golden said more immigrants, mostly Hispanic, had been settling
there and in surrounding towns.

When she saw the mailing, "I felt frightened," Ms. Golden said. "The letter was
inflammatory and racist and tapped into the kinds of feelings and responses not
good for community, but rather divisive and destructive."

But a spokesman for American Immigration Control, John C. Vinson, brushed aside
those concerns today. Mr. Vinson confirmed that the group had sent copies of the
letter to the area, but said he could not say how many were sent.

"We rent mailing lists from patriotic organizations," he said.

The group was founded in 1983 to lobby to make immigration laws stricter, Mr.
Vinson said, including "cutting immigration back to reasonable levels" of
roughly 250,000 a year, instead of the current annual quota of about one
million.

The group has been sending letters nationwide for years, he said. Mr. Vinson
called accusations of racism a "programmed response from an alliance of extreme
liberals who want cheap votes and extreme conservatives who want cheap labor."

He added: "Their agenda hurts this country and hurts many immigrants as well,
because wages are driven down. I have a friend who is a Puerto Rican and lives
in New York City, and he says he loses jobs all the time to immigrants."

But Karen LaFiandra, a Sparkill housewife who teaches English to the area's
growing Hispanic population at Christ Episcopal Church, said of the letter:
"It's outrageous. We don't want hatemongers from outside trying to stir up fear
in our community.

"Yes, we have a lot of Spanish immigrants coming to Sparkill lately, but I don't
think it's a problem," she said. "My husband's parents come from Italy, and I
come from the Bronx, where there's a lot of diversity."

There has been an increase in Hispanic immigrants to southern parts of Rockland
County in recent years. The village of Haverstraw's population, for example, is
roughly half Hispanic, according to the county's Department of Planning.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map or New York highlighting Sparkell: More Hispanic immigrants are
moving to Sparkill, residents say.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 26, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

English-Only Notification Blamed for Low Summer School Turnout

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 416 words


An advocacy group said yesterday that low attendance in summer school in New
York City had been caused in part by the failure of the school system to
communicate with immigrant parents in their native languages in a timely manner.

The group, Advocates for Children, said its findings were based on an
unscientific survey of 1,100 immigrant and refugee parents and students from
schools across the city.

More than half the school-age children in New York City come from immigrant
households. Only 18 percent of the students and parents surveyed said that
English is their native language, and 85 percent said that their summer school
notification letter was written in English, the group's report showed.

The survey was given to 650 students enrolled in 173 summer schools and 457
parents with children in 104 schools.

"What was most disappointing about our survey results was finding that some of
the simplest things to improve attendance were not done, like telling parents in
a language they could understand that their child needed to attend summer
school," said Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration
Coalition, an umbrella organization for 200 groups that worked with Advocates
for Children to conduct the survey. She said that the failure to communicate in
some cases led to the low attendance rate.

Summer school attendance was a top priority for school officials, but 12.1
percent of the 62,537 students who were required to attend classes did not
enroll.

The study released yesterday also found that less than 25 percent of parents
said they were notified that their child would probably have to attend summer
school by the Jan. 31 deadline -- the date by which the Board of Education said
that 86 percent of parents had received letters.

Less than half of the students surveyed said that they had received remedial
help to avoid summer school, the study showed. All failing or borderline
students are supposed to receive remedial help before being required to attend
summer school.

Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy, who was nearing the end of a vacation, said
yesterday that he had not yet read the report. But he lambasted Jill Chaifetz,
executive director of Advocates for Children, for not sharing the results
sooner.

"To make criticisms after the fact, when there is no opportunity to address the
problem, is irresponsible," Mr. Levy said. "I welcome the advocacy community.
But public education should not be used for target practice."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 26, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

German Official Pessimistic About Far-Right Violence

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Aug. 25


Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer is pessimistic about the eradication of
rightist extremism in the east of Germany. It will take a "generation and a
half," he said, to overcome the wounds of an area that reminds him of his youth
"in the twilight zone" between democracy and authoritarian tradition.

In an interview, Mr. Fischer said the anti-immigrant violence that has become
the chief focus of German political debate in the last month is not confined to
eastern Germany.

But the fact that the postwar decades saw "no development of civil society" in
the east when it was under Communist rule left that area more vulnerable to
neo-Nazism, he said.

"I remember growing up in the 1950's and we were in this twilight zone between
democracy and the Nazi heritage," said the foreign minister, who is from western
Germany. "And now I go to to the east and I feel I am back in my youth. Not only
the landscapes, but also the minds. And so there is a potential for neo-Nazi
ideas among a small minority, but a very violent one."

A bomb in the western city of Dusseldorf that wounded nine immigrants, six of
them Jews, and a spate of anti-immigrant slurs or attacks in the east led Mr.
Fischer to a much-noticed statement this month in which he deplored German
"passivity" in the face of xenophobia. "We need a reaction," he reiterated in
the interview.

Asked if he saw a danger of rightist terrorist groups emerging, a sort of "Brown
Army Faction" that would parallel the Red Army Faction of the 1970's, Mr.
Fischer said such a possibility was being watched "very carefully."

The foreign minister, a leader of the Green Party and a man who has made a long
personal journey from anti-American protester in the 1970's to staunch defender
of Atlanticism today, said he was divided about the idea of banning the rightist
National Democratic Party, which has been identified with violent extremists.

"I am split," the minister said. "I am a radical supporter of free speech. But
freedom of speech is one thing in America, and another here in Germany."

He explained that in the light of Germany's Nazi past, neo-Nazi movements could
not be viewed as they might be in another Western country. Extra severity is
needed, he said, as demonstrated by the fact that the selling of Hitler's "Mein
Kampf" is illegal here but not in the United States.

Pressed about whether banning the National Democratic Party was appropriate, Mr.
Fischer said there was evidence that the youth organization of the party
provided "the organizational cells for many of these violent acts."

He continued, "Yes, I am split, but if the facts are sufficient, then the ban
must be done."

Although the government can recommend a ban, any decision would ultimately be
made by the Constitutional Court. Many analysts say barring the party would
merely force its supporters into other rightist groups.

Claus Leggewie, a political scientist close to the Greens, said: "A ban is not
good policy. It is ridiculous and would be counterproductive. What is needed are
vigils, demonstrations, by hundreds of thousands of people, like those we had
when the first anti-immigrant attacks occurred in the early 1990's."

But since then, Germany seems to have grown used to the occasional racist
violence that unification has brought. Overcoming the problem will take time,
Mr. Fischer said. "How long did it take to close the wounds of the Civil War in
America?" he asked. "Here we certainly need one and a half generations."

The minister said he was appalled that some of the people calling themselves
German nationalists could identify with the Nazi movement. "Every German patriot
must hate Hitler," he said. "He destroyed our country, destroyed our culture.
Here in Berlin you feel it. He destroyed the Jewish culture that had been very
important for our identity and history. He destroyed the German minorities in
Eastern Europe."

Mr. Fischer's own family was among those German minorities -- the millions of
ethnic Germans in Eastern Europe driven from their homes after World War II. His
family fled in 1946 from near Budapest, where they had lived for two centuries.

Ultimately, Mr. Fischer suggested, Europe's wounds would be healed by the
unification of the continent. Comparing Europe's integration with that of the
United States, he said, "We are passing the phase of the Confederation and
entering the period of the constitutional process and federalism."

He added: "Either Europe will have a weak central body and a confederation of
independent states, and that will not work. Or we will move ahead to a real
European constitution and a new European central body."

Asked what would be governed by the individual nations of the European Union and
what by the central body -- in effect, a European government -- Mr. Fischer
declined to give details, but said, "Very important parts of sovereign decisions
should be transferred to the central body."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 27, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Coverage

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 127 words



To the Editor:

An Aug. 24 letter decries the lack of health insurance for immigrants and points
to "the faces behind the changes in federal law that effectively deny Medicaid
and State Child Health Insurance to most immigrants who entered the country
after August 1996."

What is not stated is the reasoning behind that law. Each legal immigrant has a
sponsor who has pledged to provide support for each immigrant for five years so
as to not become a public charge. As the letter says, even with that, Medicaid
still provides support for emergency situations.

Immigration is a privilege, not a right. Sponsors should be held to their
pledges. Immigrants should not be a drain on taxpayers.

ROBERT F. LA PORTA
Dix Hills, N.Y., Aug. 24, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 28, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Short of People, Iowa Seeks To Be Ellis Island of Midwest

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1705 words

DATELINE: MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa


No one would call Iowa a melting pot. Nearly 96 percent white, this state,
striated with farm fields and trim small towns, may have more kinds of hogs and
corn than nationalities of people.

And the immigrants Iowa does have, about 2 percent of the population, have
become enough of a hot-button subject that twice in the last three years the
state legislature was embroiled in debates over proposals, not passed, that
English be made Iowa's official language. Some Iowans contend that immigrants
cause crime and burden schools, health care and welfare programs.

So it is all the more surprising that Iowa is proposing something no other state
has done: an all-out immigrant recruitment drive.

The proposal is to make Iowa what a governor's commission calls an "immigration
enterprise zone," and the possible approaches include seeking an exemption from
federal immigration quotas -- an unprecedented request that could require
Congressional action. Other ideas involve working with the State Department or
refugee organizations to make Iowa a priority destination for refugees, helping
companies recruit employees abroad, even having the governor make sales pitches
to prospective emigres. The state also wants more federal immigration agents in
Iowa's district, to process newcomers faster.

The idea is to ease Iowa's population deficit, bringing in enough people to
create a work force for a vibrant economy. Iowa, which hemorrhaged families
during the 1980's farm crisis and still loses young people after high school,
has fewer residents than it did 20 years ago. And with an unemployment rate of 2
percent, there are not enough workers to allow many new businesses to open, or
existing ones to expand or even replace retirees.

The problem is shared across the Midwest, where states like Nebraska offer
financial incentives to keep bright students from leaving. But Iowa's proposal
is extraordinary because the state is convinced it must look outside this
country's borders.

"The point is we need more people," said Iowa's governor, Tom Vilsack. "Part of
that can be done by trying to keep young people here. Part of it can be done by
trying to bring Iowans back to the state. But an aspect of it has to be a
program or plan or some kind of method by which we become a welcoming state for
people from different cultures."

Mr. Vilsack knows that some Iowans, and immigrants, might have trouble
adjusting.

"I'm not naive enough to think that this is going to be sort of a Pollyanna type
of deal," he said. "It's going to be a struggle."

In Marshalltown, for example, a community of 30,000, the influx of several
thousand Mexican immigrants to work at a meatpacking plant has not been
universally embraced. This month, a petition was submitted to the county board
of supervisors calling for county business to be printed in English only.

"It's great for liberals to say we're all immigrants," said Biff Dysart, who
edits Marshalltimes Magazine. "But if you look back at all of our families when
they came here, they all did their level best to assimilate. The current crop of
immigrants not only does not want to assimilate. They drive around town with
Mexican flags flying from their antennas, and they refuse to even learn the
language, many of them do."

Immigrants and those who welcome them say the state faces a tough job.

"They're going to need to work to deal with the stereotypes," said Sandra
Charvat Burke, a demographer at Iowa State University who lives in Marshalltown
and heads a town diversity committee. Ms. Burke said the state should be
prepared to hire paraprofessionals in the schools to work with immigrant
students so native Iowans do not feel their children are shortchanged.

Nora Cano, a Mexican immigrant who runs the Taqueria El Cacheton restaurant,
said there should be more interpreters at health clinics and other services and
more English classes for adults. Ms. Cano, 31, said that while some people in
Marshalltown were friendly, she had also had anti-immigrant epithets yelled at
her and was denied service by a cashier.

The idea of making Iowa an Ellis Island of sorts came from a bipartisan
committee appointed by Mr. Vilsack, Iowa's first Democratic governor in 30
years, to devise a plan to help the state thrive by 2010. The committee of 37
prominent Iowans set goals like making Iowa technologically competitive and
developing nonagricultural industries.

With each goal, the committee kept realizing, "Gee, we can't do this if we don't
have any people," said Jerry Kelley, the mayor of Indianola, who headed the 2010
Committee's population group. "Don't you know we have a disaster?"

Iowa ranks third in the nation in percentage of elderly. The average farmer is
58 years old; the average assembly-line worker at the Maytag Corporation is 57.

"If Iowa retains every single one of its graduating high school students between
now and 2005, we'll have a decrease of 3 percent of the available work force,"
Mr. Kelley said, adding that North Dakota would be the only other state with a
net loss.

The committee recommended that Iowa, which has an estimated 2.87 million people,
add 310,000 working people by 2010. That includes building on recent efforts to
urge young people to stay and lure far-flung Iowans home. (Last year Mr. Vilsack
hit Manhattan, holding a party at Tavern on the Green for former Iowans in New
York.)

But the committee became convinced that more immigrants were vital, said its
chairman, David Oman, an AT&T executive and former Republican candidate for
governor. "We all sort of held our breath when it was time to release the
report," Mr. Oman said. "We weren't sure what the reaction would be."

A draft of the report has certainly created a stir.

Though the plan calls for attracting a wide range of employees, some skeptics
worry that only low-wage workers will come to Iowa, and depress wages. Others
fear a flood of highly skilled employees that will leave fewer choice jobs for
Iowans.

Immigrant advocates like Sandra Sanchez, director of the immigrant rights
project of the American Friends Service Committee in Des Moines, praise the
proposal. But they also raise questions.

"Our state is not really equipped to deal with a high population of foreign-born
immigrants," Ms. Sanchez said. State services, she said, "do not have bilingual
staff; they haven't received culturally appropriate training."

In recent years, immigrants -- from Bosnia, Sudan and especially Mexico -- have
been the only reason Iowa's population has had any net growth. Many come after
living in other states, easing their adjustment.

The 2010 Committee proposes "diversity welcome centers" to help immigrants find
housing, learn English and find health care.

Most other details remain undetermined, including the cost, although the
committee provided some estimates, like $7,700 plus $3,100 monthly in relocation
costs for an immigrant family of three. Mr. Vilsack says he hopes much of the
money can be simply shifted from other government programs.

It is also unclear how or whether to exempt Iowa from federal immigration
restrictions, which generally require that immigrants from one country not make
up more than 7 percent of the annual total, an Immigration and Naturalization
Service spokesman said. An aide to Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of
Iowa, said one idea was legislation allowing Iowa's immigrants to "not count
against the overall number for a period of time."

Mr. Vilsack said he envisioned communities getting state help preparing
resources to accommodate foreigners and essentially sponsoring groups of
immigrants. He cited a 1970's program in which Southeast Asian refugees were
sponsored by families, businesses, churches or towns.

"In the 1990's, immigration was primarily fueled by the need for workers, and
companies have a completely different agenda," he said. "They didn't give a
thought about the impact that bringing 200 or 300 immigrants into a small
community might have. And there was trouble, there was conflict."

Mr. Vilsack said people would be more accepting if they understood immigrants'
circumstances.

"What is it about a refugee that makes it easier to accept?" he said. "I suspect
that it is an appeal to compassion, an appeal to the hardship that they've been
through. Well, the same aspect can be applied to the sometimes heroic efforts on
the part of Mexicans to cross the border because they don't have economic
opportunity in Mexico."

In Marshalltown, Ms. Burke of the town diversity committee said, "We've had some
people supporting the immigrants very strongly, and we have people who resent
still hearing anything but English on Main Street."

Immigrants here often work long hours at jobs Iowans reject, and often have
strong families. But the police say crime has increased since Mexicans arrived,
and a Mexican-made form of methamphetamine has appeared. Some residents have
focused on those problems.

"We need more people but we need the right kind of people," Mr. Dysart of
Marshalltimes Magazine said, adding that he believes some Mexicans have been
productive, upstanding residents. "We need a doctor from Ghana, a schoolteacher
from Brussels, a journalist from Calcutta. What we don't need is 5,000 more
Mexican meth dealers."

Roger Harrison, a lawyer organizing the English-only petition, said, "The
non-English-speaking people continue to have their own groups and it fosters
ethnic problems and educational problems."

Eusebio Minjares, 39, a Mexican immigrant who works for the Marshalltown Trowel
factory, says he sometimes feels that people stare at him warily in
higher-income neighborhoods, and that his boss is stricter with Latino
employees. But he says he has also been treated courteously here.

And in Marshalltown schools, test scores have declined with the influx of
immigrants and there are too few bilingual teachers, said the city's schools
superintendent, Richard Doyle. But Latino parents are often very involved in
their children's schooling, he said.

"Just the other day we were talking about how can we attract more people to the
community to work," Dr. Doyle said. "If immigration is what it's going to take,
then I'm in favor of that."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Biff Dysart, who edits a local magazine, says Marshalltown's
immigrants do not want to assimilate.; Nora Cano, who runs the Taqueria El
Cacheton restaurant in Marshalltown, Iowa, says she has occasionally encountered
anti-immigrant prejudice in the three years since she arrived in Iowa from
Mexico. (Photographs by Eli Lucero/Associated Press for The New York Times)(pg.
A12)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Mexican Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words



To the Editor:

Re "Visas for Mexican Workers" (editorial, Aug. 24):

I agree that the "poorest, least-skilled Americans" would suffer the most from
increased competition for jobs if the open-borders scheme of Vicente Fox,
Mexico's president-elect, is enacted. But all Americans will feel the bite in
their tax bills if Mr. Fox gets his way in his requests for amnesty for the
Mexicans illegally residing in the United States. In addition to rewarding a
behavior that we wish to discourage, it will mean responsibility for more
impoverished citizens.

Polls shows that Americans want less immigration, not more. The border should be
closed by the military if necessary. Mexico should solve its own problems
without continued reliance on the United States.

BRENDA WALKER
Berkeley, Calif., Aug. 25, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Besmirched 'Deportland' Wrestles With the I.N.S.

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Aug. 29


"Monstrous" is the word used by Portland's mayor, Vera Katz. The executive
director of the Port of Portland says the city's reputation has been tarred by
"Gestapo-type actions." A state senator here says the conduct in question is
"racist and xenophobic." And United States Senator Gordon H. Smith, a
Republican, put it this way today, "We don't want Portland to be known as
"Deportland."

All four are talking about the conduct of the local branch of the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The furor has been fanned by the recent
strip-search and two-night jailing of a Chinese businesswoman who had landed
here on her way to New York. But public officials were already concerned that
immigration agents were detaining or deporting foreign travelers at a much
higher rate than at other West Coast airports.

For Portland, which labored mightily to persuade Delta Air Lines to establish a
minihub here with nonstop flights to Asia, the controversy over the immigration
office has been a blow to the city's image abroad. The South China Morning Post
reported recently that the city was already known as "Deportland" in some Asian
countries, and the Kyodo News Service of Japan has also reported on the
problems, prompting some Japanese travel agencies to advise their customers to
avoid flying through Portland if possible.

Delta has already scaled back its cross-Pacific flights to Portland to two a
day, both from Japan, having once had four daily nonstops, including flights
from Seoul, South Korea, and Taipei, Taiwan.

And, citing fears that the controversy over the immigration service's treatment
of foreigners here might lead the airline to scrap them altogether, public
officials here have begun mounting a furious campaign to revamp the office. The
mayor, the governor and both United States senators here, as well as one from
neighboring Washington State, have all called for the resignation of the local
director.

For Portland, which prides itself on being one of the nation's more livable and
culturally tolerant cities, the entire controversy is strange and wounding, and
it could have severe economic consequences. A Port of Portland study said that
losing the direct air link to Asia could cost the city as much as $900 million a
year in lost trade and tourism. And even as the immigration agency has faced
accusations of mistreatment or insensitivity in its dealings with foreigners at
ports-of-entry around the country, the criticism here is particularly harsh,
prompting officials to promise a complete review of the Portland office.

"We are absolutely committed to restoring public confidence in our operations at
P.D.X.," said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the agency's western division,
using the three-letter airport code for Portland. "We will not rest until the
job is done."

Inspectors at the Portland airport will be given additional training in
"cultural awareness and professional communications skills," Ms. Kice said, and
the western regional director for the agency, Johnny Williams, traveled to
Portland on Monday to meet with public officials and announce other procedures,
including higher-level authorization for decisions to detain or search
foreigners arriving at the airport, and a better system for translation.

Even as they acknowledged that Portland's deportation rates were demonstrably
higher than those in Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle, immigration
officials noted that the vast majority of foreigners were admitted into the
country at any of those airports, and that rate differences between Portland and
other West Coast airports had narrowed significantly in the past year.

According to the immigration agency, from May through July of this year,
Portland turned back 58 of 34,694 foreigners arriving here, meaning it admitted
99.83 percent of them. Seattle admitted all but 80 of 122,633 (99.94 percent),
and Los Angeles admitted all but 752 of 1,236,679 (also 99.94 percent).

Moreover, officials said, there may be additional reasons that Portland has a
higher rate of deportations. Because it has much smaller numbers of foreign
travelers, they said, agents here may actually be able to do a better job of
screening out counterfeit documents, and a higher percentage of people arriving
here are workers, who are more likely than tourists to have problems proving
they have the proper authorization to remain in the country.

None of that, however, seems to have quelled the public outrage here or the
perception abroad that Portland is a bad place to enter the country. And the
strip-search treatment of the Chinese businesswoman, which was first reported by
The Oregonian, a daily newspaper here, was described as the "last straw" by Mike
Thorne, the executive director of the Port of Portland.

The woman, Guo Liming, of Guangzhou, China, arrived here on an Aug. 19 flight.
An agent, who has not been publicly identified by the immigration service,
decided that her passport was suspicious because the laminate over the
photograph was loose, indicating that the photograph could have been replaced.

The director of the office here, David Beebe, later told a reporter that the
woman also "fit the profile" of an illegal immigrant because she was traveling
with another person -- a man who turned out to be her fiance.

Ms. Guo was shortly removed to a room where she was ordered to strip down to her
underwear, and was inspected by two female agents. She was then handcuffed and
taken to Northern Oregon Regional Corrections Facility in The Dalles, Ore., 80
miles away, while the agency investigated whether her passport was bogus.
Inspectors declined to tell her fiance, Hsieh Tsuhui, where she was, and he
hired a Portland immigration lawyer to track her down.

After spending two nights in jail, Ms. Guo was told by the immigration service
that her passport was indeed authentic, and they brought her back to the airport
for a flight to New York. Mr. Beebe initially defended the agency's treatment of
her, but after the Oregonian article about her ordeal set off a storm of
outrage, he reviewed the incident, announced that agents had erred in their
handling of her, and offered Ms. Guo an apology. Ms. Guo is traveling and could
not be reached for an interview, said her Portland lawyer, Bao Lin Chen.

The incident was not an isolated one: the immigration service here has come
under fire for jailings of other foreigners, including six Chinese teenagers
seeking asylum. But Mr. Beebe has resisted calls from elected officials for his
resignation, and the agency has not announced any disciplinary action against
the agents who dealt with Ms. Guo. Mr. Beebe referred calls to the immigration
service's regional office in Laguna Niguel, Calif. Mr. Williams, the director
there, said it was too early to call for anyone's dismissal here. "You would not
jump to that kind of a decision without benefit of a full look at all the issues
at hand," he said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Beebe, the beleaguered chief of the immigration branch.
(Associated Press); The strip search of Guo Liming, a Chinese businesswoman
shown with her fiance, Hsieh Tsuhui, inflamed anger over the jailings and
deportations of foreign travelers who passed through the airport in Portland,
Ore. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Goodbye, Iowa

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words



To the Editor:

Your Aug. 28 front-page article "Short of People, Iowa Seeks to Be Ellis Island
of Midwest" does not address whether it is desirable for immigrants to move to
Iowa.

I was born in Iowa, after my parents emigrated from India. Although my parents
both worked as professionals in the community and I was successful academically
and athletically, I have story upon story of heart-wrenching experiences of
discrimination I faced there. Those experiences contributed to my decision to
leave Iowa after high school.

If Iowa wants to solve its population-deficit problems using immigrants, it will
need to learn how to retain them.

SUJA A. THOMAS
Cincinnati, Aug. 29, 2000

The writer is a law professor at the University of Cincinnati.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

REVIEW;
When Ellis Island Was the Only Portal

BYLINE: By DAVID M. OSHINSKY

SECTION: Section G; Page 10; Column 3; Circuits

LENGTH: 905 words


MOST Americans view the immigrant experience through the bold strokes of
struggle and assimilation. They barely notice the underside of immigration --
the rules for inspecting, admitting and excluding newcomers to American shores.
For much of American history, this process was handled by state and local
authorities. But that changed in the 1890's, when Congress, worried by a flood
of immigrants from central and southern Europe, gave the federal government
complete jurisdiction.

Laws were passed excluding immigrants with a criminal past, a mental deficiency,
or a communicable disease. The Bureau of Immigration was created, along with 24
federal inspection stations, to process new arrivals and weed out those deemed
medically suspect, politically subversive, or unlikely to find a job.

For the immigrants who came through New York harbor in the late 19th and early
20th centuries, the Statue of Liberty no doubt dazzled their senses, but Ellis
Island determined their fate. Opened on Jan. 1, 1892, Ellis Island's vast
inspection center served as the entry point for more than 10 million men, women
and children, mostly European Catholics and Jews. In the busiest years, between
1898 and 1915, its overburdened staff processed 5,000 people a day with cold,
stunning efficiency.

The CD-ROM "The Ellis Island Experience" begins slowly. Its opening section,
"The Old World," is a collection of essays about the conditions in 19th century
Europe -- industrialization, political upheaval, religious persecution -- that
led millions to flee the continent.

Left largely unexplored is how these people chose America, and what they hoped
to find. Why, for example, did some immigrant groups see the United States as
their final destination while others traveled back and forth between the
continents, often dozens of times. And why did millions of immigrants bypass our
shores entirely to settle in countries like Australia, Canada, Argentina and
Brazil?

More surprising is the failure of "The Ellis Island Experience" to emphasize the
changing dynamic of immigration. In the 1890's, Americans grew uneasy about the
enormous flow of immigrants from places like Greece, Italy, Russia, Poland and
Hungary. Without new safeguards, they believed, these immigrants would pollute
the nation with a stream of alien blood. Ellis Island was a logical response.

The key sections of this CD-ROM -- "The Journey" and "The Golden Door" -- are
very well done. Combining videos, photographs, primary documents and crisp
commentary, they follow the immigrant path from the tiny villages of Europe to
the controlled chaos of Ellis Island. Viewers should have no trouble navigating
along. There is an adequate search function to retrieve large themes and topics,
a zoom lens to enlarge images, and simple commands to store and print documents.

With a click of the mouse, we are transported to the seaports of Bremen or
Liverpool, where giant shipping lines like Cunard, White Star and
Hamburg-Amerika herd waiting immigrants into dockside hotels to be examined,
fumigated and then quarantined for the trip to New York.

For a $12 ticket -- often prepaid by relatives in the United States -- the
immigrant received third-class passage or steerage on a deck crammed with
hundreds of other bodies, enduring a week or more of rolling seas without a bath
or a change of clothes. The great majority of people who went down with the
Titanic were immigrants trapped in the bowels of the doomed ship.

Entering New York harbor, the immigrants were taken to Ellis Island on a giant
barge. We watch as medical officers single out those with a heavy cough or a
wild look in their eye, and then mark their lapels with blue chalk, indicating a
need for further review. We enter an interrogation room to see an Italian
fisherman being asked about his employment prospects, and look in on an
exclusion hearing where a Russian Jew is being questioned about his political
beliefs. By selecting from a short menu of questions, we can direct the actors
in these video dramas to give us the information we require to judge the cases
for ourselves.

Ellis Island could be a frightening experience for immigrants, but it also
served them well. There were showers and hot food for everyone, and the
hospitals provided excellent medical care. Most immigrants were processed
quickly, in a matter of hours. Fewer than 10 percent faced additional tests or
hearings; and only 2 percent were denied entry to the United States. Government
policy at Ellis Island was to admit, if at all possible.

The center went quickly downhill in the 1920's. The Bolshevik Revolution, the
Red Scare of 1919, disillusionment with America's participation in World War I
-- all raised anti-immigrant feelings at home. Congress passed the National
Origins Act in 1924, which used a quota system to slash immigration from central
and southern Europe. The Great Depression of the 1930's further slowed this
process, and, when Ellis Island closed for good in 1954, the United States
contained the smallest percentage of foreign-born residents in its history.

But times have again changed. New immigrants are pouring into the nation,
rekindling old fears. Viewing "The Ellis Island Experience," one is struck by
the battles we keep refighting, the lessons we repeatedly forget. In the balance
swings the golden door to freedom, its direction uncertain, its future unknown.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The Ellis Island Experience" includes videos, photos and
commentary.

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Cyberhomes for Strangers in Strange Lands

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE KENNEALLY

SECTION: Section G; Page 11; Column 1; Circuits

LENGTH: 1256 words


In the 1800's, when the Irish left for America, relatives bid them goodbye with
a wake, a celebration normally held for the dead.

The likelihood that the emigrants would come back was thought to be about the
same as their chance of returning from the dead; in those days there were no
quick trips back for Christmas, no phone cards and no digital video of the
grandchildren.

Such journeys now take hours instead of weeks, and telecommunications have
reduced the distance between home and away. Most recently, the Internet has
bridged the gap, so that expatriates can be more connected to home than ever
before. Whether the new American residents are from Australia, France, India or
almost anywhere else in the world, there is a Web site that ties them to
families and alleviates the strange grief of unavailable junk food. (What? No
Tim Tams?)

Kate Juliff of Australia, an information technology manager who has lived in New
York for seven years, started Australians Abroad (www.australiansabroad.com) in
1996 with Richard Rankin, to "raise issues of relevance to expatriates, as well
as provide stories of interest, resources and a cybermeeting place for
Australians living overseas." The site has 600 regular users with 1,000 drop-ins
a day from 50 countries.

Australians Abroad features a message board, a chat room, a resources list with
links to travel, immigration and international shipping sites, as well as
columns written by Australians, including, "Letter from New York" and "Musings
from Melbourne." The anecdotal columns, in which Australian slang is common,
address issues facing many expatriates -- managing finances in Australia from
overseas, obtaining credit in a foreign country, finding insurance.

In one "Letter from New York," Ms. Juliff wrote about the difficult experience
of a parent's illness and eventual death while she was living overseas.
Australians Abroad also has a search engine and database for Australian-related
sites.

Two sites, www.farsinet.com and www.iaol.com, also try to provide a
cyberhome-away-from-home. FarsiNet, for the international Iranian and Persian
community, gives weather forecasts for 50 cities in Iran, relevant news articles
from The Associated Press and articles and resources on Iranian and Persian
business, poetry, art, food, history and events (mostly in the United States).
It has a chat forum for "Foreign husbands of Iranian women," and an online
translator converts any English word into Farsi script.

The Indians Abroad Online offers users a residential or business dial-up
service, free e-mail messaging, home pages, horoscopes, greeting cards ("Happy
Love at First Sight Day"), audio music files, a chat room and encyclopedic
information on Indian dining, fashion, immigration, science and technology, and
"Bollywood" (the Indian film industry). The Matrimonials section allows users to
find a mate by specifying traits like age, immigration status, religion or
caste.

Some sites bring expatriates together based on country of residence rather than
country of origin.

Al Nevarez was working in Japan, first for the Ford Motor Company and then
Visteon Corporation, when he started jotting down notes about his favorite
restaurants in his Palm Pilot. As Mr. Nevarez watched other Americans doing the
same, he decided to develop a P.D.A. and Web tool to bring "peace of mind to
expatriates in an environment where there is little English."

Now, Mr. Nevarez said, 300 users download the site (www.japaninyourpalm.com) to
their P.D.A.'s everyday, and in July, there were 130,000 hits. He also offers an
i-mode mobile Internet cell version of the site.

JapanInYourPalm.com features restaurant reviews and resources organized into
topics like sports, nightlife, health, family and church, as well as train
schedules and restaurant menus in English.

"Living overseas brings a unique appreciation for the power of the Internet,"
said Mr. Nevarez, who returned to the United States in July but, with
contributions from friends still in Japan, updates the site daily.

Other location specific sites include www.expatsingapore.com, which claims
20,000 users a month and more than one million users overall, and , a site for
foreigners (www.expatvillage.com) in Buenos Aires that went online in mid-April.
The sites carry weather information, features on culture, travel, dining,
immigration and advertisements. Advertisements in Expatvillage.com offer
everything from "Focused Psychotherapy in Spanish, English or French" to
"European home appliances repair."

Another site (www .expataccess.com) is based on both nationality and location
with a focus on people who are moving abroad. Having a baby in France, Spain,
Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands or Britain is just one of the
many detailed topics. The site also has sections for American or British
residents who are moving to continental Europe, offering tips like how to import
a car. Similar in scope is www .peoplegoingglobal .com, which covers every
continent and is dense with country-specific governmental and economic
information and related links.

Betsy Burlingame, who once lived in Germany, started www.expatexchange.com as a
master's thesis project at New York University. The site, which went online in
1997, has 4 employees and more than 100 volunteers. It joins with companies in a
"General Store" to tailor products and services for members, like Medibroker
International, a medical and health insurance broker that is run by expatriates.

Expat Exchange has information for nonmembers and private forums for members
(registration is free). The forums are divided into categories including
"women's," "men's," "spouse's" and "GenXpat" (young professionals), as well as
jobs, books and travel. The site has 8,000 members from more than 60 nations and
18,000 monthly visitors, and it seeks to create a community for expatriates in
all countries. Country specific forums feature stories like the eight-part diary
of Lexie, an American cat, and her journey through the rigorous Australian
quarantine process.

The mission of Expat Expert, said Robin Pascoe, a Canadian whose husband was a
diplomat in the Canadian Foreign service for 15 years, is to "inform, advise,
and offer online friendship to relocating expatriate spouses and families."

Ms. Pascoe said she started the site (www.expatexpert.com) when she realized,
"how desperate expats are for online help with the emotional side of living
abroad, which for the spouse can include giving up a career, major blows to
self-esteem (you become Mrs. Husband's job) and general wear and tear on the
mind and body from looking after everyone else."

The features on Expat Expert offer a perspective on recurrent issues, like
culture shock, health emergencies and repatriation.

The curious or the lonely expatriate can also find advice and resources at sites
attached to publications, like The Weekly Telegraph (www.globalnetwork.co.uk)
and The International Herald Tribune (www .iht.com), or organizations like the
Canadian Foreign Service Community Association (www.fsca-acse.org) or Outpost
(www .outpostexpat.nl), sponsored by Shell International.

The number of expatriate sites is growing, and even if they do not get wandering
souls closer to home, they give users a chance to bond with people engaged with
similar issues.

At the very least, surfing these Web sites helps kill time while waiting for a
life-saving shipment of Reeses Peanut Butter Cups (or Twisties or Barry's Tea or
Bovril).


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kate Juliff, who has lived in New York for seven years, started
Australians Abroad, a Web site that is intended to be "a cybermeeting place" for
her fellow expatriates. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 1, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
No Direct Evidence Against Palestinian

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON, Fla., Aug. 31


The government lacks direct evidence that a Palestinian immigrant held for three
years as a suspected terrorist had raised money for a terrorist group or had
helped organize any violence, a federal agent has acknowledged.

That admission came on Wednesday during a bond hearing for the immigrant, Mazen
Al-Najjar, who has been jailed without charges on the basis of secret evidence.

Mr. Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida instructor of Arabic, is
seeking to be released while he appeals a deportation order. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service arrested him in May 1997 after the order was issued.

On Wednesday, an immigration service lawyer, Daniel Vara, played a 13-minute
videotape of gatherings organized by the Islamic Committee for Palestine as
evidence that Mr. Al-Najjar, an officer of the committee, had consorted with
known terrorists in the group Islamic Jihad.

The tape was compiled from nearly 500 hours of video seized in 1995, but an
immigration agent, William D. West, was unable to offer any example of Mr.
Al-Najjar soliciting money for the Islamic Jihad or advocating terrorism.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Editorial Observer;
Attracting New Immigrants to the Heartland

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words


Iowa isn't a crowded place. It wasn't crowded when I was growing up there in the
1950's and early 60's, and it isn't crowded now. In 1960, when I was in third
grade, the state population was 2,757,537 and still slowly climbing, as it had
been all century, until it reached a peak of just less than three million people
in 1980.

Yet things haven't been as static in Iowa as these figures suggest. The way that
Iowa isn't crowded has changed. The number of third graders has plummeted, and
the population as a whole has gotten older. The percentage of the population
over 80 is larger in Iowa than in any other state. Iowa is the only state
besides Florida with more people over 75 than under 5.

That is one of the reasons the state -- which has nearly always experienced
annual net migration losses -- wants to encourage immigration. A plan to do just
that, produced by a bipartisan governor's commission called the 2010 Committee,
has caused an uproar in a state that is overwhelmingly white. In fact, the
commission's report merely recognizes a demographic reality. Without
immigration, the state's labor force will steadily dwindle. The only reason
Iowa's population has not fallen further is because of immigrants who have come
from Mexico, Vietnam, Bosnia and elsewhere. The greatest demand for labor comes
from industries like meat packing.

The population problem in Iowa isn't merely that its residents are getting old
and its young people are leaving. The problem is tied directly to the character
of agriculture in the state. In 1960 there were 174,707 farms in Iowa, down from
a peak of around 215,000 in 1930. Last year there were about 96,000 farms,
though the amount of farmland in cultivation had barely changed. There are 15
million hogs in Iowa, but they are raised on fewer than half as many farms as
just a decade ago.

It can be hard to grasp the implications of a shift that large. Think of a farm,
for a moment, not as a tract of land or so many acres of corn and soybeans.
Think of a farm instead as a constellation of people, each of whom has ties to a
local community -- to churches and schools, to banks and farm-implement dealers,
to co-ops and Lions Clubs. In 1960, small towns were thriving not on the
prosperity of town residents alone but on the prosperity -- and the population
-- of farms in the adjoining countryside.

Now half of those farms are gone, their groves cut down, their houses bulldozed,
their constellations of people dispersed. Year by year, the size of farms
increases and their work force diminishes. The towns are very quiet, except the
ones lucky enough to hear the roar of enormous grain driers at the elevator out
by the railroad tracks. School districts have consolidated, and small-town
business is just a ghost of itself. It is not uncommon to come across a sense of
disinheritance among Iowans, especially those living in small towns. The bond
that tied them to the farmland around them -- a bond that was social as well as
economic -- has to a striking degree been severed. There is no one on the farms,
and the towns have no one to serve except their aging residents.

All of this has come about because of a faith -- an unproved faith -- that the
only way for agriculture to prosper is for farms to become bigger and bigger.
There is no question that Iowa raises vastly more corn and soybeans than it did
in 1960. But at what cost? Farm prices are as low as they have ever been, and
farmers now pray for emergency funding from Congress the way they pray for rain.
One of the indisputable results of large-scale corporate farming in Iowa has
been the depopulation of the countryside. An agricultural job in Iowa is now a
meat-packing job, highly dangerous, badly paid and emblematic of an approach to
farming that will serve Iowa's new immigrants as badly as it has served its
longtime residents.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
For Ethiopians in Morningside Heights, Coffee and Advice

BYLINE: By JEN McCAFFERY

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 407 words


TRAVEL posters depicting sun-baked stone castles and obelisks of the ancient
holy city of Axum decorate the walls. Nearby are shelves of books that include
histories of Ethiopia and the United States, symbolizing the former and new
lives of a growing immigrant group in the city.

The posters and books can be seen in the Tigrai Self-Help Ethiopian Center an
organization run by Ethiopian immigrants out of a storefront on LaSalle Street
to help one another with life in their new country. The name Tigrai refers to
the northernmost province of Ethiopia, which borders Eritrea.

"We have a lot of Ethiopians here, and it's very difficult in the city if you
don't have a support center," said Mekonnan Abraha, an elegant man with a
gentle, lilting voice who helped found and helps run the center.

The number of Ethiopian immigrants in the city doubled from 1990 to 1998 to
about 2,200, according to the City Planning Office. Mr. Abraha said many of them
dropped by the center after work or after services at nearby Riverside Church to
grab a cup of coffee or to catch up.

"We've been here for some time, but there are people who have not reached their
potential because of lack of information," Mr. Abraha said of Ethiopian
immigrants in New York, who often work as taxi drivers when they first arrive.

To help remedy that lack, volunteers at the center dispense advice about jobs
and education. The center also sponsors seminars on subjects ranging from the
history of Ethiopia's ancient Axumite civilization to finding housing in New
York.

On a recent Sunday afternoon, about 20 people gathered at the center for a
seminar on health. The men clasped one another's hands and pressed their cheeks
against those of the women. The group settled into a circle on folding chairs
and couches.

Kidane Assefa, a resident at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center, spoke to
the group in a mix of English and Tigrinya about the health dangers Ethiopian
immigrants faced in their new country. Diabetes, high-blood pressure and
glaucoma are common ailments that befall immigrants unused to a high-fat,
high-sugar American diet and more sedentary way of life.

"You don't have to give up your identity," Dr. Assefa said. "But there are
certain things you can improve." He pointed out a man in the audience with a
large Afro and told the others that each time he saw this man, he told him,
"Kidane, have a haircut."   JEN McCAFFERY


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We have a lot of Ethiopians here, and it's very difficult in
the city if you don't have a support center," says Mekonnan Abraha, who helped
found such a place. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
In Astoria, Egyptian and Other North African Pleasures

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WOLOZ

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 502 words


FOURTEEN years ago, when Tony Meloni was setting up his immigration advocacy
office on Steinway Street, he thought he would introduce himself to his
neighbors at Alex's Deli. Naturally, he asked for Alex. But Alex was, in fact,
Alexandria, Egypt, the native city of the owners, Mohammed, Maunir and Eddie.

At the time, this stretch of Steinway Street between 28th Avenue and Astoria
Boulevard, was a sleepy, even depressed group of blocks adjoining a retail
district just to the south. But gradually a community of Egyptian and other
North African immigrants, attracted by the area's low rents, began to invest in
the neighborhood quietly, opening spice shops, Islamic gift stores, specialty
cafes and a mosque.

Mr. Meloni said the first Egyptians arrived in Astoria roughly 20 years ago,
though immigration really began to soar in the mid-90's shortly after Congress
passed legislation that benefited countries like those in North Africa.

The most visible sign of Astoria's Egyptian and North African community is the
proliferation of sheesha cafes, named for the mix of flavored tobacco and
molasses smoked in hookahs. The ritual makes the cafes an anomaly even in
multiethnic Astoria.  Egyptian and Tunisian immigrants, for whom sheesha is a
recreation, are joined by people from Morocco and Algeria at cafes' sidewalk
tables where they play backgammon, drink Turkish coffee and smoke.

With the opening of El Sawkariah, his six-month-old sheesha cafe on Steinway
Street, Said Ahmed sought to bring a piece of his native Cairo to Astoria, where
he lives.

"Mostly the Egyptian cafes here are like those in Egypt," Mr. Ahmed said. "The
stores are very tiny, and outside they have like 15 chairs, with people sitting
outside in the fresh air."

Ali El Sayed is the chef and owner of the Kabab Cafe, one of the first Egyptian
businesses to open in the area, and one that does not offer sheesha. After
running a restaurant in Manhattan for five years, he sought an affordable place
where he could replicate the familial warmth of his native Alexandria and
experiment with his first love, Egyptian cuisine.

Today the Kabab Cafe sits side by side with a handful of Egyptian and other
North African restaurants, including ones owned by Moroccan and Tunisian
immigrants.

There are several halal meat stores owned mostly by Egyptian immigrants.
Yemeni-Americans run a small gift shop, and one of the block's largest
businesses is the Lebanese El Mannara, which specializes in imported Middle
Eastern foods.

The boldest addition to the neighborhood is the two-month-old Mombar, with
artwork by Moustaffa El Sayed, Ali's brother, who is also the chef. Moustaffa El
Sayed recalled a recent evening at Mombar.

"Last week we had four girls, three of them were Egyptian -- two from Long
Island, one from Westchester and one from Connecticut," he said. "Where they
live, they may be the only Egyptians within two miles. They want to come and see
a place like Egypt, like Alexandria."   MICHAEL WOLOZ


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Essamad Lor smoking a hookah at the Egyptian Cafe on Steinway
Street. At right, Mombar, a few doors away. (Photographs by Richard Lee for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ECONOMIC VIEW;
Home-Grown Innovation, Home-Grown Workers

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 773 words


THE chronic problem of the nation's high-technology labor force? Simple: There
isn't enough of it.

The shortage of technology workers explains one of Washington's annual rituals.
Silicon Valley executives warn Congress that unless private industry is allowed
to hire more skilled foreign workers, growth in the new economy will sputter for
lack of able minds. Organized labor complains, but to little effect. The
industry typically prevails, reasonably, because the problem is a real one --
and the visa quotas for skilled immigrants are raised once more.

Nothing is more American than immigration. Yet the persistent shortage of
home-grown technology workers to fill these high-skill, high-wage jobs does
suggest that something is amiss in the labor market. Why isn't the supply of
graduates from the nation's universities adjusting faster to meet the demand?
What policy steps can help solve the problem?

Those questions are the focus of a recent paper by Paul M. Romer, an economist
at the Stanford Business School, prepared for the National Bureau of Economic
Research. Mr. Romer is a pioneering thinker behind a set of ideas called new
growth theory.

Put simply, new growth theory emphasizes the economic role of innovation. And
innovation, according to Mr. Romer, is the X-factor in an economy, the elixir of
sustained growth. So the goal of policy, he says, should be to foster
innovation.

The right kinds of institutions are essential, he wrote in his paper, but
"unfortunately, in the last 20 years, innovation policy in the United States has
almost entirely ignored the structure of our institutions of higher learning."

In an interview, he explained that any policy analysis has to "get deeply into
the details of how those institutions work."

In the university system, he sees a marketplace sorely in need of new and
different incentives if it is ever to help erase the shortage of skilled workers
in technology fields. He said he believes that there is a role for government to
play in overhauling those incentives.

Too often, according to Mr. Romer, government programs intended to encourage
scientific research have simply handed money or tax breaks to universities and
companies -- which mainly increases the demand for scientists and engineers
without doing anything for the supply.

"The crucial input," he said, "is to have more well-trained people who are
engaged in innovative activities."

He would spend the money differently. At the undergraduate level, he recommends
paying schools a bounty for increasing the number of graduates who receive
science or engineering degrees -- $10,000 a head. This would reward liberal-arts
schools, whose student populations tend to run heavy with English, history and
social science majors, with an incentive to expand science and engineering
programs.

At the graduate level, Mr. Romer sees different dimensions of the problem and
suggests a different kind of supply-side subsidy. Increasingly, he said,
research grants go to star professors, who then support graduate students as
their research assistants. This system, he says, delivers some real benefits in
basic research, but it nurtures an academic research culture instead of one that
responds well to the needs of commerce.

THE Romer solution is to liberate graduate science and engineering students from
dependence on money trickling down from professors; instead, he would have the
government underwrite three-year fellowships with $20,000 annual stipends for
nearly 17,000 students a year to pursue advanced degrees.

The two programs would combine to subsidize the right thing -- turning out more
qualified people -- while giving more power to individuals and innovative
institutions to decide how resources are used, Mr. Romer argues, adding that
this approach sidesteps political problems. "It avoids the issues of pork-barrel
science, giving money to politically favored constituents, and it also avoids
the pitfall of having the government try to pick technology winners and losers,"
he said.

The price tag? For 100,000 additional undergraduate degrees, $1 billion a year,
and another $1 billion for the graduate fellowships.

Justifying the spending, he said, would be the "social return" -- improved
prospects for higher growth over the next 20 to 50 years, as more people engage
in innovative activity.

In his paper, Mr. Romer cited a comparable policy that proved a winner: creation
of a new academic discipline, computer science, in the 1960's. "Even now," he
wrote, "with the passage of 40 years, our sense of the magnitude of the payoff
from this investment is still growing."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart:
New visas for immigrants with special skills, known as H-1B visas, each year.

Chart shows new visas for immigrants with special skills, known as H-1B visas,
each year since 1992.
(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Immigrants, Next Stop Iowa?

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 150 words



To the Editor:

People thinking about welcoming immigrants to their labor pools in Iowa (front
page, Aug. 28) could learn from a similar experiment in Iowa 50 years ago.
Between 1939 and 1943, Scattergood Hostel, operated by Quakers, took in and
helped acclimate 185 refugees from Nazi-occupied Europe. According to Michael
Luick-Thrams's history, "Out of Hitler's Reach," Iowans welcomed the equally
nervous strangers, who moved on to productive jobs.

Iowans should resolve not to repeat the shameful sequel to this noble project.
When war closed escape routes from Europe, the Quakers proposed using
Scattergood to help relocate Japanese-Americans who had been forcibly removed to
camps. Despite a need for workers, Mr. Luick-Thrams says local opposition to
"yellow" immigrants instead of "white" ones forced Scattergood to close.

CHRISTOPER T. CORY
New York, Aug. 28, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Natasha Tibbott)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Immigrants, Next Stop Iowa?

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 160 words



To the Editor:

Re "Short of People, Iowa Seeks to Be Ellis Island of Midwest" (front page, Aug.
28):

Before politicians in Iowa promote immigration to stop its population decline,
they should come to California to see the impact of explosive population growth,
derived mainly from high immigration.

In the 1950's, California was a fine place to live. Since then, the state has
tripled its population; its schools and freeways are overflowing; we are
experiencing extensive urban sprawl; and the price of housing has skyrocketed as
demand exceeds supply.

According to a 1996 study from the National Academy of Science, the average
Californian household pays more than $1,000 a year because of immigration to the
state. Does Iowa or any other less populous state really want to be another
California?

YEH LING-LING
Oakland, Calif., Aug. 30, 2000

The writer is executive director of the Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable
America.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Immigrants, Next Stop Iowa?

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 145 words



To the Editor:

You report (front page, Aug. 28) that an editor in Marshalltown, Iowa, complains
about the unwillingness of Mexican immigrants to adopt American customs, saying
"our families when they came here . . . did their level best to assimilate." Yet
at the beginning of this century many civic leaders railed against the Irish,
German and Scandinavian immigrants who similarly refused to "assimilate."

Theodore Roosevelt, writing in 1915 about how immigrants called themselves
German-American or Irish-American and retained many of their cultural
traditions, said: "A hyphenated American is not an American at all. . . . There
is room here for only one hundred percent Americanism." In fact, many of today's
first-generation Americans are assimilating much as their predecessors did a
century ago.

DAVID CLOYCE SMITH
New York, Aug. 28, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Gateway City

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 529 words


New York City has long held a special place in American life as a metropolis
that perpetually renews itself with waves of foreign immigration. That has never
been truer than today, when the city is brimming with newly arrived residents.
At the end of a decade in which one million newcomers swept into the city, 40
percent of New Yorkers are now foreign-born, the highest level since 1910. The
city is enriched by the immigrants, but it also faces major challenges in
helping to integrate them fully into the life and economy of the city.

The earlier generations of immigrants who passed through Ellis Island were
largely from Europe. The fastest-growing groups these days are from South Asia,
the Dominican Republic, Mexico and the nations born of the breakup of the Soviet
Union. In Queens alone 167 nationalities and 116 languages coexist. That variety
is one of New York's most distinctive traits. While other cities tend to attract
immigrants primarily from one or two foreign regions, New York is a magnet for
the whole world. The immigrants come because of the city's reputation as a point
of entry and the presence of friends and relatives.

If it were not for immigration, the city's population would be decreasing today.
The newcomers culturally and economically revitalize abandoned neighborhoods,
and their presence bolsters the economy and contributes to the tax base. But the
surge has also brought a slew of challenges. Many immigrants do not speak
English, and long lines of people are turned away from the too-few English
classes sponsored by nonprofit organizations and community colleges. The
inability to speak English keeps immigrants in very low-paying jobs. Many
Mexican and Dominican immigrants, for instance, earn less than $20,000 a year.

Meanwhile, a shortage of affordably priced housing has led to overcrowding in
poor areas. It is not uncommon in some Bronx neighborhoods for four or more
people to live in a single room. Schools are also inadequate in these
neighborhoods, with enrollments straining already sparse resources.

Because newly arrived immigrants are not eligible to vote -- and turnout is low
among those who have become citizens -- many of these problems do not receive
the attention they deserve from political leaders. Naturalized citizens should
be encouraged to register to vote, and local politicians need to make more
effort to reach out to these traditionally ignored populations. In addition,
immigrants are often unaware of the programs that do exist to help them. Public
housing aid and child health insurance, for example, are not widely used by
immigrants who are eligible for them. Many immigrants use emergency medical care
but also rely on unlicensed community clinics, in part because they are unaware
of the dangers associated with such clinics.

Poverty rates among immigrant populations are high, and if current problems are
allowed to grow, they could lead to a permanent underclass of immigrants. With
the city's foreign-born population expected to grow even larger in the years
ahead, the health of the city will depend in no small measure on how
successfully it absorbs its newest residents.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Health Care For Every Child

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 133 words



To the Editor:

Al Gore's promise of universal health care for children by 2005 (news article,
Aug. 30) won't reach its goal unless he publicly addresses the issue of health
care coverage for immigrant children. Welfare "reform" drastically altered the
availability of health and hunger assistance for legal immigrants.

In 1997, one in five children in the United States was an immigrant or lived in
an immigrant family. But children who entered the country legally after 1996 and
undocumented children are not entitled to health care except in emergency cases.
Also, under welfare reform, immigrant women are denied prenatal care, a policy
that jeopardizes not only the life of the mother but also that of an American
citizen-to-be.

JENNIFER KASPER, M.D.
Boston, Aug. 31, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 6, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

TENNIS: U.S. OPEN -- NOTEBOOK;
Navratilova Loves This

BYLINE: By Sophia Hollander

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 222 words


Twenty-five years ago, Martina Navratilova left the U.S.T.A. National Tennis
Center after losing in the semifinals to Chris Evert, and traveled to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service office to ask for political asylum. The
18-year-old from Czechoslovakia did not tell her family that she was defecting.

"Mostly what I remember is what I see in press conference blurbs on TV, how very
thick my accent was then," Navratilova, now 43, said yesterday. "I had no idea
how big it was. I didn't know it was such a pivotal point. I knew it was pivotal
point for me personally, but I didn't realize it was such a big point in my life
as a public person."

Yesterday, she and Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario lost in the third round of the Open
to seventh-seeded Anke Huber and Barbara Schett, 6-3, 6-2.

During her retirement, she learned to fly, tried her hand at carpentry and had a
photo exhibition in Prague. But she wanted to play tennis again, and has been
stunned by the reception she has received.

"What I'm getting from the crowd I never got in my life, even the last couple of
years on the tour," she said. "This is special. This is good."

When asked if there was anything else she wanted, her eyes began to water. "I
want to be a better person," she said. "I have a long way to go for that."
Sophia Hollander


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 10, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

New Rochelle Library Project Honors Mexican Immigrant Who Helped Others

BYLINE: By PETER BELLER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 14; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE


WHEN the New Rochelle Public Library began a collection documenting the history
of the city's Mexican population, it had to be called the Antonio Valencia Local
History Collection. There was really no other choice.

Mr. Valencia, 77, the first Mexican immigrant to New Rochelle, has spent decades
helping others immigrate here, and his life is intertwined with the community's
history. Indeed, many of the items in the collection so far were donated by him:
photographs of families, a permit to work in the United States, a boarding pass
from a flight from Mexico -- mementos and artifacts that trace the story of a
community which has flourished over four decades.

"What you see here is his," said Robin Osborne, who helped start the project,
referring to Mr. Valencia. "It traces how the migration began, how they
established themselves." Ms. Osborne, the outreach services consultant for the
Westchester Library System, received a $1,900 grant from the State Archives and
Records Administration in 1999 to start the collection. She received another
grant from the archives and records administration for $5,000.

She met with Mr. Valencia, asking him for help, after receiving the first grant.

"It was really a surprise to me," Mr. Valencia said. "I was in Mexico, and one
day they called me and said they needed pictures and things like that."

Fortunately for the library, he had saved not just pictures but letters,
newspapers and other evidence of his work bringing whole families here from his
home state of Michoacan, two and a half hours south of Guadalajara.

Mr. Valencia immigrated in 1954 to work as a housekeeper for George Vergara,
then a councilman, and his wife, Allys. Mr. Vergara would become Mayor of New
Rochelle, and both would become lifelong friends of Mr. Valencia, who lived in
their house until Ms. Vergara's death in 1998.

Soon Mr. Valencia began to help others immigrate, many from his hometown of
Cotija and the surrounding villages. "We'd bring one member of a family," he
said, "and he'd bring a mother, a father, a brother." Other immigrants came on
their own, some arriving with only a piece of paper with Mr. Valencia's name and
phone number. He would help them find a job and a place to live.

Today downtown New Rochelle is dotted with Mexican restaurants and shops. The
1990 census found that just under 4 percent of the city's population was of
Mexican origin; library officials say they believe it is now around 15 percent.

The library collection includes photographs of the first few families to come to
New Rochelle, many of whom knew Mr. Valencia in Mexico. They are dressed in ties
and jackets or long dresses and sit in restaurants, in churches and at people's
homes. In June, the library presented a program on the collection, hoping to
draw in more people and their memories.

More than 200 people turned out, and about 20 families responded to surveys
asking about family history. "We need them to understand how important this is,"
said Billie Tucker, the community relations coordinator for the library. She
said library staff members would begin calling those families this month, asking
them to contribute items for the collection.

Right now, Mr. Valencia's donations, along with several photographs from one
woman who responded to the survey, are being cataloged, and descriptive texts
are being written. Library officials would like to see more belongings that
people brought from Mexico, but Ms. Osborne said that people aren't always
willing to give up their personal remembrances. Most of all, she wants their
stories.

That is why the library has hired Roger Panetta, an associate professor of
history at Marymount College. Dr. Panetta and his students will conduct
interviews with Mexican families that will then be made available as transcripts
or on videocassette. Dr. Panetta and his students completed a similar project in
Sleepy Hollow in 1998.

"The first families, they are really excited about it," Mr. Valencia said. "One
day they will have something to see there."

After a life spent helping others, Mr. Valencia, for lack of money, had to move
to Connecticut, he said. He lives in a house provided him by an order of priests
that was founded by a fellow Cotija native. He still commutes an hour almost
every other day to New Rochelle to visit his friends, aid others and look at
what he helped create.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Antonio Valencia with some of his mementos in New Rochelle and
a photograph from his collection. It was taken at St. Patrick's Cathedral in
Manhattan during a celebration he arranged for the Virgin of Guadalupe. (Thomas
McDonald for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 14, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

2 Men Charged With Defrauding Immigrants

BYLINE: By TARA BAHRAMPOUR

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 552 words


Calling themselves "the pastor" and "the apostle," two Brooklyn men stole at
least $500,000 from immigrants by promising them permanent visas if they trained
to be church workers, prosecutors said yesterday.

From 1995 to 1999, Stephen Andrews, 50, and Andre Mason, 28, ran the Faith
Dynamics Center at 753 Flatbush Avenue, holding services, awards ceremonies and
fake ordinations for hundreds of people who were told that for $1,000 to $2,000
they could get permanent resident status as religious workers.

The two men were indicted yesterday in New York State Supreme Court on 17
counts, including grand larceny and criminal possession of forged alien
registration cards.

"These men heartlessly preyed on the hopes and desires of immigrants who sought
status here in America," said Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney.

According to the indictment, Faith Dynamics, claiming to be a Christian
ministry, filed at least 473 applications with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for "religious worker" status, but never followed up on
them. The indictment covers 12 of these cases, and may include more as
investigators find more victims. Most were from the West Indies and lived in
Brooklyn or Queens.

"I felt very betrayed," said Jennifer, a native of Trinidad and Tobago, who
spoke on the condition that her full name not be used. She said that for two
years, she and her husband paid $50 per service as a tithe to the center, as
well as $2,500 for immigration services.

"We were going more than once a week," to church services, she said, adding that
as months passed with no reply from the I.N.S., Mr. Andrews repeatedly told her,
"It takes time." Finally, after hearing about a similar swindle in Nassau
County, she consulted an immigration counselor at another church who helped
begin the investigation.

That counselor, the Rev. Brian J. Jordan, a Franciscan friar of the St. Francis
of Assisi Church in Manhattan, said the victims were reluctant to give their
names because they fear reprisals from accomplices of the two men, who were
arrested last week and face up to seven years in prison. Their center had been
closed since December.

According to immigration rules, an applicant for religious worker status must
have worked full time in a religious vocation for two years before making the
application.

Gavin Miles, a prosecutor in the case, said that the immigration service had
asked Faith Dynamics to document the workers' employment. "They didn't respond,"
he said, and the service eventually abandoned the applications.

Meanwhile, Mr. Andrews and Mr. Mason held fake ordination and awards ceremonies
for which participants were required to purchase tickets and special clothing.

While the victims held legitimate visitor visas at the time of their
applications, some may have returned to their home countries since then, said
Kevin Davitt, a spokesman for Mr. Hynes. As for the 12 who have been located,
Mr. Hynes said their status was under review, but they would stay in the country
during the trial. Father Jordan said he would help them reapply for permanent
status.

Jennifer said that Mr. Andrews was also an immigrant from her country added an
extra sting to her disappointment.

"He of all people should understand that we need that visa," she said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney, standing near a
poster of two men charged with stealing at least $500,000 from immigrants by
promising them permanent visas if they trained as church workers. (Edward
Keating/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 16, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Ghosts of War in a Placid Park;
Mock Refugee Camp Dredges Up Horrors of the Past

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words


Nina Behtic, 16, and Sozana Selimaj, 17, are immigrants from the former
Yugoslavia. They speak the same language. They go to the same high school. They
bear inside of them, usually wrapped in the cotton wool of forgetfulness, the
same memories of war and death. But when they grieve, as they did yesterday
morning on Cherry Hill in Central Park, they grieve alone.

"I am a Serb," Ms. Behtic said before nodding in the direction of Ms. Selimaj.
"She is Albanian."

The thick, close clouds that lowered over the park yesterday let loose a light
drizzle as the two young women, among 75 students from Liberty High School on
West 18th Street, walked up the asphalt path. At the crest of the hill, around
an ornate iron fountain, Doctors Without Borders, the humanitarian aid agency,
had arranged a mock refugee camp. Its purpose is to highlight the plight of the
39 million people worldwide that have been uprooted by war, according to figures
from the United Nations.

"First I must tell you that this is not set up for people to have some kind of a
vacation," said Besnik Dorli, the tour guide for the school group, standing in
front of a small thatch shelter.  "These people had to leave their homes. They
cannot walk beyond that fence over there. They cannot go back."

The Liberty students, all ninth graders in a special program for new immigrant
children at the school, were the first to tour the camp. Doctors Without
Borders, which has more than 2,000 volunteers in about 90 countries, has put up
similar camps over the last four years in over 100 cities in Europe. This is the
first in the United States, and will travel to other sites in the New York area
before moving to Los Angeles.

About 700 schoolchildren and 500 adults visited the camp yesterday. All were
guided on 40-minute tours. They were shepherded through 10 different sites,
including shelters built for three different climates, a medical clinic, a
cholera treatment center, a food distribution area, a water treatment and
distribution area, and latrines. Most of the children said they were surprised
to see how refugees lived in camps. Many asked how the latrines worked.

"The children were sad to know that people live in wars like this," said Luke
Thomas, 37, a tour guide from Liberia. "They asked a lot of questions about
living conditions and what it was like to live in a tent. I would tell them it
was very bad to put your family for years in a small tent."

At the camp, called "A Refugee Camp in the Heart of the City," visitors were
asked to imagine themselves as refugees.

For Ms. Behtic and Ms. Selimaj, that was not necessary. The white canvas tents
and the large posters with pictures of thousands of refugees crammed into fields
were unwelcome reminders of the past. They retreated from the group and bowed
their heads. The other students stood in an arc around the tent, oblivious to
the emotions unleashed within their classmates.

Ms. Behtic said Muslims driven from their homes occupied her family's house in
Sarajevo at the start of the war in April 1992. "My father was a Muslim," said
Ms. Behtic, wearing a Serbian Orthodox cross on a gold chain around her neck.
"He left us at the start of the war. He went to Tuzla. He married someone from
his own country. We went to Belgrade. He never wanted to see me, to talk to me
or to do something for me. I have not seen him for eight years.

"I cried for my dolls," said Ms. Behtic, who camped in the bathroom of an old
office building in Belgrade with her mother and grandmother.  "The only thing I
believe in now is God, because I have seen people become animals."

She arrived in the United States a year ago for medical treatment. Doctors have
found a brain tumor that they say is inoperable. The tumor, which presses
against her optic nerve, has left her nearly blind. She and her mother are
staying at the Ronald McDonald House but must return to Belgrade soon because of
visa requirements. "No one wants to accept me," she said, "and I don't want to
force them."

With words catching in her throat, she inveighed against the Muslims who took
her home in Sarajevo, the Muslims who "robbed Kosovo from the Serbs" and the
Muslims who did not acknowledge her suffering. And as she did, her friend, Ms.
Selimaj, listened in stony silence.

"Do you know how many churches and monasteries were destroyed in Kosovo?" Ms.
Behtic suddenly blurted out to the tour guide.

"Do not worry about the monasteries," said Mr. Dorli, startled. "A lot of them
remain. We can talk about this later."

Two of the teachers with the group, Ursula Walliser, who works with Ms.  Behtic
on her vision and who fled East Germany in 1952, and Carol Yankay, who teaches
English as a second language, looked perplexed.  They tried desperately to
lighten the tone. They chatted about ice cream and lunch at an Indian restaurant
and spoke of trying to forget the past. They hugged the girls as they wept.

But the two were inconsolable.

"My cousins were all killed," Ms. Selimaj said tersely, moments after her
friend's question. "The Serbs shot dead my best friend."

Then Ms. Selimaj, fighting back her own tears, delved into her odyssey,
recounting being herded to the train station in Pristina by Serb soldiers,
spending four days with no food and collapsing in a white medical tent, "just
like that one," at the Macedonian border. She said her family's home had been
destroyed.

"I was in a house when the Serb soldiers came in and started shooting everyone,"
she said. "I jumped out the window. She has not had such a war like I saw. I was
crazy. How can she say that Kosovo is Serbia? The Serbs did the same things in
Bosnia. They killed many people. I hate them. I hate them."

Mrs. Yankay pulled Ms. Selimaj close and said in a low voice: "Please, please
don't make problems. She does not understand. She is leaving America. She has to
go back in a couple of months. You are here.  No one will take this from you.
You are here forever."

Ms. Behtic, her medical treatment near an end and her departure for Belgrade
weeks away, set her eyes about two inches from the guest book at the exit.

"I am glad that I saw this camp," she wrote laboriously in blue ink. "It was
very informative. But I have experienced maybe even worse situations."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ninth graders from Liberty High School in Manhattan, all recent
immigrants, were the first to see a refugee camp display set up in Central Park
by Doctors Without Borders. About 700 students and 500 adults saw the camp
yesterday.; Sozana Selimaj, 17, an ethnic Albanian who fled Kosovo for a refugee
camp in Macedonia, wept in the arms of her teacher, Carol Yankay. (Photographs
by Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Nina Behtic, 16, comforted by a
teacher, Carol Yankay, after Ms. Behtic condemned Muslims for destroying
monasteries and churches. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 17, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Way We Live Now: 9-17-00: Map: Immigration;
Moving In

BYLINE: By Nina Siegal

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 145 words



Between 1990 and 1996, 794,400 immigrants settled in New York City. That's 15
per hour -- and those are only the official, documented newcomers. They did not
spread out evenly across the city. Two-thirds of them settled in Brooklyn and
Queens, especially in the neighborhoods of Flatbush, Bay Ridge and Astoria;
another 20 percent took Manhattan, particularly the neighborhoods of Washington
Heights (31,850 new residents from the Dominican Republic, for example) and
Chinatown (21,833 new Chinese). This map shows some of the greatest
concentrations of new arrivals by country. It is based on data from the New York
City Department of City Planning, which tracked green-card requests between 1990
and 1996 (the most recent years for which this data is available), and from
anecdotal information provided by New York-based foreign consulates.   -- Nina
Siegal


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of the boroughs in New York City
1. Afghanistan: Flushing, Queens
2. Bangladesh: Astoria, Queens
3. Barbados: Crown Heights, Brooklyn
4. Brazil: Astoria, Queens
5. Canada: Upper East Side, Manhattan
6. China: Chinatown, Manhattan, Sunset Park, Brooklyn
7. Colombia: Jackson Heights, Queens, Elmhurst, Queens
8. Dominican Republic: Washington Heights, Manhattan
9. Ecuador: Corona, Queens, Astoria, Queens
10. Egypt: Astoria, Queens, Bay Ridge/Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, Castleton Corners/
New Springville, Staten Island
11. El Salvador: Jamaica Hills/South Jamaica, Queens, Far Rockaway, Queens
12. Ghana: Morris Heights, the Bronx, Highbridge, the Bronx
13. Greece: Astoria, Queens
14. Grenada: Crown Heights, Brooklyn
15. Guatemala: Jamaica/Hillcrest, Queens
16. Guyana: South Richmond Hill, Queens
17. Haiti: Flatbush, Brooklyn
18. Honduras: The Hub/Longwood, the Bronx
19. India: Flushing, Queens, Elmhurst, Queens
20. Indonesia: Forest Hills, Queens, Woodside, Queens
21. Iran: Forest Hills/Kew Gardens, Queens
22. Ireland: Woodside, Queens, Woodlawn/Wakefield, the Bronx
23. Israel: Borough Park, Brooklyn
24. Italy: Upper East Side, Manhattan
25. Jamaica: Wakefield, the Bronx, East Flatbush, Brooklyn, Crown Heights,
Brooklyn
26. Japan: East Village, Manhattan; Upper East Side, Manhattan
27. Korea: Flushing, Queens
28. Mexico: Jackson Heights, Queens, Sunset Park, Brooklyn
29. Nigeria: Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Highbridge, the Bronx, East Elmhurst,
Queens
30. Pakistan: Midwood, Brooklyn
31. Panama: Flatbush, Brooklyn
32. Peru: Jackson Heights, Queens
33. Philippines: Elmhurst, Queens, Astoria, Queens
34. Poland: Greenpoint, Brooklyn
35. Romania: Ridgewood/Glendale, Queens
36. Soviet Union: former Gravesend/Homecrest, Brooklyn
37. St. Vincent & Grenadines: Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Brownsville, Brooklyn
38. Trinidad & Tobago: Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Flatbush, Brooklyn
39. United Kingdom: Upper East Side, Manhattan
40. Vietnam: University Heights, the Bronx, Murray Hill, Manhattan
41. Yemen: Brooklyn Heights/Cobble Hill, Brooklyn
42. Yugoslavia: former Rego Park, Queens, Ravenswood, Queens


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 17, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

No Refuge

BYLINE: By Eyal Press; Eyal Press is a writer based in New York. This is his
first article for the magazine.

SECTION: Section 6; Page 91; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3451 words



Name: Mubenga Kanyinda
Age: 28
Coming from: Congo
Looking for: Freedom

I had to leave my country," whispered Mubenga Kanyinda in a voice so soft I
could barely hear him. It was a Thursday morning in early February, and Kan-

yinda was sitting across from me inside a narrow room with pale blue walls and
harsh fluorescent lighting. He was shy and slightly bewildered-looking, with
dark eyes that circled the room warily. He wore the bright orange jumpsuit and
canvas slip-ons that are standard issue at the Wackenhut detention center, where
Kanyinda, a refugee from Congo, had spent virtually every moment since arriving
in New York 11 weeks earlier.

It's an experience that has grown sadly familiar to that special class of
newcomers -- foreigners fleeing persecution -- whom New York, and in turn
America, is supposed to be famous for welcoming. Located just past John F.
Kennedy airport in Jamaica, Queens, amid a cluster of warehouse buildings and
airport cargo stations, Wackenhut is the first, and very often the final,
destination for the hundreds of asylum seekers who arrive in the city each year.
The 200-bed detention facility, a sprawling tan-and-brown brick building
equipped with cameras and metal detectors, opened its doors in February 1997,
shortly after Congress passed the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform law. That law
included a provision, known as "mandatory detention," that requires the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to detain all asylum seekers who arrive
in the U.S. without valid documents.

Prior to the 1996 law, the I.N.S. often released newcomers who lacked proper
paperwork but were not considered a threat to the community. Under the new
policy, however, people like Kanyinda are routinely detained for months,
sometimes years, before learning whether they will be granted asylum -- or
deported to their homelands. For Kanyinda, as for many of the detainees at
Wackenhut, nothing less than survival was at stake. "If I go back, they will
kill me," he said, and proceeded to chronicle an almost surreal litany of
horrors.

Three years ago, in the spring of 1997, Kanyinda said, he was sitting at home
with his father in the southern Congolese city where he grew up when a dozen
soldiers under the command of Laurent Kabila, the rebel leader whose forces had
just deposed the long-ruling Mobutu regime, stormed the premises. Kanyinda and
his father, who had served as a conseiller, or local official, under Mobutu, and
so was a prime target for political reprisal, were whisked away to the nearby
Kasapa prison. The following night, Kanyinda heard the sound of prisoners
digging a ditch outside his cell. He would later learn that his father's body
had been thrown into that ditch.

Kanyinda spent the next 14 months in a cramped, windowless prison cell where, he
said, guards beat him repeatedly with rifle butts and cut him with knives.
Members of the Apostolic Church, a Protestant denomination to which he belonged,
eventually secured his release. He spent several months recuperating under his
mother's care. But Kanyinda's mother was an ethnic Tutsi, and in the fall of
1998 the Kabila regime went to war with the Tutsi-led government of Rwanda,
unleashing a wave of anti-Tutsi violence throughout Congo. Kanyinda and his
family tried to flee to Zambia, but their car was stopped at the border, and
Kanyinda looked on helplessly as security guards shot and killed his mother.

Kanyinda was sent back to prison, where, in one of those improbable twists upon
which survival sometimes depends, the newly appointed warden turned out to be an
old friend of his father's. In February 1999 Kanyinda was released again and
this time managed to cross the border into Zambia. He spent several months in
hiding there. Then, with help from his church contacts, he obtained a false
Canadian passport and money for a plane ticket. On Nov. 15, 1999, Kanyinda
boarded a direct flight to New York.

Freedom seemed tantalizingly near. But moments after he stepped off the plane at
J.F.K. with his black duffel bag -- his only luggage -- Kanyinda's luck ran out.
At customs, I.N.S. officials deemed his passport to be suspicious-looking, and
he was detained. During the 12-hour interrogation that followed, handcuffs were
placed once more around his wrists. The police concluded Kanyinda's papers were
indeed fake, and he was transferred by van to Wackenhut.

Though confused and frightened, Kanyinda was, in a sense, lucky. Under a
provision of the 1996 Immigration Law known as "expedited removal," immigration
officers at the airport could have simply sent Kanyinda on the next plane back
to Africa -- before he'd even had a chance to consult with a lawyer or appear
before an immigration judge. Instead, Kanyinda was stripped and fitted into
Wackenhut prison scrubs and escorted to his new home: a windowless dorm room
crammed with 40 detainees who eat, sleep, shower and go to the bathroom under
the surveillance of armed guards. When Kanyinda first realized that Wackenhut
was a detention facility, he told me, he burst into a fit of tears.

There were, however, no tears, indeed few outward signs of any emotion, during
my initial encounters with Kanyinda. When I asked him a question, Kanyinda would
nod politely, then recount details from his past in a tone that was eerily flat,
as though he were describing the experiences of another person. Long, awkward
silences would punctuate our talks, perhaps because of the language barrier.
(Kanyinda tried speaking English but often switched, midsentence, to his native
French.) Then again, his withdrawn manner was most likely a sign of
post-traumatic stress disorder, according to Dr. Kenneth Rosen, a psychiatrist
who visited Wackenhut around this time. "The magnitude of the horrors which have
befallen him," Rosen later wrote in an evaluation, "are beyond the coping
capabilities of his thought process."

Two things seemed to keep Kanyinda from losing hope. One was his religious
faith. "Each day inside, I pray," he told me. "I prefer the church to politics,
because I know a lot of people who have lost their lives to politics." More
important, he had made contact with the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, a
New York-based organization that works to provide indigent asylum seekers with
legal representation -- and advocates the use of alternatives to detention, like
refugee accommodation centers and supervised release programs. In January,
Kanyinda secured the pro bono services of Carmela Guerrero and Mina Kim, two
first-year associates at the Davis Polk & Wardwell law firm in Manhattan. In
March, Guerrero and Kim repeatedly trekked out to Wackenhut to meet with
Kanyinda and begin preparing his case. Their visits grew more frequent as the
day of Kanyinda's scheduled asylum hearing, April 26, approached.

When I visited Kanyinda a few weeks before his court date, there were signs that
he was beginning to imagine life beyond confinement.

"If the judge permits me to live outside," he said, "I will first be with the
Apostolic Church, and second find a job."

What kind of job, I asked?

"Agriculture," he answered. "Chicken incubation is something I learned in the
Congo."

When I mentioned that New York City did not exactly abound in poultry farms, he
was unfazed. "In order to sustain myself I will work at whatever is available,"
he said, smiling -- the first time I had seen him do so.

Also for the first time, Kanyinda began airing his views about Wackenhut, where,
twice in the past two years, detainees have staged hunger strikes to protest
their prolonged detention without parole. (Under current law, the I.N.S. does
have discretion to release asylum seekers on parole, but the agency's decisions
are notoriously arbitrary.) During one of the hunger strikes, a Congolese man
who'd been detained for more than a year attempted suicide by swallowing a
mixture of painkillers and Ben Gay ointment. Another man slashed his arm with a
razor blade after being placed in solitary confinement, which Kanyinda told me
was a constant fear among detainees.

"You can be put in there for anything," he said, mentioning that at one point
guards warned him there would be repercussions for meeting with me. (Kanyinda
was so frightened that he did not eat for two days and canceled one of our
interviews.) "We don't get any fresh air, any sunlight," he complained. "We
never go outside."

As I learned on a subsequent tour of the facility, there is a small courtyard at
Wackenhut, but it is enclosed by thick cement walls and a tightly woven
chain-link roof, meaning that for five months, Kanyinda had not so much as
glimpsed the open sky. On the day I visited, the facility appeared clean and
well kept, with a Ping-Pong table and TV set in each dorm, and a small indoor
recreation room, library and in-house barbershop. However, the dank air and
narrow hallways induced a sense of claustrophobia. Though I was not allowed to
speak to any detainees, several stared out from their dorms, looking desperately
bored. After 45 minutes, I needed to step outside for fresh air.

"My father used to tell me that America is a country where rights are
respected," said Kan-

yinda. "But I have not lived this as a reality." Was he craving justice?
Kanyinda smiled slyly. "I cannot speak about justice yet. Justice will come on
the 26th."

Or so Kanyinda thought. to prove that his life would be in danger in Congo,
Kanyinda's lawyers had prepared a thick raft of supporting evidence, including
an affidavit from a physician confirming that Kanyinda's arms and legs bore
lesions consistent with his account of knifings and torture. Also presented were
sworn statements from several experts on conditions in Congo, including that of
Herbert Weiss, an emeritus professor of political science at the City University
of New York. "A Tutsi connection like his is close to the kiss of death in the
Congo," Weiss told me on the morning of Kanyinda's hearing, which was held
inside a small courtroom on the second floor of Wackenhut.

Yet these arguments did not persuade Judge Steven Abrams -- largely because, at
the hearing, an I.N.S. attorney presented a seemingly authentic employment
record that had been seized with Kanyinda's personal possessions at J.F.K. This
document indicated that, from April 1994 until November 1998 -- well past the
date Kanyinda claimed he was initially imprisoned in Congo -- he had been
working as a supervisor on a poultry farm in Zambia. Kanyinda said that he had
fabricated these dates, hoping it would help him obtain a job in America. But
Judge Abrams wasn't convinced, and he ordered the lawyers to return to court on
May 17 with documents from the poultry farm in Zambia clarifying Kanyinda's
employment history, along with further verification that his father really was a
former official in the Mobutu regime. Without additional documentation, he
warned, Kanyinda's asylum application would be denied.

"I feel horrible," said Carmela Guerrero, ashen-faced, in the car ride back from
Wackenhut. She had reason to worry. Eleanor Acer, coordinator of the asylum
program at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, said: "Judges keep requesting
increasing levels of documentation for asylum seekers. The trouble is, most
refugees don't come here with any authentic documents." And they usually don't
have a lawyer either. According to a study just completed by Andrew Schoenholtz,
an immigration expert at Georgetown University, more than one-third of asylum
seekers who appear in court do so without representation. Such individuals are
five times as likely to be sent home.

Even with a deep-pocketed law firm on his side, Kanyinda's chances appeared
razor thin. How would his lawyers be able to confirm his father's identity
without access to documents in Congo -- a country engulfed in civil war where
most such records, even if they exist, are impossible to track down? And what
about the poultry farm in Zambia? When Carmela Guerrero tried calling and
e-mailing the address on the employment record, nobody answered. In desperation,
Davis Polk hired a Zambian law firm to contact the farm, but days passed without
resolution. Guerrero grew despondent. Her colleague, Mina Kim, was certain the
case was lost.

Then on May 15, two days before the hearing, an officially notarized letter from
Zambia whirred through Guerrero's fax machine. Signed by an administrator at the
Hybrid Poultry Farm in Lusaka, Zambia, the letter stated that, according to the
farm's records, Kanyinda had indeed worked there -- but only for three months in
1994. At about the same time, Guerrero received an e-mail from Jean Paul
Bolondo, a former Congolese democracy activist who now works at the World Bank,
who said he could confirm the identity of Kanyinda's father.

The lawyers returned to Wackenhut. "The last few weeks have been excruciating,"
confessed Guerrero. "You get so emotionally attached. Kanyinda told me his life
was in my hands." She entered the courtroom. Soon after, she reappeared, an
exuberant smile on her face. Kanyinda had been granted his freedom.

A few hours later, freshly shaved and dressed in jeans and a checkered shirt,
Kanyinda emerged, beaming, from behind the heavy metal doors of Wackenhut. He
inhaled his first real breath of New York air, gazed at the sun-drenched spring
sky, then tossed his possessions in the back of a livery cab. Kanyinda wanted to
see the Statue of Liberty, and so, with Carmela Guerrero and me at his side, the
livery cab barreled down the Harlem River Drive toward Battery Park, weaving
through the early evening traffic while Kanyinda stared out the window at the
towering skyscrapers of Manhattan, the largest buildings he had ever seen. When
the car stopped, we crossed the park. Kanyinda leaned over the rail outside
Castle Clinton, the Hudson River glistening beneath a delicate orange sunset,
and stood transfixed for several moments, his eyes welling with emotion.

"Justice has finally arrived," he declared.

Afterward, Kanyinda said he wanted to eat an authentic New York meal, so we went
to Katz's Delicatessen and ordered heaping corned beef sandwiches. Kanyinda
removed the top slice of bread and ate his sandwich open-faced, with a fork and
knife. "Too much," he said, staring down at his unfinished plate. But he was
happy, he said, never to "have to eat at Wackenhut again."

Kanyinda's newfound freedom hardly put an end to the challenges he would
confront. He left Wackenhut with no bank account, no apartment, limited
knowledge of English, and no known family members in the New York area. He was
so desperate for cash that Davis Polk lawyers simply gave him the $250 they had
intended to spend on a celebratory dinner. Although he would soon be eligible
for federal refugee cash assistance, this amounted to a mere $162 per month. And
while Kanyinda was eager to get a job, he lacked a work permit, which takes
months to process. "Folks who are released from detention have a tendency to
think their journey is over," said Will Coley, director of the Jesuit Refugee
Service in New Jersey, which assists asylum seekers with their transition into
society. "But it's not." Coley said he had seen former detainees in homeless
shelters and on the streets. "It's especially hard for people trying to settle
in New York City."

But New York also has its advantages -- in particular, the matrix of immigrant
communities that serves as a safety net for so many of the city's newcomers.
While at Wackenhut, Kanyinda had gotten to know several other Congolese asylum
seekers, and one of these, a man named Eddie, had a sister who told Kanyinda
about an evangelical church on Nostrand Avenue in Brooklyn that might help him
find housing. It was through the church that Kanyinda met Gigi, a friendly,
round-faced man, originally from Kinshasa (the capital of Congo), who offered
him room and board in his fourth-floor apartment in Bushwick for just $200 a
month.

Kanyinda moved into the cramped, two-bedroom quarters that Gigi already shared
with another person, and, during the next few weeks, slowly adjusted to life in
the city. To improve his language skills, he enrolled in English classes at the
downtown Brooklyn branch of Cambpo, an organization that provides free social
services to refugees. He began riding the subway, befriending people at church
and learning there was much more to New York than Wackenhut, though the memory
of being there still clearly haunted him. One month after his release, Kanyinda
joined the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights on a trip to Ellis Island, where
he met Dr. Allen Keller, who runs the Program for Survivors of Torture at New
York University's School of Medicine. Dr. Keller asked Kanyinda whether being at
Wackenhut had made it difficult for him to overcome his memories of torture.
"Being in detention was itself torture," he replied. "There is physical torture
and then there is the torture of one's morale."

Strolling through the Ellis Island Immigration Museum afterward, Kanyinda
stopped in front of a cartoon, originally printed in Puck's magazine, that
depicted a mass of immigrants lining up to enter America. "Welcome to All," read
the caption. "Oh, really?" Kanyinda commented.

Like many newcomers, Kanyinda seemed to find America an enchanting -- if unusual
-- place. "I've noticed that people here are very busy with work," he told me on
the ferry ride back from Ellis Island. "I see people who leave one job during
the day and begin another one at night." This struck him as odd, given America's
inordinate wealth. He was also surprised by the extraordinarily fast pace of
life here. "Everyone here is in a big rush," he said. But Kanyinda did not seem
intimidated. "I like New York too much," he said. "I have met many good people,
especially at church."

Among his new acquaintances, it turns out, was a relative living in the city
whom Kanyinda had never met before. "A man approached me in church one day and
asked me, 'Where did you get the name Kanyinda?' "he explained. "Then he said,
'I know who you are.' "The man, it turns out, was a distant cousin, and he gave
Kanyinda several hundred dollars.

Even with help from newly discovered relatives, however, life was far from easy.
Although Gigi had deferred Kanyinda's rent during his first months in the city,
in July he told him that he could not continue putting him up free. For several
days, Kanyinda scrambled to find housing. He eventually wound up moving into a
church shelter in Williamsburg. "It's all right," he told me, trying to remain
optimistic, though he sounded shaken.

What Kanyinda most desired was to find steady work, which, he was learning, was
readily available. One day, he called me to report that there were entry-level
openings at the Federal Express branch in J.F.K. airport. (He laughed aloud at
the idea of returning to J.F.K.) A few days later, Kanyinda informed me that he
was considering commuting to Connecticut to work at a chicken hatchery; the
prospect of resuming his old profession appealed to him. But after visiting
Connecticut Kanyinda admitted to feeling wary. "It's a very good job," he
explained. "But I was afraid. I saw only white people there."

As he weighed his options this summer, Kanyinda seemed to be putting the trauma
of his recent experiences behind him, though not so much that he forgot what it
was like to be in detention. One day in July, Kanyinda learned from his lawyer
Carmela Guerrero about a Congolese woman who was being detained at the I.N.S.
facility in Elizabeth, N. J., and who, like Kanyinda, was at risk of being
denied asylum because she lacked documents verifying her identity. The woman,
Kanyinda discovered, was from the same town in Congo as he was, and he knew her
family. Kanyinda agreed to submit an affidavit on her behalf -- an affidavit
that helped her win her case.

A few weeks later, Kanyinda visited the woman, Adolphine, in New Jersey. They
exchanged a warm hug, then talked excitedly for several hours in Swahili. The
dynamic between them was buoyant, even flirtatious. It made me wonder if a
romance might be brewing. Afterward, Kanyinda told me that while he indeed liked
Adolphine, he thought they should remain friends, since they were not of the
same tribe -- a frequent source of friction in Congo. But Kanyinda clearly felt
a deep affinity for someone whose experience so closely paralleled his own, and
who, like him, would be facing daunting challenges in the months ahead. "Some of
my friends asked me, why do you want to help her -- she is of different
ethnicity," he said. "But in Africa it's different. This is America, and here we
have to stick together."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: From top: Kanyinda at the Wackenhut detention center, near
J.F.K. Airport, with his lawyers; though his initial appeal for asylum was
declined, Kanyinda was finally released on May 17, 2000, six months after
arriving in New York; Kanyinda at a temporary apartment in the Bushwick section
of Brooklyn that he was sharing with Gigi, a fellow Congolese immigrant;
Kanyinda on a cell phone that was given to him by a cousin.; Liberty deferred:
Kanyinda, who fled political persecution and endured months of detention, has
his first taste of freedom in America. (Ben Stechschulte/Contact Press Images
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Crash Survivors Taken to U.S. Hospital

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 20


Eight Cuban survivors of a plane crash in the Gulf of Mexico were taken today to
Key West for medical evaluation, a move that is likely to allow them to remain
in the United States.

United States Coast Guard officials decided late this evening to take the eight
Cubans to hospitals in Key West so they could be treated for their injuries and
evaluated by doctors, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
said.

Once the eight Cubans set foot on United States soil, they can legally apply for
political asylum. A ninth survivor is already being treated in Key West for head
and neck injuries and is expected to be moved, perhaps as early as tonight, to
be with friends and relatives in Miami.

The decision to allow the Cubans off a Coast Guard vessel and onto American soil
was made according what Greg Gagne, a spokesman for the immigration agency,
called medical necessity.

Ten people in all were inside the small crop-duster plane when it took off from
western Cuba on Tuesday and then crashed into the Gulf of Mexico. The crew of
the cargo ship Chios Dream pulled all 10 from the water, including one man with
serious head injuries who was flown to a hospital in Key West for treatment at a
hospital and one man who was killed in the crash.

Earlier reports from the American authorities had led many here in Miami's
Cuban-American community to believe that the eight remaining passengers, none of
them with life-threatening injuries, would not be transferred to American soil
anytime soon -- or at best, that they would be taken to the United States Naval
Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where their requests for political asylum would be
heard. But Coast Guard officials apparently decided that all the crash survivors
needed medical attention.

The decision at least appears to head off another confrontation between the
Clinton administration and Miami's Cuban Americans, who had clashed over Elian
Gonzalez.

"The Coast Guard has decided to go ahead and medically evacuate the remaining
eight Cuban migrants from the Chios Dream," Petty Officer Scott Carr was quoted
by The Associated Press as saying, referring to the cargo ship. "We made the
recommendation that all the people would be brought in to the hospital so they
could be checked out medically."

The survivors were transferred from the cargo ship to the cutter Nantucket. They
were to be treated at Florida Lower Keys Hospital, Petty Officer Carr said.

Earlier in the day, Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Representative Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, both Republicans from South Florida, and the politically powerful
Cuban American National Foundation sent letters to the Clinton administration
asking that the nine survivors be granted political asylum.

"Certainly they will face persecution in Cuba for their involvement in such a
high-profile and risky attempt to flee the island," wrote Mr. Diaz-Balart and
Ms. Lehtinen, referring to early news reports that the plane had been hijacked
from an airfield in Cuba.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 23, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Iraqi Christian Refugees Plead Not to Be Deported From Mexico

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 22


Refusing to leave a Tijuana hotel, 122 Iraqi Christians pleaded today not to be
deported, saying they fear death in their homeland for their beliefs, and
awaited word on their bid for asylum in the United States as religious refugees.

The Iraqis, members of the Chaldean Christian sect, have been holed up in the
Royal Suites hotel since the middle of this week, detained by Mexican
immigration officials after entering the country illegally in hopes of crossing
into the United States.

The Iraqis pressed handwritten signs against the hotel window today pleading not
to be deported. They have refused to leave the hotel for fear of being shipped
back to Iraq and some have threatened suicide.

"They're still in the hotel waiting for a political decision from the United
States whether to give them asylum," an official at Mexico's National
Immigration Institute said.

Mexican authorities said on Thursday that the Iraqis numbered 126 but they
lowered the total by 4 today.

The group of 122 Iraqis included 20 children, 22 elderly people and 2 pregnant
women, the Interior Ministry said.

The group was allowed to stay in 40 rooms of the hotel because authorities
worried that the children and elderly would not tolerate conditions in an
official holding center.

Seventy-seven Iraqis who earlier made the border crossing have been detained or
questioned by United States immigration officials.

Over the years, members of the Chaldean Christian minority have fled Iraq
seeking a better life and religious freedom.

Many have settled in the San Diego area, now home to one of the largest Chaldean
communities in the United States, according to the Rev. Michael Bazzi, pastor at
the St. Peter Chaldean Catholic Church in El Cajon, Calif., near San Diego.

Mexico shares a 2,100-mile border with the United States and is a major route
for migrants trying to enter its northern neighbor.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 24, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For Migrants, Hard Work in Hostile Suburbs

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2088 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y., Sept. 21


When dusk comes, the streets empty and the esquineros hurry to the homes they
share with 15, 20 and sometimes 30 others to drink beer and eat supper.

The esquineros -- the men of the corner -- used to walk home alone from the
corners where they gather each morning to be hired out for yardwork or other day
jobs. Now they walk in groups. At one house, where the Guatemalans live, the
door is punctured with bullet holes; a white man recently drove by and unloaded
a pistol.

The next block over, there is a white man who put his house up for sale after 20
Mexicans moved in next door. As he pulled into his driveway, he stared at his
unwanted neighbors. He is a tough-looking guy, and he did not turn his eyes
away. One of the Mexicans wore a secondhand shirt that read, "We don't like you
either."

Up until now, the culture divide of the suburbs has been more a cold war than a
hot one, an uneasy peace with periodic clashes over public issues like limits on
the number of boarders allowed in a house or a proposal in Suffolk County to sue
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to more stringently enforce
immigration laws.

But when two Hispanic immigrants seeking work were lured to an abandoned
building on Sunday and attacked by two white men wielding a knife, a crowbar and
a shovel, the assault was a sobering reminder of the lives of the unwanted
strangers. The divide plays out in towns like Brewster, Mount Kisco and Yonkers,
N.Y., and Freehold, N.J.

But the emotions are rawest in Farmingville, where it is estimated that in the
summertime, one in 15 residents is a migrant worker. When October comes, a few
men stay, but most follow their money home.

The violence last Sunday shocked some whites and even prompted the formation of
a community group by politicians and church leaders looking for ways to ease the
tensions. But if the violence was a revelation to many whites, the hostility
behind it was hardly news to the brown men in the Goodwill T-shirts and muddy
jeans who come to the corner each morning looking for work.

Anger on Both Sides

Dionicio Urbina walked quickly through the white neighborhoods. He is 20 years
old and was shocked when some white teenagers just a few years younger than he
hurled an ethnic slur and squealed with cracking voices, "Speak English," and
"What are you doing here, Mexican?"

In the safety of his worn-down house, Mr. Urbina lay on his bedroll and listened
to a light rain pelt his window -- a bad omen for work in the morning.

"You don't know what it's like to be in a town where they hate you," he said in
nearly perfect English. "The place is so weird to me. The suburbs. I never knew
that word. In other parts of the country the Mexicans fight the Mexicans. Here,
it's the white people who don't want us. It's not the country and it's not the
city. It's strange, but, man, the money is here. I never dreamed about $100 a
day."

There are plenty of jobs in this tree-lined hamlet in central Long Island that
is home to 15,000 residents and acres of blacktop and strip malls. Mostly they
are menial jobs like cleaning pools and landscaping, and like a quarter of all
jobs in the United States, they pay about $8 an hour.

The Latinos have come in great numbers over the past four years to take the jobs
locals are unwilling or unable to do. Most are here illegally, and it is their
illegal status that most irritates local residents.

The people taunt each other. Some Americans picket the Latinos every Saturday as
they stand on the corners waiting for work. The esquineros have become schooled
in the ways of America. They picket back. And after the ambush of the two
workers, more than 500 of the illegal immigrants took to the streets demanding
their civil rights.

Every morning a throng of Latinos stand on a small mound denuded of grass but
choked with poison ivy. It is known as the esquina, or corner, and it is the
best, most visible corner around. Some men walk two hours to get to this spot at
Horseblock Road and North Ocean Avenue to be picked up for some work. It is an
hour if you run.

Farther back from the mound are some trees where men go in the sweltering
mornings to relieve themselves or smoke a little marijuana. Next to it is the
7-Eleven, and even though there is a sign in front of the store that says
"Welcome to Farmingville," the esquineros know that they are not welcome.

Here, 300 brown men on the corner are as obvious as a herd of ostriches.

Before, they accepted their lot as unwanted outsiders. But the beating of the
two men has made the esquineros angry. "Man, they want you here in the mornings
to do their animal work and then at night they want you to disappear," said
Carlos Antonio, 19. "If they want war, if they want Pancho Villa, then I can be
Pancho Villa."

The American dream for the esquineros is to find a way off this corner. They
tell the legend of the two brothers from Hidalgo who found their way to
Farmingville 20 years ago. The brothers worked as stone masons and returned to
Mexico with a fortune. Others followed, and now the esquineros come from all
corners of Mexico and Central America.

Lalo Cervantes, 37, comes. He is from Mexico City. He has gold in his teeth, and
when he has no money in his pocket, he looks for a little work. Carlos Antonio
comes too. And Gabriel Jimenez. Mr. Cervantes and Mr. Antonio speak good
English. Mr. Jimenez, 23, comes from the mountains. He is a peasant and
understands little English beyond push, pull, lift, over there, how much? and,
do you buy lunch?

Often a carful of young white women drive by and whistle at the men. Sometimes
they give the men the finger. Either way, the men shout back with dull
agitation. They have grown used to it. White people have complained to the
police about the men harassing American women.

"I wouldn't let my woman walk by here either," Mr. Cervantes said. "To tell you
the truth, the whole scene does look bad. But it all gets mixed up in racism.
It's not because we're Mexicans. It's because we're construction workers,
because we are men."

The morning traffic must make a right turn out of the 7-Eleven. And when the
Americans make the turn, they look left and avoid looking right at the
esquineros.

When they do look, their cars are swarmed with workers. One American woman
looked with purpose and lowered her power window. "I only need one," she said.
She had some yardwork. When a man jumped in, the ribaldry began.

"Big gringa in a big car," said Armando Perez, rubbing his palms together.
"Thick and soft. That's your American girls. Their husbands go to work and I
think they are lonely just like us."

The esquineros would like a woman of any kind. There are few Mexican women out
here, and the only companionship for them arrives in vans on Friday and Saturday
evenings from Queens. The price is $20.

A Day's Labor for $100

A white man pulled up in a big white truck. He was new to the corner and had
never hired esquineros before. Messrs. Jimenez, Antonio and Cervantes piled in.
The patron spoke loudly, as if the sheer volume of his voice would increase
their understanding of English. "Boy, that's a zoo, huh? A free for all? You do
that every day?"

He took the men to a chic neighborhood in Port Jefferson. You could smell the
saltwater first, then you could see the boats. Then, over a slight hill was the
patron's dream house. It had a pool, and it cost $25,000 just to clear the
trees. Where the trees used to be were 24,000 square feet of bald earth where
the men were to lay the sod. Lalo Cervantes, with his nice English, became the
crew chief. The boss's wife was very particular about her grass. But Mr.
Cervantes was assiduous. He calmed the woman.

The day was hot. The boss kept saying it wasn't too hot. Mr. Cervantes kept
asking how much money he would be paid.

"I'll take care of you," the boss kept answering. The workers grew suspicious
that they would not be paid.

Most workers will return with $100 in their pockets after long, dirty hours. A
few will get nothing. They will get stiffed, and when they return home, all they
will carry is malice in their hearts and a vague promise to get even with that
gringo boss.

This boss had nice cars and two grown sons with Adonis-like bodies. They like to
go to the gym, the woman kept saying. One son drove a Mercedes, the other a
Porsche, and they lifted no sod.

"It's strange," Mr. Antonio said in Spanish. "These guys don't know the value of
what they've got. Big bodies and no work. This must make the old man sad."

When the work was done, the boss handed two new $50 bills to each man and said:
"You boys know anything about air-conditioning? I fired my whole crew because
they're lazy. You guys like to work hard. I'll give you that."

He handed out his card and dropped the workers on the corner.

"Oh man," said Mr. Antonio, tapping the card with his nails. "It's my dream to
get off the corner. Here's my ticket." He never did call the man.

Thirty Men, One House

The men walked down Horseblock Road to the Brewery, a cantina with gray walls
that is one of the few places the cultures overlap: the American war veterans,
the Portuguese-American contractors and the esquineros.

A man named Alex Martinez held his head in his hands, his elbows on the bar. He
stared into his plate. He had problems with his American girlfriend, he said.

"She just doesn't understand," he told any stranger willing to listen. "All the
things. The car. She wants more. I tell her, 'I work for these things. Do you
know the value of work?' I don't think she does. We come from different places."

There is a ranch house off Horseblock Road. In the house are 9 bicycles, 13
toothbrushes, 30 men, a big bottle of bleach, a pot of boiling chicken and five
lingerie catalogs. The rain began to fall again. Some men sat around the dirty
kitchen drinking beer and complaining about work.

"The boss, he tells me he's going to pay me only $50 because he says I don't
work."

"Fifty dollars? The garbage. So what did you do?"

"What could I do? I took the fifty."

In the morning, more rain fell, and work was scarce. Across the street, white
people picketed, as they do every Saturday, with signs that read "Go Home" and
"Stop the Crime." A man drove back and forth taking photographs of the
esquineros.

"I've got nothing against immigrants. Immigrants built this country," said the
photographer, David Drew, 48. "But these aren't immigrants. They're criminals
taking advantage of a good thing. It's like putting bread out for the birds and
the rats eat it."

The Mexicans understood his English. "This guy, he's not stable," Cesar Perez
said.

The esquineros have learned to stick up for themselves. Encouraged by men like
Carlos Canales, an outreach worker for the Work Place Project, the esquineros
have staged demonstrations at the County Legislature when it considered passing
laws aimed at them. They hold news conferences and picket the homes of
contractors who do not pay their employees.

During one of these vigils, among taunts of "You make me sick," and "My father
came here legally," a group of Latino men with varying shades of skin spoke with
two white women, one old, the other young.

"Listen to me, please." the older woman said. "I've got nothing against you
personally. But you are here illegally. There are too many of you. We're
inundated. You take the money home and make no life here. You don't learn
English."

A brown man responded in clumsy English, "But Spanish is the second language of
the world."

"And guess what the first is," the woman said. "It's the language we speak in
this country."

Pay the Rent or Else

When the white people showed up at the corner with signs on a wet Saturday
morning a few weeks before the attacks, the esquineros pulled out their own
banners and signs. They crossed the street to confront the white people. The
white people ran away to the taunts of "fascistas!"

By 10 a.m., the rain was still falling and the men went home. At the ranch house
on Horseblock Road, the landlord arrived wearing a dime-store badge. He had a
siren in the window of his car. He was fond of telling the esquineros that he
was a federal agent. He told them that if there was any trouble, if any man
moved in without paying the $250 rent, then he had the power to arrest him, even
to shoot him.

This made the Mexicans laugh. "It's really unbelievable the life here," Mr.
Urbina said. "These are the things the men go home to tell their families about
America."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two Mexican immigrants who were lured to an abandoned factory
by a promise of work and then severely beaten are being advised by the Rev.
Allan Bryon Ramirez, center.; Immigrants waiting for jobs on a corner in
Farmingville, N.Y. Latinos have arrived in great numbers here to take jobs that
local residents are unwilling or unable to do. Men like Lalo Cervantes, far
left, and Dionicio Urbina, near left and below, can up to earn $100 a day, but
they also face hostility. "You don't know what it's like to be in a town where
they hate you," Mr. Urbina said. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York
Times)(pg. 42); Immigrants seeking work swarmed a pickup truck in Farmingville
on Long Island. Only one job was offered. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg.
1)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths
GROCHOWSKY, JOAN CAROL

SECTION: Section C; Page 31; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 105 words


GROCHOWSKY-Joan Carol. On September 24, 2000 at age 53. Survived by her devoted
husband Gerald, Deputy District Director, Management, of the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service in New York City, her devoted daughter Jennifer
Alison, her loving father William Fliegelman, Retired Chief Judge U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, her loving mother Shirley, her dear
sister Susan Oseroff and beloved nephew Marc. She was an outstanding public
school teacher who received many accolades. She will not be forgotten. Funeral
services Wednesday, 12 noon at "Sinai Chapels", 162-05 Horace Harding Exp, Fresh
Meadows, NY

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 27, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Discretion and the I.N.S.

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 159 words



To the Editor:

Re "Correcting a Mistake," by Anthony Lewis (column, Sept. 23):

The action of the House of Representatives in correcting a cruel legislative
mistake that caused immigrants to be deported for minor offenses is laudable.
One wonders how any measure so patently unjust was made law in the first place.

Much has been made of the need for Immigration and Naturalization Service agents
to use discretion in administering this law, urging them to have "forbearance."
But if the use of "forbearance" became policy, wouldn't this misplace power and
invite arbitrary decisions based on an agent's personal prejudices?

Congress must assume full responsibility for this law, which is creating
unnecessary human tragedies in a world already rife with them. There are two
obvious ways this could be done: by repealing the law or subjecting deportation
measures to judicial review.

G. RANDOLPH BISHOP
Sarasota, Fla., Sept. 24, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 28, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THEATER REVIEW;
A Welcome to America That Touches All Bases

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 783 words


A deeply satisfying new musical, with much on its mind about history, humanity,
man and God and the American Dream, is beckoning to theatergoers with a taste
for rich characters in a tale that touches the heart, glows with humor and
soothes the ear.

Its title is "The Immigrant," and with its splendid cast of four and its
sensitive direction by Randal Myler (a Tony Award nominee for "It Ain't Nothin'
But the Blues"), this show marks an auspicious beginning for CAP21, a nonprofit
artistic project development company, at its theater at 15 West 28th Street.

"The Immigrant" is at once a tale of the bereavement and beauty of immigration,
of a struggle for personal survival paralleled by the struggle to maintain
religious tradition in a land of assimilation, and of a long, initially unlikely
friendship colored by love and conflict in a world where bigotry, pogroms and
genocide know no borders. Most of all, it is a story of faith and hope.

With a book by Mark Harelik, based on his widely produced play of the same
title, "The Immigrant" revisits the life of his grandfather, Haskell Harelik, a
young Jew who fled the pogroms of old Russia and reached the United States in
1909 as part of a little-known chapter in the story of migration from the Old
World to the New.

Haskell Harelik did not arrive as one of the hordes who passed through the
terrifying examinations at Ellis Island and became part of the teeming masses of
Manhattan's Lower East Side.

Instead he was part of the Galveston Movement, conceived and financed by the
philanthropist Jacob Henry Schiff, which routed 10,000 Eastern European Jews
from Bremen, Germany, through Galveston, Tex., and into the labor-needy
industrialized West between 1907 and 1914.

So, at the outset of "The Immigrant," Haskell Harelik, parched and near
collapse, is wheeling his heavy barrow of bananas (a penny each) through his new
hometown, Hamilton, Tex., population 1,203, not yet counting Haskell, its only
Jew.

As pivotal moments in life go, Haskell (played by Evan Pappas) has the good
fortune to be overcome outside the home of Milton Perry (Walter Charles), the
local banker, and his wife, Ima (Cass Morgan).

Milton is not exactly overjoyed to encounter the dirt-streaked Haskell, who is
still more at home in Yiddish than English. But as Milton's churchgoing,
crucifix-wearing Baptist wife, Ima (Cass Morgan), counsels him, "Now behave like
a Christian."

Before long Haskell not only has some water and a clean face but also a room in
the Perry home, for which he proffers a dollar from the sock where he also keeps
his papers. Milton refuses. "Ten," he thunders. Haskell is astonished until
Milton makes clear that he means 10 cents.

And so as the years from 1909 to 1942 pass, the lives of the Hareliks and the
Perrys intertwine. Milton, as banker, adviser and friend, fosters the growth of
Haskell's business, from pushcart to vegetable store to dry goods establishment
to department store. Haskell saves enough money to bring over his wife, Leah
(Jacqueline Antaramian), who is racked by loneliness and fears the loss of her
Jewish traditions. Ima wishes Milton would be baptized. As Haskell prospers,
Leah bears him three sons, the arrival of each marked by the planting of a tree.

And as World War II looms ever nearer, the long relationship between Haskell and
Milton reaches a crisis over a Sabbath dinner.

The pleasure of the show's music, with Sarah Knapp as lyricist and Steven M.
Alper as composer, is that it is always at the service of its strong characters,
as are the costumes by C. David Russell, the lighting of Jane Cox, the hair and
makeup designs of Mitch Ely, the scenery by Beowulf Boritt and the musical
direction of Albert Ahronheim. Among the songs, "The Stars," which opens the
evening, well merits its three reprises.

And the four principals do themselves, their collaborators and the generations
of Hareliks proud.

THE IMMIGRANT

Book by Mark Harelik; lyrics by Sarah Knapp; music by Steven M. Alper. Based on
the play "The Immigrant" by Mr. Harelik. Directed by Randal Myler; sets by
Beowulf Boritt; lighting by Jane Cox; costumes by C. David Russell; sound by
Randy Hansen; dialects, K. C. Ligon; hair and makeup, Mitch Ely; production
stage manager, Vienna Hagen; company manager, Sharon Hamlet; general manager,
Abbie M. Strassler; musical direction by Albert Ahronheim. Presented by
Collaborative Arts Project 21, Frank Ventura, artistic director; Peter T. Van
Wyck, managing director. At CAP21, 15 West 28th Street, Chelsea.

WITH: Evan Pappas (Haskell Harelik), Cass Morgan (Ima Perry), Walter Charles
(Milton Perry) and Jacqueline Antaramian (Leah Harelik).


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Evan Pappas plays a new arrival in "The Immigrant," a musical.
(Joan Marcus/"The Immigrant")

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

FOLLOWING UP;
Seafaring Smuggler Awaits His Freedom

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 329 words


The first time that Amir Humuntal Lumban Tobing, an Indonesian mariner, was
washed up into the American legal system, it was in a wave of international
notoriety.

He was the captain of the Golden Venture, above, a decrepit freighter that was
grounded off the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens in 1993 after plans to land the
boat's cargo of nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants went awry. Ten immigrants
drowned or died of hypothermia after swimming toward shore, and nearly all the
rest were taken into custody by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
incident was among the first to focus attention on the large-scale smuggling of
Chinese to the United States.

Mr. Tobing served 41 months in a federal prison after pleading guilty to
conspiring in the scheme. At his 1994 sentencing in Federal District Court in
Brooklyn, he apologized, saying the smugglers had forcibly gained control of the
ship.

He cooperated in the investigation, which led to guilty pleas and varying
sentences for more than 20 smugglers and crew members. He completed his sentence
in February 1997 and returned to Indonesia.

Today, Mr. Tobing, 51, is again in a federal prison in the United States. In
December 1997, he was captured with two Americans several miles off the
Washington State coast near the end of a two-and-a-half-month journey across the
Pacific from Thailand in a 54-foot sailboat. The cargo was 12,000 pounds of
marijuana.

Mr. Tobing and the crew pleaded guilty to conspiring in drug smuggling, and he
was sentenced to seven years in prison.

At his sentencing last November in Federal District Court in Seattle, Mr. Tobing
once more apologized, recalled his lawyer, David S. Marshall. Mr. Marshall said
that in a recent telephone conversation from the federal prison in Michigan
where he is now in dry dock, Mr. Tobing indicated that home shores beckoned.
"He's eager to get back to Indonesia and see his family," the lawyer said.
JOSEPH P. FRIED


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Inspectors Are Judge, Jury and Deporter, Report Says

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1183 words


Richard Riley arrived at Kennedy International Airport two years ago a carefree
college freshman, just back from a Christmas break visit with his mother in
Jamaica. He left the airport 12 hours later shackled, accused of trying to enter
the country with falsified documents.

Mr. Riley, who was then and is now a legal resident of the United States, said
immigration inspectors rejected his proof of residency, strip-searched him twice
and kept him shackled to a bench in a busy airport office overnight.

"They laughed and made fun of me, saying that Jamaicans only live here to mop
floors," recalled Mr. Riley, now 21 and a senior at Syracuse University. "It was
a lot of mind games."

He was eventually freed from a detention center when the Immigration and
Naturalization Service verified the validity of his documents. But others were
not so lucky, according to a study made available yesterday by the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights.

With sweeping personal discretion to deport illegal immigrants, I.N.S.
inspectors have mistreated or turned away legal visitors as well as victims of
torture who had credible claims for political asylum, the report concluded.

"The bottom line is we don't think anybody ought to be sent back without access
to a judge," said Elisa Massimino, director of the Washington office of the
Lawyers Committee. "It's not appropriate for an administrative person to be the
final arbiter in this when the stakes are so high."

The power to order immediate deportations, or expedited removals, as they are
called in legal terms, was granted to immigration inspectors in 1996. The power
grew out of the widely held perception that waves of foreigners were entering
the country illegally, and then disappearing, by taking advantage of lax border
controls and generous treatment of asylum seekers.

It amounted to a sharp increase in responsibility for the I.N.S. enforcement
officers at airports and land borders, and to a major change for asylum seekers,
who after making their escapes from their troubled homelands often arrive in the
United States with false documents.

Trained asylum officers or judges once determined whether applicants had
credible fears of persecution or torture at home, but now immigrants must first
make their case to front-line immigration inspectors. The inspectors decide who
may stay to make a formal asylum claim.

Those suspected of traveling on false documents, or without the proper
documentation for entry to the United States, can now also be deported by an
inspector without a hearing or an appeal.

Critics of the expedited removal process have long complained that immigration
service inspectors lack the training and resources, such as certified
translators, to make such delicate, swift and final decisions.

But immigration officials said they had loaded the process with safeguards like
a requirement that inspectors always ask those facing deportation whether they
fear returning home. "We understand that when you've got an asylum seeker, the
stakes can be immeasurably high and the cost of a mistake can be immense," said
Bo Cooper, the general counsel for the immigration service. "So we have tried to
put in place every institutional safeguard that is practicable."

Mr. Cooper said he could not comment on the specific incidents cited in the
report because he had not read it through.

The immigration service does not publish detailed data on the expedited removal
process. What is known about the experience has generally come from immigrants
and travelers who managed to remain in the country, or re-entered later, and
then told their stories. In its report, the Lawyers Committee compiled the
accounts of more than 100 such people -- a minuscule fraction of the 189,000
people summarily deported -- over the last three years.

The accounts suggested that at least some immigration inspectors treated the
people they detained callously, frequently used shackles and handcuffs to
restrain them for hours, and provided no translators or sometimes hostile
translators for those who did not understand what was happening to them.

One incident involved a prominent Chinese dissident, Liu Nianchun, who was
detained at Kennedy Airport in April 1999 as he returned with a visitor's visa
after testifying at a United Nations human rights conference in Geneva.

Immigration officers threatened to deport him to China, where he had once been
imprisoned, because, they said, his visa was not valid. Mr. Liu, who does not
speak English, spent the night chained to a bench. When he fell asleep, officers
kicked him to wake him, according to his lawyer, Howard Sullivan.

Mr. Liu was eventually released and won political asylum in the United States.

In an incident last January, the report said, a political dissident who had been
tortured and imprisoned in Guinea arrived at Kennedy to seek asylum. Lacking a
visa and unable to fully explain his wishes in English, he spent 55 hours in the
airport, chained to a bench.

Immigration officials decided to summarily deport him, the report said. Weeping
and struggling, he had to be carried toward a plane. Only after immigration
officers dropped him, injuring his shoulder, was he returned to the airport and
interviewed by a different inspector, who believed he had a credible fear of
persecution.

The man, still fearing for his family in Guinea, was not named in the report.

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the New York district of the immigration service,
which oversees operations at Kennedy, said he could not discuss any specific
case. But he denied that inspectors had abused travelers they were investigating
or disregarded any immigrant's expressed fear of being deported.

"They're incredibly civil and sensitive to these people's plight," Mr. Thorn
said. "Nobody wants to send somebody back where there would be fear of reprisal
or even death."

As for the use of shackles, he said restraints protected the safety of
immigration officers and those they detained. "The expedited removal process,"
Mr. Thorn added, "can be very stressful to the individual, and the individual
may not know how he or she is going to react."

Reports of abuse, physical restraint and insensitivity have also emerged from
other airports and border crossings. Last summer, Oregon officials accused the
immigration service of mistreating many Asian business travelers at the Portland
airport, including a Chinese businesswoman with a visa who was strip-searched
and jailed because inspectors doubted the validity of her passport.

According to the Lawyers Committee, immigration inspectors repeatedly provided
Serb translators for ethnic Albanians fleeing Serb persecution in Kosovo. Women
who said they had been raped in their home countries had to recount their ordeal
to male translators, the report said.

"The sheer volume of these accounts, and their consistency in describing certain
types of conduct by I.N.S. officers, makes it clear that there are widespread
miscarriages of justice in the current expedited removal process," Ms. Massimino
said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Voices Concern for Cuban Whom Mexico Sent Back to Havana

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 5


The State Department expressed concern today about the fate of Pedro Riera
Escalante, a former Cuban intelligence official who sought political asylum here
but was forcibly repatriated to Havana on Wednesday.

The United States Embassy here called on the Mexican government to take
responsibility for Mr. Riera's fate. The Mexican government, after sending armed
immigration agents to seize Mr. Riera from a sidewalk in this capital and
putting him on a plane to Havana, said it had instructed its embassy in Havana
to try to monitor what was happening to him.

"We are very concerned about the human rights implications raised by this action
and have asked for a full explanation" from the Mexican government, said a
spokesman for the United States Embassy, Stephen B. Morisseau. He said
Ambassador Jeffrey Davidow had asked the Mexican Foreign Ministry to take
responsibility for Mr. Riera.

"Given the involvement of the Mexican government in this matter," Mr. Morisseau
said, "we believe they have a special responsibility to ensure the safety of
this individual in Cuba."

Mr. Riera landed in Havana on a commercial flight in the custody of a Mexican
immigration agent, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. He is "under the Cuban
government's jurisdiction," the spokesman added.

Mr. Riera's fate is uncertain, but conceivably dire. He worked here in the post
of consul in the Cuban Embassy from 1986 to 1991, he told human-rights advocates
here who had been trying to help him gain asylum for four weeks. But in reality,
he told them, he was a major in the Cuban spy service, the General Directorate
of Intelligence, and had for 20 years run operations aimed at disrupting the
Central Intelligence Agency.

He said he had broken with the agency and wanted to leave Cuba. The service does
not look kindly on dissenters, and former United States intelligence officials
said Mr. Riera would most likely face a secret trial and, at best, a long prison
sentence.

Diplomats here said they could only speculate on why the government had seized
and deported Mr. Riera. One said because Mr. Riera's work here included
recruiting Mexican officials, it was possible that Mexico wanted to avoid a
potential spy scandal in the government.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 14, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Blaming Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words


Next time you are stuck in traffic, blame an immigrant. That seems to be the
message of a deplorable advertising campaign by the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), an advocacy group that seeks to restrict immigration.
FAIR's broadcast and print ads highlight the ills associated with suburban
sprawl, then point to immigration as the underlying culprit. FAIR ran
anti-sprawl commercials earlier this year in Iowa and South Carolina during the
primary season, and is now concentrating on the Washington D.C. area.

The notion that foreign immigrants are primarily responsible for out-of-control
sprawl in American cities is absurd. Cities experiencing no population growth
also grapple with excessive sprawl, which suggests that faulty urban planning,
demand for new housing and tax and transportation policies are the real
culprits. Immigrants, in any case, congregate in city centers and older suburbs.

In May The Times reported that FAIR had run ads in Michigan suggesting that
Senator Spencer Abraham's pro-immigration stance would make it easier for
terrorists like Osama bin Laden to attack America. Such preposterous ads clearly
spring from a sense of desperation among anti-immigration groups. Stoking
anti-immigration rage is not an easy task when the nation's unemployment rate
has dipped below 4 percent, and when the job market is eagerly seeking not only
cheap labor for menial tasks but also skilled foreigners to keep the high-tech
revolution in gear. Indeed, last week Congress voted to nearly double the number
of visas for foreign workers with high-tech skills.

In the early 1990's, groups like FAIR and politicians like Patrick Buchanan and
Pete Wilson attacked immigration as a threat to the economic security of
millions of Americans. Today such claims ring hollow, and Gov. George W. Bush of
Texas deserves credit for altering the tenor of his party's rhetoric on
immigration.

Rather than await the next economic downturn to vilify immigration once again,
FAIR is trying to piggyback onto a legitimate concern to stir up anti-immigrant
sentiment. Do not be surprised if it next blames immigrants for air traffic
congestion and high fuel prices.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 16, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Amid the Isolation, Finally, a Friend;
A Movement to Confront Hidden Abuse in Immigrant Families

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1579 words


She arrived in New York less than four years ago, a bride from India hoping for
a good life with a man who bragged of being a millionaire. The reality broke her
heart and nearly cost her life.

Pervinder Kaur, the hopeful bride, knew very little English and less about
America. Alone and vulnerable, she saw herself turned into a prisoner of her
in-laws' home, forbidden to make friends outside the family. Her husband tried
to force her to turn over money, then beat her, she said.

But two phone calls set her free. Finally, she called the police, who got an
ambulance and sent her to a hospital. Later, she called Sakhi.

"Sakhi is my family now," she said.

Sakhi -- the name means "female friend" in Hindi -- is a still-struggling,
10-year-old support group based in Manhattan and run by South Asian women to
help other women from India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal and Indians in the
Caribbean. It is part of a growing movement led by young South Asian-Americans
who want to confront social issues that have often been taboo in their homes and
neighborhoods.

Sakhi teaches women about their rights and how to exercise them in the United
States. Among its services, the group helps women find places to live. It also
offers language assistance and legal advice in court cases and dealings with
city services. Sakhi volunteers, some of whom are lawyers, sometimes accompany
women to the courts, or to interviews with the police or other city agencies.

Similar organizations have formed in recent years in Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Illinois, Texas, California and Washington State. They all offer not just help,
but also the comfort of a familiar culture in an alien world.

"They spoke so nicely to me," Ms. Kaur said in a soft voice, remembering her
first contact with Sakhi volunteers. "They talked in my language. Until then, I
could not talk about it, what had happened. I always started to cry."

Now, there is a chronicler for the work of these organizations and the issues
they confront. Margaret Abraham -- born in India, a Ph.D. from Syracuse, head of
the sociology department at Hofstra University -- could be just one more story
drawn from the most successful new immigrant group in the United States.

Statistically, Indians have the best educations and earn the most money among
new Americans. They enjoy an annual wage almost double the national average, and
wield buying power of as much as $20 billion each year, according to the news
magazine India Today.

But Dr. Abraham was troubled by something not readily discussed among South
Asians here, the domestic violence that arrived in the social baggage of
migrants from the Indian subcontinent. She began to wrestle intellectually with
what she called "the myth of the model minority."

"Any strong community is one that celebrates and takes pride in its
achievements, but also acknowledges and takes action against its social
problems," she said. "That makes for a stronger community."

In most of South Asia, the status of women, Hindu and Muslim, is measurably the
lowest in the world. Women like Ms. Kaur often arrive in New York as brides in
arranged marriages, strangers to American life and to the men they marry.

Thousands of miles from home and family, they are easily victimized. Fearful of
summary deportation and unable to make themselves understood to the police and
the courts, where they sometimes meet derision if not hostility, they endure
abuse in silence. Some die.

As a sociologist, Dr. Abraham said, she saw abuse compounded by the failure of
social and legal services to deal effectively with poor, often illiterate,
non-English-speaking victims of any ethnic group. With the encouragement of
Hofstra, she set out to document the phenomenon of violence in South Asian
families. This year, her book, "Speaking the Unspeakable: Marital Violence Among
South Asian Immigrants in the United States," was published by Rutgers
University Press.

Dr. Abraham's book, which not only tells a series of tragic stories but also
looks at ways women fight back, reinforces the experiences of Sakhi volunteers.

They have seen women in New York who have been psychologically wounded,
physically battered, beaten and burned. In India, by its government's own
figures, at least 6,000 brides are burned to death every year because the dowry
they bring to a marriage is deemed too small -- or because a husband decides he
does not really like the woman selected for him by his parents.

Megha Bhouraskar, legal counsel to Sakhi, said the organization grew out of a
demonstrable need. "Existing organizations were calling individuals, saying, 'We
have such-and-such person in our office,' and there were language issues or
cultural issues -- a communications problem." Volunteers were found to help.

"At that point, none of us had this expertise," Ms. Bhouraskar said. "Some of
the situations involved women we knew personally, and we would have never known
that they were in this situation except that we got a call."

Courts and welfare organizations frequently do not understand the dynamics of an
extended South Asian family, where an abused woman may need a restraining order
not only against her husband but also against her in-laws, said Prema Vora, who
was Sakhi's executive director until last month.

It is hard to quantify domestic violence among South Asians in New York, said
Dr. Abraham, because the work of Sakhi and other organizations is relatively new
and Indian immigrants have been reluctant to explore the issue.

With the help of research from Columbia University's Social Intervention Group,
Sakhi has begun to develop a local database. The organization gets 15 to 30 new
calls for help each month.

The New York City Police Department is working with Sakhi to train officers to
deal with abuse in South Asian families. And in recent months, Sakhi has moved
into new territory, taking its campaign to Hindu temples, Sikh gurudwaras and
churches that Indian Christians attend, said Dr. Abraham, whose South Indian
family is Catholic, part of India's Christian minority, from the state of
Kerala.

Hindu temples are important institutions for women fighting domestic violence
because they are avenues for working within Indian culture, not in conflict with
it. Moreover, some temples here are susceptible to a rising tide of Hindu
fundamentalism in India. Indian-American women want to deliver a different
message.

"We are trying to take space in the community and not let the fundamentalists
define it for us," Dr. Abraham said. "Our community cannot be defined by one
group. We are a huge spectrum of people."

Dr. Abraham, who is married to an Indian and has a 7-year-old son, was
criticized at first for airing the subject of violence. "There was negative
reaction: 'Why are you bringing this out?' " she said. "We have not just
addressed the issue of domestic violence, but challenged the myth of a model
minority and also addressed issues of class, race and caste."

Purvi Shah, a writer and graduate student in English literature at Rutgers
University in New Jersey, said her generation's job was to "provoke our
community not to accept violence."

"We spoke first of domestic violence because that was an easy, coherent,
immediate problem," she said. "But now, if we look at the directions we're
moving, we also look broadly at issues of sexual violence and incest," subjects
about which there is still a huge silence in among Indians, she added.

Young Indian women, and men, are showing a greater interest in social issues,
both here and in India, the women at Sakhi say. Gulab Bhouraskar, a ceramic
artist and Megha Bhouraskar's mother, recalls a time when New York had only a
few professional families from India preoccupied with establishing themselves in
a new country.

"We were building a community, and our thoughts were like, 'Where do you find a
grocery store, where do you find a priest, where do you find fresh cilantro' --
it was those basic issues," Gulab Bhouraskar said. "But over a number of years,
the community has grown and all levels of society have come, so all issues have
come."

Most women in South Asia are illiterate, and as more are brought here as brides
or domestic laborers, the pool of vulnerable women grows. To them, the outside
world is strange and terrifying. Even taking a subway train can be intimidating.
That was Pervinder Kaur's story.

Her new husband -- who, she soon discovered, had been married and divorced three
times -- first put her to work in a gas station. Then, as she became more
confident, he confined her to the family home. They had a daughter. "He knew I
loved her," Ms. Kaur said. "He threatened to take her away from me."

The story could have ended in violence and death, as others have. But Sakhi
helped her through her husband's arrest (the case is pending), a divorce,
English lessons and training as a medical assistant. Living alone with her
daughter now, she is a new woman. To prove it, she shows photographs of herself
as a frightened immigrant, taken only a few years ago. The contrast with the
confident woman she has become is startling. Ms. Kaur is so self-assured that
she continues to worship at the Sikh gurudwara her ex-husband attends. It sets
an example for others, and is an act of bravery, Dr. Abraham said.

Less than two years after those two fateful telephone calls that changed her
life, Ms. Kaur said, "I feel very good. And now I know a lot about this
country."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sakhi, a Manhattan-based support group, helps women from South
Asia learn about their rights in America. The group's name means "female friend"
in Hindi.; The author Margaret Abraham, with her son Arun, works with Sakhi.
(Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 17, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Inquiry on Moneymaking at Dominican Consulate

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1986 words


At the Dominican Republic's consulate in New York, there seemed to be fees for
everything. And for Dominicans, the city's largest and poorest immigrant group,
almost all of the fees seemed excessive.

Cartas de ruta, common travel documents, cost $75. The fee for the right to
transport a body back to the Dominican Republic for burial was as much as $150.
Shipping high-end items like appliances required an administrative charge of
$190. If it was a car, there was a $200 authorization fee. There were special
stamps needed on documents and photographs that could only be taken by the
consulate.

The scene at the consulate in Times Square had never rested easy with New York's
booming Dominican population, but by last year the levies had become so varied
and expensive that a certain outrage began to take hold.

There were, after all, by then more than 50 fees for assorted services and some
of the highest prices anywhere for necessities like passports -- $200, more than
double what other countries in the Americas charged. (A United States passport,
for example, costs $60 for Americans 16 and older and $40 for those under 16.)
The consulate even required its officials to fill out forms for certain services
-- forms that applicants could have filled out themselves -- and then charged
for it.

For decades, the Dominican consulate had served as an unusual, highly effective
kind of moneymaking machine, one that could, in a good month, take in $600,000.

"The consulate was supposed to be there to serve us," said Juan Abreu, a bodega
owner who faced mounds of paperwork and high fees when he tried to transport the
body of a friend back home for burial. "That's what it was created for. But
everything there was money, money, money."

The suspicion that the consulate's ever-escalating fees were improperly abusive
-- long the belief among the hundreds of immigrants who filed through the office
at 1501 Broadway six days a week -- is the focus of a formal investigation by
the newly elected Dominican government. Federal prosecutors in Santo Domingo,
the capital, are looking into how the consulate's revenues were spent and
whether Bienvenido Perez, the consul general from 1996 to 1999, manipulated
prices to benefit himself.

The Dominican government official now in charge of the country's consular
affairs division summed up his appraisal of the consulate's recent conduct with
scorn: "The idea," said the official, Jose Alejandro Ayuso, "was that anyone
entering the consulate would go out without a cent in their pockets."

According to current and former consulate officials, as well as Dominican
politicians both here and in Santo Domingo, the revenues generated at the office
went not only to the central government, but also to the country's president and
various senior political party officials. The consul general, too, was allowed
to keep a percentage of the fees taken in by his office. The arrangement, while
perhaps not known to the public, was widely accepted as customary and
appropriate in Dominican political and governmental circles.

State Department officials in the United States say it is impossible to say
whether the practices of the Dominican office are, in whole or part, carried out
in the consulates of other countries. But interviews with knowledgeable American
diplomatic officials suggest that the Dominican operation in New York, one of 17
Dominican consular offices in the United States and Puerto Rico, was hardly
typical. Now, though, the Dominican government's inquiry is seeking to determine
whether Mr. Perez's operation of the consulate, and the money he took from it,
went beyond what was proper.

"It is evident that the consul general's office has been a fountain of wealth,"
Virgilio Bello Rosa, the new federal prosecutor in the Dominican Republic, said
in a telephone interview from Santo Domingo. "It's evident the consul has a
right to take some of that money. What we need to do is see if it was done
legally or outside the law."

Already, the new Dominican government has pledged to clean up its New York
consulate, with plans including random inspections and a computer system that
will allow the foreign ministry to track revenues, said Mr. Ayuso, who has been
named by President Hipolito Mejia to take charge of consular affairs.

The government also says it plans to lower some fees and control the power of
the consul general, ensuring that a larger percentage of revenues do not simply
wind up with top party officials.

"Now the consul doesn't have to give to the president of the republic, nor to
the vice president, nor to the secretaries, nor to the financing of campaigns,"
President Mejia said in an interview. "Now the consul does not have to siphon
money off from his countrymen."

Mr. Perez, 44, who was removed from the consulate last January but has not been
formally charged, denied any wrongdoing or that he enriched himself during his
tenure. He has since moved back to the Dominican Republic.

"If you look at all the consulates, the one that was most open, most
transparent, was ours," Mr. Perez said in a telephone interview. "We are at
peace because we know we acted openly and honestly."

However the government's investigation turns out, the role of the consulate,
both historically and under Mr. Perez, provides a window into how its importance
to central government leaders grew markedly as the Dominican immigrant enclave
in New York, long centered in Washington Heights in Upper Manhattan, ballooned
from 70,000 people in 1970 to an estimated 600,000 today.

For the ruling party in Santo Domingo, recognizing the financial benefits of its
consulate in New York was not hard given that the Dominican community, perhaps
more so than any of the city's myriad immigrant groups, is characterized by an
undying devotion to the homeland.

Dominicans, for example, follow politics back home so closely that candidates
frequently visit New York to raise money and generate support. Dominicans here
also maintain strong economic ties, sending hundreds of millions of dollars home
each year, and return there in striking numbers to conduct business, vacation
and scout for retirement homes.

The consulate thus found itself with a great degree of importance and money.
With a nonstop clientele -- the consulate serves, on average, 300 people a day,
six days a week -- daily revenues under Mr. Perez ranged from $25,000 to
$75,000, according to the consulate's daily audits, copies of which were shown
to a reporter. Anywhere from a fifth to a third of that would be under the
consul general's control.

Mr. Perez was installed in the post after successfully running Leonel
Fernandez's 1996 presidential campaign in New York. The two had met back in the
Dominican Republic through the Dominican Liberation Party, known as P.L.D.,
where Mr. Perez had been a young devotee and Mr. Fernandez a rising star.

When Mr. Perez took office in 1996, the money-generating operation at the
consulate had been in place for more than 30 years. But Mr. Perez proved more
adept than his predecessors at making the most of his opportunities, according
to interviews with more than 40 former and current central government officials,
consular employees and P.L.D. operatives.

Mr. Perez quickly increased fees, according to the consulate's financial
records. Cartas de ruta, forms that allow Dominicans without passports to return
home, went from $10.71 to $75. The fee for transporting a body for burial
doubled to $150.

"Dominicans all feel the same about this, it's pure robbery," said Isidora Pina,
a consultant for Rivas Travel in Washington Heights. "It's taking our money for
no reason."

According to both the consulate's financial records and a number of its current
and former officers, Mr. Perez had access to a range of fees. For every $200
passport, for example, $29 would go to the fund run by Mr. Perez, the officials
said. For every $110 charged for power of attorney documents, $75 came under Mr.
Perez's discretionary control, they said.

Take Sept. 24, 1996, when the consulate earned $27,323. A consulate official who
worked under Mr. Perez said more than $6,000 of that went to pay the office's
costs, including salaries; $16,548 went to the central government. The rest,
$4,452, went to Mr. Perez, the official said.

Mr. Perez said those former consular officials who accused him of making
thousands of dollars daily were either political enemies or ignorant of consular
finances. He acknowledged receiving 25 percent of revenues, but only from the
nine fees paid on items shipped to the Dominican Republic. He denied raising the
fees at all.Mr. Perez said most of his income came from his $1,200-a-week
salary.

But to the Dominicans in New York, who have a median household income of
$20,000, the lowest of all major immigrant groups in New York, the costs hit
hard. Among the most hated was a $100 parental authorization form, which was
required for children to travel alone.

"I didn't like this abuse, and I did think it was abuse on the part of the
authorities," said Lourdes Luciano de Valdez, who complained to American
officials that the Dominican authorities prevented her daughter from returning
to New York two summers ago because the authorization fee had not been paid.

Even Dominican government officials shared that view. "It was a consulate that
ran by its own rules," recalled Maria Cristina Aguiar, the former Dominican
ambassador to the United Nations. "They had their own code. And in the end, they
had exorbitant power."

Whether Mr. Perez's management ultimately was merely typical or something worse,
the former consul general clearly became a lightning rod for the anger of
Dominicans in New York.

By mid-1999, the situation at the consulate had evolved into a scandal so
glaring that it had become the subject of news coverage back home. The leading
magazine in the Dominican Republic, Rumbo, had done an expose on the consulate,
and an issue rarely addressed there became a campaign theme. Many in the P.L.D.
think the controversy hurt the party's bid to retain the presidency.

"The campaign against the consulate had a lot of force with the Dominicans in
New York, and they play an important role sustaining the Dominican economy,"
said Jimmy Sierra, an aide to former President Fernandez. "That caused the
people to look badly at Bienvenido Perez and the party, and this clearly was one
of the reasons for the P.L.D.'s showing in the last elections."

Officials in the new government say a preliminary audit has shown the consulate
was left with a $61,000 debt and a $20,000 credit card bill in Mr. Perez's name.

President Mejia said in an interview that confidence can only be restored by
curtailing the power of future consuls. "We're going to make sure he doesn't
become a strongman," he said. "Right now, people don't believe in my consul, or
in the last one or in the ones in the past. Why? The Dominican has lost
credibility and faith in these officials."

Those who have long pushed for reforms say they are going to be carefully
watching the consulate.

"They say, as it's expected, that the office will not be just for revenues but
one that will offer services to the community," said Dinorah Cordero, who works
with Dominican immigrants at the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant
Rights. "And we're expecting them to live up to the promises."

The new consul, Luis Eludis Perez, said the lower fees and fewer travel
requirements will take hold starting in January. He said the new consul general
will still have the power to withhold some of the fee money to pay wages and
other costs, but insisted that the rest would go to the central government's
coffers.

"We want to keep our word," said the new consul, who headed the Mejia campaign
in New York. "We want people to know we're not just for revenues, but also an
agency serving the people."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 19, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Union Treasurer Charged With Cheating Immigrants

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 618 words


A traffic officer who also serves as the treasurer of a public employees union
was charged in court yesterday with cheating two recent immigrants of more than
$1,600 while running a tax and immigration aid business.

Two women paid the officer, Fernando Rodriguez, 46, a Police Department employee
who is also a certified public accountant, to help them with tax and immigration
paperwork, but he funneled the money to his union and to himself, said Lee
Llambelis, an assistant district attorney.

Mr. Rodriguez is the treasurer of Local 983, which represents 3,500 city
employees who drive motor vehicles. He was arraigned yesterday in Manhattan on
charges of scheming to defraud, grand larceny and petty larceny.

Mr. Rodriguez, who lives in Hackensack, N.J., faces up to four years in prison
if convicted. The charges follow a 10-month investigation by the Police
Department's Internal Affairs Bureau.

Local 983 is part of District Council 37, an umbrella union of municipal
employees that has been plagued by corrupt officials and long-running criminal
investigations. Mark Rosenthal, president of Local 983, said he did not know of
any illegal activities involving Mr. Rodriguez.

Mr. Rodriguez ran his business out of a travel agency on 47th Street near Eighth
Avenue in Manhattan, Ms. Llambelis said. That was where Arcelia Zacarias
approached him in 1998 for help with her taxes. Ms. Zacarias gave him an
unaddressed postal money order worth $651 to pay taxes that she owed in 1997,
Ms. Llambelis said.

He gave Ms. Zacarias, a cleaning woman who made $6,000 a year, a receipt showing
that he was making the payment to the Internal Revenue Service, the complaint
said, but the I.R.S. soon notified Ms. Zacarias that her taxes had not been
paid.

The United States Postal Service later told investigators that the money order
was made out to "Local 983 DC 37 AFSCME" and had a note saying that the payment
would go to a Hurricane George relief fund, according to the complaint.

Ms. Zacarias's sister, Rosio, also went to Mr. Rodriguez, seeking help with her
immigration petition. She gave him more than $1,000 in cash and a postal money
order to be made out to the Immigration and Naturalization Service to pay for
fees, the complaint said. Investigators later found that the money order, whose
amount was not specified in the complaint, was deposited into Mr. Rodriguez's
bank account, according to the complaint.

"He used money collected from these individuals to benefit himself or ventures
related to his union activities," Ms. Llambelis said in court yesterday.

She added that Mr. Rodriguez was convicted in 1986 on a federal conspiracy
charge, but she declined to elaborate.

Mr. Rodriguez was suspended by the Police Department, where he has worked since
1986. In 1998, Local 983 elected him treasurer, largely because he was an
accountant. He handled an annual budget of $500,000 and helped the local pay off
more than $100,000 of debt to District Council 37.

"It's a surprise to me because Fernando has done a really good job," said Mr.
Rosenthal, who ran for union president on an anticorruption platform. "But I
have to maintain the integrity of Local 983, and I'm going to ask him to
resign."

On Tuesday, an official of District Council 37 pleaded guilty to stealing more
than $3,000 by using a corporate credit card to pay for personal items. Last
week, two vice presidents pleaded guilty to pilfering hospitality money and
taking vacations with it.

And in July, two top former officials were convicted of helping rig a 1995
contract ratification vote.

Police officials and prosecutors said that they were still investigating whether
Mr. Rodriguez duped more victims.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 20, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

An American Calculus: Immigration and Sprawl

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 105 words



To the Editor:

The Federation for American Immigration Reform attributes a great deal of
responsibility for America's urban sprawl to immigration (editorial, Oct. 14).
Having seen how difficult it is to recruit and retain highly educated technical
professionals, the overwhelming majority of whom are foreign-born, all I can say
is, "Nonsense!"

I've had to jump through hoops to employ such people, and believe me, there were
no American-born I could find after a year and a half of hiring.

I'm really tired of these xenophobes making needless paperwork for me.

JOHN M. KOWALSKI
Camas, Wash., Oct. 14, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Women, And Their Fate

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 162 words



To the Editor:

You offer a compelling and sympathetic picture of women who immigrate to the
United States based on marriage to an American citizen only to find themselves
captive and abused (news article, Oct. 16). But there is another point of view.

I have practiced immigration law for more than 20 years and have represented
American men who marry foreign women in their home countries. In these cases,
the husband spends significant sums of money on a dowry, medical bills and legal
fees to bring his new wife to the United States. Once here, the loving wife
becomes a harridan who reveals that she has achieved her goal -- obtaining a
green card -- and leaves, claiming abuse.

The husband, completely humiliated by this rejection, will not speak out about
this miscarriage of justice. Therefore, the bride gets the green card; the
husband gets nothing. As usual, there are two sides to every story.

LYNDA S. ZENGERLE
Washington, Oct. 17, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Women, And Their Fate

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 164 words



To the Editor:

Your Oct. 16 news article about a community program for South Asian immigrant
women corresponds with what social workers find across cultures, including other
Asian, Middle Eastern and Balkan women, and those from Africa, Eastern Europe,
Latin America and the Caribbean.

Immigrant women enduring domestic violence share much in common, especially
isolation, shame and fear. Often they have trouble getting access to resources
because of their immigration status, and worry that if they complain about an
abuser, they will be deported. Their challenges may be compounded by traumas and
losses endured before leaving their countries of origin, and en route.

With culturally informed intervention and responsive community support, these
women can become active members of the New York City community.

MADELYN MILLER
New York, Oct. 16, 2000

The writer is chairwoman, Disaster Trauma Working Group, N.Y.C. National
Association of Social Workers.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 29, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Farmingville Organization Shows Ugly Side

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 25; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 356 words


So the Sachem Quality of Life Organization is surprised that so many Long
Islanders view them as anti-immigrant extremists "Border Warriors," Oct. 22 ?
What do they expect when one of their spokesmen said in published reports that
the Army should be sent to Farmingville? When asked what the Army would do
there, he responded that they would tell the immigrants to move on, if not, they
would be shot. This same spokesman, Ray Wysolmierski, has publicly called
Americans who have spoken up against the harassment of Latinos in Farmingville
"traitors" and suggested that justice for such individuals would include
hanging.

Two days after the beating of Mexican day laborers by avowed white supremacists,
I attended a peaceful vigil in Farmingville calling for the prompt arrest of
those involved. Sachem counter-demonstrators harassed those at the vigil,
cursing at us, telling Latinos to "go back to where they came from" and in one
case spitting on a Salvadoran-born U.S. citizen who had the effrontery to stand
quietly for justice in Farmingville. Sachem's leader, Margaret Bianculli-Dyber,
had to be repeatedly restrained by the police as she screamed at those at the
vigil that "America is not a country of immigrants," and that we were liars when
we said that it was. Her hot-headed behavior could have caused a riot and it is
a tribute to the Latinos she tried to intimidate that it did not.

Sachem is not an ordinary community organization concerned about taxes, safety
and community standards. It is a hate group that attacks immigrants, Catholics
(whom its supporters call "papists") and anyone who appeals to reason and
compromise. In its public presentations, it has peddled conspiracy theories
about immigration involving a web stretching from the Vatican to the Ford
Foundation, and has hinted darkly that immigrants in Farmingville are the
leading edge of an invasion force designed to restore the American Southwest to
Mexico! Long Islanders are rightly concerned that such an organization not
pretend to speak for them.

PATRICK YOUNG
Program Director
Central American Refugee Center
Hempstead


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 31, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The Desperate Risk Death in a Desert

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

DATELINE: SASABE, Mexico


Wire fences are all that mark the border here between the United States and
Mexico. Still, Juan Flores, a 31-year-old Mexican farmer tired of living on $5 a
day, said that sneaking north would be anything but easy.

The land, he said, is a death trap.

Standing on the southern side of the fence recently, Mr. Flores stared out at
the endless desert that stretched into Arizona. If all went well, he figured, it
would take him two days to cross the rattlesnake haven and reach the nearest
Arizona highway. Thanks to a few days of rain, the afternoon temperatures had
dropped to a bearable 88 degrees, but at night, he worried, they could fall into
the low 60's.

To keep his load light, Mr. Flores carried only two apples, a bag of tortilla
chips and a gallon jug of water. But after viewing the mountainous terrain
ahead, he wondered whether he would have enough to drink. "I am not worried that
the migra will catch me," he said, using the migrants' word for the United
States Border Patrol. "I am worried that if I get lost the migra will not catch
me."

Once as barren of people as it is of rainfall, the desert here is the one of the
newest and fastest growing gateways to the United States for illegal Mexican
immigrants. But it is also one of the most inhospitable regions of North
America, known for fierce winter storms and 110-degree summer temperatures that
turn the ground into a human grill. As the flow of immigrants here thickens, the
area Mexicans call the Altar Desert has become a place of ultimate sacrifice.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 369 immigrants have
died trying to cross the border since last October. Some 100 of those deaths
occurred along the Arizona-Mexico border, up from 19 deaths in 1998. A majority
of the Sonora-Arizona deaths were caused by hypothermia, dehydration and
drowning.

Mr. Flores, a stout man with the coarse and stubby fingers of someone who works
the land, said he had heard dozens of stories about immigrants who had died from
exposure to the heat and cold this year crossing the Altar Desert. He
acknowledged that the journey ahead might seem foolhardy.

But then he talked about the needs of his wife, and of their dreams for their
three children, especially his newest son, born just two weeks earlier. He said
he was determined to try. "Of course I am scared," Mr. Flores said. "But it's
better to be scared and try to make a better life for my family than to stay and
watch them go hungry."

Mexican government officials and human rights advocates say the soaring desert
death toll is evidence of the failures, and some say cruelty, of recent United
States border enforcement operations. Those operations have doubled the number
of agents along the border, concentrating them in major urban areas like El
Paso, San Diego, Brownsville and, most recently, the Arizona cities of Douglas
and Nogales.

But from Sasabe, population 3,000, it is clear that the increase in agents along
the United States side of the border has not stopped immigrants from their
illegal crossings. It has caused them to cut new channels through more perilous
areas.

"We cannot resolve the migration phenomenon with more agents," said Roberto
Rodriguez Hernandez, the Mexican consul in Nogales, Ariz. "We have to find more
creative and imaginative ways; ways that address the need for workers in the
United States and the lack of good opportunities in Mexico."

But he acknowledged that such solutions are a long way off. "In the meantime,"
he said, "we have been increasing our efforts to make immigrants safe."

Officials of Grupo Beta, a Mexican agency created several years ago to protect
the rights and security of immigrants, carry rehydration kits and antivenom
medicines in their vehicles for emergencies. They said they had rescued more
than 1,000 immigrants this year. Specially trained units of the United States
Border Patrol have made close to 2,400 rescues.

In the town of Altar, the last stop in civilization for most migrants headed
into the Arizona desert, churches have begun offering them free meals and
residents have opened boarding houses where they can get a bit of rest before
moving on.

It is a dust bowl of a town off the highway to Tijuana. The tallest building is
the church, where an altar is decorated with banners that read, "This is a place
where migrants are recognized and treated as brothers." Surrounding the plaza
are rows of check-cashing counters and taco stands that have opened in the last
few years to serve the migrants.

Residents of Altar said the downtrodden strangers began passing through a few
years ago, arriving in twos and threes. Today they come in busloads, from 300 to
800 each day. They fill the plaza and wait for paid guides, called coyotes, who
promise them safe passage across the desert for fees ranging from $100 to
$1,000.

Many do not get their money's worth. Officials on both sides of the border say
the coyotes often tell migrants that the journey takes hours, rather than days.
And once paid, the coyotes often abandon those who run out of water and feel too
weak to keep going.

"We try to tell the people not to cross in the desert," said the Rev. Rene Luis
Castaneda, the priest who serves the small ranching communities around Sasabe.
"They can make more money over there, but no amount of money is worth their
lives." With a shrug, he added, "Most don't listen."

Librado, 50, a father of three who would not give his last name, said he had
come to the desert from the lush, tropical state of Veracruz.

"Everything looks the same," he said. "I hope I will be able to tell whether I
am walking forward and not backward." The landscape here looked to him like the
surface of the full moon that shone above.

And from where he stood, he said, the United States seemed just as far away.
Turning to a new acquaintance before setting off on his journey, he sought some
reassurance.

"You think we will make it?"


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An illegal immigrant entering Arizona near Sasabe, Mexico. As
the United States has stepped up border enforcement, particularly in the cities,
the migrants have opened up new channels in perilous areas. (Terrence Moore for
The New York Times)

Map of Mexico shows the location of Sasabe: More illegal immigrants are entering
the United States from Sasebe.

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 2, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Close the Golden Door

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 130 words



To the Editor:

Re "Cracks Found in the Myths Around Statue" (news article, Oct. 28):

You say immigrants were not popularly connected with the Statue of Liberty until
the 20th century. Indeed, the statue is not a welcome mat for immigrants but is
instead a revolutionary symbol to stay home and create one's own democracy.

The Emma Lazarus poem should be removed from the statue's pedestal. It
perpetuates the myth that America can grow forever, which is false. The physical
requirements of so many people are destroying our country's environmental
carrying capacity and our natural heritage.

The "golden door" of immigration should close; otherwise, there will be nothing
but pavement from sea to shining sea.

BRENDA WALKER
Berkeley, Calif., Oct. 31, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 4, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Second Suspect Is Charged in Attack on Immigrant Laborers

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Nov. 3


After being the target of a 45-day search through three states, the second
suspect in the beating of two immigrant day laborers turned himself in to the
Suffolk County police and was arraigned today.

The man, Christopher Slavin, 29, a construction worker from Holbrook, was
charged with two counts of attempted murder and two counts of aggravated
harassment in the attack. The police say that he and Ryan Wagner, 19, of
Maspeth, Queens, who faces the same charges, lured two Mexican day laborers from
Farmingville to an abandoned factory in Shirley on Sept. 17 with promises of
work. They then attacked them with construction tools and a knife, the police
said.

Like Mr. Wagner, who was arraigned Oct. 11, Mr. Slavin has numerous tattoos,
including a swastika, a skinhead walking a pit bull and carrying a baseball bat,
and a skinhead threatening a caricature of a Jew with a hammer or an ax.

Judge Joan Genchi of Suffolk County District Court in Central Islip ordered Mr.
Slavin held without bail. If convicted, he faces a maximum of 50 years in
prison.

He surrendered to the police on Thursday, and will appear in court next
Wednesday, after his case is presented to the grand jury hearing Mr. Wagner's
case.

Mr. Wagner told the police that Mr. Slavin had called him early on the morning
of the attack and suggested that they go out to beat up some Mexicans.

Tensions between immigrant workers and residents in the Farmingville area had
been running high before the attack, with local protests against the day
laborers, who gather on a busy corner in the mornings looking for work.

One of the victims has returned to Mexico, while the other, who suffered more
serious knife wounds, remains in Farmingville. The police have requested that
the victims' names not be published because of concern for their safety.

Mr. Wagner told the police that he acted in self-defense. His lawyer, Robert J.
Del Col, said there was a "strong possibility" that Mr. Slavin would also claim
that he did the same.

"He turned himself in because he was under the impression that he was going to
be charged with some very serious crimes and wished to engage in the process of
defending himself," Mr. Del Col said.

Mr. Del Col discounted Mr. Wagner's statements that portrayed Mr. Slavin as the
instigator in the attack.

"It's not unusual in criminal prosecutions to have a co-defendant in a heinous
crime trying to lay off the guilt to another defendant," Mr. Del Col said.

Mr. Del Col said he did not know if Mr. Slavin was a member of any white
supremacist groups, but said he had "deep-rooted religious convictions" and "a
deep-rooted belief in the tenets in the Holy Bible." Mr. Slavin had no record of
felonies, and his only previous problems with the law were in the order of a
citation for driving without a license, his lawyer said.

"He appears to me to be a very insightful, quiet individual, introspective, not
obnoxious or bold or brash in any way," Mr. Del Col said. "He has a rather
demure demeanor."

Detective Sgt. Robert Reecks said Mr. Slavin was charged with the crimes based
on information from other witnesses and police investigation, and not solely on
Mr. Wagner's statements.

The Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church, who has
been advising the victims of the attack, said, "What's most important at this
point is that we have a speedy and swift trial because these two men have
suffered enough already."

The victim who remains in the country is considering going back to Mexico, Mr.
Ramirez said. "He has no money, but he still has to eat and pay rent," he said.
"He can't work."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Looking at Sachem Group In Farmingville

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 25; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 170 words


A letter to the editor Oct. 29 paints the Sachem Quality of Life Organization as
a racist, bigoted group. In actuality what this group wants is one thing. They
wish the government to enforce the law. Hundreds of thousands of people enter
this country illegally every year. Studies have shown that this flood of people
keep wages lower then they would be. The people who are harmed most are minority
citizens who are displaced from entry-level jobs. The ones who gain are
employers, who save money on wages. In addition this illegal immigration is a
cause of overcrowding of our schools and increased taxes.

Is it racist for concerned citizens to want their government to enforce the law?
Is it racist to be concerned about overcrowded schools and declining housing
values? Our already generous country allows more legal immigration than the rest
of the world combined. Illegal immigration, no matter of what nationality, race
or country of origin, should not be tolerated.

ROBERT F. LaPORTA
Dix Hills

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEW YORK ONLINE;
A 'Welcome' in 16 Languages

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 5; The City

LENGTH: 423 words



New Immigrant Community Empowerment
www.nynice.org

Most grassroots immigrant organizations focus their efforts on a single national
or ethnic group. But New Immigrant Community Empowerment, or NICE, tries to
bring together all newcomers and give them a political voice. The group was
organized in perhaps the perfect place, Queens, possibly the most diverse county
in the nation, by Bryan Pu-Folkes, a public-interest lawyer whose mother is
Burmese and whose father is Jamaican.

The organization was born when Mr. Pu-Folkes and other Queens residents became
enraged by an anti-immigrant billboard erected last summer in Sunnyside by a
group called Project USA. In response, they created a poster that highlighted
immigrants' contributions to America. Since then, NICE has grown to include 27
organizations and hundreds of people. Members have held a conference, run
workshops and spoken before the City Council. This summer, the group went
online.

When the American Immigration Control Foundation sent an anti-immigrant letter
to residents of Sparkill, N.Y., in August, the Web site encouraged visitors to
send a "virtual postcard" protesting the letter directly to the sender. Within a
week, more than 700 people -- including East Asian, South Asian, Hispanic and
Eastern European immigrants -- did so.

WHAT YOU SEE -- Once visitors to the site stop trying to identify the flashing
flags in the upper-left corner of the home page, they can check out current NICE
initiatives like the Government Access and Reform Campaign. There is also a quiz
on immigration, and there is an invitation to send a virtual postcard to the
American Immigration Control Foundation. More instant postcards are being
tested, said Larry Schimmel, the site's Webmaster and a NICE founding member,
and soon visitors will be able to send more customized messages to public
officials and organizations.

There is also a community newsboard and calendar, which list coming events of
interest in New York City, including workshops for entrepreneurs, grant
opportunities and multicultural activities for children.

LINKS -- Sparse, for now, although that's intentional. NICE is soliciting links
and will scan each suggestion to make sure it is consistent with its mission.

WHAT YOU GET -- The latest on the activities of an unusual organization,
information on ways to get involved politically on local immigrant issues,
listings for events in New York's immigrant communities, and how to say
"welcome" in 16 languages.   SETH KUGEL


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawings

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 9, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Tolerance and German Nationalism

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 396 words


Friedrich Merz, a parliamentary leader of Germany's conservative opposition
party, the Christian Democratic Union, created a stir recently when he said that
immigrants must adopt German "Leitkultur," or "guiding culture." The statement
harked back to the dangerous German tendency to equate nationality with
ethnicity, and is rightly considered menacing to outsiders. Prime Minister
Gerhard Schroder, a Social Democrat, decried the use of the term, saying his
opponents were "playing with fire." Jewish leaders in Berlin also expressed
concern about the remark.

Coming 10 years after German reunification, Mr. Merz's "Leitkultur" statement
quickly led to a soul-searching debate about the nation's identity.  Two
underlying and related questions drive the debate: To what extent is the Federal
Republic still a country on probation, as it was throughout the cold war? And
can German nationalism again be an acceptable sentiment? Laurenz Meyer, the
Christian Democrat general secretary, proclaimed that he was proud to be German.
By contrast, Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, of the environmentalist Green
Party, said that strident German nationalism inevitably evoked the memory of
Auschwitz.

Germans should feel proud of their contemporary stabilizing role in Europe and
in the mature democracy they have built. But nationalism is a loaded concept,
pregnant with nostalgia for a shared past and traditions, and Mr. Fischer is
right to insist that German nationalism cannot be akin to its American or French
counterparts.

The Christian Democrats issued a manifesto on Monday reiterating the call for
immigrants to embrace the "guiding culture" in Germany, yet redefined the
worrisome term to include a respect for the Constitution and for such liberal
values as women's rights. The ambivalence is troubling.

After the campaign finance scandal involving former Chancellor Helmut Kohl, the
Christian Democrats are searching for a winning issue. Exploiting the
anti-foreigner sentiment is tempting to some party members. To her credit,
Angela Merkel, the party's leader, has been pushing for a more benign view on
immigration, and business interests are calling for more immigrant workers.

All mainstream parties should embrace the principle of a fully tolerant society.
Only then will the outside world be entirely comfortable with a resurgent German
pride.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 12, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Removal of Billboard Threatens Free Speech

SECTION: Section 14; Page 21; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 147 words



To the Editor:

I was appalled by the attitudes of the government officials described in
"Billboard Foes Yearn to Breathe Free Without Its Presence" (Oct. 22).

As distasteful as the anti-immigration message of the ProjectUSA ad may be, the
Port Authority has no business censoring any message posted on its billboard. If
the agency is going to make the space commercially available, that space should
be available to any company or organization willing and able to pay its price.
Otherwise the authority should get out of the advertising business.

The fact that "several elected officials condemned the latest sign" only angered
me further. No doubt they felt that such pandering to the electorate would lead
us to forget that they were also condemning one foundation of this country of
immigrants: the freedom to speak our minds.

MARY HABSTRITT
Upper West Side


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 971 words



ASIA

PAKISTAN: NEW EXILE CONSIDERED -- Two days after exiling former Prime Minister
Nawaz Sharif to Saudi Arabia, Pakistan's interior minister told the state-run
news agency that the military government would consider exiling the husband of
former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, Asif Ali Zardari, left, if he surrendered
his assets. Ms. Bhutto and Mr. Zardari have both been convicted on corruption
charges. Ms. Bhutto lives in England. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)

INDIA: PARLIAMENT STILL DEADLOCKED -- A deadlock in Parliament continued for the
sixth day over opposition demands for the resignations of three ministers
charged with involvement in the destruction of a 16th-century mosque eight years
ago. Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, whose comments on the mosque's
demolition stirred up the issue again, says he is willing to clarify his
position in a statement to Parliament, but the opposition is demanding a full
debate.  Celia W. Dugger (NYT)


HONG KONG: IMMIGRATION VICTORIES -- Hong Kong chalked up two victories in
policing the flow of immigrants in and out of the former colony. A local court
rejected the appeal of more than 5,000 mainland Chinese immigrants who are
demanding residency in Hong Kong. About 1,300 immigrants have already left
voluntarily. On Sunday the Hong Kong police found 12 mainland Chinese stowaways
in a shipping container bound for the United States. They arrested 11 people
believed to be part of a smuggling syndicate.  Mark Landler (NYT)

EAST TIMOR: WAR CRIMES INDICTMENTS -- The East Timorese filed their first case
against an Indonesian Army officer for crimes against humanity. A new prosecutor
general for the territory indicted the former deputy commander of special forces
in the town of Los Palos, Lt. Sayful Anwar, and 10 others on 13 counts of
murder, torture and forced deportation of East Timorese in August 1999. They are
accused in the murders of five clergymen, two church workers, an Indonesian
journalist and a teenager.
 Barbara Crossette (NYT)

JAPAN: FUJIMORI A JAPANESE CITIZEN -- The government has determined that the
ousted Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori holds Japanese citizenship, which
could allow him to stay in Japan as long as he wants, an official said. An
investigation found that Mr. Fujimori was born in Peru but was registered by his
parents at a Japanese consulate, making him a Japanese citizen, the official
said. The official, who works in the Foreign Ministry's Latin American division,
spoke on condition that he not be identified.  (AP)

THE AMERICAS

PERU: EX-SPY CHIEF HIRES SWISS LAWYER -- The fugitive ex-spy chief Vladimiro
Montesinos has hired a lawyer in Switzerland to try to block Peru's attempts to
investigate at least $70 million of suspected profits from arms dealing, the
government's investigator said. A special state's attorney, Jose Ugaz, said he
met last week with Zurich's district attorney, Cornelia Cova, who told him the
lawyer is "surely going to file appeals" to Peru's requests to review the
sources and destinations of money that flowed through "17 frozen accounts linked
to Montesinos or his inner circle." Peruvian investigators believe that Mr.
Montesinos amassed a fortune from arms dealing and drug trafficking.  (AP)

CANADA: MONTREAL PROTEST -- About 75,000 people protested Quebec's plan to merge
28 municipalities into a Montreal mega-city. In a demonstration on Sunday, which
drew almost double the number of people expected, organizers repeatedly called
the provincial government undemocratic, noting that the separatist Parti
Quebecois had held two referendums on independence, but refuses to hold
referendums on municipal mergers.
 James Brooke (NYT)

TRINIDAD: DIVISIVE ELECTION -- A governing party dominated by people of East
Indian descent and a largely black opposition party competed in an election that
has bared racial divisions. Voters will determine whether the United National
Congress of Prime Minister Basdeo Panday, the country's first Hindu leader,
remains in power. Some people openly refer to the National Congress as the
"Indian party" and to the People's National Movement of former Prime Minister
Patrick Manning as the "African party." (Reuters)

EUROPE

GERMANY: REACHING BACK -- Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer has agreed to appear
on Jan. 16 as a witness in a terrorism trial dating back 25 years to his days as
a left-wing radical. The case centers on Hans-Joachim Klein, 52, and Rudolf
Schindler, 57, who are charged with murder and attempted murder in an attack on
a conference of OPEC oil ministers in Vienna in 1975. Mr. Fischer, left, knew
Mr. Klein as a fellow member of the leftist movement of the late 1960's.  Victor
Homola (NYT)

MIDDLE EAST

IRAQ: 'OIL FOR FOOD' EXTENDED -- Iraq accepted the terms of a new six-month
extension of the "oil for food" program under which the government of President
Saddam Hussein can sell unlimited quantities of oil to pay for civilian goods.
But it then again demanded that oil buyers would have to pay a surcharge on each
barrel, which the United Nations has ruled illegal. The new contract adds
electrical and housing supplies to the list of goods Iraq can import without
permission and gives the Iraqis access to $525 million for repairs to oil
industry installations.  Barbara Crossette (NYT)

AFRICA

IVORY COAST: SOCIALISTS' BIG GAINS -- The socialist party of President Laurent
Gbagbo made huge gains in the Sunday election. Results showed that Mr. Gbagbo's
Ivoirian Popular Front had increased its seats in Parliament to 83 from 13,
while the former governing Democratic Party saw its 146-seat majority cut to 68.
Independents won 15 seats. But it was still too early to say which party would
control Parliament.  (Reuters)


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 19, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Adjusting to America's Christmas;
Immigrants Balance Santa and Their Personal Traditions

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words


Perhaps they were myths that were destined to fade, subsumed just as Saturnalia
was by the Romans in the middle of the fourth century A.D. into Christmas
itself. Images of sleighs, reindeer, snow-capped white clapboard houses and
portly gentlemen in tweed toasting the Yuletide always seemed somewhat
incongruous among the apartment blocks in Jackson Heights, anyway.

The Irish, the Italians, the Greeks and the Puerto Ricans in New York have
always used Christmas to retreat into the cocoon of their lost worlds, ones
where coins were baked into cakes or the Epiphany was celebrated as the date the
divine was first revealed to humankind.

"We used to have nice decorations on Main Street," said Theresa Lanczki, 80, as
she sat having a coffee in a Korean pastry shop in Queens. "We used to have big
Hungarian gatherings," she continued. "We even had them after the war, but by
the 1950's everyone became more and more American. The social clubs closed. I
used to go to the library for Hungarian books. One day I stopped. I turned to
English."

The city's newest wave of immigrants, for whom Christianity is often an alien
and mystifying religion, have even more radically sliced and cut, discarded what
does not work and ignored what is inconvenient to fashion a palatable Christmas.
The mutations represent at once the weary resignation of immigrants who must
learn to accommodate, yet struggle to cling to the traditions and culture they
have left behind.

Small trees go up, mostly for children conditioned in school and by television
to expect them, and then disappear once the children are grown. Gifts are
exchanged over curry dishes and traditional celebrations prolonged to merge into
the strange American holiday.

Singh Manjit, 26, one of the owners of the Jackson Diner, which serves Indian
food, put up his colored lights in September for the Hindu new year, Diwali.
Like most Hindus in Jackson Heights, he will take them down in January. The line
between Diwali and Christmas is never demarcated.

"I do not know if you can say that we celebrate Christmas," he said, a row of
colored lights blinking behind him over the bar. "We buy gifts. We even put a
tree in the house, although most of us wonder how this thing with the tree got
started. I like my Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. I watched these cartoons when
I was little, but as for Jesus Christ we have taken Christmas to the next level.
We like more the Santa Claus thing than the Christian thing."

Ann Lam, a Chinese immigrant who owns a small pharmacy, said she let her
children exchange gifts, but would have nothing to do with Christmas stories.
"We celebrate it like any holiday," she said. "It is a day off. But I do not put
up a tree. I trained my children not to believe in this Santa Claus."

If there is a common tie, it is the chance by immigrants to take time off from
long and exhausting jobs, eat a meal and give gifts. Few said they carted
armloads of presents.  Santa Claus, they say, is acceptable because it is
benign. The figure of Christ, especially for communities like the Indians or the
Koreans that have sizable Christian populations among them, is too loaded to be
incorporated into the celebration for the entire community.

"A large number of Koreans in New York have converted to Christianity, and many
of them are very fanatic," said a community leader, Hyunjoo Park Kwon. "They
believe in the fundamentalist religion and seek God's help. For those who are
not Christian, Christmas is celebrated more like New Year's Eve. We all go out.
We give gifts. But it is not a Christian Christmas."

Bobby Johal, a Sikh from India who no longer wears his turban, is an
enthusiastic supporter of the holiday, in part because his sales soar. He drove
to Long Island to buy $350 worth of Christmas decorations last week for his
small store, 74th Street Audio and Video in Jackson Heights.

The shop sells Indian music and movies. He hung red stockings with the names of
the Sikh employees from the ceiling, dangled small Santa Claus figures on nylon
threads over the counter and put a Santa Claus figure in the window. He and his
employees, he said, will all don red caps in a few days.

"The Sikhs really like Christmas, more than the Hindus," he said. "I think the
Hindus never really like having to celebrate other religions. But we love it.
Sikh cabdrivers put on red turbans and hang wreaths on the back of their cars.
About 40 percent of all Sikhs live outside the Punjab, so they absorb the
Western culture easier. People go back home and tell their relatives about
Christmas."

"We don't always understand it," he said. "As a kid I never understood this tree
thing, but hey, once I saw the gifts I decided to stop asking."

Shaswat Butala, 31, the owner of the Butala Emporium, which sells Indian books
and musical instruments, said he would have to read more about Christmas to
understand it. He has put up a small tree for his young daughter.

"As far as I know, Santa Claus comes for the New Year and gives presents to
everyone, but I do not know why," he said. "We were going to go down to
Rockefeller Center last year to see what it was all about, but it was too cold."

Those who have tried to make forays into the more arcane traditions of
Christmas, like eating turkey, a bird unfamiliar outside of North America, say
they can live without the rest of the holiday customs.

"I have tasted it," said Kamal Sagnani, 32, pausing to choose his words
carefully when asked about turkey. "To be honest, it is O.K. I don't miss it."

As Mr. Johal slipped a CD into the store's sound system he tried to guess what
his brother, Pinto, who is a popular New York-based recording artist in India,
would give him this year.

"I gave him a sweater last year because he always takes mine," he said. "He
opened my gift and said he liked it. But when I looked for my present under the
tree, it was not there. He pulled out the keys to a Mercedes 2000 and threw me
them across the room. We all ran down to the garage to see it, where he had
wrapped it in a red ribbon."

The gleaming white vehicle was parked on the street in front of the shop and Mr.
Johal pointed proudly toward it. But despite his brother's largess, Bobby Johal
remains determined to use the day to halt his brother's raids on his closet.

"This year I will give him a belt," he said. "He is always taking my belts."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Like the toy next to a sign about thermometers in Jackson
Heights, Queens, Christmas is adapted to the needs and customs of New York's new
arrivals. Bobby Johal, below, a Sikh from India, spent $350 on ornaments for his
Jackson Heights store. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 20, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Freed Palestinian Says He'll Try to Aid Others

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Dec. 19


The Palestinian who was freed last week after being jailed for three years on
secret evidence said today that he wanted to make sure that no one else was
detained under similar circumstances.

The man, Mazen al-Najjar, met with supporters here at the Islamic cultural
center and school he helped build and said he would not be happy until every
"prisoner of conscience" was freed.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service jailed Mr. Al-Najjar in 1997 on a
visa violation. A judge denied him bond based on government accusations that he
used an Islamic research institute associated with the University of South
Florida as a front for terrorism. But the government, citing national security
concerns, refused to reveal its evidence to Mr. Al-Najjar's lawyers.

Mr. Al-Najjar was released on Friday after a panel of judges -- and Attorney
General Janet Reno -- agreed that there was no reason to keep him behind bars.

Mr. Al-Najjar said he would continue to seek political asylum in the United
States because he considered it his home.

The immigration service still intends to deport Mr. Al-Najjar, who has a hearing
on Jan. 9 before the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Says African Woman Used Fraud in a Bid for Asylum

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 793 words


A confidential investigation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
concluded last year that a West African woman obtained political asylum by
assuming a false identity and fraudulently claiming she would be punished by
genital mutilation if she returned home, immigration agency officials said
yesterday.

The investigators recommended that the woman, who identified herself as Adelaide
Abankwah, 31, be prosecuted for fraud, but the United States attorney in
Manhattan has so far not done so.

Ms. Abankwah, who has used that name since living in the United States, came
from Ghana and now lives in New York. She was detained for more than two years
by the I.N.S. before her petition for political asylum was granted in August
1999 after a lengthy legal battle.

"No charges have been filed at this point but our investigation is continuing,"
said Marvin Smilon, a spokesman for the United States attorney.

Immigration officials released the information about Ms. Abankwah's asylum claim
after The Washington Post reported yesterday about the investigation.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., chief press officer for the immigration agency, said,
"The attorneys and the advocates for the alleged Adelaide Abankwah used this
case to lambaste the I.N.S. by charging that we opposed the concept of a woman
gaining asylum based on female genital mutilation."

"The fact of the matter is, that was hype and spin and a smoke screen to conceal
what was fundamentally a weak case," he said.

The Post reported it had been shown an I.N.S. document, dated Aug. 20, 1999,
that concluded Ms. Abankwah was an impostor whose "real identity is now
established to be Regina Norman Danson." The real Adelaide Abankwah, also from
Ghana, is living in Maryland and has cooperated with the immigration agency, the
newspaper said.

Citing unnamed United States officials, the newspaper said the Justice
Department had been reluctant to prosecute Ms. Abankwah "for fear of
embarrassing politicians and top administration officials" who had publicly
embraced her bid for asylum. Among the officials The Post named was Hillary
Rodham Clinton.

An immigration agency official said yesterday that there was no evidence of
pressure from Mrs. Clinton or any other government official or politician in its
handling of the case. The White House did request routine updates on the asylum
application, but that "happens all the time" in high-profile cases, said Bill
Strassberger, the I.N.S. spokesman.

A lawyer for Ms. Abankwah, Dennis M. LaRochelle, said he was unaware of the 1999
investigation but was not surprised to hear that the immigration service had
raised questions about Ms. Abankwah's identity. He said she had acknowledged in
court testimony that her given name was not Adelaide Abankwah, but that she had
taken that name shortly before arriving in the United States on March 29, 1997.

As a schoolgirl, Ms. Abankwah went by the name Adelaide, and Abankwah is the
name of her grandfather, Mr. LaRochelle said.

Mr. LaRochelle said he had no doubts that Ms. Abankwah's claim for political
asylum was legitimate. Despite two rulings by the immigration agency to deny her
application, immigration officials granted Ms. Abankwah asylum after she took
her case to a federal appeals court.

"It has been through the courts and the courts have adjudicated it," Mr.
LaRochelle said. "Now it is just being brought up again."

Gloria Steinem, who helped bring attention to Ms. Abankwah's case, stood by Ms.
Abankwah and characterized the article in The Post as "an apparent effort to
embarrass the Clinton administration."

"Having come to know this young woman well, in and out of prison, I can
personally testify to two things: her terror of returning to her own country,
and her value as a productive citizen of this one," she said in a statement.

Mr. LaRochelle said Ms. Abankwah declined to be interviewed. The Post said Ms.
Abankwah acknowledged to the newspaper that her given name was Regina Norman
Danson but she stood by her claim that she faced punishment by genital
mutilation, often called female circumcision, if she returned to Ghana.

Ms. Abankwah had maintained that she was in line to become the queen mother of
her tribe in central Ghana. Custom in her tribe, she said, requires that an
incoming queen mother be a virgin. When it became known that she was not a
virgin, she said, she would be punished by having her genitals mutilated, a
procedure that is intended to remove any pleasure from sexual relations.

The investigation by the immigration agency, which included interviews with Ms.
Abankwah's relatives in Ghana, concluded the claim was false and had been
fabricated by Ms. Abankwah to improve her chances of gaining asylum, Mr.
Bergeron said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 22, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ontario Journal;
At California 'Swap Meet,' $1 Goes a Long Way

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: ONTARIO, Calif., Dec. 17


Latrice Rocha's eyes seemed to grow as big as grapefruits.

"Look," she said, turning to her sister, Angelina, and holding up a six-pack of
athletic socks for $4. "In the mall, these would cost at least $10.99, plus tax.
That's a huge difference. And here maybe they don't charge me the tax."

With such bargains, a way of life plays out every Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday
here at the Ontario Swap Meet, a giant open-air flea market where a few bucks
can fill a lot of bags. Around the country, flea markets, many of them decades
old, are a booming industry, generating $7.5 billion a year in sales, said
experts who monitor such things, and more than 100 new such markets open each
year.

Particularly here among new immigrants in Southern California, the swap meets
serve as a convenient alternative to malls. In towns like Ontario, a city of
145,000 people in San Bernardino County, east of Los Angeles, the large
populations of working-class families that include many Hispanic and Asian
immigrants find that even a modest savings can help stretch the budget
considerably. Here at the Ontario market, which opened in 1936, a salesman will
reduce the price of almost anything, even a $1 pair of shoes.

In California and other Sun Belt states, the cheap prices are available
year-round, even if it is wise to remember you generally get what you pay for.
Here, shoppers like Ms. Rocha, 18, spend hours strolling past booths that sell
every imaginable product, even livestock and pets -- from roosters, ducks, hens
and quail to rabbits, geckos, scorpions and snakes (plus the mice to feed them,
at $1 each).

And such deals! At one booth, every item -- shoes, handbags and stuffed toys --
is $1. At a vegetable stall, $1 buys four softball-size avocados that would cost
$2.50 each in Los Angeles. For $2, a shopper can take home a meaty chicken
(live) or buy refurbished headlights for the car. Even expensive items can be a
bargain. R. Eduardo Rodriguez, a vendor of sleek Italian-style leather jackets
made in China bearing the "Tuskany" label, said he would lower the price of a
$100 jacket to $70 or $80, if that was all a buyer could afford.

The number of markets, vendors and visitors is reaching record levels, according
to the National Flea Market Association, a trade group based in Dallas that
formed three years ago to organize vendors and track economic trends. But along
with them come signs that flea markets may be growing too successful for their
own good.

In the last Congress, bipartisan bills emerged in the Senate and House aimed at
tightening restrictions on flea market vendors. Among other things, the measures
would prohibit tampering with bar codes or expiration dates as a safeguard
against selling products that have passed their prescribed period of
effectiveness or that have been stolen.

No action was taken before Congress adjourned last week. But trade association
officials, who fear that the bills will be introduced next year, saw them as
reflecting concerns not so much about public well-being or stolen goods, as
about protecting major retail and grocery trade groups. Flea markets, after all,
are cutting into their sales.

Jerry A. Stokes, the executive director of the National Flea Market Association,
said the legislation would unfairly burden flea market vendors by requiring them
to keep more detailed records of their transactions.

"We would support a bill, if it's fair to everybody, but this is
discrimination," Mr. Stokes said. "If flea market vendors have to do something,
why shouldn't all other retailers have to?"

It is hard to gauge just how much of an impact flea markets are having on more
traditional retailers. Phil Paleg, manager of the Kmart about a mile from the
Ontario swap meet, said the year-round warm weather in Southern California and
other Sun Belt states took away "dollars that have the potential to come into
your store."

"If they go bye-bye," Mr. Paleg added, "obviously that would help our numbers as
well as other retailers."

But he said that "dollar shops," which sell every item for $1 or less, presented
more competition to stores like his, mainly because swap meets operated only a
few days a week.

There is also the increasingly chaotic competition from within.  As the number
of flea market shoppers has shot up, so has the number of vendors, trying to
undercut one another on prices.

Angela Alarcin's stall resembles a small department store, with all the "little
junk I like to buy," she said. But many of Ms. Alarcin's items, like hair
products and soccer balls, are available at other booths for less or at the
adjoining area reserved for people selling used products.

"To me this is all junk," said Gracie Hurd, who was wandering through Ms.
Alarcin's booth with her husband, Charles. "But I found a pair of gloves for $3.
At Kmart, they would have been $5.99."

Mr. Rodriguez, the leather jacket salesman, said he rented a booth here in
Ontario, rather than at a swap meet in a neighboring city, because no one else
here was selling the same kind of outerwear.

"But you still have to keep the prices low to do business," he said.

While many shoppers said they were searching out deals because they wanted to,
not because they had to, some found the swap meet more of a necessity. Alfredo
Rosales, a gardener, was shopping for Christmas gifts for seven nieces. He
bought each of them a doll, for a total of $21. The same ones in a store, Mr.
Rosales said, might have cost him $80 or more.

"I come here every two weeks," he said. "For food. For everything."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some Southern Californians, including many new immigrants,
fight high living costs by doing all their shopping at swap meets, huge open-air
flea markets, like this one in Ontario, Calif., where shoppers strolled last
weekend. More than a 100 such markets open each year. (Photographs by Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 25, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words



INTERNATIONAL   A3-21

Hopeful Migrants to Europe Using Turkey as a Portal
Illegal immigration is soaring as European countries batten down the hatches
against immigration, seen as a burden on welfare and a threat to national
identities already blurred by globalization. But for many migrants, the road to
the Europe of their dreams -- that of high incomes and generous welfare benefits
-- runs through Istanbul.   A1

A Lonely Town of Bethlehem
Recent clashes between Palestinians and Israeli troops mean that Bethlehem has
been sealed off by the army, virtually destroying tourism, its major industry,
and keeping many other workers from their jobs in Israel.   A1


Raising Money to Clear Mines
A method of collecting American roadside trash is serving as a model for
clearing minefields in Asia, Africa and Europe. "Adopt a highway" has become
Adopt-a-Minefield under a fund-raising program created by two American
organizations with close ties to the United Nations.   A13

Fast Track for Serbian Reform
Promising swift work to better the lives of Serbia's people and to root out
injustice, Serbia's democratic coalition celebrated a landslide victory, as
partial but official results confirmed the collapse of Slobodan Milosevic's
13-year rule. Zoran Djindjic, above, the 48-year-old German-educated politician
who will become Serbia's prime minister, said he would complete his cabinet by
Jan. 10.   A16

Hitting the Jackpot in Spain
"El Gordo," the fat one, the huge lottery bonanza that marks the beginning of
Christmas in Spain, showered more than $250 million on the 50,000 inhabitants of
Segovia. "I'm so happy -- you can imagine, we've turned Segovia into a city of
millionaires," said Rosa Maria Martin, who sold the winning Segovia tickets.
A4

Crackdown in Turkey's Prisons
Turkish newspapers and television broadcasts have been filled with images of a
brutal crackdown at 20 prisons.   A6

NATIONAL   A22-30

Unprecedented Prosperity Defined Clinton Presidency
In his eight years in the White House, President Clinton presided over America's
longest economic expansion. But economists, historians and members of both
parties will long be debating whether Mr. Clinton was lucky or good when it came
to the economy. The debate will only become more intense if the sharp
deceleration of the economy over the past few weeks leads to a recession, as
some analysts think is possible.   A1

Mr. Clinton has proved over the last few weeks that he is intent on using the
powers of his office right up to the end, focusing attention on his agenda and
himself, buffing his record for the history books and infuriating his enemies
one last time.   A27

Sludge Spill Is a Disaster
The spill of 250 million gallons of coal-mining sludge, a slurry of watered-down
coal particles, dirt, rock, clay and traces of heavy metals, was called an
environmental disaster for Eastern Kentucky. The spill has also worsened the
economic disaster in this backwater pocket of central Appalachia. There had been
some hope in the pending arrival of two new employers. Now any future employer
will have to weigh the risks of another deluge of sludge.   A1

No Shortage of Suspects
The obstacle to solving the assassination of Derwin Brown is that there are so
many potential suspects. He was gunned down three days before he was to be sworn
in as the sheriff of DeKalb County, Ga. Mr. Brown, 46, had vowed that he would
clean house in a sheriff's department where corruption had been entrenched for
three decades.   A22

Nuclear Response: Thyroid Pill
Eighteen years after it promised to decide how best to protect the public in a
reactor accident, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said it would require the
states to consider stockpiling a drug to protect against thyroid cancer and that
it would pay for the pills.   A30

Plan to Kill Coyotes Criticized
A proposal in Colorado to shoot coyotes on land that includes parts of two
national conservation areas has angered conservationists.   A30

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-5

Staffing Shortage Worsens In Health Care Across State
Hospitals, nursing homes and private home care agencies throughout New York
State are experiencing the worst staffing shortage in decades, experts say. The
shortages are most acute among low-paid nurses' aides who work in nursing homes,
and state officials have linked the low staffing levels to abuse and neglect of
patients. Hospitals complain that there are too few registered nurses,
pharmacists and workers who code medical records, and home health care agencies
say that turnover among aides is at an all-time high.   A1

Neediest Cases   B5

SPORTSMONDAY   D1-8

No Playoffs for Jets
The trap door on the season flew open beneath the Jets, and even the great
escape artists of the National Football League could not save themselves. With a
34-20 loss to the Ravens, the Jets plunged to a three-game collapse and into the
oblivion of a shattered season.   D1

ARTS   E1-28

OBITUARIES   B6-7

Victor Borge
The irrepressible musical humorist, pianist and conductor -- saluted around the
world as "the comedian of the keyboard" -- who was fond of stumbling into a
Steinway, sounding a chord with his backside, and then confessing to his
audience, "I play much better by ear, I can assure you," was 91.   B7

Libertad Lamarque Bouza
A performer whose career ranged from the gritty days of early tango recordings
in Argentina to the contemporary daily soap operas made for mass audiences in
the Spanish-speaking world, she was 92.   B6

BUSINESS DAY   C1-8

An 'Emerging Market' Tunes In
Radio One, a family-controlled radio company, has built a thriving business by
serving one audience overlooked by the industry's giants: urban
African-Americans. Radio One's chief executive, Alfred C. Liggins III, above,
calls "the African-American market the emerging market" in the United States.
Radio One has a stock market value of nearly $1 billion.   C1

Cabs Going Online in Boston
Four taxis will try using wireless Internet access to feed advertisements to
computer screens on their roofs. The two-month test will feature a dozen
rotating advertisements.   C5

Junk Status for Auction House
Sotheby's Holdings, which pleaded guilty in October to price-fixing and must
still settle antitrust litigation, had its credit and debt ratings cut to junk
status by Moody's Investors Service.   C2

Telemar Buys Internet Arm
Brazil's biggest telephone company bought the Internet access arm of iG, an
online media company, iG said on its Web site.   C2

Business Digest   C1

EDITORIAL   A32-33

Editorials: A Cooper's Christmas; classifying Florida's votes; Tina Rosenberg on
the death of a Ugandan healer.

Columns: William Safire.

Bridge   E22
Public Lives   A22
Crossword   E18
TV Listings   E27
Metro Diary   B2
Weather   B8


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 18, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

PUBLIC LIVES;
Bishop, From Experience, Smooths Way for Immigrants

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


AS chairman of the Roman Catholic bishops' committee that deals with immigration
issues, Bishop Nicholas DiMarzio holds a privileged vantage point from which to
survey a profound change occurring within the Catholic church in the United
States.

A vast wave of new immigrants -- from Latin America, Africa, Asia, the Caribbean
and Eastern Europe -- has been altering the face of parishes from coast to
coast, a trend that began three decades ago. It is a demographic transformation
such as Catholics have not seen since many thousands of Germans, Irish,
Italians, Poles and other Europeans poured into the United States a century ago.

"You're increasing by 25 percent the size of the church in one generation," said
Bishop DiMarzio, 56, an articulate, plain-spoken man who presides over the
Diocese of Camden, N.J. "This is a universal phenomenon, happening around the
country."

When the National Conference of Catholic Bishops held its fall meeting in
Washington this week, he was frequently at the lectern, discussing a pastoral
statement prepared by his committee that calls on the church to welcome the new
immigrant Catholics. Some recommendations were general, like urging parishioners
"to learn the cultures in their midst." Others were more specific, saying that
priests, seminarians and lay ministers should be encouraged to learn a second
language, while the leading figures in immigrant communities should also be
encouraged to learn English.

The document, adopted unanimously, also contains stern warnings against
"nativism," or anti-immigrant bias.

Not long ago, it used to be bishops in states like California, New York and
Texas who spoke of the challenges of integrating immigrants into their parishes.
But these days, when the conference meets, it is easy to find prelates from the
Midwest, the South and the Pacific Northwest who are keenly aware of changes in
the ethnic makeup of their dioceses, especially with the arrival of Latin
Americans, who need priests and social service workers who speak Spanish.

People who have worked with Bishop DiMarzio say this broad subject is his
passion.

He grew up close to his own immigrant roots, in an Italian neighborhood in
Newark. "All my grandparents were immigrants," he said. "So I understand what it
is to speak two languages in one home."

He was the oldest of three children, whose father was a city health inspector.
His brother became a lawyer, his sister a nurse.

But Bishop DiMarzio's interest in immigration issues really dates from his first
assignment as a priest. In 1970, his bishop sent him to a Jersey City parish,
once a German stronghold, lately a magnet for Italian immigrants. He established
a storefront social service center, to help meet the needs of parishioners
dealing with government agencies and issues related to work. "Basically, people
would come up to me after Mass and say, 'Please read this letter, I can't read
English,' " the bishop said. "They trust the priest."

Eventually, he took a course in immigration law, then obtained a master's degree
in social work at Fordham. Later, he entered a doctoral program in social policy
at Rutgers, where he wrote a thesis surveying 800 illegal immigrants in
metropolitan New York, examining who they were, what they did, how they used
social services.

In 1985, he became director of migration and refugee services at the Catholic
conference, a position he held for six years before returning to Newark as
director of Catholic Charities. In 1996, he was appointed an auxiliary bishop
there. Last year, the Vatican sent him to Camden. (Because the issues related to
immigrants have a clear global dimension, he has traveled widely, visiting such
places as Cuba, Vietnam and, two weeks ago, the nations of Central America. He
is to travel to Africa next year.)

Within the Catholic church, the Newark archdiocese is a famously diverse
jurisdiction. But Camden is far from homogenous, Bishop DiMarzio has discovered.
"In the six counties that form my diocese," he said, "there are 109,000
Hispanics out of 1.2 million people." The church includes communities of Korean
and Vietnamese immigrants. And in the parishes in Atlantic City, Mass is
celebrated in Haitian Creole, Italian, Polish, Spanish and English.

THE Camden diocese also incorporates agricultural areas, where farms employ
migrant laborers. Last summer, Bishop DiMarzio secured the services of three
Mexican priests who had been pursuing graduate studies in Rome to spend the
season running a ministry to the farm workers, a group he said was
overwhelmingly Mexican and Guatemalan.

Many of these men and women are illegal immigrants, and they form a particular
concern for the bishop. "We've got to prick the conscience of this nation," he
said. "The Department of Labor says half of migrant laborers may be
undocumented. Now we use them to bring down the costs of our food, and we don't
give them any rights or benefits."

As for his overall view of immigrants and the church, Bishop DiMarzio said: "New
immigrants are like a blood transfusion. They bring new ideas, new fervor."
Echoing the message of the pastoral statement approved by the bishops'
conference, he added: "We need to welcome them and give them a place. They're
not a burden, they're a contribution."


http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Nicholas DiMarzio

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bishop Nicholas DiMarzio, a top Catholic dealing with
immigration. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Days Off at Foie Gras Farm;
Workers Complain, but Owner Cites Stress on Ducks

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

DATELINE: FERNDALE, N.Y.


Inside several large barns rising out of the muddy fields here, migrant workers
feed nearly 30,000 ducks three times a day by inserting tubes down their
throats. After 30 days of intensive feeding, the farm sends the birds to
slaughter, producing a prized gastronomic delight from their swollen, succulent
livers: foie gras.

In the last decade, the Hudson Valley Foie Gras farm in this Catskill community
has had astonishing success. It now produces three-fourths of all American-made
foie gras, and visiting chefs from France have given the farm the ultimate
compliment, saying its foie gras rivals the French variety.

But while the farm's owners bask in the acclaim of food writers and celebrity
chefs, the 80 feeders -- all immigrants from Mexico -- lead an existence that is
light-years removed from the opulence that foie gras symbolizes. The workers,
who know that animal-rights groups often complain about the treatment of the
birds, have a big complaint of their own: the farm requires them to work 30 days
in a row, and some say they have not had a full day off in years.

"The conditions for the workers are crueler than the conditions for the ducks,"
said Maura Gonzales Rusas, a feeder. "It's hard work, it's heavy work, and we
never seem to get to rest."

As one of the largest agricultural employers in the state, Hudson Valley Foie
Gras has become ground zero in a debate over whether the 30,000 farm workers in
New York should be given a right that state law guarantees all other workers: a
day of rest each week. Leaders of the New York State Senate and Assembly are
considering such day-of-rest legislation, with a vote expected sometime this
fall.

On one side are the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. and many members of the clergy,
who are battling on behalf of the workers, saying that no one should be denied
such a basic right. On the other side is the New York State Farm Bureau, the
main growers' association, which says such legislation would badly hurt the
agricultural industry.

Hudson Valley's owners assert that if their workers could take a day off, the
feeding process would be disrupted and the ducks and their livers would not grow
as fast or be as tasty.

"Our biggest problem is literally the ducks get used to one feeder and the
quality of the results will be greatly damaged if someone else comes in one day
a week to do the feedings," said Michael A. Ginor, an owner of Hudson Valley,
adding that the farm tries to raise its birds with as little stress as possible.

Similarly, apple and berry growers voice fears that if their workers were given
a day off during the harvest, much of the fruit would rot. And dairy farmers
worry about who will milk the cows if their one hired hand has a day off.

"There are times when farmers need the extra help, and that may require having
people work seven days a week," said John Lincoln, an upstate dairy farmer who
is president of the state Farm Bureau.

This year, farm-worker advocates and labor unions have made day-of-rest
legislation their primary goal to help New York's farm workers. Unlike almost
all other workers in the state, farm workers lack certain rights, including the
right to bargain collectively and time-and-a-half overtime pay when they work
more than 40 hours a week.

"For those of us from a Judeo-Christian background, it's fundamental that
everyone should be given a day of rest," said the Rev. Richard Witt, executive
director of the Rural and Migrant Ministry of New York.

Three times a day, Ms. Gonzales works to fatten the 350 ducks assigned to her,
usually taking less than 30 seconds to feed each one. A short, round-faced woman
with ruddy cheeks, Ms. Gonzales moves slowly from pen to pen, pressing a finger
under each bird's bill to open its mouth. She then uses a funnel and a small
motor to force cornmeal, up to a pound each feeding, into a plastic tube and
down the ducks' throats. The farm's owners say the tube does not hurt because
the birds have calcified esophagi.

Many nights she sleeps only four hours, from 1:30 to 5:30 a.m., because the
schedule often requires her to feed the ducks from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m., then 6 to
9 a.m., and again in the afternoon -- more than 1,000 feedings a day.

"When you work 30 days straight, you lose out on a lot," said Ms. Gonzales, 29,
the mother of two boys, 10 and 3. "I'd like to have more time to spend with my
children. And there's never time to go to church.

"Sometimes you get so tired that you fall asleep right in the middle of a
feeding," she said in Spanish. "Usually one of the ducks will wake you back up
because it's hungry."

When the intensive feeding begins,, the ducks are 14 weeks old and their livers
weigh 3 ounces. By the end, the livers often weigh 1.5 pounds to 2 pounds.
Hudson Valley sells Grade A livers, the largest and least blemished ones, for
about $27 a pound. Hudson Valley's owners said the farm produced more than
400,000 pounds of livers last year, yielding revenues of about $10 million and
pretax profits of $1.5 million.

Ms. Gonzales often works 63 hours a week, 9 hours a day for 7 days, and her
hourly wage is $6, more than many of the state's farm workers earn. If her flock
yields enough Grade A livers, she can receive a bonus of $300, though the
bonuses are often half that.

Like many of the feeders -- they call themselves "engordadors," meaning
fatteners -- she sends much of her money to relatives in Mexico, where many
workers say they can earn only $6 a day.

Often the day after ducks are sent to slaughter, the workers are given a new
batch, restarting the 30-day cycle, although some workers are allowed to take 30
days off, without pay. Occasionally, several workers said, they get a day or two
off from feeding between cycles, but on those days they often have to clean the
barns and unload trucks carrying new birds.

"I haven't had a full day off since I started working," said Nicholas Castelan
Reyes, who has been a feeder since August 1999. Mr. Castelan said it would be
easy for Hudson Valley to give each worker a day off each week and to have a
backup worker feed the ducks that day.

But Mr. Ginor said such a change could seriously damage the quantity and quality
of foie gras produced. Mr. Ginor said the birds would be frightened if a
different worker fed the birds on the day the usual feeder was off.

"Stress is a big factor in foie gras production," he said. "When ducks are
stressed, the foie gras is not as high quality. The size of the liver depends on
the quality of the food and the stress levels of the bird."

Because the livers would be smaller if the workers took a day off, he said, the
bonuses would be smaller too. Several workers disagreed, saying that using a
backup feeder would have little effect.

But Izzy Yanay, an owner who oversees the farm day to day, said foie gras
operations in France, Hungary and Israel had experimented with backup feeders,
only to find that it hurt quantity and quality.

In France's foie gras industry, individual workers usually feed their ducks 14
days in a row -- compared with the 30-day cycle here -- at which point the ducks
go to slaughter. These workers are then usually given 4 days off before they
begin a new 14-day cycle. French workers receive five weeks' paid vacation,
while the Hudson Valley workers, like most farm workers in the United States,
receive none.

Mr. Ginor said that if the state passed a law giving workers the right to take a
day of rest, he might seek to hire only those workers who agreed beforehand not
to ask for a day off. Government officials said it would be illegal to require
workers to forgo a basic right as a condition of employment.

Supporters of the day-of-rest legislation say that to discourage farmers from
pressuring farm laborers into working seven days a week, any legislation should
require that time and a half be paid to those who work on the seventh day.

But farmers oppose this idea, saying it would force farmers to give all their
workers a day off.

"If you have a requirement to pay overtime on a voluntary day of rest, it means
farmers won't be able to afford to hire a person on that day," said Julie
Suarez, issues coordinator for the state Farm Bureau. "The reality is a lot of
farmers aren't doing well financially, and you can't get blood from a stone."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nicholas Castelan Reyes says he has not had a full day off
since August 1999. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); Almost 30,000 ducks are
force-fed three times daily for 30 days at the Hudson Valley Foie Gras farm in
the Catskills. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Maura Gonzales Rusas says she
has little time to spend with her sons, who are 3 and 10. (Edward Keating/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

German Surprise! Who Are the Guest Workers?

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1460 words

DATELINE: GLAUCHAU, Germany


Sweaty and covered with cement dust, Volker Stasiak labored to pick up his speed
at laying bricks.

"I have been in this business for 23 years, but this is entirely new for me," he
said as he spread cement over another layer of bricks. "The bricks are
different. The tools are different. The whole system is different."

Mr. Stasiak, a construction worker who lives near this eastern German town in
Saxony, is in training to build walls in the Netherlands. For five weeks, he has
been studying Dutch techniques in bricklaying and carpentry. He has taken a
crash course in the Dutch language.

When he finishes his training at the end of May, he expects to work at Dutch
construction sites for at least the next several months.

Mr. Strasiak represents Germany's newest version of the "guest worker" -- a word
that for decades referred to the millions of foreigners who were drawn to
Germany by the promise of highly paid jobs but who had almost no prospect of
citizenship.

Now the situation is almost reversed. Here in the formerly Communist eastern
half of Germany, nearly 20 percent of the work force is unemployed. And
countries like Britain, Ireland and above all the Netherlands -- where
unemployment has sunk to just 2.4 percent -- are desperately looking for
workers.

At recent job fairs in Leipzig and nearby Chemnitz, recruiters from at least
four Dutch temporary-help agencies competed to sign up construction and factory
workers.

Recruiters from Ireland were looking for German speakers to work at telephone
call-centers, where companies like Lufthansa airlines take advantage of
Ireland's low taxes and costs to handle calls from customers. And on a bulletin
board, companies from as far away as Iceland advertised hundreds of jobs in
construction and farm work.

"For the last two or three years, we have not had any spare people," said Carola
Jannsen, a recruiter for Randstad, one of the biggest temporary-help agencies in
the Netherlands. "Here in the east, there is a big supply of highly qualified
workers and their motivation is high."

The inducements offered to these workers are considerably more generous than
those that once lured Turkish workers to Germany, or that still attract Mexicans
to the United States.

Construction workers in the Netherlands are typically promised after-tax income
of about $1,200 a month. They receive free housing -- usually sharing an
apartment or house with four or five other workers -- and about $20 more a day
for incidental needs. They are also entitled to health insurance, sick pay and
most other social benefits that are standard in most European countries. But
their families stay behind, one reason that many do not want to go.

The rush of foreign temporary-help agencies into eastern Germany reflects the
changes transforming Europe. During the 1970's, economic growth in the
Netherlands was so weak that many Dutch workers headed to this country in search
of jobs. Germany, with its wealth and its manufacturing prowess, offered
relatively high pay and comfortable working conditions.

Today, Europe is in many respects a single market but with the components out of
balance. German unemployment is still about 8 percent in the west and 18 percent
in the east, in part because of high taxes, rigid regulations and huge costs
associated with rebuilding the formerly Communist east. By contrast, the
Netherlands is booming and has virtually no unemployment. Britain has a jobless
rate of only 4.6 percent. Tiny Ireland has had Europe's fastest growing economy
for most of the last decade.

The problems in eastern Germany are particularly severe, in part because it is
still recovering from the euphoric excesses that followed its unification with
western Germany in 1990. With more than a half-trillion dollars in assistance
and tax breaks from the west, eastern Germany went through a wild boom that led
to construction of thousands of new office buildings, shopping centers, museums,
industrial parks and houses.

But the tax breaks ended four years ago, and the economy has been largely
stagnant. Eastern German cities are dotted with sparkling new -- but strikingly
empty -- office buildings.

Nearly two years ago, officials here in Saxony hit on the idea of hooking up
their idle workers with foreign employers.

"We had the idea after a student exchange with the Netherlands," said Heinz
Hammer, director of continuing education at the government-financed job-training
center in Glauchau. "We saw that there was a great opportunity there, and it was
clear the job prospects here were limited. And about the same time, we were
getting a lot of requests from Dutch temporary-help companies."

Saxony officials sent 10 construction teachers to the Netherlands so they could
study the Dutch system and retrain German workers. They imported Dutch bricks,
smaller than German ones, and Dutch trowels.  Finally, they recruited Dutch
language teachers. The government-financed courses last from four to eight
weeks.

Mr. Stasiak, one of two dozen workers who are finishing up the course, quickly
discovered the differences. Dutch walls are usually made of exposed brick, which
means the bricks and mortar have to line up very precisely in order to look
good. German walls, by contrast, are usually covered over with a fine cement and
are often made from fairly large bricks or cinderblocks.

"It takes me a lot longer to lay the bricks, because I haven't been doing this
for 10 or 20 years," Mr. Stasiak remarked. "The Dutch workers can finish about
800 bricks in a day, but I would be happy to finish 500."

That does not bother Dutch recruiters. "I am looking for as many people as I can
find," said Ger Scholte, manager of Bouwflex, a subsidiary of Randstad that is
exclusively devoted to drumming up German construction workers. "Right now, I
have 30 or 40 people ready to go. My only problem is lining up housing for them,
because the early vacation season is under way and a lot of the holiday
apartments have been taken."

But foreign recruiters are hardly confined to construction.

Tom Maring, a recruiter for the Dutch temporary-help agency In Person, is
scouring eastern Germany for workers in a long list of categories: welders,
garden workers, packers, even people who can make plastic forms for making
windmill rotors. "Some of the hardest jobs to fill right now are those for
relatively unskilled labor," remarked Mr. Maring as he tried to persuade German
workers in Leipzig to sign up.

But for signs of how topsy-turvy the European workplace has become, it is hard
to match the employee hunters from Ireland. Once one of Europe's poorest
countries, Ireland has become a huge customer-service center for European and
American companies. Irish workers are well-educated, Irish costs are low and
Irish telecommunication services are excellent, and so when customers call an
airline in the United States, they often reach an operator in Ireland.

But now Ireland needs call-center operators who can speak German, because scores
of companies need to serve the German customers. Grafton Group, a
temporary-service agency in Dublin, is recruiting German speakers for Hertz,
Lufthansa and United Airlines. It offers bonuses for people who stay in Ireland
six months or a year, free English classes, computer-training and discounted
flights between Ireland and Germany.

James Parsons, director of a language school in Leipzig called I.C.C.
Sprachinstitut, has teamed up with recruiters and German government officials to
train local workers for jobs in England and Ireland.

"You can't find enough engineers, you can't find enough electricians, you can't
find any old-fashioned tradesmen anymore," he said. And the demand for telephone
call-center operators is unrelenting. "The costs in Ireland are so much cheaper
than in Germany that it makes sense to bring over Germans to serve Germans. You
just can't find enough English and Irish people who can speak German."

But the big question is whether, despite the prospects for more jobs, many
Germans will actually make the move. "German workers don't really like to move
away from their hometown, and they will do so only if they are really in an
emergency," said Reinhard Baum, an administrator at the job-training center in
Leipzig that offers courses on Dutch construction.

"I have absolutely no interest in working in Holland," said Siegfried Muller, an
unemployed lathe operator. "I have my family here, and I don't want to go
through another round of schooling."

But for people like Wolfgang Schemmel, an unemployed painter with a wife and one
child, the prospect of working in the Netherlands is the best option available.
"My wife is going along with it, because I either go off or we have to live on
social welfare payments," he said. "It is not much of a choice."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A German worker, Volker Stasiak, in a region of Saxony with high
unemployment, training as a bricklayer for a job in the Netherlands. (Jorg
Riethausen)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Outlines the Abuse of Foreign Domestic Workers

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1059 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12


When Juana Condori received the job offer back home in Bolivia, it seemed like a
dream come true -- fly in an airplane for the first time, live in the United
States, work for a diplomat.

But after arriving in Washington to work as a nanny and housekeeper, Ms.
Condori, now 33, began to feel like a prisoner. She said her employer, a
diplomat with the Organization of American States, forced her to work seven days
a week and did not let her leave the house unescorted. The diplomat's family,
she said, took her passport, did not give her a house key, did not let her
attend church.

During 16 months on the job, she said, she often worked 90 hours a week and was
paid $220 a month, a fraction of the minimum wage.

"I was really excited about coming here," she said, "but now I see you suffer a
lot in the United States."

Behind the glamour of Embassy Row are many unhappy stories like Ms. Condori's.
In the past decade, more than 35,000 domestic workers, almost all of them young
women, have received special visas to work for diplomats in Washington and New
York City, often working far longer hours for far less pay than they were
promised.

Human Rights Watch, the human rights group, is to release a report on Thursday
that accuses the United States government of doing too little to protect these
workers.

"These domestic workers come to the United States to escape poverty in their
countries of origin," the report states. "All too often, however, they become
some of the world's most disadvantaged workers held captive by some of the
world's most powerful employers."

The report, "Hidden in the Home: Abuse of Domestic Workers with Special Visas in
the United States," found that these workers' median workday was 14 hours and
that their median wage was $2.14 an hour, including room and board.

Human rights groups, immigrants rights groups and women's groups are seeking to
pressure the State Department and international organizations like the World
Bank and Organization of American States to do more to protect these workers,
who usually have little idea of their rights or where to turn for help.

In interviews, these workers spoke of being slapped, yelled at and sexually
assaulted. Some women have even filed lawsuits charging involuntary servitude,
saying they were barred from leaving their employers' houses.

Lydia Altamirano, who left college in Nicaragua to work for an official with the
Inter-American Development Bank, said she had to work every day for her first
three years in Washington, often until midnight when the family gave dinner
parties.

Hapsatou Sarr, a nanny and housekeeper from Mauritania, said she was never paid
during nearly eight months of working for a World Bank official. She said she
slept on the floor in a child's rooms. Her employer, she said, once slapped her
because she forgot to give him a fork.

She said that when she complained, the family often withheld food from her. She
was not allowed outside by herself, she said, and the official's wife listened
to her telephone conversations to make sure she was not planning to escape.

"I didn't know who to explain problems to," Ms. Sarr said. "I was feeling like I
was going to kill myself every day."

Many diplomats say that workers often exaggerate or fabricate abuses when they
file lawsuits.

Paul Reichler, the lawyer for Edmundo Jarquin, the diplomat sued by Ms.
Altamirano, said that her claims of overwork were false and that she was trying
to blackmail the family.

The Human Rights Watch report concluded that a major cause of abuses was the
special visa granted to these workers, which lets them remain in the United
States only while working for a diplomat. Thus, the workers know that they can
be deported if they quit.

"They can stay in the abusive situation or go back to their home country, which
typically has very poor economic conditions, or they can leave their job and
stay here undocumented," said Kimberley Propeack, a lawyer for Casa of Maryland,
an immigrants rights group.

The report recommends that Congress give the workers the right to get new jobs
if their employers violate wage and hours laws or abuse them. Noting that many
diplomats sign contracts promising 40-hour workweeks and the minimum wage of
$5.15 an hour, Human Rights Watch also said the government should make adequate
resources available to enforce those provisions.

"You would think that because these workers follow the rules and come to the
U.S. legally, the U.S. government would try to protect them from abuses," said
Carol Pier, author of the report.

The visas "become coercive tools on the part of the employer," Ms. Pier said.

Philip Reeker, a State Department spokesman, said, "We take this issue quite
seriously." He said the department was urging diplomats to comply with labor
laws and was notifying domestic workers of their rights when they applied for
visas.

Confronted by accusations that its employees have abused their housekeepers, the
World Bank requires its employees not to take away the workers' passports and to
sign contracts guaranteeing the minimum wage. The bank also requires its
employees and their domestic workers to attend seminars where the workers'
rights are explained.

"There is a difficulty because these are not our employees," said John
Donaldson, a World Bank spokesman. "They are employees of our employees. We
expect our employees to abide by U.S. law."

Advocates for immigrants praise the World Bank's moves, but say that the bank
and the International Monetary Fund should do more. For example, they said, the
organizations should interview domestic workers about whether there are abuses.

In addition to her claims of labor violations, Ms. Condori said that an
acquaintance of the family she worked for raped her, and that the diplomat,
Jaime Aparicio, would not contact the police or arrange for her to see a doctor.

She has charged him with violating wage laws, failing to provide her with
medical care and covering up for the rapist.

Through a lawyer, the Aparicios denied Ms. Condori's accusations about wages and
hours and said they had no knowledge of her rape claim.
Ms. Condori said she fled the Aparicio home and now cleans the house of a
business executive. She said she hoped to return to Bolivia, once she saw her
lawsuit through.

"I want to stay here until I make sure that the man who did this to me goes to
jail," she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juana Condori has sued her former employer, a diplomat with the
Organization of American States. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 387 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unions Say Labor Department Is Ignoring Wage Requirements

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 449 words


The two largest farm worker unions sued the Labor Department last week, accusing
it of bowing to employer pressures and illegally failing to raise wages for more
than 30,000 foreign guest workers.

The unions are claiming that the department ignored a requirement to set higher
wage rates each year for these workers, a requirement intended to prevent their
wages from undercutting those of farm workers living in the United States.

In the lawsuit, filed on June 19 in Federal District Court in Washington, the
unions said that the Labor Department was siding with agricultural growers at
the expense of a vulnerable group of workers, mostly from Mexico, Central
America and the Caribbean, who work under the H2-A temporary visa program and
come to the United States for several months each year to plant and pick fruits
and vegetables.

During the last decade, the Labor Department has usually announced the higher
wage rates in February. Farm worker advocates said Labor Secretary Elaine L.
Chao broke the law by not announcing the higher rates.

"We felt it was time to force the issue," said Arturo S. Rodriguez, president of
the United Farm Workers, which filed the lawsuit along with the Farm Labor
Organizing Committee.

Stuart Roy, a Labor Department spokesman, said Secretary Chao had not violated
the law. She would be acting legally, Mr. Roy said, as long as she announced the
new wage rates sometime in the calendar year.

Under federal regulations, the Labor Department must announce each year a
minimum wage, different for each state, to be paid to the H2-A workers. The
rate, based on the average wage that each state's farm workers receive, is $7.27
per hour in California, $7.25 in Florida and $7.68 in New York. Farm worker
advocates said that based on recent studies, the wages should be raised 3
percent to 5 percent this year.

The National Council of Agricultural Employers, an association of growers, has
told the Labor Department that it believes the wage rates are not calculated
accurately and should be much lower.

"It basically means a lot of small growers aren't able to use the program
because they can't afford the wage rate," said Sharon Hughes, the council's
executive vice president.

The council defended the Labor Department and said the government was complying
with the law as long as the wage rates were issued before Dec. 31.

But Bruce Goldstein, executive director of the Farmworker Justice Fund, one of
the groups that prepared the suit, said: "The whole point of the regulation is
to issue the new wage rate for the year in which the farm workers are working.
If you issue it in December, you haven't raised the rate in time to help the
workers during that year."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 8, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Foreigners on the Job

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words



To the Editor:

Re "Congress Approves a Big Increase in Visas for Foreign Workers" (front page,
Oct. 4):

Harris Miller, the president of a software industry group, wonders whether
195,000 new H-1B visas for high-tech workers will be enough to satisfy the
demands of the industry. But he already knows the answer: there will never be
enough visas, because companies will never tire of replacing American citizens
and permanent residents with lower paid foreign workers.

The myth of a "programmer shortage" in this economy needs to be debunked. There
are thousands of programmers who are looking for work but can't get interviews
because employers assert that the applicants lack whatever new skill the
employers are looking for. This is shortsighted, because any competent
programmer can easily learn a new computer language if given a few weeks.

KEITH CRAW
Oakland, N.J., Oct. 4, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 387 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 24, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For Migrants, a Christmas of Hardship and Hope

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: FARMINGDALE, N.Y., Dec. 19


In a clean but heavily used kitchen where the window was labeled "window" and
the lamp was labeled "lamp," five men from the state of Hidalgo, Mexico, planned
their Christmas party. One, a former police officer, was wondering how it would
feel to spend the holidays away from his children, ages 1 and 4, while others
argued the merits of tostadas de tinga (fried tortillas with beans, lettuce and
chicken) versus tostadas morelianas, avocado and beans for their holiday meal.

The men had come here to find more profitable work than had been available in
their predominantly rural homeland. They were not here, they said, to threaten
anyone else's way of life. And they were staying the winter because it was
easier, cheaper and safer than trying to get back for the holidays.

The majority of Long Island's Mexican day laborers head south for the winter,
while the Salvadorans who come for work are more likely to spend the winter
here, as their trip home is longer, more dangerous and more expensive -- $4,000
to $5,000, compared with $1,200 to $1,500 for Mexicans, according to the Rev.
Allan B. Ramirez, pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church, who has provided
coats and other assistance to immigrant workers.

For people used to country living and warmer weather, winters in the Northeast
can be cold, isolating and not nearly as profitable as the summers. But the
workers make do, relying on each other, waiting for the work and the warmth to
return.

Juan Cornejo, 39, one of the Christmas party planners, is spending his first
Christmas on Long Island.

"On the one hand it's sad, but on the other hand I'm really happy and feel
fortunate to have a group of fellow co-workers, fighting for the same cause,"
fair treatment, he said through a translator. Like the others who will share
Christmas together for the first time in the United States, he said he will miss
his family and home cooking. But he has been lucky to find steady jobs.

After the brutal September attack on two day laborers by two men posing as
contractors, the men have been mindful of how people in this small town react to
them.

"We haven't been physically attacked, but we've experienced youngsters who say
bad things and vandalize our mailbox," said Antonio Galvez, 21. "We're here to
do what we're here to do; we're not here to hurt them. I don't understand. We
don't go to their house and do things like that."

"We're not here to undermine them or any of their customs," said Marco Antonio
Mera, 22, a roofer. In the winter, he said, he is generally able to work two or
three days a week. Other days he stays at home and chats or watches television.

Philip Robilotto, chief of the Suffolk County Police Department, who used to
head the precinct that includes Farmingville, estimated that of the 2,000 to
2,500 day laborers in the area during the summer, only about a quarter spend the
winter. He called the immigrants "the most law-abiding people we had."

In Glen Cove, where two men from El Salvador froze to death several winters ago,
and where a Salvadoran worker was robbed and beaten to death in August, a group
of about 15 men waited for work at what is known as the Shape Up Center, a
gathering place in the parking lot of the Glen Street train station. Some wore
paint-splattered outfits and others wore second-hand clothes with incongruous
logos advertising Osteopathic Medicine and Galaxy Funds. Before 8 a.m. on a
recent chilly morning, men in sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and Mercedes
drove in to have their pick of the workers.

"The cold weather is very hard on you here, it makes you suffer a lot," said
Jesus Zavalas, 41, from El Salvador. "When the weather is good at least you can
find work, even if it's for a small period of time."

"We need to make just enough money," said Carlos Henriquez, "to get through the
time when there is no work." Mr. Henriquez, 27, who sends money home to his
mother in El Salvador every month, said, "Up until it begins to snow, I can work
four or five times a week."

Santos Gonzalez, 59, who was Mr. Henriquez's neighbor in Santa Ana, El Salvador,
lives with his wife and with two sons nearby, and sends $400 a month home to his
five other sons. "What we do is try to economize, so we have enough money for
rent in the winter," he said.

Mayor Thomas R. Suozzi of Glen Cove hopes to relocate and improve the Shape Up
Center, so it can include a place for men to learn English and work skills on
days when they cannot find jobs. The center was set up several years ago, and
having one central place for day laborers to gather to find work has cut down on
resentment residents have felt toward them, he said.

Back in Farmingville, Luis Bernal, 24, who lives where the workers gathered,
expressed an American dream that applies in both Central and North America.

"I would like to someday see my family not have to worry so much about basic
needs," he said. In Suffolk County, he said, he can earn twice what he earned in
Mexico, as a driver for his father, who sold fruit. "I want to support my family
and give my family maybe what I couldn't have."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Allan Ramirez, left, told a group of migrant workers
in Glen Cove that winter coats would be distributed to them before Christmas.;
Hoping to pick up some winter work, migrant laborers gather around a Mercedes at
the train station in Glen Cove on Long Island. The station serves as a central
location for the workers, mainly Mexicans and Salvadorans, who are hired for day
jobs by contractors and others looking for unskilled labor. Work, however, is
often scarce during the cold winter months. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
