
                               1 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 18, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Bishops Assail Rule Hostile To Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 21;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17


The National Conference of Catholic Bishops urged today that greater emphasis be
placed on Federal immigration policies rather than relying on punitive local
measures like Proposition 187 in California, which denies illegal immigrants
nonemergency medical, educational and social services.

In a statement issued on the final day of their annual fall meeting, the bishops
said the taxpayer frustration that fueled passage of Proposition 187 established
an intimidating tone that could foster "harassment of persons who may look or
sound 'undocumented.' " What was needed, they said, was a rational discussion of
Federal policies that regulate legal entry into the United States.

"In seeking to cure social and economic ills, this proposition strikes at the
most vulnerable among us -- children, the sick and the needy -- without
addressing the larger social and political causes for the problems, especially
at the Federal level," said the statement issued by Archbishop William H. Keeler
of Baltimore, who is president of the bishops' conference.

In contrast to their statement on immigration, the bishops seemed intent on
avoiding even the perception of political partisanship regarding school prayer.
Congressional Republicans have said they support passage of a constitutional
amendment guaranteeing a right to prayer in public schools. Archbishop Keeler,
who was recently designated a Cardinal, said he would have to see the wording of
any such amendment before taking a position on it.

But he suggested that ways be found to teach "basic moral values" in public
schools.

The bishops' statement on immigration echoed a theme sounded several times this
week during the conference: government's responsibility to help the poor. But
the bishops also sought to portray the church as willing to help at home in
times of need, noting that the church was already the nation's largest provider
of charitable services.

The bishops were intent on sending a clear message of their disappointment in
the negative tone that has dominated the nation's immigration debate. But Roger
Cardinal Mahony of Los Angeles said earlier in the week that since half the
nation's illegal immigrants entered the United States on temporary visas, the
Government should develop better tracking mechanisms to prevent these visitors
from overstaying their visas.

The California measure was a harsh and ineffective response, the Cardinal said.
He also said that the church was considering fighting the proposition by filing
friend-of-the-court briefs in legal challenges.

"I think some of the individualism of the 1980's really stuck," he said. "What
we lost in the country was a sense of the common good."

Responsibility to communities, especially youth and the poor, was a recurring
concern this week as the bishops urged a "moral revolution" against violence in
American society, affirmed their belief that health care was a basic right and
cautioned against welfare reforms that would limit or deny people
government-financed social services while expecting charities to extend their
care of the needy.

Focusing on a major source of that care, the bishops today also issued a revised
set of directives to provide moral guidance to Catholic hospitals in an age of
new technologies, increased demand and institutional partnerships.

The directives, which took six years to complete, reaffirm and clarify church
teachings on topics like life-sustaining measures, partnerships with secular
institutions and access to health care.

"This document reiterates that health care is a basic right," said the Rev. Tom
Kopfenstein, a moral theologian who served as a consultant to the committee that
drafted the guidelines. "Justice has become a medical, moral issue."

With a nod to the changing economics of health care and the drive for hospitals
to join institutional networks, the directives say that under some conditions,
Catholic hospitals could enter partnerships with hospitals that provide services
that contradict church teaching, like artificial insemination. Approval for any
such move would have to come from the diocesan bishop, the guidelines said. And
even then, the Catholic facility must not participate directly in prohibited
procedures.

While maintaining opposition to euthanasia and doctor-assisted suicide, the
directives allow for the administration of painkillers that might hasten death;
they also say that patients may refuse medical treatment that has no appreciable
benefit.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 9, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

More Mexicans, More Profit

BYLINE: By Lydia Chavez;      Lydia Chavez teaches journalism at the University
of California at Berkeley.

SECTION: Section A;     Page 33;     Column 2;     Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: SALINAS, Calif.


Like the rest of the state, Monterey County favored Proposition 187, which
denies education and health services to undocumented workers and their families.
The clear message of the vote statewide, pundits say, is that we need to do
something about illegal immigration.

But as seen from Salinas, the only thing clear is that political leaders like
Gov. Pete Wilson, who offered Proposition 187 as a solution, are hypocritical at
worst and wrongheaded at best. They actually send a different message, one that
puts food on the table: "Hay trabajo en Salinas" -- there's work in Salinas.
Keep trekking across the border and up through the Central Valley; at the end of
the journey, si, hay trabajo.

Everybody knows that the fields of lettuce, broccoli, mustard greens and grapes
are filled with illegal laborers. Farm workers put the number at 40 percent, the
growers at 33 percent.

Voters would think Governor Wilson wanted to get rid of some of these Mexican
workers, but in an appearance at the Heritage Foundation in Washington on Nov.
18 he supported the idea of inviting even more into the country as part of a
guest worker program. "It makes sense -- it has in the past, it may well
continue to do so in the future," he said, explaining that only workers but not
their families would be allowed in.

Instead of penalizing a multibillion-dollar industry that hires undocumented
workers, he supports it and picks on schoolchildren instead. Now, Newt Gingrich,
the next Speaker of the House, and others say they will support similar
legislation in the G.O.P.-controlled Congress.

Proposition 187 doesn't matter to the illegal workers picking lettuce in Fresno
and oranges near San Diego. They come north not for health care or the schools
but for jobs, and Proposition 187 does nothing to prevent employers from hiring
them. As long as there's work, they'll stay; family and friends will follow,
even if they are denied services.

Growers say with a straight face that they hire illegal workers unwittingly,
that they are easily fooled by fake Social Security cards. But no one is likely
to discover the fraud: only one Immigration and Naturalization Service official
in San Jose is in charge of checking up on employers in a four-county area.

Never any problems in Salinas, said Ed Angstadt, president of the
Grower-Shipping Vegetable Association of Central California. Everyone turns a
blind eye. The immigrants keep coming. Why not? Hay trabajo.

Mr. Wilson blames the Feds for failing to enforce the law -- an easy out. If he
was serious about controlling immigration, Proposition 187 would have focused on
the employers.

"We need all those people," said Mr. Angstadt, explaining that the growers'
association kept silent on Proposition 187. "You can't take a position against
people you rely on to work for you. On the other hand, you don't want to offend
the Governor."

It's easy to see why. As a Senator, Pete Wilson made sure the Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986 made it easy for foreign workers to become citizens. Now
he proposes adding to their numbers.

"All those people" Mr. Angstadt cites keep wages down. A field worker gets $1.23
for picking 24 heads of lettuce -- some 15 percent less than the piece rate 10
years ago. Growers sell that box of lettuce for $8 to $10. Imagine how profit
margins will widen even further if we invite more Mexicans into the fields.

"All those people" make it impossible for unions to organize for better wages
and working conditions. Too many field workers fear that supporting a union will
get them deported, and union contracts are nearly as scarce as immigration
agents.

Mexican-Americans must compete for jobs with "all those people" who are their
desperate brothers from the south. As a result, unemployment here has increased;
to no one's surprise, crime has followed.

Last year, the voters in Salinas and elsewhere started looking around for
someone to blame for crime and unemployment. There are too many people here, a
beleaguered Mr. Wilson told them, and his ratings jumped. But instead of trying
to cut off the lure of jobs, he chose to throw children out of school and turn
the sick away from doctors.

Proposition 187 provides no answer to real concerns about immigration, but it
did provide a banner under which politicians like Pete Wilson can advance their
careers. While they play on the fears of frustrated Americans, Mexicans will
choose reality: hay trabajo en Salinas.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 4, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Federal Panel Proposes Register To Curb Hiring of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3


A Federal advisory commission proposed today that the Government establish a
computerized register of the names and Social Security numbers of all citizens
and aliens authorized to work in the United States, so that employers could
check the immigration status of job applicants.

In a unanimous recommendation, the nine-member advisory panel, the Commission on
Immigration Reform, which is headed by Barbara Jordan, the former Democratic
Congresswoman from Texas, said the measures were needed to curb the hiring of
illegal aliens.

The proposal intensifies a long-running debate over immigration policy, a
politically explosive issue in states like California and Florida, where there
are many illegal immigrants. The American Civil Liberties Union, Hispanic
organizations, Chinese-American groups, Jewish groups and immigration lawyers
immediately expressed concern over the proposed register, saying its use could
increase job discrimination against members of racial and ethnic minorities and
lead to the creation of a national identity card.

Despite these objections, some senators from both parties expressed support for
the commission's recommendation at a hearing of the Judiciary Committee today.
They said it was a long-overdue step to discourage illegal immigration.

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, also
welcomed the proposal, saying a register was consistent with Clinton
Administration efforts to establish a single file of all foreigners authorized
to work in this country.

The United States has never had a central register or roll of all its people,
though, for tax and retirement purposes, Social Security numbers have been
issued to millions of citizens and to many aliens who work or invest in this
country. The Immigration and Naturalization Service tries to keep records of
foreigners permitted to work in this country, but agency officials acknowledge
that the records are full of errors.

The commission said the register could be established under current law, with no
further action by Congress. It said the the new computer file should have
safeguards to prevent the use of the data for any purpose other than to verify a
person's eligibility to work. The commission said it would provide details of
the system at another time.

The proposed register would include data provided by the immigration service and
the Social Security Administration. Employers would have to check the register
before hiring people. The commission said people would not be required to carry
national identification cards.

But Lucas Guttentag, director of the immigrants' rights project at the American
Civil Liberties Union, said: "This is an overheated response to an overstated
problem. Politicians are stoking anti-immigrant feeling, blaming immigrants for
social and economic problems not properly attributable to immigration. As a
practical matter, a computer register does not work without a national identity
card in one form or another."

Ms. Jordan, who was appointed by President Clinton, said he should take
immediate action to form a national register and test it in the five states with
the highest levels of immigration: California, New York, Texas, Florida and
Illinois. Those states have a combined population of more than 90 million,
accounting for at least 35 percent of the nation's total.

The commission suggested that the five states test different methods, perhaps
using the register in combination with more secure versions of existing
documents, like Social Security cards and drivers' licenses.

Noting her record as a champion of civil rights, Ms. Jordan said she would never
support a proposal that increased discrimination or invaded privacy. She
asserted that the new system "would reduce the potential for discrimination"
that exists under current arrangements.

'Greater Scrutiny'

"Employers would no longer have any reason to ask if a worker is a citizen or an
immigrant," she said. "The only relevant question is, 'What is your Social
Security number?' "

Nevertheless, Vibiana Andrade, a spokeswoman for the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund, expressed a concern of many critics when she said
she feared that "citizens and those immigrants who look or sound foreign will
either be subjected to greater scrutiny or be denied employment."

Denyse Sabagh, a vice president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said, "A national registry system, even as a pilot project, is a ludicrous and
unreasonable way to solve an immigration issue."

The National Council of La Raza, an Hispanic-advocacy organization, and the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund expressed similar
objections. Members of the commission may call it a register or a verification
system, said the president of the council, Raul Yzaguirre, but "they are still
talking about a national I.D. card."

Appearance of Authenticity

Today's proposal continues a long-running debate over immigration and civil
liberties. A 1986 law prohibits the employment of illegal aliens and requires
employers to ask all job applicants for documents to verify that they are either
citizens or aliens authorized to work in this country. The law lists various
documents, like passports and birth certificates, that may be used for this
purpose, either by themselves or in specific combinations.

The employer does not have to check the authenticity of the documents, but may
accept any document that "reasonably appears on its face to be genuine."
Employers may not demand a specific document like an alien's "green card."

Yet in 1990, the General Accounting Office said the law had produced a
"widespread pattern of discrimination" against people with what some employers
took to be foreign appearances or accents. The Justice Department has
successfully sought civil fines from many employers accused of discriminating
by, for example, demanding specific documents, like a green card, from some
applicants.

Social Security numbers are routinely issued to children a few months after they
are born. A parent wishing to claim a child as a dependent must enter the
child's Social Security number on the parent's Federal income tax return if the
child is over age 1.

Calls to Crack Down

People may apply for the nine-digit numbers at local Social Security offices. An
applicant must provide evidence of age, identity and United States citizenship
or immigration status. A parent applying for a young child must provide the
child's birth certificate and some document to identify the parent.

Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the ranking Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee, said he supported the
commission's proposal and noted there had been calls from many quarters for a
crackdown on illegal immigration. Mr. Simpson predicted that senators would
"stick an immigration bill of major import" onto some legislation this year if
the committee did not write its own.

Besides Ms. Jordan, the members of the immigration reform commission are Richard
Estrada, an associate editor of the editorial page of The Dallas Morning News;
Harold Ezell, former Western regional commissioner of the immigration service;
Lawrence H. Fuchs, a professor at Brandeis University; Robert Charles Hill, a
lawyer in Washington; Warren R. Leiden, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association; Nelson Merced, a former state legislator in
Massachusetts; Bruce A. Morrison, a former Congressman from Connecticut, and
Michael S. Teitelbaum of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in New York.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 15, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

California's Prop. 187

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 281 words


To the Editor:

William Safire's Oct. 6 column from Los Angeles criticizes Proposition 187, the
California referendum that would deny illegal aliens most government services.
Mr. Safire misstates the proposition: illegal aliens will not be jailed. They
will be deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Proposition 187 is not a "nativist abomination," but a logical step toward
saving California from economic ruin. Illegal aliens collect welfare payments
through post office boxes in San Ysidro, just a 15-minute walk from Mexico. They
receive free medical care and flood schools with non-English-speaking students.

By flooding the state with 2 million illegal aliens to date, and increasing that
figure each of the following 10 years, Mexicans in California would number 15
million to 20 million by 2004. During those 10 years about 5 million to 8
million Californians would have emigrated to other states. If these trends
continued, a Mexico-controlled California could vote to establish Spanish as the
sole language of California, 10 million more English-speaking Californians could
flee, and there could be a statewide vote to leave the Union and annex
California to Mexico.

Those who doubt that Mexican illegal aliens steal jobs are not familiar with the
Paperhangers' Union during the late 1980's. Illegal aliens slowly undercut wages
and entered the work force. They seized the union and demanded the wages that
were previously received by United States citizens. Those citizens now collect
aluminum cans and glass bottles to survive.
LINDA R. HAYES
San Diego, Oct. 10, 1994
The writer is Proposition 187 media director for Southern California.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 16, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Poll Shows Support for California Immigration Proposal

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 15


California voters support by nearly 2 to 1 a ballot proposal that would cut off
most public services to illegal immigrants, according to a poll published today
by The Los Angeles Times.

Less than a month before the Nov. 8 election, the proposal, Proposition 187, is
favored by 59 percent of likely voters and opposed by 33 percent, the survey
showed.

Among registered voters, the margin of support is even wider, 61 percent to 32
percent.

Debate over the measure has made interest in Proposition 187 as high as it is
for the governor's race between the Democratic challenger, State Treasurer
Kathleen Brown, and the Republican incumbent, Gov. Pete Wilson. Mr. Wilson has
made his support for the measure a cornerstone of his re-election bid, while Ms.
Brown opposes the proposal.

The measure would bar illegal aliens from public schools, nonemergency medical
services and welfare rolls.

Political analysts attribute the measure's popularity to a growing sense among
California voters that their state is being overrun by illegal immigrants,
mostly from Mexico, who are draining the state's treasury.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 17, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Ballot Measure Protested

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 16


Nearly 70,000 marchers surrounded City Hall today to denounce a statewide ballot
measure that would deny health care, education and other public services to
illegal immigrants.

Many in the group, which marched from East Los Angeles, had green, white and red
Mexican flags, hoisted from car windows, draped around the shoulders of
teen-agers or billowing from poles.

Marchers lifted signs urging people to vote against the measure, Proposition
187, and carried hand-painted banners encouraging Mexican solidarity.

The measure will be decided in the Nov. 8 election.

About 80 groups, among them labor unions and religious and human rights
organizations, were represented, organizers of the march said. From a stage, a
former State Supreme Court Justice, Cruz Reynoso, denounced the measure's
requirement that teachers and doctors turn in suspected illegal immigrants.

"Are we a people to tell on one another in that fashion?" he said. "I say no."

Protesters said the measure was racist, mean-spirited, anti-immigrant and
unconstitutional.

Supporters have said undocumented immigrants cause the Government an annual
financial burden of $2.4 billion. They say the issue is economics, not race.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 3, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: MEXICO;
Government Joins Attack On Ballot Idea

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 29;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 2


Putting aside years of cautious silence on American domestic politics, Mexico's
Government and governing party are pushing angrily into California's debate over
whether to cut off social services to illegal immigrants.

In a series of increasingly bitter complaints, the administration of President
Carlos Salinas de Gortari has criticized proponents of an initiative regarding
illegal aliens that is on the state's Nov. 8 ballot.

Mexican officials have contacted Hispanic-American groups working against
Proposition 187, as the ballot measure is called, offering arguments and
thoughts on strategy. They have prepared an advertising campaign to remind
Californians of Mexicans' contributions to the state. Should the initiative
pass, Mexican officials say they will hire lawyers to help fight it in American
courts.

"Local political interests in California tend to blame Mexican workers for that
society's problems," Mr. Salinas said to loud applause in his annual state of
the union address on Tuesday. "Mexico affirms rejection of this xenophobic
campaign, and will continue to act in defense of the labor and human rights of
our migrant workers."

The proposition would strip illegal immigrants of their right to most government
services, including education and non-emergency health care. It is supported by
Gov. Pete Wilson of California and many other Republicans in the state, but
opposed by the Clinton Administration and Democratic candidates in the races for
governor and senator. Though support for the measure has slipped, opinion polls
still show that it will pass.

Despite an early pledge of more direct support to the forces arrayed against the
measure, the involvement of Mexican officials has remained largely rhetorical
and concentrated on their side of the border.

But to many Mexicans, the campaign shows the Salinas Government to be standing
up to politicians in the United States who have pushed for crackdowns on illegal
aliens. That helps to offset an image of submission for which the Mexican
Government was widely criticized in negotiations that culminated last year in
approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement.

The Mexican assault on the California proposition is also in keeping with the
Salinas Government's expanding efforts to win political support among Mexican
migrants to the United States. If Mexican officials have not been as active in
California as they initially suggested, it might be because some
Mexican-American leaders have warned that a higher profile could be
counterproductive.

Yet to accusations of opportunism from their own political opposition, Mexican
officials answer that their stand against Proposition 187 is an inevitable
response to the changes taking place in Mexican-American relations.

For decades, they note, Mexican politicians were scrupulous in avoiding any hint
of partisanship in American politics. But as Mexico and the United States become
more integrated, they say, the political rules observed by the two countries are
evolving, too.

"This is part of the new reality of this relationship," said the Deputy Foreign
Minister in charge of Mexican relations with the United States, Andres Rozental,
who first assailed the measure in a speech in Los Angeles more than two months
ago.

"We were more forthcoming about U.S. interest in our electoral process in
August," Mr. Rozental said in an interview, referring to the presence of
hundreds of American observers for Mexico's presidential vote. "And in this
reverse issue, it is not a matter of academic interest. This would affect the
tremendous interests of hundreds of thousands of Mexicans in California."

Officials say the rising protest against the measure in Mexico also portends a
conflict over the immigration question that is likely to deepen as other aspects
of the relationship between the two countries improve. "Immigration is going to
be the No. 1 issue between the United States and Mexico for the next few years,"
Mr. Rozental said.

Mexico has long argued that neither better fences nor more patrol agents along
the border will stop undocumented migrants so long as there is the lure of jobs
across the border.

The two Governments agreed to ignore the issue in negotiations for the trade
agreement out of fear that it might jeopardize American Congressional approval
of the accord. Since last year, however, Mexican officials have pressed harder
for an American policy that would emphasize trying to manage the flow of migrant
workers rather than trying to use force to block the entry of undocumented
immigrants.

Like other opponents of Proposition 187, the Salinas Government predicts that
the measure will have little effect on those migrants, arguing that they seek
better-paying jobs rather than better quality in health care, education and
other benefits that are also largely free in Mexico.

Mexican officials insist that if approved, the initiative would increase racial
discrimination against all people of Mexican descent in California. They say
that would be the inevitable consequence of the measure's requirement that
teachers, social workers and others report any immigrants whom they suspect
might be in the country illegally.

Already, they contend, anti-immigrant sentiments stirred by the election debate
are leading to abuses against Mexicans by both the United States Border Patrol
and ordinary Californians. The Salinas Government has responded with a flurry of
diplomatic protests and the deployment of more than a dozen new officers to
Mexico's nine consulates in the state. The Tijuana City Council voted recently
to declare Governor Wilson persona non grata.

But so far, there is little sign that rising anger over the ballot measure among
Mexicans seriously threatens the expanding economic ties between the two
countries.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Mexican officials speak out against the California ballot
initiative on illegal immigrants, students at Los Angeles schools continued to
rally to protest it. Deputies from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department
held one of about 350 students who took part in a four-hour protest on
Wednesday. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 10, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 ELECTIONS: STATES
CALIFORNIA;
Californians Pass Measure On Aliens; Courts Bar It

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 9


Californians overwhelmingly approved a new law cutting off most government
services to illegal aliens on Tuesday, but Gov. Pete Wilson's orders to begin
enforcing some of its provisions today were immediately blocked by Federal and
state judges.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat who opposed the popular initiative as too
restrictive, claimed victory in a closely fought race against Representative
Michael Huffington, a Republican who supported the measure. Mr. Huffington has
not conceded pending a count of the absentee ballots.

The immigration initiative, called Proposition 187, passed by a margin of 3 to 2
with the strong backing of Mr. Wilson, who had made the costs of illegal
immigration a central theme of his own successful re-election campaign. The
measure denies welfare services, nonemergency medical treatment and public
schooling to foreigners living in the state illegally.

United States District Judge Matthew Byrne Jr. today barred enforcement of the
measure's provisions for one week, until he can hold a hearing. A San Francisco
Superior Court judge blocked enforcement of the provision that denies schooling
to children who are illegal aliens. A flurry of lawsuits were filed today
challenging the measure's constitutionality.

At the same time, law enforcement officials around the state urged disappointed
opponents of Proposition 187 to remain calm and not take to the streets in rowdy
protest, as they had done in the days leading up to Tuesday's voting.

Mr. Huffington's strong support for the initiative, the most hotly debated issue
in California this year, was apparently not enough to give him the edge against
Senator Feinstein. Of votes cast at polling places, 47 percent went to Ms.
Feinstein and 45 percent to Mr. Huffington -- a lead for her, but one so narrow
that her opponent refused to concede until absentee ballots were counted.

"I'm very optimistic that I'm the victor," Ms. Feinstein said this morning.

Mr. Huffington countered that there were enough absentee ballots outstanding to
tip the balance. "The election is still in the hands of the voters," he said.

Election officials said that if past voting patterns held, the absentee votes
would closely track those cast at polling places.

Ms. Feinstein's apparent victory was particularly notable in an election in
which most high-profile Democrats were swept aside by the Republican tide.
Outspent two to one, pummeled by negative television advertisements portraying
her as the ultimate Clintonite liberal and seared by the hyperheated debate over
Proposition 187, she was able to convince voters that it was acceptable to be an
unabashed "inside the beltway" incumbent and an ideological ally of President
Clinton.

Surveys of voters leaving the polls on Tuesday indicated that besides the
immigration issue, the Huffington-Feinstein contest was decided by factors,
ranging from the candidates' experience and trustworthiness to the economy and
crime.

Ms. Feinstein, a 61-year-old veteran of more than three decades in California
public life, bested Mr. Huffington among voters when it came to experience and
knowledge of the needs of California.

Mr. Huffington, a 47-year-old Texan who moved to California in the early 1990's
and who has been in public life for less than three years, did better on crime
and tax issues.

Ms. Feinstein ran particularly well among women, held on to most of the liberal
and Democratic vote, outpolled the Congressman among moderates and independents,
and even stole away some Republicans. She also captured the votes of most black
and Hispanic voters.

After all their talk about the immigration problem, both candidates suddenly
found themselves embarrassed near the end of the campaign by disclosures that
they had employed illegal aliens as household workers. Both then stepped up
their spending on television ads while the campaign became exceptionally
mean-spirited, with the word "liar" the favored pejorative.

In Tuesday's exit polls, many voters said they found Mr. Huffington's huge
personal campaign spending excessive and his advertising blitzes too negative.
Many voters also faulted the Senator along those lines, but they were more
forgiving of her than her opponent.

Mr. Huffington poured $28 million of his $70 million personal fortune into his
campaign, spending most on relentlessly vituperative television advertisements
that catapulted him from political unknown to serious contender.

All told, Mr. Huffington and Ms. Feinstein spent $42 million in their contest,
$16 million more than had ever been spent in a Congressional race. Mr.
Huffington alone exceeded the previous Congressional race spending record of $26
million.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators carrying a Mexican flag marched through the
Mission District of San Francisco yesterday on their way to City Hall to protest
the passage of an initiative limiting public aid to illegal immigrants. (Darcy
Padilla for The New York Times)

Chart: "PORTRAIT OF THE ELECTORATE: The Vote in California" shows demographics
of the state's voters.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 11, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SPORTS PEOPLE: BOXING;
Boycott Threatened

SECTION: Section B;  Page 14;  Column 6;  Sports Desk

LENGTH: 93 words


JOSE SULAIMAN, the president of the World Boxing Council, threatened yesterday
to lead a Mexican boycott of fights in California to protest a new law that
would deny social services to undocumented immigrants in the state.

At a news conference in Mexico City to promote five title fights to be held
there on Saturday night, Sulaiman criticized the passage of Proposition 187,
calling it "discriminatory, inhumane and totally racist."

"There are going to be actions," against the law," said Sulaiman, a Mexican
citizen. "There could be a boycott."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 12, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Fearful Aliens in California Staying Away From Clinics

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 9;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 11


Illegal immigrants frightened by the passage of Proposition 187 in the
California elections on Tuesday are staying away from medical clinics as a
result, clinic administrators here said today.

The sharp drop in the patient load led critics of the ballot initiative to
predict again that a health crisis would befall California if the measure was
upheld by the courts. But its supporters said that if it was upheld and then
strictly enforced, the only result would be illegal aliens' return to their
countries of origin.

At least nine lawsuits have been filed challenging Proposition 187, and Federal
and state judges have already stayed enforcement of the measure, which would
deny public education, nonemergency health care and other social services to
illegal immigrants. It would also direct teachers, health care workers and
others who deliver publicly financed services to report to Federal immigration
officials those suspected of being illegal aliens.

Many clinics serving mostly poor Hispanic residents of Los Angeles said today
that their patient loads had dropped 50 percent to 75 percent since Tuesday. A
similar decline was reported on Thursday by clinics in San Francisco.

At the nonprofit Clinica Romero in downtown Los Angeles, a sign saying "no
questions asked" was taped to the front door today. But Genaro Perez, a
59-year-old immigrant from Guatemala who was at the clinic to be treated for his
diabetes, said in Spanish, "I know people who are afraid to visit the clinic,
afraid of being deported."

Consuelo Carranza, who was at the clinic for an examination, said undocumented
immigrants "are afraid that if they come, they won't be able to have a doctor
take care of them because they're illegal."

A man who identified himself as Hugo Martinez and who was accompanying a clinic
patient said that he crossed the border illegally four years ago but that he was
not worried. "I don't live off the government or off welfare," he said. "I have
a good police record, so I'm not afraid."

But at the Community Health Foundation clinic in East Los Angeles, the patient
load is off more than 60 percent. In telephone conversations, many patients
indicated that "they're confused and feel threatened," said Rodolfo Diaz, the
clinic's executive director.

Some clinics held a news conference for the Spanish-language press this morning,
urging people to keep their medical appointments.

If Proposition 187 survives, everyone's health will suffer, said Jay-Allen
Eisen, a lawyer for the California Association of Hospitals and Health Systems,
whose 425 members account for 80 percent of the hospitals and clinics in the
state.

Mr. Eisen said the measure would create health risks for everyone by denying
prompt treatment of tuberculosis and overloading emergency rooms. "The statute
essentially sets up an entire category of Typhoid Marys among us, spreading
disease," he said.

Among those agreeing was Dr. John M. Leedom, chief of the division of infectious
diseases at the University of Southern California School of Medicine. "I think
it could not help but have a negative impact on TB statistics," Dr. Leedom said.
"It's certainly not to a public health advantage to scare people away from
public health care."

As for the proposition's effect on the health of legal residents, he said:
"Who's your maid? Who's busing the dishes at the table where you eat? Who's
around your children in day care?"

Ron Prince, who led the voter drive for the initiative, scoffed at such a
prospect. "It's certainly not going to happen if the law is enforced and these
people are returned to their home countries," he said.

As the public health effects are debated, a backlash over official challenges to
the measure appears to be building.

On Thursday, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors declined to join an
anti-187 lawsuit filed the day before by the City Council and the Los Angeles
Unified School District.

And George Medovoy, a spokesman for the Sacramento City Unified School District,
which has joined a coalition of districts in a lawsuit, said that "people are
telling us we shouldn't be spending public funds on this suit."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 14, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Mexican Chief Urges Talks on Freer Flow of Migrants

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, Nov. 12


With Mexican anger still building over the approval of a California ballot
initiative to cut social services to undocumented immigrants, President Carlos
Salinas de Gortari has said Mexico and the United States will have to discuss a
freer flow of migrant workers just as they negotiate free trade.

Little more than two weeks before his six-year term is to end, Mr. Salinas
argued that some sort of bilateral agreement on a greater legal flow of Mexican
migrant workers northward is the only way that the problem might be controlled.

"I am not proposing that millions of Mexicans go to the United States -- we want
them in Mexico," Mr. Salinas said in an interview as he flew to this border city
on Saturday night. "That movement is inevitable, and it is better to order and
regulate it than to confront it with administrative measures that are not going
to stop it because the force of the economies is greater."

Mr. Salinas said he did not intend his call for such discussions as a formal
proposal. Barred by the Constitution from seeking re-election, he will leave the
presidency on Dec. 1.

But his remarks are nonetheless an important indication of Mexico's growing
frustration with the hardening American line against illegal immigrants, and his
views closely reflect those of his hand-picked successor, Ernesto Zedillo Ponce
de Leon.

Both men have assailed the immigrant-control initiative in California,
Proposition 187, as misguided and xenophobic, and both have said they would do
what they can to protect Mexican migrants while helping to fight the measure in
the courts.

Having pushed for the North American Free Trade Agreement over the qualms of
nationalistic compatriots, both men are also acutely sensitive to Mexicans'
outrage at the ballot measure's sweeping approval in a year that was to have
ushered in a new spirit of cooperation between Mexico and the United States.

News of the vote and its possible effects has dominated newspaper headlines for
days. Mexican protests have ranged from official rebuke at the United Nations to
the bitter complaints by the Mexican winner of the New York City Marathon and
the ransacking of a McDonald's restaurant in Mexico City by a gang of masked
youths. It has seemed to matter little that challenges to the initiative in
Federal and state courts could limit or delay its enforcement for years.

As the proposition was being debated, Mexican officials roundly snubbed a big
California trade exhibition in Mexico City, the sort of event to which
investment-hungry government technocrats would usually flock. With limited
success, Mexicans living near the California border organized boycotts of
shopping in the United States. And earlier this month, the American Chamber of
Commerce in Mexico warned that the expanding trade between the two countries
could become "a tragic casualty" of the proposition.

Mr. Salinas played down that threat. Backing away somewhat from what has been an
unusually direct Mexican challenge to an issue of American domestic politics, he
said, "We do not have the means, faced with a domestic decision, to promote a
sanction in material terms."

Noting the Clinton Administration's opposition to the California initiative, he
said Mexico's protests might be far angrier had the country not come to
understand more of the complexities of American politics in the course of the
fractious American debate over the free trade accord.

"There is a better understanding that the attitude of the United States toward
Mexico is not monolithic," Mr. Salinas said. "As a consequence, the reaction in
Mexico is not monolithic against the United States now. There is an enormous
concern about 187, but at the same time, it is not a national antagonism of
Mexicans against Americans."

He reiterated his belief that the trade accord is creating jobs in Mexico that
will eventually ease the economic pressures driving migrants to the United
States. But he also argued far more clearly than he has before that an agreement
on the flow of migratory workers was a necessary complement to the trade pact.

"I proposed it at the moment at which the negotiations for the Free Trade
Agreement began," he said.  Mr. Salinas added that the Bush Administration
responded that an immigration side accord "had such a dimension and was of such
ambition that it would make the Nafta practically impossible, that, as a result,
it was better to take up one negotiation."

"If we already have a treaty on the free movement of merchandise, and that
merchandise is produced by people," he continued, "it seems inevitable to me
that Mexico and the United States will have to take up a negotiation like that."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 20, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Why Proposition 187 Won't Work

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 14;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words


Proposition 187, the California ballot initiative that deprives illegal
immigrants of state services, has quickly been revealed as the inhumane headache
its opponents promised it would be.

Already a host of examples of the new measure's inevitable consequences have
shown how unlikely it is that its supporters really thought much before casting
their votes.

Did they, for example, intend to deprive a child who is a legal resident of
treatment for lead poisoning -- because his illegal mother is too frightened to
bring him to the clinic? One health worker has already encountered this
situation, although the law has yet to go into effect.

Did Californians, when they voted to deny illegal immigrants non-emergency
medical care, think about the consequences of having people go untreated for
communicable diseases, thereby putting whole communities at risk? And did
Californians really want the people who run child-welfare agencies to abandon
children already abandoned by their parents, or to evict abused children now in
foster care?

Health care workers, educators and other public servants are having to think
about such issues now. That is one reason why the Los Angeles City Council and
school district have vowed not to comply with 187; it is one reason why school
principals around the state have rushed to reassure their pupils that they have
no intention of playing enforcer for the Immigration and Naturalization Service;
it is one reason why staffs at health clinics have vowed to give up state
funding rather than turn away people in need.

Even the Chief of the Los Angeles police force, Willie Williams, said his
department was making no changes in its procedures. Lieut. Sergio Robleto,
commander of the department's South Bureau, told The Los Angeles Times he had no
intention of playing immigration cop: "I don't have enough detectives to check
on my murders," he said, calling 187's directive to police to track down illegal
aliens "administrative lunacy."

Proposition 187's worst provisions cannot go into effect for at least a week,
thanks to Federal Judge Matthew Byrne Jr. He issued a temporary restraining
order on Wednesday against instituting most of the new law. A state judge had
already barred enforcement of the provision to deny schooling to illegal
immigrants, which in any case was not scheduled to go into effect until January
1995.

The restraining orders came as no surprise. A 1982 Supreme Court decision,
Plyler v. Doe, granted illegal immigrants the right to a free public education.
The 5-to-4 decision did not find that public education was a constitutional
right but cited the "lasting impact of its deprivation on the life of a child."
By that measure, other provisions of Proposition 187 should also be discarded
quickly. Surely deprivation of health care, food and shelter would fit this
category.

Californians are learning that getting tough with illegal immigrants may sound
wonderful in the abstract but it is heartbreaking, and tortuously complicated,
in practice. Both because of its inhumanity and its impracticality, Proposition
187 invites massive civil disobedience. It is a bad law, which, if the courts
continue to rule wisely, will never have to be instituted.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Essay;
Self-Deportation?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The victory in California of the movement to deny schooling and medical services
to illegal immigrants who are not actually bleeding to death is the first
skirmish in the war on unwed welfare mothers.

That's because both Proposition 187 (punishing some 300,000 alien schoolchildren
for the sins of their fathers) and the Gingrich approach to welfare reform
(withholding support when unemployed single mothers have additional children)
are based on this philosophy: the most cost-effective way to change behavior is
to make life unbearable under present behavior.

During the recent resurgence of righteousness, Gov. Pete Wilson of California
was described in this space as "the best candidate with the worst issue" and
Prop. 187, which he strongly supported, was denounced as a "nativist
abomination."

I came to admire him when, as a Senator, he exposed the abuse of the franking
privilege by incumbents. Early this year I reported Richard Nixon's prediction
that a California comeback victory would make Wilson the front-runner for the
'96 Republican nomination -- and if running-mated with Gov. Christy Whitman of
New Jersey, the ticket would win. Visiting Washington last week, Pete Wilson
invited me over to screw my head back on properly.

About the nativism charge: he is eager it be understood that he is not
anti-immigrant, only anti-illegal immigrant. "One in four Californians are legal
immigrants," he says, "and don't need lectures on the contributions of legal
immigrants. In fact, they are the most vociferous critics of illegal
immigration. . . . The issue is the rule of law."

O.K., with a sizeable portion of voting Latinos in favor of curbing their
illegal competitors, let's grant that most of the proposition's supporters are
neither nativist nor racist. Support from those who resent all immigrants, legal
and not, surely came Wilson's way, but it does not mean he shares their
prejudices.

About the privacy-intrusion charge, turning teachers into immigration agents:
"Teachers don't enroll students," Wilson says, implying it is only the
administrators' job and not the teachers'. He says that school districts
everywhere ask for proof of residence, and adds that all applicants to Federal
jobs must produce verifiable citizenship documents. (He's against national ID
cards.)

Maybe he can bolster that defense of 187 in court with regulations against
discrimination or intrusion in its enforcement. But no administrative
amelioration is likely to alter the requirement that schools have reverse truant
officers assigned to root out those sneaky little offspring of illegales trying
to cop a freebie education (to which the Supreme Court has ruled they are
entitled, and with conservative justices, stare decisis ain't dead yet.)

What's Wilson's purpose in all this? To get budget-cutting Washington to
reimburse California $2.5 billion a year for state services to the illegals? To
get the Feds to stem the tide of invaders, many of whom sashay in as tourists?

Yes to both, but more: "If it's clear to you that you cannot be employed, and
that you and your family are ineligible for services, you will self-deport."

I take the import of that to be: make 'em so miserable that they leave the
country. To which many law-abiding Americans, especially tax-burdened
Californians, would say: Hooray!

Ebenezer Scrooge is my hero, too, but that neatly theoretical "economic
disincentive" won't disincent -- because being miserable here doesn't compare
with the misery they ran away from.

Do we really want to drive most illegal families deeper underground, many to
lives of crime? Would we rather have 300,000 children on the streets, learning
costly delinquency -- or safely in school, becoming potential citizens and
taxpayers?

Pete Wilson wants an immigration plank in the Republican platform. Fine; it
should include Federal reimbursement, amnesty, border control -- but none of
this creation of an uneducated, unmedicated underground.

After our talk, I am prepared to withdraw the charge that 187 is driven
primarily by nativism. But in terms of practicality and of the American spirit,
a government policy of making any child's life miserable is still an
abomination.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

How Nativism Infects California Proposition

SECTION: Section A;   Page 22;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 271 words


To the Editor:

William Safire should have titled his Nov. 21 column not "Self-Deportation?" but
instead "Self-Deception."

Mr. Safire withdrew his charge that California's Proposition 187 is driven
primarily by nativism after considering two counterarguments offered by Gov.
Pete Wilson: that the proposition is anti-illegal-immigrant rather than
anti-immigrant, and that most legal immigrants support it.

If Mr. Safire is expecting an overt gesture of hatred or fear to justify crying
nativism when it is casually staring him in the face, he may have a long and
tragic wait ahead of him.

Contemporary nativism is not characterized so much by explicitly evil rhetoric
or action. Nor is nativism equivalent to racism. Indeed, this simple equation
allowed Mr. Safire to be won over by Governor Wilson's contention that
Proposition 187 cannot be nativist because it has received the sanction of
immigrants themselves.

It is the complex interweaving of many apparently harmless but baseless
assumptions regarding race, poverty, dependence or gender that makes for the
most insidious and enduring nativism.

At its heart, nativism suggests that there are measurable, substantive
distinctions between "us" and "them."

For example, when we accept at face value the assumption that illegal immigrants
come to this country seeking unearned welfare and social service benefits, that
they deprive American workers of desperately needed jobs or that they are
reproductively irresponsible, we buy into the legitimacy of difference and
thereby strengthen the fabric of nativism.

AMY L. FAIRCHILD
New York, Nov. 22, 1994

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Immigrant Flees an Asian Smuggling Gang a 2d Time

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words


In the violent underworld of Chinese gangs and human smuggling, illegal
immigrants who cannot pay their passage fees are often kidnapped, beaten, held
hostage or even killed. Guoguang Chen, a 46-year-old immigrant from Fujian,
China, can tell the story.

Twice, in fact.

Last February, Mr. Chen was kidnapped and held hostage for two months by a group
of Chinese gangsters who demanded $33,000. He escaped, and told the police all
he wanted was to leave New York, find a job and hope that his captors would
forget about him.

But in January, unable to find work elsewhere, he returned to New York to hunt
for a job at employment agencies in Chinatown, which list job openings in
Chinese-owned businesses nationwide.

That's when the gangsters caught up with him, he said. They kidnapped him again,
on Jan. 14, and demanded the money he still owed them for helping him get to
this country. This time, convinced they would never recover the smuggling fee,
they started talking about killing him. Most favored shooting him and dumping
his body in the ocean in Atlantic City, Mr. Chen said. Two wanted him buried
alive.

Desperate, he overpowered one of his captors, grabbed a gun, started firing and
ran to freedom. On Tuesday night, the police arrested three men and charged them
with his kidnapping.

The double ordeal of Mr. Chen provides a particularly stark demonstration of the
power that gangs of smugglers can wield in immigrant communities -- particularly
among the Fujianese from China -- and how helpless the illegal immigrants often
are to escape their clutches.

Lieut. Joseph Pollini, commander of the Brooklyn Robbery Squad, said the tangled
web of the Chinese smuggling network is worldwide and tightly controlled by the
Chinese underworld. "They're in Russia, in Nigeria, in England, you name it," he
said. "This is a very lucrative business we are talking about. One boat can net
millions of dollars."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has no statistics on the phenomenon,
but leaders of the Fujianese community in New York estimate that as many as
200,000 Fujianese have been smuggled to the United States in the last five
years, most of them to New York.

After the arrests on Tuesday, the police confirmed the main points of Mr. Chen's
account, which he provided in an interview. The police say they are still
seeking more suspects, who they believe are still holding other captives.

Like many of his countrymen mired in rural poverty in China, Mr. Chen, a farmer
in Fujian, left behind a family -- a wife and three teen-age children -- to come
to America. Smugglers promised to get him to the mainland United States for
$29,000.

He gave the smugglers a borrowed installment of $4,000 before leaving China,
intending to pay the rest within two years of arriving in the United States.
After a three-year journey that took him through Thailand, Cambodia and the
Dominican Republic, he arrived in Puerto Rico last February. He was arrested
there by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and sent to a detention
center in New Orleans.

Mr. Chen said he called the smugglers from the detention center, and they bailed
him out and paid for his flight to New York. But when he arrived, gang members
took him to a house in Bedford-Stuyvesant and held him there for two months,
repeatedly beating him and demanding that he pay all of what he owed
immediately, which had grown to $33,000 with interest, they said.

In April, Mr. Chen managed to flee to the 81st Precinct station house.
Frightened, he told Detective Edward J. Miller of the Asian Crime Team that he
did not want to press charges; he asked to be dropped off at the Port Authority
and said he intended to go to Philadelphia to work. Detective Miller gave him
$50 and told the Port Authority police to make sure he reached his destination.

During the next nine months, haunted by the thought that his kidnappers would
find him, Mr. Chen, a dishwasher, worked in at least five different Chinese
restaurants in surrounding states. "I was so frightened that I couldn't
concentrate on my work," Mr. Chen said in Chinese. "Sometimes I got fired.
Sometimes I just left abruptly. I could not sleep at night."

But Mr. Chen said he dared not return to China either. "The smugglers' relatives
live in the same village as me," he said. "They'll come after me just the same."

Last month, Mr. Chen returned to New York and went to the Singapore Employment
Agency in Chinatown, where a worker said she got him a job in a Chinese
restaurant in Delaware. But as he waited, three men he recognized as former
captors appeared at the agency and forced him into a car, Mr. Chen said.

"I knew something was wrong when I saw them," Mr. Chen said. "But I had no place
to run." The police said they did not know how the men found him. No one at the
employment agency has been charged in the case.

Mr. Chen said he was forced into the car and taken to 317 Hart Street in
Brooklyn, the same place he was held 10 months earlier.

While in captivity, Mr. Chen's captors grew increasingly frustrated that they
could not get the money from him, and began to talk of killing him, he said.

"They called my wife in China and told her they meant business," Mr. Chen said.
"My wife cried and begged for them not to kill me. She said we don't have that
kind of money."

They police said they thought the kidnappers were going to carry out their plans
to kill Mr. Chen.

"They knew they couldn't get anything out of him," Detective Miller said. "By
killing him, they want to set an example to other hostages they were holding
that this is what's going to happen if you don't pay up."

On Friday, after Mr. Chen escaped, his captors fled with five other captives,
the police said. The police found a case of ammunition in the house.

From a visa application left behind, the police concluded that one suspect,
identified as Jack Parker, 39, a naturalized American citizen from Laos, was
headed for Nigeria. Tuesday evening, the police arrested Mr. Parker as he was
about to board a Lufthansa flight at Kennedy Airport along with two others,
Zhang Zimao, 31, and his brother Zhang Zimei, 20, both of whom were originally
smuggled into this country during the last decade. Zhang Zimao obtained legal
immigration status through marriage, said an immigration official. His younger
brother had applied for political asylum.

Lieutenant Pollini said the police also seized $30,000 in cash from Mr. Parker.

"It appears that he is not only fleeing the country out of fear of being caught
but also was on a mission to transport the smuggling fees out of the country and
make contacts with another group of illegal immigrants like Mr. Chen,"
Lieutenant Pollini said.

Lieutenant Pollini said none of the suspects appeared to have criminal records.
The police said all three are charged with kidnapping and conspiracy to commit
kidnapping.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 22, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CLINTON WILL SEEK SPENDING TO CURB ALIENS, AIDES SAY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1527 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21


Balancing new political realities with old political commitments, President
Clinton will soon propose a major increase in the budget for enforcing
immigration laws and labor standards, Administration officials said today. He is
also believed to be leaning in favor of a proposal to increase the minimum wage.

Republicans in Congress are likely to propose even bigger increases in spending
for immigration enforcement, especially for expansion of the Border Patrol. But
the Republicans are divided over plans to increase inspections of factories and
other work sites.

White House officials said the President would probably propose an increase in
the minimum wage, as advocated by Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich. Mr. Clinton
supported such an increase in the 1992 Presidential campaign, but aides said he
had not decided whether to mention the idea in his State of the Union Message on
Tuesday. Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Clinton
was still weighing the recommendations of his economic advisers.

The issues provide two examples of how Mr. Clinton hopes to respond to the
political shift since Republicans won control of Congress.

Administration officials said that in promising to move against illegal
immigration, the President hoped to beat Republicans to the punch on a topic of
great concern to moderate voters who deserted the Democrats in November. By
contrast, a proposal to increase the minimum wage would appeal to a traditional
core Democratic group.

With Republicans controlling the House and the Senate, Congress appears unlikely
to raise the minimum wage in the next two years. Many Republicans contend that
any substantial increase would cause a loss of jobs.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, recently introduced a bill
to raise the minimum wage to $5.75 an hour from the current $4.25 in increments
of 50 cents a year over three years. Labor unions support the Kennedy proposal
and say they worry that Mr. Clinton will seek an increase of only 75 cents, to
$5 an hour.

Mr. Reich contends that raising the minimum wage is one way to halt growing
inequality in the distribution of income. "If we don't grow together," he said,
"if we continue to grow apart, this country is going to pay a huge price in
terms of its stability and its prosperity."

Mr. Clinton will use his speech on Tuesday to redefine his Presidency, to
portray himself as a champion of the middle class and to articulate his vision
for the next century, explaining how Government can help workers ride the roller
coaster of economic change.

The bipartisan desire to increase the budget of the immigration service is an
exception to the general push by President Clinton and Congress to cut
employment and spending at Federal agencies. Those cuts will help pay for the
new immigration initiatives, but Mr. Clinton will not disclose details of all
the cuts until he sends his budget request to Congress next month.

Confidential budget documents show that the Administration is drafting ambitious
proposals to combat illegal immigration, which supplies cheap labor for
low-wage, low-skill jobs that might be held by American workers. A Justice
Department official said the Administration was racing Congress to see who would
"be first with the most on immigration issues."

The official said the Administration was acutely aware of Proposition 187 in
California, which would make illegal aliens ineligible for most public social
services, and the Republicans' "Contract With America," which would go further,
denying welfare benefits to most legal aliens as well.

"Public attitudes will become more xenophobic unless we are given the muscle and
resources to deal with the problem of illegal immigration," the official said.

Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Immigration, said in an interview that the Administration "seems
to have had an election-night conversion on this issue."

But immigration officials said Congress was partly responsible for the problem
because it had appropriated less money than they requested in recent years for
certain enforcement activities.

Budget plans being drafted by the Administration would step up enforcement of
the ban on hiring illegal aliens and increase investigations of those who
smuggle aliens into the country or provide them with fraudulent identification
documents. The draft budget calls for hiring 650 investigators, an increase of
41 percent over the 1,600 at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
is part of the Justice Department.

Mr. Clinton will also seek $131 million to detain and deport aliens who have
committed crimes or are here illegally, doubling the agency's capacity to expel
criminal aliens. And he will also propose $15 million to build detention centers
in Buffalo and San Francisco.

For the fiscal year that began last Oct. 1, Congress increased the budget of the
immigration service by 25 percent to $2 billion. Lawmakers say they will closely
supervise use of the money because the immigration service has a long history of
poor management, documented in dozens of Federal audits.

The Administration began drafting its 1996 proposals before devaluation of the
peso caused concern that hundreds of thousands of Mexicans might cross the
border illegally to seek work in the United States. Members of Congress and
immigration officials said the crisis in Mexico underlined the need for tougher
immigration measures.

Administration officials advocate a balance between controlling the border and
policing work sites to discourage the hiring of illegal aliens. Some Republicans
favor a balanced approach, but others oppose the whole idea of employer
sanctions as a burden on employers.

Enforcement of the employer sanctions law, through additional workplace
inspections, would concentrate on New York, California, Florida, Texas,
Illinois, Arizona and New Jersey, officials said. Investigators would focus on
industries like construction, agriculture, hotels and restaurants, which have a
history of employing illegal aliens. But inspections would be random in each
industry.

The budget also calls for a substantial increase in the number of investigators
at the wage and hour division of the Labor Department. The Labor Department
would play a bigger role in enforcing immigration laws and could propose fines
against employers who failed to verify the identity and citizenship status of
job applicants.

A Labor Department official said his inspectors were willing to enforce
employers' obligations under the immigration law but wanted to avoid conflicts
with their primary mission. "We can't be in the business of identifying,
apprehending and deporting workers," he said. "Our ability to do our job depends
on the cooperation of workers who tell us about violations of wage and hour
laws. The labor laws protect all workers, including undocumented workers."

In a monograph four years ago, Doris M. Meissner, now Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization, said, "We know that employers who violate one
labor law are likely to violate most labor laws." The 1986 ban on employment of
illegal aliens is a labor standard, she said, and the Labor Department should be
"a full partner" in enforcing it.

Administration officials said Mr. Clinton's proposal would reverse a decline in
enforcement of wage and hour laws under prior administrations. The wage and hour
division of the Labor Department had well over 1,000 investigators in the
1980's, but the number has decreased steadily, to 961 in 1990 and 791 at the end
of 1994.

The Justice Department is also increasing the number of immigration judges, to
speed up decisions on expelling aliens. It plans to add 63 judges to the 116
already on the bench, an increase of 54 percent.

A Federal advisory commission recently proposed that the Government establish a
computerized register of the names and Social Security numbers of citizens and
aliens authorized to work in the United States, so that employers could check
the immigration status of job applicants. President Clinton will seek $8.3
million for a pilot program to evaluate the effectiveness of such a system.

The President will also propose increasing the size of the Border Patrol, but
his increase is more modest than those favored by some in Congress.

The Border Patrol had 4,367 agents at the end of last month and plans to hire
600 to 700 this year under current law. The President's budget will seek 500
more agents for 1996.

By contrast, Representative Smith and Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican
who heads the Appropriations subcommittee responsible for the Justice
Department, say they want to double the size of the Border Patrol. They propose
adding 1,000 agents in each of the next five years, so the Border Patrol would
have 10,000 agents in the year 2000.

In a recent memorandum, the immigration service cautioned the White House:
"Whatever we propose, it should be within the realm of reality, of what we could
possibly carry out. There's only so many Border Patrol agents we can bring on
and train in a given year."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 15, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

California's Woes on Aliens Appear Largely Self-Inflicted

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1471 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 14


Gov. Pete Wilson, condemning the failure of Federal immigration policy, is
pushing the Clinton Administration to declare an "immigration emergency" and
reimburse the state for what he calls a "multibillion-dollar problem."

Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who is running for re-election,
is calling for a $1 border toll to raise money for stronger border enforcement.

And polls show that Californians, convinced that their state is being overrun by
illegal immigrants who are draining the state's coffers, seem likely to pass a
ballot proposition that will deprive illegal immigrants of health, education and
welfare benefits, which the Governor's office says will cost California $3.2
billion this year.

But a close examination of the record shows that to a significant degree
California has brought its immigration problems on itself. Policies promoted by
the state's leaders in the 1980's actively encouraged illegal immigration into
California, and as a result hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants came.

Now some of the same leaders are complaining that public money is being used to
treat those immigrants in hospitals, send their children to school and
incarcerate illegal aliens who commit crimes. Governor Wilson, for example, has
endorsed the proposition on ending benefits, while Ms. Feinstein has not yet
taken a position, saying she is still studying its costs.

Reflecting on California's earlier policies, Leslie Goodman, the Governor's
deputy chief of staff, ruefully acknowledged that "in some ways there have been
self-inflicted wounds."

Ten years ago, the mood in California could not have been more different. "The
attitude of the time," said Alan C. Nelson, a Californian who was then
Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, "was that illegal immigration
was O.K."

In fact, in 1984 and 1985, city councils in Los Angeles, San Francisco and many
other cities around the state and the country passed resolutions and ordinances
declaring their cities to be sanctuaries for illegal immigrants from Central
American countries that were regarded as centers of repression supported by the
United States.

"We told them, 'You guys are sending a signal that will be heard all over the
world,' " recalled Harold Ezell, who was the Western commissioner in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service at the time. " 'Just get here to
California, and it'll be a free zone.' And that's exactly what happened."

But those were only the first of several decisions that helped cause some of
California's problems today. In 1986 Mr. Wilson, then a Senator, and others from
the California Congressional delegation held up passage of the Immigration
Reform and Control Act until a provision was added to allow several hundred
thousand immigrants into the country temporarily so that they could help harvest
crops. Under the provision that eventually resulted, more than one million came
to stay.

Two weeks ago, Attorney General Janet Reno, irritated by Mr. Wilson's continued
attacks on the Administration's immigration policies, shot back, saying, "It is
very, very important that we understand that Governor Wilson and others during
their time in the Senate fostered some of the illegal immigration that we're now
trying to deal with."

Mr. Wilson's response was instant, and bitter. He called her comments "a
shameful attempt to turn the spotlight away from the Clinton Administration's
total failure to secure our border."

No accurate records exist to document the flow of illegal immigration. The only
approximate measure is the number of illegal aliens apprehended by the Border
Patrol.

Presumably, this figure increases when the number of people trying to cross the
border goes up. And in 1985 and 1986 the number of illegal aliens apprehended
along California's southern border increased by 45 percent -- to 724,842 in 1986
from 499,291 in 1985. That was the largest one-year increase ever.

It was late in 1985 when San Francisco began considering creating a "sanctuary,"
declaring that police officers and city employees were not to bother illegal
immigrants from El Salvador and Guatemala -- or to help the immigration service
to find or deport them.

"We begged them," recalled David Ilchert, then director of the San Francisco
office of the I.N.S. "We told them they would be inviting illegal immigration.
Even as the resolution was being debated, we were apprehending aliens who said
they'd heard about it in Central America."

But San Francisco passed the resolution and Ms. Feinstein, then Mayor, signed it
-- reluctantly, her allies say now.

In Washington, meanwhile, Senator Wilson was pushing to include a "guest worker"
provision in the immigration reform bill being debated in 1985. He proposed to
allow 350,000 aliens into the country temporarily to help with harvests.

House Democrats balked at that idea -- worried, they said, that temporary
workers would be exploited. But without a farm worker provision it was clear
that Mr. Wilson and the other members of the California delegation in Congress
would not vote for an immigration bill.

So a small group of House Democrats drafted a substitute plan -- the Special
Agricultural Worker, or SAW, program. It offered legal residency to immigrants
who could prove they had been agricultural workers. As legal residents, the
reasoning went, the immigrants would be less subject to exploitation.

Mr. Wilson, his former aides say now, was not entirely comfortable with that
plan. "But I remember him coming into the room and telling us he was going to
support it," said Representative Howard L. Berman of California, a Democrat who
was one of the authors of the plan.

Governor Wilson declined a request for an interview. But Ms. Goodman, his aide,
said: "To say he had huge objections to the SAW program, no he didn't. He wanted
a migrant worker program."

Congress passed the immigration bill with the SAW program. Afterward, Mr.
Nelson, the immigration commissioner, said he "got into a jousting match" with
Mr. Wilson over efforts to put the plan into effect. To be eligible for
residency, aliens had to prove that they had been agricultural workers in the
recent past. Mr. Nelson wanted immigrants to provide that proof before allowing
them into the country.

Mr. Wilson opposed that. In a letter to President Ronald Reagan, the Senator
said crops were rotting in the fields while the I.N.S. carried out "burdensome
SAW application procedures." Immigrants should be allowed into the country on
their word alone, he wrote, and required to present proof only later. Mr. Wilson
prevailed.

In the end, the farm worker program became the catalyst for widespread fraud. To
become a legal resident, an alien had only to present any letter or document,
real or forged, showing that he had been an agricultural worker. And across the
state, vendors began selling forged documents to immigrants.

Under the SAW program, about 1.6 million people applied for legal residency,
though farmers had said they needed only about 350,000 workers. About 1.1
million immigrants won legal status under the program, and most of them moved to
California.

Wayne Cornelius, an immigration expert at the University of California at San
Diego, said the farm worker program "had a powerful stimulating effect on family
migration." Many newly legal residents brought their spouses and children with
them and moved to cities in California.

But the program did not offer legal status to these spouses and children. So
hundreds of thousands of family members became illegal immigrants, "and these
women and children were the ones most likely to use state health and education
services," Mr. Cornelius said.

At the time, those new immigrants were welcomed and protected. San Francisco in
1989, after Ms. Feinstein had left office, passed an ordinance forbidding police
officers or city officials from assisting in the enforcement of Federal
immigration law.

And Bill King, then a regional officer for the I.N.S in California, said, "The
cooperation between us and law enforcement just disappeared for a while."

Since then, attitudes have changed, partly in response to a 1990 Federal law
that said certain Federal law-enforcement funds would be withheld from cities
that did not cooperate with the immigration service in the search for aliens
with criminal records.

But the real change came when hard economic times hit California several years
ago. With an illegal immigrant population now estimated by the Federal
Government at 1.8 million in California, Ms. Goodman said Governor Wilson began
to see how much the social services were costing.

Looking at all of that now, Mr. Cornelius, the immigration expert at San Diego,
said: "Absolutely, this is partly a self-inflicted problem. And here we are in
this morass today."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 27, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
Deciding Who Gets What in America

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


UNDER the House Republicans' "Contract With America," certain groups, like unwed
teen-age mothers and able-bodied unemployed men, are deemed undeserving of the
Government's largess. Both groups were excoriated in campaign rhetoric and cut
off from public assistance in the contract's sketchy budget proposals.

But these same budgetary figures reveal something the rhetoric did not. Among
the ranks of the undeserving, by implication, is a group that has played by the
rules, paid taxes, and demonstrated family values: legal immigrants. These are
not people who sneaked across the border. They were granted visas to rejoin
family members, to work, or, often, both.

The Republicans reckon that they can save more than $21 billion over five years
by barring legal immigrants from 60 programs, including Medicaid, food stamps
and welfare. David Super, a policy analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, a research institute that studies antipoverty programs, points out
that illegal immigrants "are already ineligible for most major Federal
programs."

The emphasis on citizenship as a litmus test goes beyond anything envisioned in
Proposition 187, the measure just approved by California voters and put on hold
by Federal courts, to bar illegal aliens from most public social services. Gov.
Pete Wilson of California, an outspoken supporter of that measure, repeatedly
said he intended no harm to legal aliens.

The effort to curtail benefits for legal immigrants, who pay taxes and serve in
the armed forces, represents a profound shift in national attitudes. But it is
not one the Clinton Administration can easily criticize. The President's own
welfare bill is financed, in part, by tightening eligibility rules for aliens
who seek food stamps and welfare. Rather than banning them from such programs,
the President would require American citizens to take greater financial
responsibility for immigrants whose entry they sponsor.

Charles H. Wheeler, director of the National Immigration Law Center, a legal
services organization that helps lawyers representing immigrants, said that
public animosity to illegal aliens has been spilling over into the attitudes
toward legal migrants. "Politicians are looking for ways to save money," he
said.

"Instead of carving out a group of people who are abusing the system," he added,
"they take the politically expedient and safe route of cutting off a group of
people on the basis of citizenship, or lack of it. That sends a message to these
legal aliens that they are less deserving."

For the People?

Despite the country's history as a nation of immigrants, popular opinion in the
United States has continually vacillated on the question of whom the Government
is meant to serve: its people, or just its citizens. At times, the Government
mandate has been broadly inclusive. At other times, it has been read narrowly.

The Republican proposal can find resonance in two centuries of debate about the
meaning and privileges of citizenship. From a review of that history, including
numerous Supreme Court decisions, three points seem clear: First, if Congress
wanted to deny welfare and other Government benefits to legal aliens, it could
do so, by virtue of its plenary authority over immigration.

Second, states, by contrast, have very limited authority to impose such
discriminatory burdens on aliens because the restrictions conflict with the
Federal Government's power to regulate immigration. And third, while Congress
could make citizenship a prerequisite for getting public assistance, such action
would flout traditions that run deep in America's political culture.

Alexander M. Bickel, a constitutional scholar who taught for many years at Yale
Law School, wrote that "the concept of citizenship plays only the most minimal
role in the American constitutional scheme." The makers of the French Revolution
called one another "citizen" to reaffirm their participation in the state, he
noted in "The Morality of Consent" (Yale University Press, 1975). But it was "We
the People of the United States," not the citizens of the United States, who
established a Constitution for this country.

The Bill of Rights defines rights of people, not citizens. The Founding Fathers
and their contemporaries were citizens of individual states, but there was no
definition of United States citizenship in the Constitution until the 14th
Amendment was added in 1868. This was needed, in part, to overrule the Supreme
Court's decision in the Dred Scott case, which held that members of "the
enslaved African race" were not citizens and were therefore excluded from "the
political community created by the Constitution."

The Dred Scott decision exalted the importance of citizenship as a factor in
deciding whether someone was entitled to certain rights and privileges, and that
was unusual in American history. In practice, permanent resident aliens have
most of the rights -- and obligations -- of citizens, the most conspicuous
exception being the right to vote in Federal elections.

Tinker, Tailor, Soldier . . .

Legal aliens, of course, are not a monolithic group. Some are entrepreneurs,
some are business executives and some teach at universities, while others clean
people's houses or pump gas. Some have been here just a year or two; others, for
decades. But all, saving only those admitted as refugees and living in the
country less than six years, would be affected by the House Republicans'
proposal.

Given the current political climate, few officials have stepped forward to
defend immigrants' rights to welfare benefits. And since aliens do not vote,
they cannot elect anyone to champion their cause. But a wide range of Hispanic,
Asian-American, Roman Catholic and Jewish organizations have formed a coalition
to preserve their access to social services.

Justifying its proposal, the Administration said there had been a sharp increase
in the number of legal aliens collecting Supplemental Security Income, a form of
welfare for people who are aged, blind or disabled. "Immigrants rose from 5
percent of the S.S.I. aged caseload in 1982 to over 25 percent of the caseload
in 1992," it said. "Since 1982, applications for S.S.I. from immigrants have
tripled, while immigration rose by only about 50 percent over the period."

Many Federal laws distinguish between citizens and aliens, but the line
separating permanent residents from other aliens is, in some ways, more
significant. The green card, certifying status as a permanent resident, creates
so many opportunities for immigrants they often feel no need to become citizens.

That could change. Mr. Wheeler, of the National Immigration Law Center,
predicted that if the Republican proposal becomes law, "a lot of permanent
residents will become citizens so they can retain eligibility for public
benefits."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new American citizen, sworn in last July. (Jim West/Impact
Visuals)

Graph: "The Non-Citizen Share" (Source: Congressional Budget Office)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 17, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
As California Goes

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 31;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California's plan to fight illegal immigration is all tied up in the courts, and
part of it has been ruled unconstitutional. Around the state, doctors, nurses
and teachers say it will turn them into informers and that they will not obey
it. Around the country, some prosecutors say it will not work or would increase
crime.

But to most Californians these objections just stand in the way of dealing with
a draining of state funds by people who have no business being in America at
all.

The passion for the plan is so strong that, workable or not, it has already had
results that affect the whole country.

1. Anger against illegal immigrants has already turned into action against legal
immigrants. In Congress on Wednesday a House committee voted to strip totally
legal immigrants of 35 benefits they had been receiving along with American
citizens. These range from welfare payments to testing of children for lead
poisoning.

2. The nation is face to face with questions that involve its character and
purpose. Are immigrants still an essential part of American strength and
identity? Or have they become one more American problem, a blister that gets
increasingly annoying?

3. Gov. Pete Wilson of California has become one of six or seven Americans most
likely to be the next President. He did not initiate Proposition 187, the
package of regulations aimed at illegals and adopted by Californians. But he
embraced it, which helped him come from 22 points behind to win re-election.

Mr. Wilson says he has not made up his mind whether to run for the Republican
Presidential nomination. But the immigration issue plus California's 54
electoral votes give him enormous attention and high standing among Republicans.

I was told that Governor Wilson was a rather dull, bland fellow, so laid back
that he was practically lying down.

Either I have met an impostor or this is one more case of professional advisers
and journalists loading their own boredom onto a political leader. The Wilson I
ran into belted out "California Blues" with his wife at a dinner for Lady
Thatcher one night. The next day in an interview he was direct, witty,
plain-spoken, likable and in personality certainly electable.

The immigration issue, however, which was a lifebuoy in the gubernatorial
campaign, could drag him down in a Presidential campaign, though he doubts it.

Still, so far it has been easy for him. He says he is just talking about
undocumented aliens -- mostly Mexican. Who wants to fight for a bunch of
illegals?

But as Congress is showing, the target is really all immigrants, legal or not.

What's more, the California proposition will make life nasty for a lot of
non-immigrants. Nurses, doctors, teachers who run into adults or children they
believe may be illegals -- and who are therefore barred by Proposition 187 from
most health and education services -- would have to call in the cops.

Maybe, and this is a long shot, Americans will take a good look at the grab bag
of hypocrisies in the excommunication of Mexican illegals from American life.

They are among the hardest-working U.S. residents, the most chock-full of family
values. When California agribusiness needed people for backbreaking labor in the
1980's, politicians like then-Senator Wilson got laws passed allowing Mexicans
to enter as "guest workers."

What do you know? When the harvest ended some of the "guests" stayed on. Deeply
lonesome, just as if they were regular people, they got their families across
the border.

Now Mr. Wilson and other Californians want a kind of sunshine insurance from
Washington.

Profit from Mexican labor when California badly needs it. But otherwise make
Washington pay California whatever they had cost in the way of health, education
and law enforcement.

The Governor put in an expense item of $10 billion. A Federal court threw it
out. He says he will fight on. What with the loss of defense contracts, the sun
is not shining as much these days. Maybe Wall Street should get Federal
insurance payments when the Fed hikes interest.

Before I left for California, a friend asked if I was going with an open mind
about the anti-immigration movement. Yes, like a car with a sliding roof panel,
open but not really convertible.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 2, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Official Faces Federal Charge

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 1


A top immigration official in San Francisco was in Federal custody in Texas
today on charges of selling documents to illegal immigrants in the San Francisco
area.

The official, William Malcolm Tait, 45, was arrested by the Department of
Justice, said Anthony Odom, the chief deputy United States Marshal in Dallas.

Mr. Tait was deputy assistant district director in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in San Francisco but had been on temporary
assignment in Dallas. The authorities said he had made up to $1 million selling
the documents, known as green cards, which allow the holders to hold jobs
legally.

Mr. Tait's not currently have direct control over the issuance of residency
visas, but he did have such control previously, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 8, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

A National Registry for Work

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words


A Federal commission on immigration reform has urged President Clinton to
establish a computerized national registry of all citizens and immigrants
authorized to work in the United States. The goal, a worthy one, is to help
employers check the eligibility of job applicants in order to screen out illegal
aliens.

The proposal has been vigorously attacked as an invasion of privacy and a threat
that will lead to government surveillance, a national identification card and
new forms of discrimination. But such fears appear exaggerated. The registry can
be protected so that it does not grow into an instrument of government
oppression. The commission's chairwoman, Barbara Jordan, a former Democratic
Congresswoman from Texas, a longtime civil rights advocate and leading black
politician, said she would never support a proposal that increased
discrimination or invaded privacy.

The registry is designed to tighten access to employment, the lure that brings
most illegal immigrants across U.S. borders. The 1986 Immigration Reform and
Control Act sought to shut off this economic magnet by penalizing employers who
hired illegal aliens. Employers are required to ask all job applicants for
documents to verify that they are either citizens or aliens authorized to work
in the U.S. But phony documents can be readily obtained in many cities. Thus
many illegal immigrants use false papers to obtain jobs, and many employers,
seeking to avoid sanctions for illegal hiring, discriminate against any
applicants who look foreign, whether they are entitled to work or not.

How to resolve this dilemma was one of many issues that the Commission on
Immigration Reform was set up to examine. The commission will issue a final
report next month, but Ms. Jordan previewed its recommendations before the
Senate Judiciary Committee last week.

The most controversial proposal is the computerized registry of all eligible
workers in the country, using data from the Social Security Administration and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Employers would use the registry to
check that the Social Security number provided by an applicant was valid and had
been issued to someone authorized to work in the U.S.

The commission recommends a large pilot program in those states with the most
illegal immigrants -- California, Texas, Florida, New York and Illinois -- to
test the best way of determining the job applicant's identity and eligibility.
That might be done through more secure documents, like counterfeit-resistant
Social Security cards and driver's licenses, or other methods like a telephone
verification system.

By making the same initial check of all potential employees, the new system
would actually reduce the chances of discrimination. Employers would no longer
have any reason to ask if an applicant was an immigrant or to reject all
foreign-looking applicants out of hand. And American workers at the bottom of
the economic ladder would benefit from more effective ways of discouraging the
hiring of illegal immigrants.

Opponents of the proposal, like the American Civil Liberties Union, insist that
it comes dangerously close to a national identity card. But the Social Security
number is already a form of national identification system, used widely by
government agencies and private companies. The computerized registry would
enhance its reliability.

The commission recognizes the need for accuracy of the new registry and supports
efforts by the Social Security Administration and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to improve and update their records. It also supports
safeguards against use of the registry data for improper purposes. The task for
Washington is to protect the integrity of any new data system as vigilantly as
it would protect the workplace from illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 21, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Chaos Keeps U.S. in Cheap Labor

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words


To the Editor:

The gross ineptitude and mismanagement that pervades the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service, described in your "Chaos at the Gates"
series (front page, Sept. 11-15) cannot be dismissed as a Government bureaucracy
that does not work. The real question is: Why is there no serious pressure from
the public or from Government officials to improve the agency's performance?
What purpose is served by an inefficiency that allows three million to four
million undocumented immigrants to reside in this country?

A major segment of the United States economy benefits from the presence of
undocumented immigrants, and therein lies at least part of the answer. The
United States is in the enviable position of having a nearly limitless supply of
inexpensive labor clamoring at its gates.

Moreover, in recent years it has been attracting skilled, highly motivated
immigrants for even the most menial jobs. And, through legislation and selective
enforcement of immigration law, the Government not only creates a supply of
cheap, powerless labor, but can also partly regulate what immigrants are
admitted and under what conditions.

The presence of undocumented immigrants is also advantageous because, for many,
the sojourn in the United States is temporary. Most, at least initially, view
their stay as transitory, and it is this ready-made impermanence that meshes so
neatly with the kinds of jobs they fill.

Undocumented immigrants are overwhelmingly employed in the secondary sector of
the United States labor market, which is characterized by low-wage jobs, with no
job security, few or no benefits and little or no advancement opportunity.
Because of the disadvantages, finding native-born workers to fill such jobs can
be a problem.

Enter undocumented immigrants. Seeing themselves as "here today and gone
tomorrow," they are less disheartened by the lack of career prospects and other
drawbacks of the secondary job market.

Undocumented immigration to the United States channels in low-cost, often
well-educated workers, who are willing, even eager, to take jobs that otherwise
might go unfilled. It is well to recall this when we condemn the immigration
service's "inefficiency." What appears as ineptitude may actually be tacit
Government policy.

MAXINE L. MARGOLIS
Gainesville, Fla., Sept. 16, 1994
The writer, a professor of anthropology at the University of Florida, is author
of "Little Brazil: An Ethnography of Brazilian Immigrants in New York City."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 30, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Alien and Top Student Gets Visa to Continue Education

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 29


Rafael Ibarra, high school valedictorian and premed student, will arrive for his
sophomore year at the University of Chicago with his most crucial test behind
him.

On Thursday, a Federal immigration judge gave Mr. Ibarra, an illegal immigrant
for the last 14 years, the right to live and study in the United States.

"It appears his academic contribution outweighs anything he's taken from the
United States," said Kenneth Bagley, a Federal administrative law judge.

Technically, Judge Bagley suspended deportation proceedings against Mr. Ibarra,
making him a legal resident and opening the way for him to apply for
citizenship. The judge ruled that Mr. Ibarra had met the requirements to stay in
the United States -- that he was a person of good moral character and that
returning to Mexico would be a hardship.

The ruling means that Mr. Ibarra can return to college for his sophomore year
when classes start on Monday.

"He's not someone who came here and was living on the fringes of society," Judge
Bagley said. "He did not work illegally and take more than he gave back."

Mr. Ibarra was euphoric. "I definitely felt like I had my hands tied behind my
back because of this barrier," he said. "Now I feel free."

Mr. Ibarra, 20, graduated from a San Diego high school in 1993 and won full
scholarships from top colleges around the country.

When it came time to fill in applications, he acknowledged that he was a Mexican
citizen and not a legal resident of the United States, where he has lived since
his mother brought him in when he was 6 years old. The University of Chicago
said it would accept him anyway on the condition that he tried to legalize his
status.

Mr. Ibarra asked the Immigration and Naturalization Service for an international
student visa. The I.N.S. arranged for the expedited hearing today because of Mr.
Ibarra's academic status, said Rudy Murillo, a spokesman for the agency.

The judge had to weigh several factors, including the hardship that deporting
Mr. Ibarra would create and how well he had assimilated in the United States.

But one critic said United States taxpayers should not have had to pay for Mr.
Ibarra's elementary and high school education.

"He'll never pay back the education all U.S. taxpayers have paid for him," said
a San Diego resident, Alfred C. Strohlein, who attended the hearing. "He did not
play fairly and by the rules."

In Chicago, where Mr. Ibarra is majoring in biochemistry, about the only
difficulties he had were adjusting to the rough Midwestern winter and to the
university's bureaucracy.

"He did remarkably well, considering all the distractions he had with the
trial," said David Owen, Mr. Ibarra's academic adviser at the university.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 1, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Congressional Commission Calls for Crackdown on Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30


A Federal commission today recommended tough measures to stop illegal
immigration, including a computerized registry for job seekers and the denial of
almost all public services and assistance to illegal aliens.

"If a person is here unlawfully, he should be entitled to no benefits," said
former Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas, chairman of the United States
Commission on Immigration, which made its recommendations in a report to
Congress.

She said illegal immigrants should be allowed tax-paid benefits only in case of
"an emergent need for specific assistance," like emergency health care or school
lunches. The Supreme Court has ruled that illegal aliens are eligible to attend
public elementary and high schools.

Within hours of their submission to Congress, the commission's recommendations
were assailed. One recommendation that was strenuously opposed would require
that a prospective employer verify an applicant's immigration status through a
computer registry based on Social Security and Immigration and Naturalization
Service files.

That proposal "would require every employer to obtain Federal Government
approval before job applicants could be hired," said George E. Bushnell Jr.,
president of the American Bar Association. "The registry would involve the
development of national data files on every citizen and legal resident."

Ms. Jordan said, however, that the computerized registry was the most promising
option for a simpler and more effective verification of a potential worker's
status than the current requirement for a Social Security card, which is easily
forged.

She suggested a system of personal identification numbers and codes, like those
used by banks. "If they trust that type of system when there's money involved, I
certainly think it's worth a try for verifying work authorization," she said.

The nine-member commission created by Congress recommended that President
Clinton immediately start pilot programs of the verification system in the five
states with the highest levels of illegal immigration and a few other states.

Illegal immigration has created major problems in those states, Texas,
California, Arizona, Florida and New Jersey. They have sued the Federal
Government to recover some of the money they have spent on imprisoning illegal
aliens convicted of crimes, educating illegal aliens and paying their Medicaid
costs.

The immigration service estimated that 3.4 million illegal aliens lived in the
United States in October 1992, with 2.9 million of them in those five states and
New York and Illinois.

Many of the recommendations, such as pilot verification programs, could be
carried out through an executive order; others would require Congress to rewrite
the law.

Ms. Jordan said the commission believed some short-term Federal aid should
"offset at least a portion of certain identifiable costs to states and
localities."

The commission also urged removal "of those with no right to be here"; managing
emergency situations like the recent influx of people fleeing Haiti and Cuba;
getting reliable data on immigration, and cooperating with other countries.

In addition, the commission recommended that the United States gain better
control of the borders, with more and better-trained personnel, improved
technology and tighter security at airports.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara Jordan (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 22, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
FEINSTEIN FAULTS ALIENS PROPOSAL

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 21


Saying it might cost her re-election, Senator Dianne Feinstein today declared
her opposition to a hotly disputed California ballot proposal aimed at stemming
the flood of illegal immigrants across the state's southern border.

"It raises state and Federal constitutional issues and makes no provision
whatsoever to deport illegal aliens and reduce their number," the Democratic
Senator said of the proposal, which on Thursday won the support of
Representative Michael Huffington, her Republican challenger in a closely
contested race.

The ballot initiative, Proposition 187, which would strictly limit state
government services available to undocumented aliens, has strong support among
voters, polls have found, and is a major factor in the race for governor, the
other big election contest in California this fall.

Further, in recent days it has entered the national debate over immigration
policy among leaders of both parties. In Washington today, President Clinton
said he had "concerns" about the measure, in part because "I don't think as a
matter of practice it's a good thing to condition an election referendum, much
less other elections in California," on an unconstitutional proposal.

In addition to denying illegal aliens most government social services, including
schooling and nonemergency health care, the initiative would require that school
and health officials determine whether recipients of their agencies' services
were legal residents of the United States and report to the immigration
authorities those who appeared not to be.

It is this provision that has raised the most constitutional questions. Its
opponents envision officials' scouring documents of anyone they suspect of being
an illegal alien. And doubts about its constitutionality exist even among the
measure's supporters, who say it would nonetheless prove valuable by becoming
the subject of an intense court fight and thereby thrusting illegal immigration
to the forefront of national debate.

In announcing her opposition in a speech in San Francisco to the Commonwealth
Club, an organization of community leaders, Ms. Feinstein said that if the
proposal was approved, it would inevitably "be in the courts for years to come,
at very great cost."

More than half of the country's three million or so illegal aliens are believed
to live in California, at a cost to the state of several billion dollars a year
in social services. But Ms. Feinstein said, "I believe Proposition 187 won't
solve the problem, only make it worse."

She argued that the initiative might lead Washington to cut off $15 billion a
year in Federal health and education money should it be determined that some of
the proposal's tougher provisions trampled the rights of individuals.

Further, she said, the initiative is particularly flawed because it includes no
provisions to speed the deporting of illegal aliens or to slow the number
slipping across the border nightly.

Equally troublesome, she warned, the initiative would throw thousands of young
people out of school and onto the streets, where many might embrace lives of
crime. She also warned that by cutting off nonemergency health care to illegal
aliens, the state would run the risk of epidemics.

Then the Senator, who holds only a very narrow lead over Mr. Huffington in the
polls, took direct issue with his assertion on Thursday that Proposition 187
"would finally draw the line" on illegal entry into the country and would send a
message to Washington that state governments, particularly that of California,
badly needed financial aid in dealing with the immigration problem.

"He says he's sending a signal to Congress by supporting Proposition 187," Ms.
Feinstein said. "To be sure, his endorsement is the politically expedient thing
to do. I read the polls, and I know that a majority of Californians support it.
But I will not support Proposition 187. I know that could cost me votes,
possibly even the election."

Campaigning in Laguna Hills, south of Los Angeles, Mr. Huffington issued a
biting reply.

"After flipping and flopping, hemming and hawing, weebling and wobbling on the
illegal immigration issue," his statement said, "today Ms. Feinstein showed her
true colors. The color's yellow for this career incumbent who has once again
caved in to her liberal special-interests buddies and turned a deaf ear on
California's cry for help."

Pollsters say that in the race for governor, the immigration issue has helped
the incumbent, Pete Wilson, who favors Proposition 187, and hurt his Democratic
challenger, State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, who opposes it. By often twinning
the issue with talk of the crime problem in the state, another area of great
concern to voters, Mr. Wilson has surged to a lead of more than 10 points in the
race after trailing by more than 20 early on.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Announcing that she opposed Proposition 187, Senator Dianne
Feinstein acknowledged that her stand could cost her the election. (Reuters)
(pg. 9)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 23, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Name Alone Can't Prompt Immigration Investigation, Court Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 22


Investigations of people by immigration agents merely because their names sound
foreign is unconstitutional, a Federal appeals court ruled on Friday.

The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit also took the unusual step of
overturning an order for the deportation of a Nigerian man because it found a
serious constitutional violation in the seizure of the man in an apartment
building and the search of his room.

The man, Jacob Orhorhaghe, was called to an immigration investigator's attention
by a bank employee because his name sounded Nigerian, the court said.

"One cannot rationally or reliably predict whether an individual is an illegal
alien based on the sound of his name," Judge Stephen Reinhardt wrote in the
3-to-0 ruling. "Many if not all Americans have 'foreign-sounding' names,
depending on which countries of origin we consider foreign."

On Nov. 8, Californians will vote on an initiative that would require state and
local officials, health workers and educators to report to immigration
authorities anyone they reasonably suspected of being an illegal immigrant.

The ruling on Mr. Orhorhaghe's case should send a message to those responsible
for enforcing the initiative, Proposition 187, said his lawyer, James Mayock.

"The proponents think you know an illegal alien when you see him," Mr. Mayock
said. He said the ruling was "a protection for people who might have
foreign-sounding names."

He said Mr. Orhorhaghe was married to a United States citizen and was seeking
legal resident status.

Mr. Orhorhaghe entered the United States legally in October 1982 on a tourist
visa that expired 18 days later, the court said.

He was living in Oakland in 1986 when his name was referred to an immigration
officer by Karen Muth, a Bank of America investigator, who had encountered it
during a credit card fraud investigation and thought it sounded Nigerian.

Michael Smirnoff, an investigator with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, decided to investigate Mr. Orhorhaghe after failing to find his name in
a computerized list of those who had legally entered the country after January
1983, the court said.

Mr. Smirnoff, Ms. Muth, another immigration agent and a police officer went to
Mr. Orhorhaghe's apartment building. Mr. Smirnoff, who was carrying a concealed
gun, told Mr. Orhorhaghe that they did not need a warrant, the court said. They
opened his briefcase and found documents referring to his expired visa, the
court said.

An immigration judge ruled that the search was illegal, but he was overruled by
the Board of Immigration Appeals, which ordered Mr. Orhorhaghe deported.

The appeals court overturned that order, saying the case was a rare example of
an "egregious" constitutional violation that required the barring of evidence in
an immigration case.

Judge Reinhardt said Mr. Orhorhaghe had been investigated by the immigration
service solely because of his name. His absence from the list of legal entrants
since January 1983 provided no additional evidence that he was an illegal
immigrant, Judge Reinhardt said.

Citing a 1975 Supreme Court ruling that barred agents of the immigration service
from detaining people because they looked Hispanic, the judge said an
investigation prompted by a foreign-sounding name was equally improper and was
ultimately based on race or national origin.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 5, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Senator's Employee Lacked Work Papers, Agency Says

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 11;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4


Clearing the official record but further muddying the political scene, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service reported today that a Guatemalan woman
was in the country illegally when she was employed as a housekeeper by Senator
Dianne Feinstein from 1980 to 1982.

Immigration officials said a search of the records of the housekeeper, Annabella
del Rosario Legrand-Cabrera Realegeno, showed that during much, if not all, of
the two years that she had worked for Ms. Feinstein, a Democrat who was the
Mayor of San Francisco at the time, she held no visa or work permit.

"Our records indicate that she was not legally entitled to be in the United
States back then," said Don Mueller, an agency spokesman. "She had a visa to
work for the Guatemalan consulate in San Francisco that ran out on Nov. 16,
1980, and the next time she appears in our records is on July 31, 1983, when she
surfaces and leaves the country voluntarily."

Today's announcement was the second time in two days that the I.N.S. reported
that Ms. Feinstein's housekeeper had not been a legal resident when she was
hired. The first report was retracted after the agency discovered it had been
looking at the records of the wrong woman.

Before she married, Ms. Realegeno was known as Annabella del Rosario Legrand-de
Paiz. After her marriage, she was known as Annabella del Rosario Legrand-Cabrera
Realegeno.

On Thursday, the I.N.S. said their records on Annabella Paiz showed that she was
in the country illegally.  But by the end of the day, immigration officials were
saying that a further study of their records indicated that there may have been
a name mix-up because Ms. Realegeno apparently was in the agency's files under
several listings and names. Additional research would be necessary, the
officials said, to determine her true immigration status at the time Ms.
Feinstein's hired her.

By then, the erroneous report had already been published by The Free Press, a
San Francisco newspaper published by striking workers from the city's two daily
papers. That report was, in turn, picked up by wire services and other
newspapers, including The New York Times, which published the erroneous I.N.S.
statement in its early editions.

Within hours of Thursday's I.N.S. report, Ms. Feinstein's Republican opponent in
the Nov. 8 election, Representative Michael Huffington, began a television
advertisement campaign in which he blasted Ms. Feinstein as a "hypocrite" on the
immigration issue.

Mr. Huffington is a staunch supporter of stronger immigration controls, the
hottest issue in California politics this fall. And he, too, has been criticized
for hiring an illegal immigrant.

A few days after Mr. Huffington announced unequivocal support for Proposition
187, a much debated initiative on the California ballot that would deny most
government services to undocumented aliens, it was disclosed that he had
employed an undocumented nanny for five years.

Ms. Feinstein also favors tighter immigration controls but contends that
Proposition 187 is too harsh.

The Senator, who has staked a good part of her re-election battle with Mr.
Huffington on an insistence that she never employed an illegal alien, said in
response to today's disclosure that she had done nothing wrong.

Senator Feinstein said that Ms. Realegeno had presented what appeared to be
proper immigration documents when she was hired. And in any event, she said, the
woman was hired in 1980, six years before Congress passed a law prohibiting the
employment of undocumented workers.

In an interview with The Associated Press, Ms. Realegeno also insisted that she
had presented proper documentation when she was hired to work for Ms. Feinstein.
She refused to say what type of documentation she had provided.

"I was legal," said Ms. Realegeno, who became a legal resident when she married
a United States resident, Miguel Realegeno. She now works in another San
Francisco household.

Mr. Huffinton, who is locked in a neck-and-neck election contest with Ms.
Feinstein, accused the Senator of "knowingly" misleading voters last week when
she attacked him on the hiring issue. At the same time, she insisted she had
never hired an illegal worker.

"She's a hypocrite," Mr. Huffington said, tossing back at the Senator the same
pejorative she had hung on him.

Mr. Huffington's campaign had been contending for more than a week that the
Senator had employed an illegal alien, but aides had offered no documentation.

I.N.S. officials said today that Ms. Realegeno first came to the United States
on a tourist visa in early 1973, overstayed her visa and was ordered to leave
the country in April 1974. In November 1979, the agency's records show, she
returned with a visa to work for a year in the Guatemalan consulate in San
Francisco.

The agency said it does not know where in the country she went after the
consulate work visa expired. But by Ms. Feinstein's account, she spent a good
part of the period in the Feinstein household, finally resurfacing and leaving
the country on her own in July 1983.

I.N.S. records indicate that a year later, in March 1984, Ms. Realegeno was
allowed back into the United States for "humanitarian reasons" and given a work
permit. Agency officials said the papers explaining why the re-entry was allowed
were sealed for privacy reasons, but Huffington campaign officials contend that
the re-entry was permitted after Ms. Feinstein contacted I.N.S. officials.

Almost two years later, in December 1986, the I.N.S. moved to deport Ms.
Realegeno, though agency officials said they could not discuss why, again for
privacy reasons. The deportation proceedings were never completed, for reasons
the I.N.S. also refused to discuss. Again, the Huffington campaign asserts that
Ms. Feinstein intervened.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, campaigning for Senator Dianne Feinstein,
left, and Kathleen Brown in California yesterday, said he needed both candidates
on his team. Senator Feinstein is seeking re-election against Representative
Michael Huffington, and Ms. Brown is challenging Gov. Pete Wilson. (Reuters)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 11, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

California Immigration Measure Faces Rocky Legal Path

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 20;  Column 3;  National Desk;  Law Page

LENGTH: 1075 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 11


Proposition 187, the anti-illegal immigration initiative approved decisively by
California voters on Tuesday, may well turn out to be a classic case of
unintended consequences. It is also likely to provoke years of political debate
and litigation about its meaning and its constitutionality.

The measure, called "Save Our State" by sponsors, is based on the premise that
California's bounty of social services is the magnet drawing illegal immigrants
across the border. Turning it off, proponents argue, will deter new arrivals.

The measure is breathtaking in its scope: It will not only render all
undocumented aliens ineligible for any welfare services, schooling and
nonemergency medical care, but requires teachers and doctors to report to state
agencies and the Immigration and Naturalization Service those they suspect of
living here illegally. In addition, the sale of false documents would become a
state felony.

But the proposition raises many legal issues on which backers and opponents
strongly disagree -- the propriety, and legality, for example, of involving
teachers and doctors in enforcement of immigration laws, and the degree to which
the proposition jeopardizes billions of dollars in Federal financing because it
violates Federal regulations. Then there is the matter of the law's
constitutionality, given that the United States Supreme Court declared in the
1982 case, Plyler v. Doe, that children who are illegal immigrants have a
constitutional right to a free public education.

Within hours after the polls closed on Tuesday, opponents of the measure had
filed at least eight lawsuits in state and local courts in Los Angeles,
Sacramento and San Francisco. By late Wednesday morning, San Francisco Superior
Court Judge Steven R. Pollack had issued the first temporary restraining order,
blocking the measure's education provisions until further hearings are held.

By any accounting, the most immediate effect of the new law is on children, and
in that regard, Proposition 187 is replete with awkward arrangements and
ambiguities. For example, it calls for expelling from school the teen-age child
of undocumented workers who has grown up in this country, learned English and
knows little if anything of her native country. But it says nothing of the child
in a mixed-status household: for example, one in which the father's residence
was legalized under the 1986 amnesty law, the mother is newly arrived and
undocumented, and an infant is born a United States citizen.

Proponents of the measure say that California is no longer obligated to educate
or provide health care and welfare services to such children, regardless of
their parents' or siblings' status. Opponents say Proposition 187, at least with
regard to school-age children, is more symbol than substance, given the Plyler
ruling.

Both camps say that Plyler v. Doe provides strong precedent for their argument.
In that case the Supreme Court struck down a Texas statute that cut off state
funds from local school districts for educating children who had not been
"legally admitted" to the United States. Under that law, local districts could
have either charged the children tuition or barred them from school.

The Supreme Court's majority said it was unjust to penalize children for their
parents' illegal activities. And although the nation's highest court did not
find public education is a constitutionally granted right, it did distinguish
education from other forms of social welfare because of the "lasting impact of
its deprivation on the life of the child."

The Plyler decision marked the first time that the Supreme Court had held
explicitly that the 14th Amendment's equal protection guarantee "extends to
anyone, citizen or stranger," who is within a state's boundaries, regardless of
immigration status.

But while the Justices unanimously rejected Texas's argument that the equal
protection clause did not apply to illegal aliens, they split on the key issue
before the Court: whether the alien children's right to "equal protection"
encompassed the right to the same education offered to all other children in
Texas.

The close 5-to-4 decision, as well as the majority's emphasis on the special
role of education and the special needs of children, suggested that a majority
would be hard-pressed to extend the analysis to a ruling that adult illegal
aliens are constitutionally entitled to Government benefits, such as welfare.

But Proposition 187 differs from other voter initiatives in one regard: its
sponsors are inviting litigation. And there is a surprising amount of agreement
among experts on both sides that given the vastly different composition of the
High Court today, it may be the time to revisit the issue.

Because of the flurry of constitutional challenges, it is nowhere near a time
when students who are here illegally will be denied an education; indeed, they
will continue attending classes for a protracted period -- probably years --
while the assorted lawsuits move through various appeals courts.

Even now, however, the State of California is girding itself to enforce the law
-- or parts of it, since Proposition 187 contains a severability clause that
could allow some sections to take effect while others are being litigated.

On Wednesday Gov. Pete Wilson, a strong proponent of the measure, ordered state
agencies to draft emergency regulations to put the ballot proposition into
effect, while insisting that his Administration will not tolerate bigotry. The
regulations, he said yesterday at a news conference, would "insure the rights of
all legal residents are protected and the provisions of Proposition 187 are
implemented in a manner that avoids discrimination on the basis of national
origin."

That same day, however, the Los Angeles City Council voted 10-to-3 not to
enforce any provisions of the measure, except its crackdown on the sale and
possession of false identity documents.

Many public school teachers are seething at the mere mention of becoming agents
for the immigration service, and some have pledged to disregard the new law
altogether. California's Attorney General, Dan Lungren, concedes that there is
nothing in Proposition 187 that authorizes his office to compel schools or
teachers to comply. By contrast, the State Department of Education has suggested
that school employees could be subject to disciplinary measures if they fail to
enforce the law.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE DETAILS: Proposition 187"

PUBLIC SCHOOLS: Starting Jan. 1, 1985, school districts are required to verify
the legal status of students enrolling for the first time to insure that they
are citizens. By Jan. 1, 1986, the status of parents or guardians of students
must also be verified.

HIGHER EDUCATION: Illegal immigrants are barred from attending community
colleges, the California State University system and the University of
California system.

HEALTH: Illegal immigrants are ineligible for all public health services, except
for emergency care.

WELFARE: Illegal immigrants are already ineligible for the mejor welfare
programs. Most child welfare and foster care benefits are also eliminated.

LAW ENFORCEMENT: State offices providing health, welfare and public education
services are required to report suspected illegal immigrants. All state andlocal
law enforcement agencies will also have to verify the residency status of
individuals who are arrested and suspected of being here illegally. When legal
residency cannot be proved, the person arrested must be reported to the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service.

FALSE DOCUMENTS: Providing false citzenship or resident alien documents, is a
state felony, a crime punishable by five years in prison or fines of $25,000.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 17, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Court Blocks New Rule on Immigration

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 16


Saying it raised serious Constitutional questions, a Federal judge today
temporarily blocked California officials from enforcing the heart of Proposition
187, the much-debated immigration-control measure the state's voters
overwhelmingly passed last week.

Judge William Matthew Byrne Jr. of Federal District Court here found that the
proposition, which would deny most government services to undocumented
immigrants, might cause undue hardships and also might pre-empt law-enforcement
powers reserved for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"I find that there is a balance of hardship that tips in favor of the
plaintiffs," Judge Byrne said at the end of a two-hour hearing that had been
called to hear complaints about the proposition filed by a number of civil
rights and immigrant groups.

"There are serious questions," the judge added, "as to due-process violations,
liberty interests and also property interests."

The proposition passed by a 3-to-2 margin at the end of a fall election campaign
in which it emerged as the dominant issue. It would cut off schooling and
nonemergency health care to undocumented immigrants and would require education
and health officials to report to immigration authorities any person known or
suspected not to have proper documents.

Immigration officials say California has more undocumented aliens than any other
state, and California officials say the government services for them costs
taxpayers more than $3 billion a year.

As illegal immigration has increased in California, so too has concern about its
impact on the state's economy. This fall, that concern finally boiled over and
angry state residents successfully petitioned to have the proposition placed on
the ballot.

While Proposition 187 applies only to California, the impact of its debate and
subsequent passage has been felt around the nation, particularly in Washington
and in other states that have large numbers of undocumented immigrants.

Leaders of the proposition movement here say they will next try to force
Congress to pass stricter immigration controls. They also say they will take
their cause to other states with large immigrant populations, like Arizona,
Texas and Florida.

Civil rights groups and immigrant advocates have vowed to oppose any efforts to
spread the Proposition 187 movement. They assert that not only is the measure
unconstitutional but that the anti-immigrant tide in California also stems
mainly from hardships rendered by an economy that is weaker than that of most
other states.

Judge Byrne's restraining order will run for 10 days. At the end of that period,
the plaintiffs said they would begin legal proceedings to have the proposition
permanently enjoined and then declared unconstitutional, a fight that lawyers on
both sides said could last for several years or more.

"When you win a temporary restraining order, you're well on your way to the
bigger victory," said Stephen Yagman, one of the plaintiffs' lawyers. "The
requirements for the first are much the same as the requirements for what
follows. We've met the first."

Lawyers for the state argued in court today that the proposition sought only to
solve a problem that the Federal Government had neglected. They said after the
hearing that while the restraining order was in effect they would work to draw
up plans to enforce the provisions of the proposition in case the restraining
order is eventually lifted.

Judge Byrne instructed them not to publish or disseminate any of the plans.

Despite the court setback today, one founder of the Proposition 187 movement,
Ron Prince, remained confident of eventual victory in the fight to save the
proposition.

"We anticipated this," he said. "You're going to have pluses and minuses all the
way. We'll continue to work -- and win."

In today's restraining order, Judge Byrne exempted two provisions in the
proposition that increase penalties for manufacturing or using false immigration
documents. He said those provisions raised no issues of undue hardship or
constitutionality.

Defending Proposition 187 during the hearing, one state lawyer, Jon Ichinaga,
argued that California would enforce the measure in a way that would be both
constitutional and humane. "We believe that once our regulations are put into
place, there will be no violations of due process," he said.

Mr. Ichinaga also argued that there was no reason to grant a temporary
restraining order because it would be weeks, at least, before the state could
draw up and use any enforcement measures.

Judge Byrne asked about an executive order issued by Gov. Pete Wilson that state
officials first enforce the proposition by cutting off government services to
pregnant women and nursing home patients. Mr. Ichinaga replied that the prenatal
section would not go into effect for 60 days and the nursing care section would
affect only undocumented immigrants applying for care, not those already under
care.

A plaintiffs' lawyer, Mark Rosenbaum of the American Civil Liberties Union,
countered that sick people and students were already being adversely affected by
the proposition, even though it was technically not being enforced.

"People in this community, in large numbers, have stopped using services," he
said. "We have surveyed 10 clinics that serve the undocumented in Los Angeles,
hundreds of persons per day, and that population has dropped precipitously. We
have the gravest of irreparable injury."

State lawyers denied that any injury was being done and urged Judge Byrne to
permit the proposition to stand as the only effective instrument to halt the
flood of immigrants across California's porous borders.

"The court has a responsibility, if possible, to find an interpretation of the
statute that saves it," Mr. Ichinaga added.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 20, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Nov. 13-19: Just Say No;
California's Propostion 187 Meets First Legal Roadblock

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 4;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 104 words


The fight over California's hotly disputed immigration control measure did not
end on Election Day when voters gave it overwhelming 3-to-2 approval. Opponents
last week won a temporary reprieve in court.

Arguing Constitutional concerns about due process and invasion of privacy, the
measure's opponents persuaded a Federal judge to block immediate implementation
of the sections of Proposition 187 that call for cutting off schooling and
non-emergency health care to undocumented aliens, and requiring education and
health authorities to turn in immigrants they believe to be undocumented.   B.
DRUMMOND AYRES

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Stepped-Up Border Patrols Halve Unlawful Crossings

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 22;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: IMPERIAL BEACH, Calif., Dec. 12


Immigration officials reported today that a $25 million, two-month-old
experiment in stepped-up border patrolling appeared to have almost halved
attempts by illegal aliens to sneak across a once notoriously porous section of
the international boundary just south of here.

But the officials tempered their jubilation about the success of the operation,
Operation Gatekeeper, with warnings that adjacent, less-guarded sections of the
border were beginning to experience corresponding increases in illegal crossing
attempts.

"What we have after two months of Operation Gatekeeper is proof that if you give
us the manpower and equipment, we can go a long way toward solving the problem
of illegal aliens," said William Pink, one of the Border Patrol agents helping
to run the operation.

"On the other hand," Mr. Pink continued, "if we don't commit more manpower and
equipment elsewhere, illegal aliens will inevitably find other places to safely
sneak across. They're already sliding off to other parts of the border after
probing unsuccessfully here."

According to figures compiled by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the
increased border patrolling was so successful in producing apprehensions in its
first month, October, that by November undocumented aliens by the thousands were
having second thoughts about attempting crossings in the Imperial Beach area,
traditionally the most porous place along the entire 2,000-mile-long
Mexican-American boundary and the main focus of Operation Gatekeeper.

In early October, there were many nights when apprehensions were two and three
times what they were for the same night in October 1993. Then in November, after
word had begun to spread about the increased patrolling, apprehensions suddenly
began to fall, tumbling more than 45 percent over all by the end of the month,
compared to November 1993.

"That's as good a measure as any of Operation Gatekeeper's impact and success,"
Mr. Pink said.

Conversely, 50 miles to the east, near the less heavily guarded Campo Station
section of the border, attempts suddenly began to increase in November. By the
end of the month, more than 1,000 apprehensions had been made by border agents
there, compared to only 91 apprehensions in November 1993.

"We anticipated that they'd slide off to the east," Mr. Pink said. "But we have
to keep the pressure on over there, too. That territory is deeper in the desert,
a lot more open and forbidding and therefore easier to patrol. But border
crossers are a resourceful lot and they'll keep probing."

Attorney General Janet Reno enthusiastically welcomed the results, proudly
reported here today in a ceremony at Imperial Beach at which 38 newly hired
Border Patrol agents were added to the Operation Gatekeeper forceal ready made
up of more than 200 other agents equipped with special patrol vehicles,
communications equipment and night-vision devices.

"This is just excellent," Ms. Reno said when Mr. Pink and other Border Patrol
officials notified her of the operation's results, via conference call that
reporters were invited to listen in on.

But like Mr. Pink, she said the increased crossing activity to the east of here
merited close watching.

Ms. Reno promised that even more help and equipment would be forthcoming.

"The strategy is excellent," she said. "I want to support you."

Operation Gatekeeper was begun after officials in a number of border states
began to pressure the Federal Government to do more about illegal immigration.
The officials, chief among them Governor Pete Wilson of California, complained
that swelling numbers of undocumented aliens -- as many as 300,000 annually --
were driving up welfare costs and leaving taxpayers increasingly frustrated and
ready to vent their anger politically.

The Clinton Administration responded first by erecting a solid steel, brightly
lighted fence along a 15-mile stretch of the border here. Then it began
dispatching new agents to patrol the fence, equipping them with sophisticated
surveillance equipment, extra radios and a fleet of all-terrain patrol vehicles.

For many years, undocumented aliens crossing the Imperial Beach strip hardly
gave a second thought about getting caught as, under cover of darkness, they
traversed the strip's lightly guarded tidal marshes, rocky hills and
scrub-choked canyons.

But now it appears they are having second thoughts, many second thoughts.

As night falls along the fence line, the number of people gathering to make
furtive crossing attempts is visibly down. And once the sun sets, the movement
out in the darkness, as revealed by the night-vision devices, is also visibly
down.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 26, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Legal Aide in Terror Trial Faces Deportation

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B;  Page 4;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 844 words


A paralegal working on the defense of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, who is charged
with plotting to blow up major New York City buildings, was arrested on Monday
as an illegal alien and could be deported, immigration officials said yesterday.

A lawyer for Mr. Abdel Rahman in his trial in Federal District Court in
Manhattan charged that the arrest of the legal assistant, Nasser K. Ahmed, was
an effort by the prosecution to strengthen their case against Mr. Abdel Rahman,
a militant Muslim cleric from Egypt who is the most prominent of 11 defendants
in the terrorism trial.

The lawyer, Lynne F. Stewart, said that after Mr. Ahmed was taken into custody
near his Brooklyn home, two investigators in the bomb- plot case sought to speak
with him by telephone, apparently in an effort to get him to cooperate with the
prosecution. An immigration agent, relaying the investigators' message, said
that if he did not cooperate he would be deported to his native Egypt, the
lawyer said. She said that Mr. Ahmed refused to speak with the investigators.

A spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, one of whose agents Ms.
Stewart said had sought to speak to Mr. Ahmed, said that Mr. Ahmed "has not been
interviewed nor contacted by any F.B.I. agent."

"It's an immigration case," said the spokesman, Richard DeFilippo. "Immigration
agents arrested him on an immigration violation, and the F.B.I. is not
involved."

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said that Mr. Ahmed,
35, had been in the United States illegally for 11 years, but had just now been
arrested because "recently he came to our attention." He arrived in 1983 on a
visitor's visa good for six months, and his application to remain longer as a
student was rejected, said the spokesman, Charles Troy.

"He was required to depart the United States on or before May 31, 1984," Mr.
Troy said.

"We are interested in him as an immigration violator, granted it was 11 years,"
Mr. Troy said. He said he could not comment on Ms. Stewart's accusation that
investigators in the terrorism trial had sought to speak with Mr. Ahmed after he
was detained by immigration agents. Nor would he comment on how Mr. Ahmed had
come to his agency's attention.

"People who are living here illegally are always subject to the brunt of the
law," Mr. Troy said. "There's no statute of limitations. He came to our
attention and we moved on him."

A prosecutor in the terrorism trial, Patrick J. Fitzgerald, said he could not
comment on the arrest of Mr. Ahmed, who often attended the trial.

Mr. Ahmed could not be reached for comment yesterday. He was being held at an
immigration detention center in Manhattan after being unable to post $15,000
bail.

Last May, as the prosecution was preparing for the terrorism trial, which began
in January, the New Jersey home of another paralegal aide to Mr. Abdel Rahman
was searched by F.B.I. agents, who seized copies of Mr. Abdel Rahman's writings,
tapes of his sermons and other materials. The prosecutors said the search of the
home of that legal assistant, Mohamed Nabeel Elmasry, was necessary to collect
some of Mr. Abdel Rahman's often fiery pronouncements because they might
illuminate his role in the conspiracy charged in the case. Some of those seized
tapes are being used as evidence in the trial.

Stephen Gillers, a law professor at New York University who specializes in
lawyer-client relationships, said that the attorney-client privilege of
confidentiality extends to paralegal aides and to any other people whom a lawyer
employs in representing a client.

"Everything a paralegal has learned in the course of helping in the defense of
the sheik is confidential and cannot be revealed voluntarily to make a deal," he
said.

But he also said that if investigators believe that the paralegal had
incriminating information about Mr. Abdel Rahman that he gained before he went
to work for Mr. Abdel Rahman's defense in the terrorism case, "then they can
question him."

Ms. Stewart said Mr. Ahmed had known Mr. Abdel Rahman since before the case
began with the 1993 arrests of the sheik and his co-defendants.

She contended that Mr. Ahmed's arrest showed that the Government was "desperate
to talk to someone about the sheik" because prosecutors feared their evidence in
the trial against him is "not having an impact."

The 11 defendants are charged with plotting to blow up the United Nations, the
Federal building in lower Manhattan, the Lincoln and Holland tunnels and the
George Washington Bridge as part of a "war of urban terrorism" against the
United States because of its policies in the Middle East. Although the 11 are
not charged with carrying out the February 1993 bombing of the World Trade
Center, for which four other men have been convicted, the prosecution says that
attack was part of the overall conspiracy.

The defense argues that the case is trumped up, part of an effort to keep Mr.
Abdel Rahman from returning to Egypt, where he is popular among Islamic
fundamentalists seeking to overthrow the Government.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 4, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Ex-Worker Rattles Gov. Wilson on Immigration Stand

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 3;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 3


Gov. Pete Wilson, who has said he will make strict immigration controls a major
campaign issue if he runs for President next year, once hired a Mexican house
worker in the late 1970's who now says she was an illegal alien at the time.

Mr. Wilson, who was then Mayor of San Diego, also failed to withhold and pay to
the Government the woman's Social Security taxes, as required by Federal law.

In statements issued today, in response to reporters' questions, the Governor
and his legal aides said he did not know that the employee, Josefina Klag of
Tijuana, had no immigration documents when he and his wife, Betty, whom he has
since divorced, hired her as a maid in 1978 for $25 a day.

In any event, the statements added, it was not until 1986 that Federal law
required an employer to verify an employee's legal status. Further, they said,
the actual hiring and paying was done by Mr. Wilson's wife.

As for the Social Security taxes, Mr. Wilson said he and his former wife, now
Betty Hosie of San Diego, would make a back payment "expeditiously." He
estimated that the payment, including penalties and interest, would come to
about $3,000.

"I can categorically state that I have never knowingly employed an illegal
immigrant and never intentionally failed to make payment of the employer's
contribution to Social Security for an employee," said the Governor, a
Republican who won re-election last year on a platform that included a strong
immigration-control plank and who is expected to formally announce his candidacy
for President later this month.

Then he added:

"It was a very long time ago, but if I had known at the time that Ms. Klag
wasn't a legal resident, we would not have hired her. Having said that, Betty
and I are taking the necessary steps to determine and satisfy our obligation to
pay Social Security taxes and penalties. We will pay them fully and
expeditiously based upon our shared responsibility."

Mr. Wilson was Mayor of San Diego from 1971 to 1983.

The back payment of $3,000 may be relatively light for the Governor. But the
tardy payment, and most especially the disclosure that Ms. Klag was in the
country illegally when hired, will almost certainly be hefty political baggage
in any Wilson political campaign.

Similar violations have burdened and embarrassed other candidates and figures in
public life in recent years, including several Clinton Administration nominees.

Ms. Klag, who continued to work for the Governor's former wife until 1992 and
now works for another family in the La Jolla section of San Diego, could not be
reached for comment.

But according to the statements released today, she recently told Mr. Wilson's
legal and financial advisers that when she was hired in early 1978 she was not a
legal resident of the United States and, in fact, did not obtain legal status
until the spring of 1979.

Also, according to statements, the Governor's former wife, like the Governor,
did not know that Ms. Klag was an illegal alien at the time she was hired.

The statements further show that though Ms. Hosie learned several years after
her divorce from Mr. Wilson in 1981 that she should be paying Ms. Klag's Social
Security taxes, she took no action to do so.

Ms. Hosie says in one of the documents:

"I never asked her if she was in the country legally and she never gave me cause
to believe otherwise. I employed Josefina; my husband did not. I do not recall
ever discussing her legal status with him. Sometime in the mid-1980's, after our
divorce, I became aware I had an obligation to contribute to Social Security on
behalf of Josefina. When I did learn of my obligation, I continued to
procrastinate and did not seek to correct my delinquency until recently. I
called the Governor's office. I had never previously disclosed this to the
Governor."

Touching on that notification, the Governor's lawyer, John Davies, said in a
memorandum he sent the Governor, included in one of the statements: "I infer
that news reports of your possible Presidential candidacy may have caused Betty
to focus on this matter, resulting in her call."

Mrs. Hosie refused, in a brief telephone interview, to discuss the matter.

The statements from the Governor were issued after reporters approached his
aides about rumors spreading in California and Washington that he might have
violated Federal immigration and tax laws relating to an immigrant maid.

Thousands of immigrant maids, legal and illegal, now work in the United States,
many of them in California. Tax authorities say employers frequently do not pay
their Social Security taxes as required by law, particularly those who employ
immigrants without proper papers.

In last fall's California elections, Mr. Wilson won a second term in good part
because of his strong advocacy of restrictive immigration measures. In
particular he was outspoken in support of Proposition 187, a proposal on the
state ballot that called for cutting off most social services, including
schooling and nonemergency medical care, to illegal aliens.

The measure was passed overwhelmingly, an indication of the strong concern about
illegal immigration in California, the state hardest hit by the problem.

Representative Michael Huffington, a Republican from Santa Barbara, also came
out in strong support of the Proposition 187 in his bid last fall to unseat
Senator Dianne Feinstein. But his campaign, on which he spent a record-setting
$28 million of his personal fortune, faltered and ultimately failed after it was
disclosed that he had once employed an illegal alien as a maid and, further, had
also failed to pay her Social Security taxes.

Like Mr. Wilson, Mr. Huffington sent in a late payment and said his wife had
done the actual hiring and paying of the maid. But by then Ms. Feinstein, a
Democrat from San Francisco, was on her way to victory.

Yet she, too, had problems with the immigration issue.

Mr. Huffington, while admitting that he had hired an illegal alien, said Ms.
Feinstein had also once employed an illegal maid.

The Senator countered that she had never knowingly hired any illegal immigrant
and that the woman in question had submitted documents that indicated she was in
this country legally.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 6, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

California Governor Defends Himself on Issue of Illegal Alien

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., May 5


Scrambling to get his Presidential campaign back on political track, Gov. Pete
Wilson pleaded with voters today to be "fair" in judging whether he committed a
serious wrong when he employed a Mexican maid who was an illegal alien and then
failed to pay her Social Security taxes.

The Governor, a Republican who in recent years has been an outspoken advocate of
strict immigration controls, argued that he had "never intentionally" broken any
laws or regulations when he and his wife at the time, Betty Hosie, employed the
maid 17 years ago while he was Mayor of San Diego.

"I'm eager to put this issue to rest," Mr. Wilson said, adding that only last
month, during a pre-campaign review of his past hiring practices, did he learn
that the maid's legal status was questionable and that her Social Security taxes
had not been paid.

What impact would the incident have on his Presidential aspirations?

"I don't think this will have any serious impact on my campaign for President,
or my ability to bring change as Governor," Mr. Wilson answered, speaking at a
news conference in the Capitol here, his first public appearance since the
incident was made public on Wednesday night.

He added pointedly that he would continue to advocate strict immigration
controls.

"Those opponents of immigration reform who think they can use this against me to
silence the debate on illegal immigration are mistaken," he said. "The voters
are far more concerned with how the Federal Government is failing to control our
borders today, than with who was hired 17 years ago to help with the housework."

Mr. Wilson is expected to formally announce his candidacy by the end of the
month. He gave no indication today that he was having any second thoughts about
that announcement.

Most political analysts say the incident has severely embarrassed the Governor
and rocked his budding campaign. But few see it as a fatal blow.

"I have enough faith in the voters that, if they are fair-minded and take time
to view the facts, they'll put this in the context in which it belongs," the
Governor said in analyzing the impact of the maid incident.

Then he offered his version of the facts and context.

He contended that at the time the maid was hired, in 1978, he did not know that
the woman, Josefina Klag, was in the United States illegally. In fact, he added,
he still is not sure of what her status was in the 1970's because she has
refused to answer his questions.

Further, he argued, at the time she was hired, there was no legal requirement
that an employer check on an employee's immigration status.

"I certainly never would have employed this woman if Betty and I had known she
was in the country illegally -- if in fact she was," the Governor said. "And
second, 17 years ago there was no legal requirement to ask about her legal
residency, and we had absolutely no reason to do so."

As for the failure to withhold and forward the woman's Social Security taxes,
the Governor said he always assumed that his wife, who ran his household, had
done that. He added that it was a "complete surprise" to learn that the taxes
had not been paid.

"I never intentionally failed to withhold Social Security taxes," he said. "That
was a serious oversight on our part."

The Governor's aides say the review of Mr. Wilson's past hiring practices was
begun after Ms. Hosie called his office to say that none of Ms. Klag's Social
Security taxes had ever been paid. According to the aides, Ms. Hosie feared that
the omission might adversely affect Mr. Wilson's political future.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Pete Wilson (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 7, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

April 30 - May 6;
Immigration Problems

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 217 words


From the start, Gov. Pete Wilson of California said he intended to make illegal
immigration a major issue in his campaign for the Republican nomination for
President. And he has, indeed.

It turns out that he once employed a Mexican maid who was in the United States
illegally. What is more, he never paid her Social Security taxes.

Asked last week about rumors of an "immigration problem," he confessed that he
had recently learned that in 1978, while he was Mayor of San Diego, he
"unknowingly" employed a maid who it now "appears" was an illegal alien. And,
yes, he had "overlooked" paying the taxes.

In his defense, the Governor said that his former wife, Betty Hosie, did the
hiring and paying back then. Anyway, he argued, there was no law then that an
employer had to ask about an employee's immigration status. As for the taxes, he
promised to pay them, with interest and penalties.

Whatever the extenuating circumlocutions, the revelation was easily the most
politically damaging in Mr. Wilson's public career, given his outspoken record
in support of more restrictive immigration laws.

But the incident may not be fatal to his aspirations; by Friday he was back on
the offensive, renewing his call for stronger laws to control illegal
immigration.   B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Guest Worker Programs Do a World of Harm;
California's Burden

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 311 words


To the Editor:

Julian L. Simon says that illegal immigrants are barred from receiving most
social services except for education and emergency health care. In 1992, the
estimated two million illegal aliens in California cost MediCal about $1
billion. That amounts to $500 per capita for emergency health care.

As of October 1994, there were 210,807 children of illegal aliens (including a
few "amnesty" children) in Los Angeles County who qualified their families for
Aid to Families With Dependent Children, food stamps, public housing and a host
of other free services linked to A.F.D.C. The annual cost for A.F.D.C. was
$495,682,068 -- and that is just one county and one welfare category.

Philip Martin, an agricultural economist at the University of California at
Davis, has reported that if the wages of all agricultural workers were doubled,
the cost of California produce would rise 10 percent.

Mr. Simon is wrong about illegal aliens on welfare, and he is wrong about a
guest-worker program. What should happen is a repeat of Eisenhower's Operation
Wetback (which is what really halted illegal immigration in 1954), the sealing
of our southern border and a cut in welfare. Labor supply would drop, farm wages
would rise and, driven by a need for survival, thousands of young people,
including many former illegal aliens who now amuse themselves by killing each
other on the streets of Los Angeles, would have the opportunity to burn off
their excess energy by earning real money harvesting California's crops.

California taxpayers would rejoice in the knowledge that the social burden
migrant farm workers bring to their state would be placed where any
self-respecting economist would agree it should be -- in the cost of the produce
itself.

GLENN SPENCER
President, Voice of Citizens Together
Sherman Oaks, Calif., June 2, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Guest Worker Programs Do a World of Harm

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 238 words


To the Editor:

Julian L. Simon's "Foreign Workers, American Dream" (Op-Ed, June 1), on guest
workers and illegal immigration, calls for a program of indentured servitude for
Latin American workers as a solution to the illegal immigration crisis.

He imagines that foreign workers who now come to the United States illegally
would gladly work legally for a limited time and then return, especially if some
of their wages were withheld until they left the country.

In the oft-quoted words of Prof. Philip Martin, one of the foremost scholars of
agricultural labor, "there's nothing as permanent as a temporary worker." In a
paper delivered only last month, Mr. Martin and his co-author, J. Edward Taylor,
a fellow professor at the University of California at Davis, wrote:

"No guest worker program has ever been successful, in the sense that foreign
workers filled only jobs for which local workers were unavailable, and had no
adverse effects on local workers, the foreigners returned, and the industry did
not become dependent on foreign workers."

No guest worker program has ever been successful, and unskilled immigration
harms America's poor. I suggest policy makers consult with experts when
considering future guest-worker programs, rather than rely on Professor Simon's
platitudes and wishful thinking.

MARK KRIKORIAN
Executive Director
Center for Immigration Studies
Washington, June 1, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 24, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

18 Chinese Are Held in Ring To Smuggle Human Cargo

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: CAPE MAY, N.J., June 23


The Coast Guard brought ashore 18 Chinese nationals in handcuffs this morning,
accusing them of trying to smuggle 108 of their countrymen into the United
States.

The 18 were identified by the Coast Guard as enforcers in the smuggling
operation. They and their human cargo were intercepted outside territorial
waters on Saturday aboard a fishing vessel, the Captain Denny.

Coast Guard and Immigration and Naturalization Service agents escorted the
Chinese and six Vietnamese crew members of the Captain Denny off the fishing
vessel.

Appeared to Be in Good Health

They were met by Coast Guard, F.B.I. and I.N.S. officials and taken to a
processing center at the Coast Guard station here.

The 22 men and 2 women appeared to be in good health. But three Coast Guard
officers wore hazardous materials suits as a precaution.

"The word we have is that these people have been on this boat for a long time,"
said Lieut. Cmdr. Bill Mathus of the Coast Guard. "We don't know what infections
they might have."

Boarded 350 Miles at Sea

A base spokesman, Lieut. Ed Swift, refused to say where the 18 will be taken.

The sheriff of Cape May County, Jim Plousis, said about 16 would be held
overnight in the county jail and then taken to Camden to be arraigned Friday.

The 108 illegal aliens were put aboard the cutter Reliance, which boarded the
Captain Denny 350 miles off Norfolk, Va., the Coast Guard said.

Lieutenant Swift said the State Department is trying to find a third country to
accept the Chinese aliens. He did not know how long the vessel had been at sea,
where its last port of call was or its current location.

The Captain Denny's home port is Philadelphia but operates out of Cape May, the
Coast Guard said.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fishing vessel Captain Denny being brought into the Coast
Guard station at Cape May, N.J. Aboard were 18 Chinese nationals, identified as
smugglers of aliens, and six Vietnamese crew members. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 18, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Rules For Release Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 753 words


In a decision that could end nearly two years of detention for some of the
passengers of the Golden Venture immigrant smuggling ship, a Federal judge in
Pennsylvania ruled yesterday that the immigrants have been wrongfully held by
the Immigration Service since their arrival off the coast of Queens and should
be released on bond.

The ruling poses a potential threat to the Clinton Administration's tough
strategy of holding smuggled Chinese immigrants in jail until their cases are
resolved as a way of deterring others from coming to this country.

The policy has been largely successful in stopping the flow of smuggling ships
that reached its height in 1993, when the Coast Guard intercepted 15 such ships
carrying Chinese immigrants. Only six ships were stopped last year. The strategy
has also worn down many of the passengers of the Golden Venture, the smuggling
ship that ran aground off the coast of Queens in 1992, an incident that
galvanized the Government to act against smugglers.

But lawyers for Chinese immigrants say the Administration's efforts to stop
smuggling have come at the expense of the Golden Venture passengers, who they
contend were denied asylum as a way of making them an example.

"The fact that someone comes to this country at the hands of smugglers doesn't
mean they aren't deserving of our protection," said Lory Rosenberg, a lawyer
with the American Immigration Law Foundation who has been part of the legal team
overseeing the Golden Venture cases. "They have become pawns in an effort to
keep out fraudulent asylum seekers."

Yesterday's decision in the Golden Venture case, from Judge Sylvia Rambo of
Federal District Court in Harrisburg, Pa., hinged on a subtle distinction in
immigration law between illegal immigrants who are caught as they try to cross
into the United States and those who have actually entered the country.

Once inside the United States, illegal immigrants have the right to request
release on bond; those caught outside the country trying to enter it illegally,
known as exclusion cases, have no right of release.

Judge Rambo ruled that the Golden Venture passengers formally entered the
country once their ship went aground without the knowledge or control of
immigration officials.

"It's deplorable they've been sitting for two years without the chance to
request release," said Ms. Rosenberg. "This is a vindication of what we've been
saying all along."

The judge's decision concerned a single case brought by a passenger named Sing
Chou Chung.

But lawyers representing the smuggled Chinese said the ruling could be easily
applied to all of the 129 passengers still being held in the York County Prison
in York, Pa.

There are 46 other Golden Venture passengers being held in California, Virginia
and New York. The ruling yesterday has no direct effect on their cases because
they are outside the jurisdiction of the Federal District Court in Pennsylvania.

The United States Justice Department did not respond to a request for comment
late last night.

Arthur Helton, the director of Migration Programs for the Open Society
Institute, said determining whether a person has entered the United States is
one of the most complex areas of immigration law.

To prove entry into the United States, illegal immigrants must show that not
only were they physically present in United States territory but also that they
were free of official control.

Hundreds of cases have been fought over these issues, sometimes over such fine
distinctions as whether the immigrants were seized on sand, pavement or water.

"It can get pretty wierd," Mr. Helton said. "These issues of location have
plagued many cases, including those of Haitian boat people. There is no bright
line in terms of establishing location."

Ms. Rosenberg said there were many steps to go before anyone could be released
from prison. She said she expects the Justice Department to appeal the judge's
decision. In addition, the Immigration and Naturalization Service could fight
releasing any passengers, saying they are a flight risk. Even if released, they
would face deportation proceedings that could ultimately lead to their forced
return to China.

Of the nearly 300 passengers who arrived aboard the Golden Venture on June 6,
1993, 175 are being held in detention, 30 were granted political asylum, 45 were
released for other reasons, 21 have been deported, and 10 died in the swim to
shore. Five of the passengers escaped after reaching land and have never been
found.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Number of Mexicans Fleeing in Boxcars Alarms U.S. Officials

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 36;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: HARLINGEN, Tex., June 10


Economic crisis and drought in northern Mexico have driven increasing numbers of
Mexicans into suffocatingly hot boxcars or other spots on rail cars to make
their way into the United States to search for work and hope.

"I think a lot of them don't realize how dangerous it is," said Charles Dill, an
agent with the United States Border Patrol. "A rail car is not a safe place."

According to the Federal Railroad Administration, 529 people were killed and 450
were injured while trespassing on railroad tracks or train yards in 1994. Some
of those killed were hit by trains; others died trying to hop them. The agency
does not have a breakdown of how many were illegal immigrants.

But illegal immigration is certainly up this year because of the economic crisis
and drought, said a patrol spokeswoman, Letty Valadez. Arrests in the McAllen
sector for the first five months of this year are up 31.5 percent from the same
period in 1994 -- to 82,041 from 62,387.

The potential for tragedy is compounded by immigrant smugglers -- known on the
border as "coyotes" -- who can be as careless as their often uneducated and
desperate clients are trusting, border patrol agents and rail companies said.

The smugglers often lock their human cargo in boxcars without food or water,
telling them that someone will let them out when they reach a destination such
as San Antonio or Houston.

"To victimize people like that is just unbelievable," said Mike Furtney,
spokesman for Southern Pacific Lines of San Francisco.

"We appreciate that some of these people are in tough economic straits, but we
don't want them to get hurt any more than they want to get hurt," he said.

Sixty-two people were discovered in a sealed car at the Union Pacific yard in
Harlingen on May 26, including seven women and two children. More than half were
among 102 people rescued a week earlier from a boxcar at the Southern Pacific
yard in Harlingen.

On May 10, Southern Pacific workers discovered a group of 48 immigrants pounding
on the door of a boxcar in which temperatures had reached 120 degrees. Five were
hospitalized for dehydration.

"If we had been in there two more minutes, I think I would have died," one
immigrant said.

In 1987, 18 immigrants died in a stifling freight car in Sierra Blanca, near El
Paso.

John Bromley, a spokesman for Union Pacific, said illegal train-hopping carried
a financial cost along with the safety risk. Although he did not have precise
figures, Mr. Bromley said companies must hire extra inspectors and delay
shipments so that the trains could be searched.

He said some loads were pilfered during transit, upsetting the company's
clients.

In addition, last month the border patrol charged Nestor Ibarra Osuna, a 28-year
Union Pacific employee, with conspiracy to transport illegal immigrants.
Investigators said the 54-year-old advised smugglers about which freight cars
were most likely to be searched.

Mr. Dill, a 17-year veteran of the patrol's Harlingen station, says he always
sees increases in illegal border crossers when the Mexican economy stumbles.

"I can't fault them," he said. "If I were in the same situation, I'd probably do
the same thing."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Too Many Foreigners

BYLINE: By Nicholas Lemann;   Nicholas Lemann is a national correspondent for
The Atlantic Monthly and the author of "The Promised Land: The Great Black
Migration and How It Changed America."

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1460 words



ALIEN NATION
Common Sense About
America's Immigration Disaster.
By Peter Brimelow.
327 pp. New York:
Random House. $24.

IMMIGRATION is one of those issues that split American conservatism in two. In
the libertarian wing of the conservative mansion can be found the only people
anywhere in our political debate who favor completely open borders -- like
Robert L. Bartley, the editor of The Wall Street Journal, and the economist
Julian L. Simon. But the most intense opposition to immigration is also located
in the conservative movement, over in the cultural and populist areas, whence
came much of the impetus for California's Proposition 187, denying most
government services to illegal immigrants. Although there is an anti-immigration
tradition within liberalism too, in the main liberals seem to have settled into
a sentimental, optimistic, celebratory view of immigrants.

It is this view that Peter Brimelow aims to pick mercilessly apart in "Alien
Nation," which is an expanded version of a 1992 cover story in National Review
and a book-length articulation of an anti-immigration position that has been
bubbling up in more obscure places for several years. Mr. Brimelow, a senior
editor of Forbes and National Review, treats his fellow conservatives who
support immigration, especially Mr. Simon, as admirable but sadly mistaken --
while he goes after the liberals with scornful glee.

One by one he sets up the liberal arguments and knocks 'em down. The United
States was not originally conceived of as a nation of immigrants, or even as
multiethnic: Mr. Brimelow reminds us that the Declaration of Independence
contains a rarely quoted attack on "the merciless Indian Savages." Rather than
having been continuous, large-scale immigration to the United States has come in
concentrated bursts, which have been followed by long, relatively
immigration-free adjustment periods. Rather than being fundamentally
multiethnic, the United States was, as late as 1960, just short of being 90
percent white (though how Hispanic Americans were counted at that time seems to
be ambiguous).

Today, immigration is at one of its historic highs: counting illegals, well over
two million people a year come to the United States, and, compared with past
immigrants, far fewer of them ever leave. Immigration accounts for 37 percent of
our population growth. Instead of generating economic growth and tax revenues,
immigrants, Mr. Brimelow says, are a net drain on the country, crowding public
schools, welfare rolls, jails and hospitals. And by their mere presence they
exacerbate ethnic tension.

Mr. Brimelow describes this situation in the direst language imaginable: "There
is no precedent for a sovereign country undergoing such a rapid and radical
transformation of its ethnic character in the entire history of the world," he
writes. Possibly the result will be "the snuffing out of the American nation --
like a candle in a gale." If that doesn't happen, at the very least, during the
next century "American patriots will be fighting to salvage as much as possible
from the shipwreck of their great republic."

Buried within the apocalyptic rhetoric is a much more specific complaint,
namely, that the 1965 immigration law (the Immigration and Nationality Act
Amendments) led to a much higher level of immigration than its authors
anticipated and needs to be corrected. In an uncharacteristically calm passage,
Mr. Brimelow suggests that legal immigration be cut by about two-thirds.

Passed at the height of the civil rights era, the 1965 law was meant to undo the
Quota Act of 1921 and the Immigration Act of 1924, which severely restricted
immigration and also gave most of the slots to people from northern and western
Europe. Much of contemporary conservatism revolves around the idea that some
time in the 1960's the country took a disastrous wrong turn. Mr. Brimelow
believes that the wrong turn was specifically the 1965 law, which he blames for
ills ranging from the long-term slowdown of the economy to the creation of the
urban underclass.

One could hold the position that the nondiscriminatory spirit of the 1965 law
was laudable, but that its emphasis on admitting immigrants on the principle of
family reunification as well as skills was misguided, and that the sheer number
of people coming in now has moved beyond our capacity for absorption. Mr.
Brimelow, however, takes an extra step. He wants to keep the immigration flow
not just limited, and not just higher-skilled, but also mostly white. A waiting
room of the Immigration and Naturalization Service reminds him of the New York
subway: he finds each to be "an underworld that is not just teeming but also is
almost entirely colored."

Most industrial nations are essentially monoethnic states that allow hardly any
immigration at all. Mr. Brimelow admits that the United States has been more
successfully multiethnic than any other country, but at bottom he just doesn't
believe in the "American idea" that people here can transcend ethnicity through
allegiance to abstract national principles like democracy and opportunity. What
is required for the successful functioning of a nation, he insists, is "a link
by blood."

Even "model minorities" that aren't white arouse Mr. Brimelow's suspicions.
Reports of the success of Asian-Americans may be "just another immigration
myth." Recently arrived Cubans "in fact participate heavily in welfare." West
Indians? "It must be said that nowadays part of their enterprise goes into drug
'posses' and car-theft rings." Judging from a couple of asides, Mr. Brimelow
doesn't consider Jews to meet his definition of "white" either; for example, he
refers to the Clinton Administration as "a black-Hispanic-Jewish-minority white
(Southerners used to call them 'scalawags') coalition." Elsewhere he points out
that Jews played a major role in the passage of the hated 1965 immigration law.
On the other hand, he calls it "a profound tragedy" that we don't relax our
immigration restrictions to let in hundreds of thousands of eastern Europeans.

Mr. Brimelow is more an energetic pamphleteer than a reporter. He has done a
good job of assembling printed material but, aside from one nocturnal visit to
the Border Patrol station south of San Diego, he has not gone out in search of
firsthand, irrefutable evidence that immigration actually is eating away at the
very core of the country in the way he says it is. At one point he brings up a
few pro-immigration arguments and then concludes, disarmingly, "I'm sure I'm
right." The reason he's so sure is that it seems impossible to him that any
society can remain strong for very long while allowing in large numbers of
immigrants from a wide variety of ethnic groups.

When Mr. Brimelow tries to provide tangible details (as opposed to statistics)
about the deteriorating fabric of life here caused by immigration, they often
have an exaggerated or unproved feeling. He takes it as a given that immigrants
no longer want to assimilate. In the near future, he says, Atlanta, Miami and
San Antonio "will be communities as different from one another as any in the
civilized world." Bilingual education is to him so obviously a program to keep
people from learning English that he doesn't even bother to bring up and knock
down the official rationale for it, which is that it encourages non-English
speakers to stay in school while they learn the language. He views the creation
of a secessionist Mexican-American state called Aztlan, a favorite cause of
Southwestern student radicals in the 1960's, as a live possibility. Mr. Brimelow
is right when he says that there is more risk from too much immigration than
from too little, but he doesn't establish that the current situation justifies
his level of alarm -- and the reason is that he finds the simple fact of
substantial nonwhite immigration to be sufficiently alarming.

Several times in "Alien Nation" Mr. Brimelow mentions as one of the dangers of
immigration that a significant percentage of immigrants will feel alienated from
America -- the implication being that we ought not to let in too many people who
are going to run down the country. This from a man who is himself an immigrant,
from England, and who accuses "the American political elite" of "a species of
treason"!

Mr. Brimelow's definition of "alienated" is political (it applies to complaints
from the left but not the right) and his definition of "America" is racial. The
amazing absence of euphemism and disingenuousness in his book helps make it
clear why the immigration issue is so difficult: there is often a lot more in
the opposition to immigration than straightforward policy-wonk concerns about
whether we are letting in the right number of people.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Too Many Foreigners

BYLINE: By Nicholas Lemann;   Nicholas Lemann is a national correspondent for
The Atlantic Monthly and the author of "The Promised Land: The Great Black
Migration and How It Changed America."

SECTION: Section 7;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1460 words



ALIEN NATION
Common Sense About
America's Immigration Disaster.
By Peter Brimelow.
327 pp. New York:
Random House. $24.

IMMIGRATION is one of those issues that split American conservatism in two. In
the libertarian wing of the conservative mansion can be found the only people
anywhere in our political debate who favor completely open borders -- like
Robert L. Bartley, the editor of The Wall Street Journal, and the economist
Julian L. Simon. But the most intense opposition to immigration is also located
in the conservative movement, over in the cultural and populist areas, whence
came much of the impetus for California's Proposition 187, denying most
government services to illegal immigrants. Although there is an anti-immigration
tradition within liberalism too, in the main liberals seem to have settled into
a sentimental, optimistic, celebratory view of immigrants.

It is this view that Peter Brimelow aims to pick mercilessly apart in "Alien
Nation," which is an expanded version of a 1992 cover story in National Review
and a book-length articulation of an anti-immigration position that has been
bubbling up in more obscure places for several years. Mr. Brimelow, a senior
editor of Forbes and National Review, treats his fellow conservatives who
support immigration, especially Mr. Simon, as admirable but sadly mistaken --
while he goes after the liberals with scornful glee.

One by one he sets up the liberal arguments and knocks 'em down. The United
States was not originally conceived of as a nation of immigrants, or even as
multiethnic: Mr. Brimelow reminds us that the Declaration of Independence
contains a rarely quoted attack on "the merciless Indian Savages." Rather than
having been continuous, large-scale immigration to the United States has come in
concentrated bursts, which have been followed by long, relatively
immigration-free adjustment periods. Rather than being fundamentally
multiethnic, the United States was, as late as 1960, just short of being 90
percent white (though how Hispanic Americans were counted at that time seems to
be ambiguous).

Today, immigration is at one of its historic highs: counting illegals, well over
two million people a year come to the United States, and, compared with past
immigrants, far fewer of them ever leave. Immigration accounts for 37 percent of
our population growth. Instead of generating economic growth and tax revenues,
immigrants, Mr. Brimelow says, are a net drain on the country, crowding public
schools, welfare rolls, jails and hospitals. And by their mere presence they
exacerbate ethnic tension.

Mr. Brimelow describes this situation in the direst language imaginable: "There
is no precedent for a sovereign country undergoing such a rapid and radical
transformation of its ethnic character in the entire history of the world," he
writes. Possibly the result will be "the snuffing out of the American nation --
like a candle in a gale." If that doesn't happen, at the very least, during the
next century "American patriots will be fighting to salvage as much as possible
from the shipwreck of their great republic."

Buried within the apocalyptic rhetoric is a much more specific complaint,
namely, that the 1965 immigration law (the Immigration and Nationality Act
Amendments) led to a much higher level of immigration than its authors
anticipated and needs to be corrected. In an uncharacteristically calm passage,
Mr. Brimelow suggests that legal immigration be cut by about two-thirds.

Passed at the height of the civil rights era, the 1965 law was meant to undo the
Quota Act of 1921 and the Immigration Act of 1924, which severely restricted
immigration and also gave most of the slots to people from northern and western
Europe. Much of contemporary conservatism revolves around the idea that some
time in the 1960's the country took a disastrous wrong turn. Mr. Brimelow
believes that the wrong turn was specifically the 1965 law, which he blames for
ills ranging from the long-term slowdown of the economy to the creation of the
urban underclass.

One could hold the position that the nondiscriminatory spirit of the 1965 law
was laudable, but that its emphasis on admitting immigrants on the principle of
family reunification as well as skills was misguided, and that the sheer number
of people coming in now has moved beyond our capacity for absorption. Mr.
Brimelow, however, takes an extra step. He wants to keep the immigration flow
not just limited, and not just higher-skilled, but also mostly white. A waiting
room of the Immigration and Naturalization Service reminds him of the New York
subway: he finds each to be "an underworld that is not just teeming but also is
almost entirely colored."

Most industrial nations are essentially monoethnic states that allow hardly any
immigration at all. Mr. Brimelow admits that the United States has been more
successfully multiethnic than any other country, but at bottom he just doesn't
believe in the "American idea" that people here can transcend ethnicity through
allegiance to abstract national principles like democracy and opportunity. What
is required for the successful functioning of a nation, he insists, is "a link
by blood."

Even "model minorities" that aren't white arouse Mr. Brimelow's suspicions.
Reports of the success of Asian-Americans may be "just another immigration
myth." Recently arrived Cubans "in fact participate heavily in welfare." West
Indians? "It must be said that nowadays part of their enterprise goes into drug
'posses' and car-theft rings." Judging from a couple of asides, Mr. Brimelow
doesn't consider Jews to meet his definition of "white" either; for example, he
refers to the Clinton Administration as "a black-Hispanic-Jewish-minority white
(Southerners used to call them 'scalawags') coalition." Elsewhere he points out
that Jews played a major role in the passage of the hated 1965 immigration law.
On the other hand, he calls it "a profound tragedy" that we don't relax our
immigration restrictions to let in hundreds of thousands of eastern Europeans.

Mr. Brimelow is more an energetic pamphleteer than a reporter. He has done a
good job of assembling printed material but, aside from one nocturnal visit to
the Border Patrol station south of San Diego, he has not gone out in search of
firsthand, irrefutable evidence that immigration actually is eating away at the
very core of the country in the way he says it is. At one point he brings up a
few pro-immigration arguments and then concludes, disarmingly, "I'm sure I'm
right." The reason he's so sure is that it seems impossible to him that any
society can remain strong for very long while allowing in large numbers of
immigrants from a wide variety of ethnic groups.

When Mr. Brimelow tries to provide tangible details (as opposed to statistics)
about the deteriorating fabric of life here caused by immigration, they often
have an exaggerated or unproved feeling. He takes it as a given that immigrants
no longer want to assimilate. In the near future, he says, Atlanta, Miami and
San Antonio "will be communities as different from one another as any in the
civilized world." Bilingual education is to him so obviously a program to keep
people from learning English that he doesn't even bother to bring up and knock
down the official rationale for it, which is that it encourages non-English
speakers to stay in school while they learn the language. He views the creation
of a secessionist Mexican-American state called Aztlan, a favorite cause of
Southwestern student radicals in the 1960's, as a live possibility. Mr. Brimelow
is right when he says that there is more risk from too much immigration than
from too little, but he doesn't establish that the current situation justifies
his level of alarm -- and the reason is that he finds the simple fact of
substantial nonwhite immigration to be sufficiently alarming.

Several times in "Alien Nation" Mr. Brimelow mentions as one of the dangers of
immigration that a significant percentage of immigrants will feel alienated from
America -- the implication being that we ought not to let in too many people who
are going to run down the country. This from a man who is himself an immigrant,
from England, and who accuses "the American political elite" of "a species of
treason"!

Mr. Brimelow's definition of "alienated" is political (it applies to complaints
from the left but not the right) and his definition of "America" is racial. The
amazing absence of euphemism and disingenuousness in his book helps make it
clear why the immigration issue is so difficult: there is often a lot more in
the opposition to immigration than straightforward policy-wonk concerns about
whether we are letting in the right number of people.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 3, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Maybe I Should Send My Posters to Poland?

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 211 words


To the Editor:

On July 26 you reported a flap in San Rafael, Calif., in which shoppers objected
to art about undocumented workers that appeared on supermarket grocery bags. The
same day, a lengthy, glowing article applauded the return of Polish poster art
after the fall of Communism. These articles point up the problem faced by
artists in the United States.

I am a poster artist working in New York City's Greenwich Village and have found
myriad difficulties associated with this ancient medium. Not only is it illegal
to hang up posters, but also many citizens think that if you are doing anything
on the streets but walking quickly with your eyes straight ahead, they have a
right to harass you verbally and even beat you. Both of these things have
happened to me.

Many praise the Polish political poster artists for bravely speaking their minds
with their work. Someone recently labeled me a "neighborhood wacko" and
suggested that I should be fined under New York's new "quality of life"
crackdown.

Perhaps I should send my posters to Poland. Maybe I will get praise in the
Gdansk Times arts pages for being politically bold, because it is becoming clear
we in the United States are afraid of art.

J. T. COLFAX
New York, July 28, 1994

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

112 Cleaners Are Arrested At Airport

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 865 words


Officers from three Federal agencies and the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey arrested more than 100 illegal aliens employed by a cleaning company at
Newark International Airport on Thursday, in a nighttime sweep that the
authorities said ended a 15-month investigation of undocumented workers at the
airport.

Federal officials said the investigation began after they received tips that the
cleaning company, Lisbon Cleaners Inc. of Newark, which employs about 500 people
in northern New Jersey, had a large number of undocumented employees.

But they said the Federal Aviation Administration, which is responsible for
airport security, was also concerned that the illegal workers, some of whom used
forged papers to get their jobs, were allowed access to restricted areas at the
airport, including access to airplanes.

"We wanted to insure that the persons who have access are what they appear to be
and who they appear to be," said Alan Friess, a spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's district office in Newark, which conducted the
raid.

The sweep was directed against undocumented aliens from as many as eight foreign
countries who investigators believe used false documents to get their jobs and
then obtained security passes through the company that allowed them to clean
both terminals and airplanes at Newark, Mr. Friess said.

The raid occurred between 10:30 P.M. and 12:30 A.M., during the peak hours of
the workers' shift for cleaning Terminal C, which houses Continental Airlines,
and for cleaning the airline's planes, Port Authority officials said.

At least 126 contract workers were detained, and 112 were eventually arrested in
the sweep, conducted by about three dozen agents from the Port Authority, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the United States Customs Service and
the F.A.A.

Those arrested were taken to a holding area in Elizabeth to be screened, and 38
were eventually released after officials found that they were working legally,
Mr. Friess said. The remaining 74 were being held in county jails yesterday, the
men in Passaic County and the women in a jail in Lehigh, Pa., he said.

Investigators determined that none of the illegal workers had criminal records
or were suspected of smuggling, Mr. Friess said.

But he said the F.A.A., the Customs Service and immigration officials were still
working with airport officials "with an eye toward seeing to it that loopholes
are closed" in a system that allows access to restricted areas to employees with
false documents.

"All three agencies are looking at the security aspect," he said. "They want to
know who these people really are." Gina Matos, the director of operations for
Lisbon Cleaners who was interviewed at the airport last night, said she believed
her company had complied with Federal laws regarding immigration status,
including requiring workers to show identification and immigration papers.

Ms. Matos said that when she arrived at the airport around midnight Thursday,
her workers were bound together with plastic handcuffs and were told to sit on
the floor near an airport gate until officials ferried them away in buses.

They were not allowed to talk to anyone, she said, or to go to lockers to get
pocketbooks or documents that they said would prove they were in the country
legally.

"They don't carry their papers with them," she said. "They were scared. They
didn't have any idea what was going on."

Officials from Continental Airlines, which has a contract with Lisbon Cleaners
for its terminal at Newark, said they had not been informed of the raid in
advance and were left scrambling to find employees to clean airplanes for
flights yesterday morning.

"We are cooperating fully with the investigation now, as we do with all
investigations," said Peggy Mahoney, a spokeswoman for the airline.

Ms. Mahoney said she did not know whether Continental had a policy of reviewing
the immigration status of employees hired by its subcontractors. Federal
officials said the airline was not a target of the investigation and would not
be held responsible for the illegal workers.

Bill Cahill, a spokesman for the Port Authority, said the authority was also not
legally responsible for overseeing the hiring practices of the airlines that
rent space in its terminals. "In other words, it's Continental's call," he said.
"That's the beauty of privatization."

Warren A. Lewis, the district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Newark, said yesterday that no decision had been reached on whether
any action would be taken against Lisbon Cleaners.

But he said that under the Immigration Reform and Control Act, which was enacted
in 1986 to make it illegal to knowingly hire illegal aliens, the company could
face fines of $100 to $2,000 for each undocumented worker.

The workers found to be undocumented were served yesterday with orders asking
them to show cause as to why they should not face deportation proceedings.

The aliens were from a variety of Latin American and European countries,
including Ecuador, Peru, Guatemala, Brazil, Honduras, Colombia, Portugal and
Spain, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Captain Sentenced in Smuggling of Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 21


The captain of a freighter that carried about 300 undocumented Chinese refugees
to San Francisco last year was sentenced to two and a half years in Federal
prison.

Chun Teh Chong, 39, a native of Taiwan, has been in jail since May 1993, when he
and the crew of the Pai Sheng were overtaken at sea by Coast Guard vessels.
Authorities said the 300-foot, Honduran-registered freighter fled under the
Golden Gate Bridge after dropping off its cargo of refugees at the Presidio.

The Chinese paid up to $30,000 each for the two-month voyage, said United States
Attorney Michael Yamaguchi. He said they applied for political asylum after
being captured, but most have been turned down and deported.

Mr. Chong, who had pleaded guilty to conspiracy to smuggle aliens, was sentenced
on Monday by Judge Marilyn Hall Patel of District Court and is to be deported
after his prison term.

Shorter prison terms have previously been given to nine crew members and to the
driver of a pickup that met some of the Chinese after they landed.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 19, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Gang Leader Held in Plot to Kill 3

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 188 words


A leader of an Asian street gang linked by Federal authorities to smuggling
illegal aliens from China was charged yesterday with plotting to murder his
sister, her husband and their infant son, the authorities said, after his
previous efforts of harassment and arson had failed to evict them from an
apartment he owned in Brooklyn. He wanted to rent it for more money.

Federal prosecutors said the murder plot, carried out on Dec. 18, 1988, by
several gang members who were promised $7,000 for each body, succeeded in
wounding the sister, Rosa Tam Liu, and in killing her husband, Jian Ping Liu,
who was shot five times. They said the infant escaped death because he was being
cared for by relatives after the heat in the apartment had been turned off.

The man charged was indentified yesterday as Gary Soo Kee Tam, who Federal
prosecutors said was a leading member of the White Tigers, an Asian gang in
Queens and Chinatown in Manhattan. The authorities said the gang is involved in
smuggling, murder, robbery and arson.

Mr. Tam was arrested on Tuesday and was arraigned the next day in Federal Court
in Manhattan.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Stop Benefits for Aliens? It Wouldn't Be That Easy

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 2054 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 7


On a sultry day in July, a 25-year-old woman, Laura C., waded across the Rio
Grande, slipped past the Border Patrol in Brownsville, Tex., and boarded a $49
Southwest Airlines flight to Houston.

Hoping for work and a better life, she has instead subsisted on government
benefits and become one more straw threatening to break the back of America's
uneasy patience with illegal immigrants.

With at least four million illegal aliens in the country, politicians from
Florida to California have introduced dozens of bills to stop giving them
services like education to health care.

Laura C., the unmarried mother of two children with a third on the way when she
arrived, reached Houston with no English and no plan beyond her sister's
assurance that she could find house-cleaning jobs at $40 a day.

"I had never heard of food stamps; I had never heard of W.I.C.," Laura said,
naming the two Federal programs that put $46.50 worth of food on her family's
table each week. (She did not want her last name used for fear of being found
and deported.)

Most of the benefits are available because Laura's baby boy, Jacobo, born at
public expense at Ben Taub General Hospital here five months ago, is an American
citizen.

Illegal immigrants are not always a drain on the American economy. Many pay more
in direct and indirect taxes than they get in government services. But Laura and
her children epitomize the immigrants who angry taxpayers say come here in
violation of American law and live off the American safety net.

Nevertheless, it would be extremely difficult, and perhaps even legally
impossible, to reduce aid to illegal immigrants significantly.  Public schools
would have to turn away children, and hospitals would have to refuse treatment
to accident victims and pregnant women. Education and emergency medical care
represent at least two-thirds of the estimated $7 billion spent each year by all
levels of government on illegal immigrants, according to the Center for
Immigration Studies, a research group in Washington.

But longstanding Federal and state laws and court rulings require hospitals to
provide emergency care for anyone, regardless of immigration status, and the
Supreme Court ruled in 1982 that any child on American soil has the right to an
education.

Barring catastrophic illness, by far the single largest cost that Laura's family
will pose to taxpayers is the education of her three children: Jesus, 5 years
old, who registered for kindergarten last week; Nicole, who turns 3 in a few
days, and Jacobo.

The Federal, state and local governments pay an average of $4,683 a year for a
student in Houston. If Laura's three children go through high school, the bill
would come to more than $182,000 in today's dollars.

Nationwide, the cost of educating illegal immigrants is estimated to be at least
$3 billion a year -- and $4.5 billion when the American-born children of illegal
immigrants are included.

As for health care, many proposals to cut aid would do little more than transfer
to local governments the obligations that have been assumed by Federal programs,
like Medicaid, which helped to pay for Jacobo's delivery in January.

Welfare, by contrast, is largely unavailable to illegal immigrants, a vast
majority of whom work and pay some taxes. Only a small minority receive
benefits, generally through relatives who are American citizens.

Laura does not qualify for Aid for Families With Dependent Children, the welfare
program that provides cash to recipients. But for now, she and her daughter,
Nicole, qualify for $12 a week in food coupons from the Women, Infants and
Children program, a supplemental Federal benefit for nursing mothers, who are
eligible regardless of citizenship, and for children under 5. Jacobo qualifies
for another $8 a week under this program.

Any long-term benefits are likely to come through Jacobo, whose rights to
welfare are the same as those of any native-born American.

Politicians who favor deep reductions in all types of aid to illegal immigrants
hope to change the rules. Some, like Gov. Pete Wilson of California, have called
for a constitutional amendment to take away citizenship rights from the
American-born children of illegal aliens. A California ballot initiative would
bar illegal immigrants from schools. If approved, the measure is certain to face
legal challenges.

There has generally been less pressure for such aggressive action in other parts
of the country -- even in places like New York and Texas, which both have large
populations of illegal immigrants.

Proponents of the changes say they would discourage people like Laura C. from
entering the country. But many experts, and immigrants themselves, say curtailed
services would not deter people, because their primary goal is to find a job.

"For those who have come to work -- and believe me, that is most -- it won't
matter if you cut the benefits," Laura said. "There may be problems when they
come here, they may find work or they may not. Maybe the work will not pay as
much as they thought. But they'll come anyway."

Supporters of a crackdown counter that even if the cutoff fails to stem the
tide, it is outrageous for taxpayers to bear any burden for those who have
entered the country illegally.

"An illegal alien dilutes in part or altogether the legal rights and privileges
of a legal citizen," said Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the chairman of
the House Republican Task Force on Immigration.

But many experts warn that unless the measures being proposed succeed in keeping
illegal immigrants out altogether, carrying them out could ultimately pose
health and safety problems for all Americans.

"Let's suppose we want to really save some money and get tough with all these
illegal immigrants," said Prof. Nestor Rodriguez, a sociologist at the
University of Houston who has studied immigrants here. "Here is what you would
do: Close the doors to the hospitals, even when a woman is coming to give birth.
Lock the kids out of school, and tell them they have no future at all. Do not
pay for their immunizations. Do not let them use clinics. That is the way to
save some really big money. But at what cost later on?"

Marginal Existence With Much Help

Laura C. and her family scrape by.  It takes her an hour and a half to travel
across town by bus to the city-run West End Multi-Service Center, where she
picks up $26.50 in food stamps and about $20 in coupons from the Women, Infants
and Children program. She also receives a small stipend under the food-stamp
program for diapers.

In a cramped room at the welfare center, large posters in English read "Food
Affects Our Moods" and "Food Influences Our Appearance."

"I don't even know what they say," Laura said.

The W.I.C. coupons, stamped "least expensive brand required," provide the family
with nine gallons of milk a month, four dozen eggs, three pounds of cheese, four
bottles of juice, two large boxes of cereal, two pounds of beans, one 18-ounce
jar of peanut butter, two pounds of carrots and eight 31/2 -ounce cans of tuna
fish.

"Some weeks there isn't enough at the end," Laura said, "but most of the time we
can get by."

Laura's older sister arrived here illegally eight years ago and did well enough
as a maid to send money to her parents in Veracruz, Mexico.

Unlike her sister, who has no children, Laura said her decision to come here was
less a calculated decision than an act of desperation.

None of the three fathers, all in Mexico, have ever seen their children or
provided support, she said.

Laura says she expected to work and her sister to help watch the children. She
worked briefly cleaning houses for $25 a day and cooking tamales at an outdoor
market. But then, she says, she got into a fight with her sister, who demanded
that she get an abortion when she was six months' pregnant with Jacobo.

She refused and moved out; she lost both jobs because she had no one to look
after the children. One prospective employer told her that if she applied for a
job she would be reported to immigration authorities.

Desperate, she turned to a private women's shelter, which set her up in a
rent-free one-bedroom apartment near a huge coffee factory in Houston's East End
and told her how to apply for government benefits for her children.

Virtually everything in Laura's life is paid with scrip, which includes bus
tokens she receives from the women's shelter. The only cash she sees is the
occasional quarter or two she gets when she buys groceries.

She has built up the smallest of nest eggs -- $5.64 so far -- to pay for a small
birthday party for Nicole this month. Food stamps will not pay for candles, ice
cream or a toy.

Laura has used a public hospital once, for Jacobo's birth. The hospital bill for
a birth without complications typically costs about $1,100 in Houston. The
family has also used a city-financed clinic several times for the children's
minor illnesses: a sore throat; a stomach virus.

Determined To Stay

What if all these benefits and services were cut tomorrow?

"I don't think I would leave," Laura said.

She explained the difference between Houston and Matamoros, the Mexican border
city she left.

"Here, if you see a child alone in the street without shoes, he is cared for,"
she said. "Somehow, that child will be cared for. There, no. There, you see
children in the street, cleaning shoes, and people pass without seeing them."

Many politicians argue it is precisely this perception that induces people to
come.

Representative Smith of Texas has proposed a bill that would cut off all
benefits to illegal immigrants except emergency health care and public
education. If the measure is enacted, Laura would lose about $12 a week in
W.I.C. grocery coupons, and she and the two older children could stand to lose
privileges at the city health clinic that receives some Federal money.

But Jacobo, the American-born baby, would retain full rights to welfare and
Medicaid. He would continue to qualify for food stamps and his portion of the
W.I.C. coupons. When he turns 5, he may qualify for larger welfare assistance.

That entitlement has led some politicians like Governor Wilson of California to
call for a constitutional amendment to deny citizenship to the offspring of
illegal aliens.

But this would be a difficult, long-term undertaking. Supporters of the
California ballot initiative, which would bar illegal immigrants from the public
schools, are trying a different legal strategy. If approved, the measure would
violate Federal law, flouting the 1982 Supreme Court ruling giving all children
in the United States the right to a public education.

But some politicians say the time is ripe for a challenge. The Court, they
argue, is more conservative now than it was 12 years ago, and the original
ruling resulted from a 5-to-4 split.

The proposals for aid cuts come in tandem with measures for keeping people like
Laura out of the country.  The California initiative would in some cases require
schools and hospitals to report those suspected of being illegal aliens.

But deportation in Laura's case would be fraught with legal tangles, because of
her American child.

And immigration officials say that with 2,000 miles of shallow riverbed and
desert linking the United States and Mexico, sealing the border will never be
feasible.

More than half of all illegal immigrants come from Mexico. Others fly in from
Latin America, Asia or Europe, enter the country legally, by air as well as over
land, then become illegal when they overstay their visas.

Many experts say that if the North American Free Trade Agreement succeeds in
elevating economic conditions in Mexico, the forces that lead people to leave
will wane.

In the meantime, the question of what to do with Laura and her family remains.
She may get a job; then again, she may not.

"Rationally, we should cut off that woman's benefits and deport her if she's
deportable," said Mark W. Davis, a former aide to Governor Wilson and now
director of the Pacific Research Institute in San Francisco.  "But in both
humanitarian and practical terms, we find that extremely difficult to do.
Humanitarian, because there are children involved. And practically, it's
problematic because she'll be back."


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An illegal immigrant, Laura C., in Houston with her son Jesus,
5, right, daughter, Nicole, 2, and baby, Jacobo. (F. Carter Smith for The New
York Times) (pg. B10)

Table: "CHECKLIST: Who's Eligible?"

The range of government benefits available to immigrants varies greatly
depending on thier legal status, but even illegal immigrants are entitled under
Federal law or court rulings to some services. The chart shows what services are
generally available to immigrants of varying status. (Source: National
Immigration Law Center; United States Immigration and Naturalization Services)
(pg. B10)

Graph: Texas is the only state that has calculated the net costs of illegal
immigration. Graph shows percentage breakdown of annual costs and the annual
revenues illigal aliens contribute. Figures, calculated in September 1993, are
based on a state estimate of 550,000 illigal aliens. (Source: Texas Office of
Immigration and Refugee Affairs) (pg. A1)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 14, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Rare Success at the Border Brought Scant Official Praise

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 2472 words

DATELINE: El PASO


Silvestre Reyes, chief of the Border Patrol here, accomplished something no
other officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service ever had. He got the
border in his sector under control. Not just for a brief, flashy demonstration,
but permanently.

El Paso had been the nation's second-busiest border crossing for illegal aliens.
Every day, 8,000 or more people waded across the Rio Grande, then melted into
the city's Hispanic neighborhoods. But in September 1993, Mr. Reyes devised a
new border-control tactic. He positioned 400 of his officers right on the
border, forming a blockade of sorts. It brought illegal immigration to a virtual
halt.

The strategy has been in effect for a year now, and the border here remains
generally quiet. With that, Mr. Reyes is dispelling the widely held belief that
the nation's borders cannot be controlled without Draconian, police-state
tactics.

His tactic may not work as effectively everywhere, but to the residents of El
Paso, Chief Reyes is a hero. And in other immigration service offices around the
country, employees who despair of a lack of leadership at headquarters see Mr.
Reyes as a glimmer of hope.

"There's no strategic vision coming out of Washington, but that fellow in El
Paso, he kind of revolutionized the thinking," said an assistant district
director in the Los Angeles office. "He showed Washington that you can control
the border."

But as the success of Mr. Reyes's strategy became clear a year ago, his
superiors in Washington did not seem to see it that way. Rather than encourage
or congratulate him, they greeted Mr. Reyes's achievement with skepticism at
best, hostility at worst, depending on whose version is believed.

"We got caught behind the curve," grumbled James A. Puleo, who, as an executive
associate commissioner in Washington, was one of Mr. Reyes's supervisors. The
operation's surprising success raised questions by others in Government --
irritating Mr. Puleo and others at I.N.S. headquarters because they were not
immediately able to answer them.

Mr. Reyes said: "Their general attitude was, they were uncomfortable about being
put in this position. It was like a Laurel and Hardy movie: 'This is a fine mess
you've gotten us into, Ollie.' "

Chris Sale, the Deputy Commissioner, demurs. "That was not a message we
deliberately sent," she said, "but I can see how that would occur."

Ms. Sale was acting commissioner at the time because the Clinton Administration
had not yet appointed someone to lead the agency. During the first days of Mr.
Reyes's operation, she said, "those of us in Washington, frankly politically
leaderless, needed to make sure that we didn't end up in a situation that anyone
at a policy level would regret."

Casting Doubt on the Old Way

There were other considerations. Mr. Reyes's approach threw into question the
fundamental Border Patrol strategy of the last several decades: Let aliens cross
the border, then try to catch them. That way, the Patrol could demonstrate to
Congress that it was catching more and more aliens every year and request ever
larger budgets.

The Mexican Government, meanwhile, had long been contending that anything
impinging on the free migration of Mexican laborers was an affront to the
nation's sovereignty. Now Mexican political commentators were calling the El
Paso operation another example of American "xenophobia."

Soon, Mexico filed a diplomatic protest, and that upset the State Department. As
a result of that and other complaints, "I still have pockmarks on my rear end
from being chewed out," said Doug Kruhm, acting chief of the Border Patrol.

Several I.N.S. officials said some of the service's leaders had tried to
persuade Mr. Reyes to call off the operation. "When it came right down to it," a
senior official said, "they were uncomfortable with the idea of controlling the
border."

Ms. Sale and Mr. Kruhm deny that.

"There were a lot of questions," Mr. Kruhm said. "It could have been a real
mess. But I don't personally remember anyone saying, Let's back off of this."

Still, he added, at one point Washington, trying to save money, told Mr. Reyes,
" 'Maybe you'll have to pull it in some -- not do so much.' "

Applause for a 'Celebrity'

Today, almost a year later, Mr. Reyes is a celebrity of sorts among immigration
experts, who see his work as a model for the service. And officials from other
border states, some of them angry because illegal immigration increased in their
areas after the border in El Paso was closed, are demanding that the I.N.S.
apply his strategy in their districts, too.

The Border Patrol maintains offices all along the border, administratively
separate from the immigration service's district offices but co-equal with them.
And now Congress is giving the I.N.S. money for new Border Patrol agents so the
service can replicate Mr. Reyes's "extremely effective border patrol model" in
other areas, as a House report puts it. In fact, several Government officials
said they saw the El Paso operation as the immigration service's only real
success in recent years.

Now some officials at I.N.S. headquarters are taking credit for the operation.

"All Silvestre Reyes did was put into effect what was already being discussed in
concept here," Mr. Puleo said with a dismissive tone.

"Puleo said that?" Mr. Reyes responded. "That's an irony. I'm really surprised,
especially since I kept getting hammered at the time."

The Idea
Stopping Trouble Before It Starts

Mr. Reyes, 49, is the grandchild of Mexican immigrants who fled the war and
violence in Mexico 80 years ago. Silver, as he is known, grew up the eldest of
10 children in a suburb of El Paso. After college, he served in Vietnam, and
when he returned home, he took several Civil Service exams. As he tells it now,
the Border Patrol was the first Federal agency to call.

He rose through the patrol's ranks and was named head of the McAllen sector in
1984, becoming the Border Patrol's first Hispanic sector chief. And it was in
McAllen, in the lower Rio Grande Valley, that Mr. Reyes got the idea for his new
border strategy.

There, as elsewhere, Mexicans poured across the border every day. Border Patrol
officers caught as many as they could and logged the apprehensions. After that,
they packed the Mexicans onto buses and drove them back across the border. Many
returned the next day.

But in about 1988, Mr. Reyes started noticing that many of the aliens were
coming from Central America, and they had to be sent home by plane. That quickly
grew expensive. So instead of seizing the illegal aliens, Mr. Reyes decided to
keep them out of the country in the first place.

A Wall of Officers

To do that he redeployed his men right on the border -- "the line," in Border
Patrol parlance.

"I figured that if we blocked the line," Mr. Reyes explained, "it would back up
the aliens on the Mexican side and start causing them problems over there."

He named his operation "Hold the Line," and it worked. "But I didn't have the
resources to keep it up," he said.

The normal strategy, grabbing people after they crossed the border, allowed Mr.
Reyes to keep as many, or as few, agents on duty at one time as the budget
permitted. But "Hold the Line" required a constant presence of hundreds of
agents, so the overtime expenses grew ruinous. He called the operation off after
six weeks.

Then a year ago, Mr. Reyes was reassigned to El Paso, and he found the Border
Patrol office there running out of control. Thousands of illegal aliens were
streaming across the Rio Grande without constraint. Border Patrol officers were
chasing them through the streets, backyards and parking lots. Often the officers
grabbed El Paso residents by mistake and demanded proof that they were citizens.

There had been brawls and shootings, accusations of abuse, and loud public
protests. The city had risen up in outrage, and a Federal judge had ordered the
patrol to stop questioning people based solely on their appearance.

"The sector was in trouble," Mr. Reyes said. Officials in Washington said they
had asked him to calm things. He decided a radical new approach was needed. Just
as he had in McAllen, the new chief planned to redeploy his men along the river
-- close the border for 30 days, except at the legal crossing points. This time
he called it "Operation Blockade."

The Pitch
'They Thought I Was Crazy

Mr. Reyes sent a proposal for "Operation Blockade" to Mr. Kruhm in Washington,
along with a request for $525,000 to pay for the expected overtime and for fence
repairs.

"They turned me down flat," Mr. Reyes said.

Mr. Kruhm said: "We had no funding for that in the program. We'd started that
year with a $10 million deficit."

Another senior I.N.S. officer who spoke on the condition that his name not be
used recalled the thinking among officials in Washington this way: "They were
saying: 'Why in the hell does he want to do this? We don't have any money.' "

"As far as I was concerned," the official said, "nothing was going to happen."

Stories differ about what happened next. A senior official said Mr. Reyes had
then called an officer he knew in the immigration service's financial office to
see if he could come up with the money on his own. The financial officer offered
him about $300,000 in end-of-the-budget-year money that had to be spent.

Mr. Reyes said that account was "factual and accurate," and he added that Mr.
Kruhm was openly irritated when he heard about it. '

But Mr. Kruhm says that's not true. "I got the money for him," he insisted.

Whatever the truth, after the money arrived, Mr. Reyes briefed his officers, and
they made it clear that they did not like their new orders.

"They thought I was crazy," Mr. Reyes said. "But I told them: 'I'm not
interested in apprehensions. I'm not interested in generating numbers. I'm
interested in controlling the border.' "

Mr. Reyes said he had also made headquarters "promise that I would not be
penalized if I didn't have big apprehension numbers."

The Blockade
A Sunday Surprise Sets Off Ripples

The new strategy went into effect last year on Sunday morning, Sept. 19. Every
Sunday, more than 10,000 Mexicans waded across the river to El Paso so they
could show up for work the next morning. But when the Mexicans looked across the
river that Sunday, they saw a Border Patrol vehicle stationed every 100 yards or
so along the entire border. More than 400 agents were waiting for them,
stretching from one end of the town to the other and beyond.

They couldn't get through. The border was closed and would stay closed.

The next day, merchants in downtown El Paso began complaining that sales were
down; the Mexicans were not coming in to shop. Many other city residents were
upset because their employees had not shown up for work.

But within a few days the residents of El Paso began to see other effects. The
police reported that the number of auto thefts and petty crimes had fallen.
Merchants reported that shoplifting had dropped off. And everyone noted that
city streets were largely free of beggars and windshield washers.

At the same time, many of the Mexican workers who had been crossing the border
illegally because it was so easy started applying for border-crossing permits.
As the permits were granted, the Mexicans -- most of them maids and gardeners
and in other service jobs -- began returning to work, and merchants said sales
started to pick up again.

"By the end of the week," said Al Giugni, district director for the I.N.S. in El
Paso, "it had grown bigger than life itself. Radio and television and newspaper
people were talking about nothing else. And they did polls." Though
unscientific, the results were consistent: all of the polls showed public
approval of 80 percent to 95 percent.

'Mexico Was Calling'

But to the Border Patrol in El Paso, Washington seemed unimpressed.

"The embassy in Mexico was calling," Ms. Sale, the Deputy Commissioner, said.
"We got beaten up for not consulting the Mexican Government first. The Mexicans
didn't like the name Operation Blockade, and certainly there were persons in the
State Department who'd have been happier if it didn't happen."

At the time, the Administration was trying to win Congressional approval of the
North American Free Trade Agreement, and the State Department was trying to be
especially considerate of Mexican interests.

As a result, "we were asking a lot of questions" of Mr. Reyes, Mr. Kruhm added,
"and I'm sure the people in El Paso felt we were not supporting them."

In calls to Mr. Reyes, officials familiar with the conversations said, his
supervisors told him the operation was jeopardizing the trade agreement and
causing other problems as well. During one conference call, two officials said,
Mr. Reyes finally became exasperated and asked, Are you telling me to call this
off?

If so, he went on to say, then he was going to hold a news conference and give
out the name of the official at headquarters who had ordered him to do it.

Mr. Kruhm said: "He could have said that, but he was under a lot of pressure
then. We were all under a lot of pressure."

The Aftermath
Changing a Name, And Some Minds

Even though he was getting little support from headquarters, when the 30 days
were up Mr. Reyes decided to maintain the new border deployment permanently. He
did make one concession. Since the Mexicans disliked the name Operation
Blockade, he adopted another one, the one he had used for that first operation
in McAllen: "Hold the Line."

Whatever their feelings in the early days, the officials at headquarters have
given Mr. Reyes some new personnel this year to help him maintain the operation.
And no matter how the service's leaders felt about Operation Blockade a year
ago, it is clear that Mr. Reyes has brought changes in thinking at headquarters
today.

"The operation was initiated by the chief," Mr. Kruhm says, "but now we have
initiated similar operations in other areas, in South Texas. There was no
fanfare, but they worked. They were very effective."

There has been another change, too.

"We are now trying to get away from using apprehensions as a measure of
effectiveness," Mr. Kruhm said. "We really aren't getting anywhere when we go to
Congress and say we made a million apprehensions last year.

"I think we should be saying how many people we prevented from coming in."

Chaos at the Gates

TODAY -- A Border Patrol success story fell on deaf ears in Washington.

SUNDAY -- Immigration agency is mismanaged; its ranks, demoralized.

MONDAY -- The corruption virus: It spread through the Washington office.

YESTERDAY -- The most wanted: A poor record of deporting criminal aliens.

TOMORROW --

Cold, rude and insensitive: The agency ill serves its clients.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Chaos at the Gates -- Fourth of five articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: About 8,000 aliens used to wade across the Rio Grande every day
at El Paso. The flow was shut off a year ago with a sort of blockade of Border
Patrol officers. Agent James E. Gorman scanned the river near the city; When the
Border Patrol chief in El Paso shut off the flow of illegal aliens across his
district, it created a problem for his bosses in Washington: They could not
easily explain his success. The chief, Silvestre Reyes, sat at his El Paso desk.
(Photographs by JIM WILSON/The New York Times) (pg A14)

Map/Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: At the Border" describes new Border Control tactics
and their effect. It shows the locations of the Border Control sectors of the
Southwest, along with figures representing the apprehensions of illegal aliens
in El Paso and the total of all others over the last two years. A graph tracks
the total number of annual, nationwide apprehensions at the border since 1982.
(Sources: Border Patrols, Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. A14)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 10, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

California Judge Limits Reach Of Illegal-Immigrant Initiative

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 9


Banning illegal immigrants from attending public universities may violate
Federal law, a state judge has said in blocking enforcement of a ballot
initiative intended to curb illegal immigration and approved by California
voters in November.

The judge, Stuart Pollak of Superior Court, issued a preliminary injunction
against the higher-education provision of the measure, Proposition 187, a month
after a Federal judge blocked most of its other provisions.

Judge Pollak's ruling extended a restraining order he issued against the
higher-education ban on the day after the Nov. 8 election. His ruling will
remain in effect until a lawsuit by immigrant-rights groups goes to trial. The
judge said the trial would probably begin by June.

Proposition 187, approved by 59 percent of the voters, would deny many state
services to illegal aliens, including all public education and nonemergency
health care. The only part of it that remains enforceable is an increase in
criminal penalties for making, selling or using false immigration documents.

A report by a State Assembly committee said the proposition's higher-education
provision would affect about 14,000 illegal immigrants at community colleges,
500 at California State University campuses and 125 at the University of
California.

Judge Pollak said the ban might violate a post-Civil War law guaranteeing
everyone in the United States an equal right to make and enforce contracts. He
said that law had been interpreted by Federal courts as protecting illegal
immigrants.

A lawyer for California State University, Lee Rydalch, said that a school's
relationship with its students should be governed by state laws, not private
contracts.

Judge Pollak also said that requiring schools to keep current students and to
accept new applications would cause little or no harm to the state because,
under a recent court ruling, illegal immigrants must pay full tuition, as do
students from other states.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 9, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Florida Will Deport Illegal Aliens Jailed for Nonviolent Crimes

BYLINE: New York Times Regional Newspapers

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla., June 8


Florida today became the first state in the nation to begin deporting illegal
immigrants imprisoned for nonviolent offenses while living in the United States.

Florida officials, hoping to reduce the costs of illegal immigration and to ease
crowding in state prisons, approved a plan in collaboration with Federal
immigration authorities to deport 113 illegal aliens.

In all, 2,700 illegal aliens could be released early from their prison sentences
and returned to their native countries. About 500 such criminals are scheduled
to be deported this year by Florida.

State officials say they have no plans to deport prisoners convicted of violent
crimes.

The state estimates it will save as much as $1.7 million a year by releasing the
first 113 prisoners, all but three of whom were convicted on drug trafficking
charges, and as much as $30 million a year if all 2,700 inmates are deported.

"The cost is astounding," Gov. Lawton Chiles said before he and other members of
the state's Clemency Board authorized the initial deportations. "What's worse,
we have to release a state inmate for every criminal alien who enters our
prisons."

On average, Florida inmates serve 41 percent of their sentences, and even
violent criminals are routinely released to make space for new prisoners.
Besides the $30 million in prison operating costs, officials say the
deportations will allow the state to save $44 million more on prison
construction by freeing cells occupied by criminals from other nations.

Incarcerating criminal aliens accounts for a relatively small part of the
estimated $1.5 billion that Florida says it spends on illegal immigrants each
year. The state recently sued the Federal Government to try to recoup the money
it spends on prison cells, education, health care, welfare benefits and other
social services for illegal immigrants.

In their suit, Florida officials argue that Federal immigration policies allow
aliens to enter the state unchecked and that the Government should share the
cost of providing services to them.

Texas and California have filed similar lawsuits, and those two states, along
with Arizona, Illinois, New Jersey and New York, have indicated that they might
seek Federal permission to follow Florida's lead in deporting criminal aliens,
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said today.

On March 1, the agency said, 84,100 criminal aliens were in state and Federal
prisons in the United States. No aliens in Federal prisons are deported before
serving their full sentences, Mr. Austin said. In state prisons in California,
New York and Pennsylvania, he said, Federal immigration officials conduct
deportation hearings for criminal aliens shortly before their scheduled release
dates so that they can be sent out of the country as quickly as possible.

In Florida, there are about 4,100 foreign citizens among the state's 54,000
prisoners. About 1,400 of them were in the United States legally when they were
convicted, the immigration service has determined.

The first 113 Florida prisoners to be deported, 60 of whom are natives of
Colombia, will be turned over to Federal immigration authorities and flown to
their home countries within 60 days. No inmates will be returned to Cuba,
because the United States does not maintain diplomatic relations with the Cuban
Government. The 113 aliens are from 16 nations, most in the Caribbean and South
and Central America.

All 113 have waived their rights to appeal their deportations, said Dan Cadman,
the director of the immigration service's office in Miami.

If they return to the United States, Mr. Cadman said, the aliens would have to
serve the balance of their Florida sentences and would face new Federal charges
of illegally entering the country.

Their names will be entered in national crime-data computers, Mr. Cadman said,
"to insure that these individuals do not have a credible chance of returning
without being caught."

Most of the deportees were serving long sentences, and many would not have been
eligible for parole for many years under Florida law.

Two members of the Clemency Board and a Florida prosecutor complained that the
aliens would not complete their sentences in their home countries.

A 'Horror Story'

"The horror story's going to be, some guy comes over here and makes a bunch of
money on illegal drugs and goes home and lives the good life," said Jim Smith,
Florida's Secretary of State.

Tom Gallagher, the State Treasurer and the only one of the Clemency Board's
seven members who voted against the deportation plan, said: "The message here is
we're going to send you back home. If you're an illegal alien, you might as well
get into the drug trafficking business and be a good guy in jail and we'll send
you home. This is just incredible."

The state's prosecutors reviewed each proposed deportation and persuaded the
Clemency Board to rescind 12 offers of release. A spokesman for the prosecutors
said they would prefer that the criminal aliens served the same sentences as
Americans convicted in Florida.

"I find it distasteful," said Jerry Hill, president of the Florida Prosecuting
Attorneys Association. "I don't like it. But we're looking for the best thing
for the people of the State of Florida under the circumstances."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 10, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New York Officials Welcome Immigrants, Legal or Illegal

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1260 words


While political leaders across the country talk loudly about illegal immigrants
as a costly burden, the two most prominent politicians in New York go so far as
to describe them as a boon.

This week, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo quietly decided against suing the Federal
Government to recover the costs of social services to illegal immigrants,
rejecting for now a tactic chosen by Florida, California and Texas. He opted
instead to negotiate with the Clinton Administration for reimbursement. He thus
avoided a public debate that would put Mr. Cuomo, long a champion of immigrants,
in the awkward position of portraying some as a drain on society.

"I want to negotiate with the Government instead for a lot of reasons," Mr.
Cuomo said yesterday in an interview. "And one of them is, frankly, that when
you bring a lawsuit on this issue, it sends out the wrong message. I love
immigrants. Legal, illegal -- they're not to be despised."

Last week, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuiliani gave an even more spirited defense of
illegal immigrants, virtually urging them to settle in New York City. Standing
before television cameras, he criticized the growing hostility toward illegal
immigrants across the country as simplistic and unsophisticated.

"Some of the hardest-working and most productive people in this city are
undocumented aliens," Mr. Giuliani said. "If you come here and you work hard and
you happen to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want
in this city. You're somebody that we want to protect, and we want you to get
out from under what is often a life of being like a fugitive, which is really
unfair."

The politics of immigration is different in New York. Immigration and burden are
two words that do not appear often -- or without raising a furor -- in the same
sentence. Whatever their legal status, immigrants are considered a fact of life,
a point of pride and an integral part of New York City's identity. Many New
Yorkers know well that their own forebears arrived without papers.

"So many of the Irish, so many of the Italians who came when my parents came,
were technically illegal," Mr. Cuomo said.

Because of New York City's size, new immigrants are absorbed without as much
fuss as elsewhere. Often, they are responsible for revitalizing dying
neighborhoods -- like Crown Heights in Brooklyn and Flushing, Queens -- and New
Yorkers know it.

Illegal immigrants in New York City confound the national stereotype of a young
Mexican man sneaking across the border. Italians are the largest group, followed
by Ecuadoreans, Poles, Dominicans and Trinidadians. European, Caribbean, Latin
American and Asian, they blend into the city without radically altering its
racial and ethnic makeup. So the racism that often compounds anti-immigrant
sentiment is not as stark in New York.

And against the backdrop of such tolerance, it does not jibe with the image of a
New York politician, Democrat or Republican, to speak too long or too loudly
about immigrants as a drag -- unless the immigrants are convicted felons.

Florida's lawsuit, announced by Gov. Lawton Chiles in a March news conference on
the sand in Key Biscayne, describes a "virtual 'invasion' of the state of
Florida by aliens." Such loaded language is anathema in New York.

No Lament on the Beach

"You won't see Mario Cuomo standing on the beach in Far Rockaway and evoking
images of how vulnerable New York is," said Frank Sharry, director of the
National Immigration Forum, a national advocacy group in Washington. "That just
doesn't play."

Governor Chiles, a Democrat, filed suit on April 11 to recoup $1 billion that
Florida calculates it spends on social services for illegal immigrants. Gov.
Pete Wilson of California, a Republican, sued the Federal Government on April 30
for $2 billion to cover the cost of jailing illegal immigrants, and promised
further suits on other costs.

Both Governors are running for re-election, and evidently believe that voters
want them to stand tough on illegal immigration. For Mr. Wilson, the denial of
all services and rights to illegal immigrants is central to his campaign.

Mr. Cuomo, who is also up for re-election, first weighed joining Florida's suit,
which is so broad as to combine the costs of legal and illegal immigrants. He
also considered a separate suit by New York State, estimating the cost to New
York at $1 billion, largely for the education of immigrant children. But at the
same time, he began pressuring the Clinton Administration to help the states.

'Anti-Immigrant Rhetoric'

In April, the Administration asked Congress to appropriate $350 million to
compensate states for the cost of incarcerating illegal-immigrant felons. After
that, Mr. Cuomo postponed his plans for a lawsuit.

"I'm sure Governor Cuomo is reluctant to use a tactic made famous by the
inflammatory anti-immigrant rhetoric of Pete Wilson -- even if he agrees with
the objective of having the Federal Government assist the high-immigrant
states," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the Immigrants' Rights Project for
the American Civil Liberties Union.

There are 3.85 million illegal immigrants in the country, according to Robert
Warren, chief of statistics for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
California has the greatest number, with about 1.6 million. New York is a
distant second, with 510,000, followed by Texas, with 405,000, and Florida, with
373,000.

No one knows just what illegal immigrants cost states. Immigration experts
criticize the states' estimates as one-sided fiscal calculations that ignore
illegal immigrants' economic contributions. Many are taxpayers; most are
customers; some are even entrepreneurs.

All Americans Cost More

The states' estimates also focus on immigrants who have just arrived in this
country, which gives a misleading picture of their lifetime contribution. Over
time, many illegal immigrants become legal, earn more money and pay more taxes.
The average household income of legal immigrants surpasses that of natives after
10 years in this country, according to a recent study by the Urban Institute.

Still, illegal immigrants do cost the states money, as do native-born Americans.
Americans happen to cost more than they pay in taxes. Most of the illegal
immigrants' cost lies in education for their children, followed by emergency
medical care and prison costs. Texas, which plans to sue the Federal Government
soon, is the only state that subtracted estimated tax payments from its cost
calculations. Texas estimates that illegal immigrants contribute $290 million to
the state and cost $456 million.

Even in New York, a state that frowns on portraying immigrants negatively, it is
more than acceptable to talk about illegal-immigrant felons as a burden.

But even on this issue, New York, for the moment, does not go as far as
California and Florida. It wants the Federal Government to pay the cost of
illegal immigrants who have served their sentences but linger in state prisons
awaiting deportation.

U.S. Speeds Deportations

New York State sued the Federal Government in 1992 to force it to take custody
of those ex-convicts, and a Federal judge ordered New York to keep housing them.

But the Justice Department, in a pilot program with New York, has recently
started expediting deportations. In the program's first eight weeks, 180 orders
of deportation have been issued to illegal-immigrant prisoners compared with 270
in all 1992. It is a sign that the Administration is prepared to work with the
states, Mr. Cuomo said.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "THE DETAILS: Illegal Immigrants" shows estimated numbers of
illegal immigrants in the U.S. and four major states for June 1994. (Source:
Robert Warren, Director, Statistics Division, Immigration and Naturalization
Service) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 17, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

What Illegal Aliens Cost the Taxpayer

SECTION: Section A;  Page 30;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 414 words


To the Editor:

"Stop Benefits for Aliens? It Wouldn't Be That Easy" (front page, June 8) is
bold in its attempt to profile the entire problem of illegal aliens receiving
taxpayer benefits through the experience of one mother of three.

Your article states that taxpayers at all levels of government spend $7 billion
a year on illegal aliens. (Others estimate twice that.) Two-thirds of the cost,
you state, go to education and medical care. You also focus on such other costs
as welfare, which you estimate totals roughly $2.3 billion a year.

Readers (that is, taxpayers) could be forgiven for finding your article's
analysis as porous as our national borders.

In support of your claim that illegals do not enter the United States for
benefits, you quote Laura C. as saying she came to the United States to work.
But she now exists in a one-bedroom apartment on private charity and public
benefits.

In positing that illegals are not eligible for many welfare programs, you note
that Laura C. (meaning in this case her children) receives only food benefits
totaling $46.50 a week.

What the article does not say is whether Laura C. receives any benefits
illegally. The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 40 percent
of illegal aliens do.

You report that Laura C.'s youngest child, born in Texas at taxpayer cost in a
public hospital, and thus a United States citizen, has the rights to welfare of
any native-born American. But you do not venture any cost. Nor do you mention
the public or private costs of criminal aliens, displaced legal residents on
welfare and unemployment insurance.

The result? You have by this means transformed a multibillion-dollar-a-year
problem into a $46.50-a-week problem.

In closing, your article attempts to demonstrate that even if government
benefits are cut off, illegal aliens will remain in the United States, rather
than return home.

Your evidence: Laura C.'s resounding declaration, "I don't think I would leave."

Inquiring minds must wonder why it is that your article consistently tags those
who support the rights of legal residents first as "politicians," while at the
same time you label as "experts" those who support the unlimited right of
illegal aliens to cut in line ahead of those millions of people around the world
who have waited years to enter the United States legally.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Washington, June 10, 1994
The writer leads the House Republican illegal immigration task force.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 23, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

3 Governors Take Pleas On Aliens to the Senate

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22


Armed with metaphors equating illegal immigration with natural disasters, the
Governors of California, Florida and Arizona beseeched the Senate Appropriations
Committee today for reimbursement for services that their states provide illegal
aliens.

The Governors, who have already sued the Federal Government in an effort to
recover some of those costs, used a hearing of the committee to restate their
alarm at the havoc they see being wreaked by Washington's failure to police the
nation's borders sufficiently to stem the flow of illegal immigration. They
spoke of storms, floods and tidal waves of illegal aliens.

Gov. Pete Wilson of California testified that every fifth grader in his state
could have a computer if it were not for the cost of educating illegal aliens.
Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida called for a Federal charge card so illegal aliens
could bill their health care and education directly to the Government. And,
referring to "the immigrant invasion," Gov. Fife Symington of Arizona noted that
the Constitution guaranteed the states protection against invasion.

Storm 'Battering Our Shores'

Mr. Chiles, a Democrat, described illegal immigration as a "living nightmare"
akin to Hurricane Andrew. "As surely as the winds and rains of Hurricane Andrew
assaulted South Florida in a crisis that forever changed it," he said, "there is
another storm, illegal immigration, that is battering our shores today."

The witnesses' rhetoric fell on mostly sympathetic ears. None of the senators on
the committee chastised the Governors for antagonizing the Clinton
Administration by filing suit. (Indeed, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada,
went so far as to wish them victory.) And no one challenged the Governors'
immigration-cost estimates, which do not take into account that illegal aliens
contribute to the states' economies as consumers, laborers and even
entrepreneurs.

But the senators, who themselves did some tough talking on immigration, offered
little encouragement about reimbursing the states with Federal money. "Old
Mother Hubbard's cupboard is pretty bare," said the committee chairman, Senator
Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia.

Mr. Byrd also urged Governor Wilson, a Republican, to stop blaming Washington
for so many of California's woes. Singling out a California agency brochure that
describes prenatal services offered to immigrant women, the Senator termed it
"an open invitation to illegal aliens."

Distrust of the Governors

Advocates for immigrants distrust the Governors' very public campaign to try to
recover money spent on illegal aliens.

"They are simply grandstanding," Jeanne Butterfield, the chief policy analyst
for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said in an interview. "They
are pushing the hot button of immigration at a time when they are facing tough
re-elections. Everyone's playing to an audience on this issue."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that there are 3.85 million
illegal aliens in the country. The leading states in this category are
California, with 1.6 million, New York (510,000), Texas (405,000) and Florida
(333,000).

In calculating the costs of educating and providing health care to illegal
aliens, as well as incarcerating those criminally charged or convicted, the
states use higher population estimates than does the immigration service. Mr.
Wilson said California spent $3 billion a year on illegal aliens, Mr. Chiles
said Florida spent $884 million and Mr. Symington, a Republican, said Arizona
spent $204 million.

In his budget request for the 1995 fiscal year, President Clinton asked Congress
for $350 million to help states defray the costs of imprisoning illegal aliens.
But that money has already been swallowed up in the House Appropriations
Committee's budget bill by a program of grants to fight drugs. States could
elect to use the grant money for prison costs, but, because the money would be
spread among so many more states, those grappling with the heaviest immigration
burden would receive far less than under the Clinton proposal.


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 26, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Texas and California: 2 Views of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


In California, where sentiment against illegal aliens runs strong, Senator
Barbara Boxer's proposal to use the National Guard to patrol the Mexican border
was considered rather modest. But in Texas, when Jim Mattox, a Democratic
candidate for the Senate, suggested this spring that the military be used to
crack down on illegal immigration, his opponent jumped all over him.

Mr. Mattox had been the early favorite in the Democratic field, but he lost in
the April runoff election to Richard Fisher, who said: "South Texans don't want
tanks on their lawns." Mr. Fisher carried El Paso County by a margin of nearly 3
to 2, swept practically every other border county and suffered no backlash
elsewhere.

While the campaign was about more than immigration, it served as a potent
reminder that attitudes about immigration and its political ramifications are by
no means monolithic in the two most populous states along the Mexican border.

Immigration is much less of a hot-button topic in Texas than in California. The
reasons, many immigration and political experts say, include the relative
strength of the two states' economies as well as differences in geography and
history. And with the Governors of California and Texas up for re-election this
fall, there are striking differences in how each is dealing with the immigration
issue.

'Save Our State' Initiative

In California, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, has made illegal immigration a
centerpiece of his campaign, proposing an amendment to the Constitution to deny
citizenship to those born on American soil. He recently announced that he
favored an initiative on the November ballot that would deny schooling and
nonemergency medical care to illegal aliens.

In Texas, Gov. Ann W. Richards, a Democrat, has made no such proposals and does
not talk at length about illegal immigration, focusing more on business ties
with Mexico.

Mexico's Deputy Foreign Minister, Andres Rozental, recently praised Ms. Richards
for promoting trade. "She comes to Mexico," Mr. Rozental said in an interview
with The San Diego Union-Tribune, Mr. Wilson's hometown newspaper. "We have a
dialogue with her. We are able to discuss issues. And we have none of that with
Mr. Wilson."

Even when Governor Richards decided recently to file a Texas version of
California's lawsuit to try to win Federal reimbursement for the costs of
illegal immigration, she went out of her way to portray the matter as a budget
dispute with Washington, not an attack on illegal aliens.

Governor Richards was notably absent last week when Mr. Wilson and the Governors
of Florida and Arizona, which are also suing over the costs of illegal
immigration, went to Washington to complain in person. A spokeswoman said she
had a prior speaking commitment in Texas.

To be sure, plenty of Texans complain about illegal immigration. And few
politicians here would go as far as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City
or Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, both of whom have recently made highly
favorable comments about illegal aliens.

El Paso is the site of perhaps the most draconian effort to deter illegal
crossings along the Mexican border. A 20-mile wall of Border Patrol agents along
the Rio Grande has reduced the number of attempted illegal crossings by up to 75
percent.

The operation has much support in El Paso, a city that is often said to be
joined at the hip with its larger Mexican neighbor, Ciudad Juarez. Some people
here blame illegal aliens for rising crime and resent them for showing up
destitute.

Cutting Into Business

But many local leaders and business owners openly fret about economic
consequences.

Sylvia Soliz, who owns a small store on South El Paso Street that sells shoes
and T-shirts, said her business had plummeted by almost 50 percent since the
border operation began.

El Paso's Mayor, Larry Francis, said he preferred the border operation to such
radical steps as an amendment to the Constitution or a ban on schooling and
health care.

Many people in El Paso, which has a population of 515,000 and is 70 percent
Hispanic, support a balanced approach to illegal immigration.

"We should deal with it," said Joe Carrizales Jr., a jewelry store manager who
moved here legally with his parents from Juarez 20 years ago. "But it's not that
drastic a problem. And with a lot of politicians, it comes out in a real
prejudicial way. It's like: 'Let's go after the Hispanic community. Let's get
the troops after them.' "

Experts say the healthier economy in Texas and the less generous -- and less
expensive -- social services here help explain why illegal immigration is seen
here as a less serious problem, compared with California.

"It is just part of the American psyche," said Arturo Vargas, vice president of
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, "that in poor economic
times, there is a scapegoat to be sought after."

Texas also has fewer illegal aliens.. It estimates that 3 percent of its
population is illegal, compared with a 7 percent estimate by California. The
Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service insists that the actual figures
are lower in both cases.

While both states have a roughly equal percentage of Hispanic residents, about
25 percent, Texas has a much lower percentage of foreign-born residents and a
long-established Mexican-American political presence in many border cities.
Running for a Congressional seat in South Texas in 1902, John Nance Garner, who
went on to become Vice President under Franklin D. Roosevelt, assiduously
courted voters along the Rio Grande.

"Along a good deal of the border, 8 out of 10 of those spoke only Spanish," Mr.
Garner's biographer, Marquis James, wrote in 1939. "John had learned enough
Spanish to pass the time of day with his Latin constituents, and he could cuss
very satisfactorily in that tongue."

Editorial Criticism

The border cities are hundreds of miles away from Texas's biggest cities,
Houston and Dallas. But in California, the main border crossing point is just a
few miles from downtown San Diego.


A recent editorial in The Los Angeles Times criticized Governor Wilson for what
it said was the "clumsy and hostile way in which his administration has dealt
with Mexico and Mexicans." It also unfavorably compared Governor Wilson with
Governor Richards: "When Wilson goes to the border, he usually stays on the U.S.
side and campaigns for votes. When Richards goes, she crosses over into Mexico
and invites constructive engagement."

But Leslie A. Goodman, a Wilson spokeswoman, said the criticism was "dishonest"
and unfair because Mr. Wilson was a champion of the North American Free Trade
Agreement. Ms. Goodman said the Governor was trying to address a budget crisis
with his immigration proposals, not provoke a fight with Mexico, and she pointed
to recent favorable comments about Mr. Wilson by Ernesto Ruffo Appel, the
Governor of Baja California, California's neighboring Mexican province.

"I know him, and I know he is a positive man," Governor Appel told border
governors at a conference a few weeks ago. "I know he likes Mexicans. I
understand very much the problems my colleague Pete is suffering in California."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although El Paso is just a bridge away from Ciudad Juarez,
Mexico, the two cities have fostered a relationship based on economic interests
instead of focusing on the problem of illegal immigration. (Bruce Berman for The
New York Times)

Graph: "Immigrants in Texas and California" shows the states population, number
of illegal immigrants and yearly spending for each, the foreign-born population,
the hispanic population and the value of exports to Mexico in 1992 (Source:
Census Bureau)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 10, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

An Unlucky Assignment for 4 Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 20;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev., July 9


Four illegal aliens have been deported after they arrived to install carpet in
the home of the immigration service's chief here.

"Out of 900,000 people in Las Vegas, they picked my house," said Arthur Strapp,
head of the local office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "It was
the wrong house."

Mr. Strapp said his wife was home on Wednesday when the men came to install
carpet for a local flooring company. He said she suspected that they might be
illegal aliens and telephoned him at work. He then sent an agent to check out
the carpet layers.

Mr. Strapp said the four men waived hearings and were deported to Mexico on
Thursday. Their employer has been cooperative in the investigation, he said, and
may have been fooled by phony work documents the men had.

Documented workers finished the carpeting on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 16, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

2 Illegal Immigrants Rescued From Kidnapping in Queens

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 25;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 627 words


Two Chinese restaurant workers in Queens were kidnapped, beaten and held hostage
for almost two days, the police said, but were rescued on Thursday after frantic
family members called the police because they had trouble pulling together the
$60,000 ransom.

Three men were arrested and charged with the kidnapping, which the police
believe occurred because the victims, both illegal immigrants, had failed to pay
their debt to smugglers who brought them into the country. The victims were
found badly beaten and stripped of their clothes in the basement of a two-story
house in Flushing, the police said.

Such kidnappings have become increasingly common in recent years in New York
City and in other cities with large Asian immigrant populations, officials say.
While some of the kidnappings are simply crimes of opportunity, many involve
smuggling rings trying to extort payment from illegal immigrants whom the rings
have brought to the United States.

'Their Small Claims Court'

Investigators are trying to determine if the abductors in the latest case are
part of the Fuk Ching gang, a powerful crime organization that has helped
thousands of Chinese immigrants slip into the United States.

Some immigrants promise the gangs up to $30,000 for passage. Once here, the
immigrants must work off the debt or pay it by other means like prostitution or
violent crime. If payments are not made, gang members usually resort to violence
and kidnapping to obtain the money.

"Kidnapping is their small claims court," said Luke Rettler, head of the
Manhattan District Attorney's Asian Gang Unit. "If there's a business dispute or
a debt, they don't go to court and sue each other."

It is unclear how long the two victims involved in Wednesday's kidnapping have
been living in the country, but it could be as long as two years, said Lieut.
Joseph Pollini, executive of the Major Case Squad. The United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service has been notified of the case but has not yet held a
hearing on the status of the victims or the suspects, the police said.

The incident began about 2 A.M. on Wednesday as the workers, who are not
related, arrived at the home they shared on Cherry Street in Flushing after
finishing work at a Chinese restaurant on Hillside Avenue in Flushing. As they
were about to open the door, two gunmen surprised them and ordered them into a
car, the police said.

The victims, Yan Pingchen, 38, and Xu Qindong, 37, were taken to a two-story
red-brick house at 43-44 156th Street, where they were forced to call relatives,
who were told to pay $30,000 for each man, the police said.

Unable to raise the ransom, the brother of one victim called the police. After a
series of phone calls and haggling over the price, the brother, with the
assistance of investigators, talked the kidnappers down to $40,000 for both men.

The brother, whose name was not released, then arranged to meet the men at 58th
Street and Queens Boulevard at 10:15 P.M. on Thursday to drop off the money.
Shoa Chenliu, 27, of 43-44 156th Street, and Tze Ching Ker, 28, whose address is
unknown, were arrested at the scene after the exchange of the money.

Neighbors Are Astonished

The men then led the police to the house where the victims were being held. A
third man, Pao Shauchan, who was standing guard over the men, briefly held the
police at bay and fired one shot at the officers. He was disarmed and arrested
at 11:30 P.M. Mr. Pao was charged with attempted murder of a police officer,
kidnapping and possession of weapon. Mr. Shoa and Mr. Tze were each charged with
kidnapping and weapon possession.

Yesterday, residents on the tree-lined block of 156th Street where the victims
were held were astonished at the arrests.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 26, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Grocery Art Fans Anger Against Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: SAN RAFAEL, Calif., July 23


Earlier this month, checkers at an upscale supermarket here started packing
shoppers' organic vegetables and free-range chickens into paper grocery bags
that carried the pictures and life stories of four children from the area.

But the effort of the supermarket, United Market, to distribute public art put
it right in the middle of California's stormy debate over illegal immigration.
Many shoppers objected to the poignant tale of an unidentified fourth grader
from El Salvador. They were angered by his account of how he had come to the
United States -- illegally.

United Market has stopped using the controversial bags. Late on Friday, Bill
Daniels, co-owner of the market, said he had decided to offer the bags to the
customers who supported the art, to schools and to local food banks.

The immigration debate is in the air here, as it is throughout this state and
some others. Gov. Pete Wilson is suing the Federal Government to recoup the
money spent by California on services for illegal aliens. Mr. Wilson, a
Republican, is running for re-election, and his opponent, State Treasurer
Kathleen Brown, a Democrat, is criticizing him for his move against illegal
aliens. Florida and Arizona have filed similar lawsuits.

The paper bags were the result of an art project by a local couple, Larry and
Kelly Sultan, who were paid $7,500 by Public Art Works, a nonprofit group. The
Sultans put the photographs and stories of four children on the grocery bags.
"We wanted to give a face to these kids," Mr. Sultan said, "many of them
children of color, to let them tell their own stories."

The stories were of children who had struggled and survived. A 12-year-old girl
told of living with her crack-addicted mother. Another girl, a fifth grader,
wrote of immigrating from Vietnam. A high school boy told how his family had
fled from Eritrea.

The story of the illegal alien came from Bahia Vista Elementary School in the
Canal District, an area that has been mostly white and working class until
recent years. The head of the Canal Community Alliance, Tom Wilson, said most
people there now were "immigrants and people of color."

The Salvadoran boy is pictured with his hand covering his face to hide his
identity. He recounted how he had been smuggled across the border at night so he
could rejoin his mother.

Mr. Daniels, the co-owner of United Market, said he had been surprised by the
volatile response of many customers to the bags. He said some customers had
accused him of supporting illegal immigration.

Among the angry objectors was Rick Oltman, a San Rafael resident who is the
leader of the Save Our State campaign, a statewide initiative to limit
educational and health benefits for children who are illegal residents. Mr.
Oltman said members of his local group "thought it was just one more example of
the condoning of illegal immigrants."

The shoppers who complained threatened to picket and boycott the store unless
Mr. Daniels stopped distributing the bags. He first tried to use the bags
depicting the Salvadoran boy at his second store in nearby San Anselmo, but he
got the same reaction.

"I couldn't believe it," he said. "To me, the bags had nothing to do with
illegal immigration. It was a little boy's story." He added, "That kid was a
kind of little hero."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 2, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

College Fund Started for Illegal-Alien Boy

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;   Page 19;   Column 3;   National Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: SAN RAFAEL, Calif., Aug. 1


A Salvadoran boy whose account of crossing the United States border illegally
generated anti-immigrant hostility when it was printed on a shopping bag here
may receive a college education out of the controversy.

The boy's harrowing report about crossing deserts and rivers was printed on
40,000 shopping bags as part of an effort by United Market to bolster local
schools and students. But some customers threatened to boycott and picket the
store, saying the owners were encouraging illegal immigration, and the store
withdrew the bags.

That hostility has embarrassed many Marin County residents.

Bill Bagley, a University of California regent and a former member of the State
Assembly, and Jody Becker, the head of the county's mediation services, have
contributed money to begin a college fund for the boy, whose identity was not
made public because of his immigration status. Mr. Bagley said he hoped to raise
$10,000 to $20,000 in the next month.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 5, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Shift, Immigration Service Won't Hold Stowaways

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Aug. 4


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has decided to take custody of
stowaways and parole them while their requests for asylum are being reviewed,
agency officials said yesterday.

The new policy represents a significant shift for the Federal agency, which had
been requiring the owners of planes and ships that inadvertently brought
stowaways to the United States to pay the cost of their detention.

The policy was described by Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service
in Washington, as temporary while officials decide how to respond to a June
ruling by a Federal appeals court, which struck down the system under which
stowaways were the responsibility of the ship or airplane carriers.

The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia ruled that the old
policy had not been properly adopted by the immigration service, lacked
guidelines and made the shipping and airline companies liable for unlimited
costs of detention.

Rethinking an Old Policy

Although the court decision only affected cases in New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware and the Virgin Islands, its practical effect had been to force the
immigration service to rethink the old policy, Mr. Austin said. The new interim
system will be in effect until the immigration service decides what its
long-term approach will be and then subjects its proposal to public hearings and
formal approvals -- a process that could take months.

Unlike illegal aliens who manage to enter the United States and are picked up
after they have been in the country for a time, stowaways and other illegal
aliens intercepted at ports of entry have been treated as if they never arrived,
said Nicholas Rizza, national refugee coordinator for Amnesty International.
Owners of ships and airplanes not only had to pay the cost of detaining the
stowaways, but were also responsible for their care. The companies and their
security contractors were not subjected to Federal supervision or required to
adhere to international standards of treatment.

The stowaways were not granted the constitutional rights given an illegal alien
picked on the street, including the right to bail or to be released on their own
recognizance, Mr. Rizza said.

In one recent case, through which the immigration service's policy came to
national attention, more than 18 stowaways from Romania, who arrived in Boston
by hiding in huge metal cargo containers loaded onto a freighter in France, were
held for several weeks in April by a shipping company in a hotel in Newark,
shackled together by leg irons.

Parole for Asylum Seekers

The new policy, which allows stowaways seeking asylum to be paroled, brings
their treatment closer to that of other illegal aliens, Mr. Rizza said.

Mr. Austin, the immigration service's spokesman, said the agency lacks the
capacity to monitor the stowaways once they are released, so they will
essentially be at large while their requests for asylum are being adjudicated,
under the new guidelines that were sent to all field offices last week. The new
policy was disclosed yesterday by the Journal of Commerce.

"If the stowaways' asylum requests and subsequent appeals are turned down, we
will have to round the people up and return them to the carriers for deportation
back home," Mr. Austin said. "The carriers are still responsible for the costs
from that point on."

Stowaways who do not request asylum will be immediately handed back to the
shipping and airline companies for the trip home. The companies have long been
held responsible for returning stowaways who are not granted asylum, under a
Federal policy designed to assure that transportation companies were vigilant
against stowaways.

The court decision in June came on an appeal by Dia, a Cyprus-based corporation
that discovered it had brought four Romanian stowaways into United States waters
in February 1992 aboard a freighter, the European Senator. After the ship
arrived in Newark the stowaways requested asylum. Because Dia was responsible
for the stowaways' detention, it decided to keep them under 24-hour watch at a
Holiday Inn on Staten Island.

Eventually, two of the stowaways were granted asylum and two were deported and
flown back to Romania at Dia's expense. The company said it spent $127,590 on
detention-related expenses over 54 days, and it sued the immigration service in
Federal court in Newark.

After the condition of the more than 20 shackled Romanian stowaways became known
last spring, the company responsible for their detention, Sea-Land Service,
appealed to the immigration service, which ultimately arranged for them to be
transferred to the Snyder County Jail in Pennsylvania. This week, the
immigration service took charge of them and other stowaways being detained by
carriers, and arranged for their parole hearings.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 19, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Expect Congress to Protect Your Privacy;
Data Base Illusions

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 342 words


To the Editor:

The Government proposes to establish yet another Federal data base, to monitor
work eligibility by combining Immigration and Naturalization Service data with
Social Security numbers and thus reduce competition by illegal immigrants in the
job market.

Increasingly, the Government is responding to social problems by creating a
computerized data base, rather than by addressing the underlying conditions.
Over the last few years, similar suggestions have been made to stem the purchase
of illegal weapons, to slow the spread of the human immunodeficiency virus and,
most recently, to control repeat crimes by convicted child sexual abusers.

These proposals rarely work. They are based on idealized visions of computerized
data bases as invincible and immediately accessible, yet capable of maintaining
confidentiality. In practice, large personal data systems are prone to error.
The immigration agency acknowledges that its data base is full of errors.
Furthermore, any system open enough to allow the immediate access needed for
efficient, timely pre-employment checks cannot also guarantee any appreciable
degree of confidentiality to its data.

The Government has argued repeatedly over the last 100 years that illegal
immigration can be stemmed through centralized registries that distinguish
legitimate from illegitimate immigrants. It has made much the same argument,
with the same lack of effect, that crime can be controlled through a centralized
registry of fingerprints. But inventive, desperate people can always devise
schemes to circumvent record-keeping systems, and even routine use of these data
bases is much less effective than their more publicized successes would suggest.

What is needed are renewed efforts to address the conditions that drive people
to undertake the risks of illegal immigration, not another intrusive, costly,
inefficient Federal data base.

PAMELA SANKAR
Philadelphia, Aug. 12, 1994
The writer is a senior fellow at the Leonard Davis Institute, University of
Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 2, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

11 Stowaways Found on Ship In Container

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 1


Eleven stowaways endured four days locked in an oven-hot shipping container with
little food or water and no bedding, apparently dreaming that their voyage from
the Caribbean to the United States would bring good jobs. But it appears that
all they will get for their agony is a quick trip home to the Dominican
Republic.

The 11 were discovered this morning when a deckhand aboard the Carolina at the
Elizabeth Marine Terminal heard them yelling and pounding on the sides of the
container, which was stacked about 40 feet above the deck. Firefighters,
ambulance technicians and seamen let the stowaways -- 10 men and a woman -- out
of the container before dawn today.

None of the stowaways have requested political asylum, officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said today, which means that they will
almost certainly be sent back immediately to the Dominican Republic.

"They were emaciated," said Paul Visoskas, head of an emergency rescue team from
University Hospital here. "I don't know how they survived. God only knows what
those people must have suffered, with the heat and the ship rolling on the
ocean."

Three Days at Sea in Foul Box

Capt. John J. Reinke of the Port Authority police said three of the 11 were
semiconscious when rescue teams took them from the foul-smelling container
shortly before 3:15 A.M. today.

"They were all very scared and all very weak," Captain Reinke said.

The 11, who ranged in age from 18 to 53, had endured three days at sea in the
container and another at the dock in Elizabeth before help came. About
three-fourths of the container was filled with boxes of clothing, leaving the 11
squeezed during their journey into a little cubicle measuring perhaps 8 by 10
feet, the captain said.

Daytime temperatures may have reached 130 degrees, said Dr. Arthur Calise, who
treated four of the stowaways at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center here.  What
little food and water they took into the container at the port of Rio Haina in
the Dominican Republic on Saturday night was gone by Monday, two days before the
Carolina docked in Elizabeth, Nancy Pacheco, a nurse at the medical center,
said.

Deportation Being Arranged

Four of the 11 remained hospitalized tonight, including the oldest stowaway,
Juan Feliz, 53, a diabetic. Officials at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center said
he was suffering from severe dehydration and would require perhaps two more days
of medical care. All the others suffered milder degrees of dehydration.

The seven who were treated and released during the day were questioned
immediately by agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. By early
this evening, none had requested political asylum in the United States, paving
the way for the agency to order them returned to their homeland in short order.

During an afternoon news conference, William R. Tillman, deputy director of the
immigration office here, said preparations were under way to return them on the
Carolina when she sails from Elizabeth for the Dominican Republic at 10:30 P.M.
Friday. But tonight, Mr. Tillman said that those released from hospitals might
possibly be flown home.

The owner of the Carolina, Puerto Rican Marine Management Inc. of Edison, N.J.,
is responsible for paying for their return trip under immigration law. If it
does not return them, the company is subject to a fine of $3,000 per stowaway.

Mr. Tillman said the return could be delayed if any of the stowaways asked for
asylum while still in the United States. If such a request were made, he said,
the agency would take formal custody of the stowaways from the ship's owner
until a hearing had been held by an immigration judge. The stowaways' upkeep
pending the hearing would be paid by the immigration agency.

Until a policy change this month, the I.N.S. had required the owner of a ship or
plane that stowaways took to the United States to pay for their food and lodging
before asylum hearings.

Eligibility Seems Unlikely

Mr. Tillman said he doubted any of the 11 would seek asylum because they did not
satisfy the criteria. He and other immigration officials said several of the
stowaways said during interviews that they came to the United States in hopes of
getting work.

Economic hardship is not grounds for asylum under the agency's rules. Those
eligible for asylum must be fleeing political, religious, racial, or ethnic
persecution in their homeland.

Mr. Tillman said investigators were still trying to learn how and why the 11
came to enter the cargo container in Rio Haina sometime on Saturday. The ship
had arrived there from San Juan, Puerto Rico.

"Some of them indicated they had assistance in identifying the container and
getting into it," he said.

One of three stowaways treated at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Elizabeth told
medical personnel someone was paid at the Dominican port.

"He said they paid a lot of money to be brought here," said Susan Diamond, a
hospital spokeswoman. "They wanted to work. They thought they would be fed and
cared for and brought into the United States."

Mr. Tillman said officials believed dockworkers got the money. He expressed
doubts that anyone aboard the Carolina was involved.

The stowaways told medical officials they carried one bottle of water and a few
snacks into the container Saturday. They all shared the water, each drinking a
capful every few hours before it was gone on Monday, Dr. Calise of Newark Beth
Israel Medical Center said.

The little amount of food was eaten quickly, too. "They all looked as if they
hadn't eaten even before the trip," said Ms. Pacheco, the nurse at Newark Beth
Israel.

The Carolina docked in Elizabeth at 7:15 A.M. Wednesday and was not unloaded
immediately. The container remained where it had throughout the three days at
sea, the fifth highest in a stack of six on the ship's open deck.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Its voyage from the Caribbean to Newark completed, the Carolina
remained docked yesterday at the Elizabeth Marine Terminal. The 11 stowaways who
were found semiconscious after four days locked in a shipping container with
little food or water are facing a quick trip back to the Dominican Republic.
(John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 15, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Illegal Aliens Put Uneven Load on States, Study Says

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14


The first systematic study of the costs of illegal immigration, released today,
confirms that illegal immigrants cost states more than they contribute in taxes.

But the total immigrant population, legal and illegal together, is a boon, not a
burden, for the country over all, generating a surplus of $25 billion to $30
billion, according to research by the Urban Institute, a Washington research
group.

The study provides the emotional debate over illegal immigration with a
methodology and some hard numbers by which politics can be separated from real
fiscal concerns. But the study, commissioned by the Federal Government, does not
conclude that the Government owes the states any money because of illegal
immigrants.

"There is no politics in this report," said Rebecca L. Clark, one of its
authors. "It is straight demographic methodology, which hopefully -- in my
dreams? -- will help everyone pay attention to sound facts and not just to who's
screaming the loudest."

Most states with large immigrant populations contend that the Government owes
them money because of its failure to stem the flow of illegal immigrants.
Florida, California, Arizona and Texas have sued to recover some of the costs,
and the issue has grown politically contentious, particularly in California.

But, the Urban Institute study found, California has grossly overestimated its
population of illegal immigrants, as well as the cost of educating them and
providing them with emergency health care.

In response to the study, California released its own study today, with new
calculations that were closer to the Urban Institute's findings.

"We've got to stop this bickering about numbers," said Leslie A. Goodman, the
deputy chief of staff for Gov. Pete Wilson of California. "The bottom line is
that the states bear the disproportionate burden of the cost."

California's original estimates, however, helped generate considerable support
for a ballot initiative that seeks to deny schooling, health care and other
services to illegal immigrants. California initially said it was spending $2.1
million a year to educate its illegal immigrant children, a number the Urban
Institute found to be $800,000 too high.

A Los Angeles Times Poll published today said that 62 percent of those likely to
vote in November support the ballot initiative, Proposition 187, which Governor
Wilson also supports.

"You cannot say that numbers are not important," said Jeffrey S. Passel, another
author of the report. "There has been much hysteria on the subject of illegal
immigration that stems in part from bad information. Ten years ago, people were
saying that there were 12 to 15 million undocumented aliens, and we were saying
three million, and we were right."

The Federal Government has never put a premium on developing this information,
Mr. Passel said. The Immigration and Naturalization Service's chief
statistician, Robert Warren, was never ordered to develop a count of illegal
immigrants. He devised a method to count them on his own, and his numbers were
only accepted last spring as the immigration agency's official count.

By Mr. Warren's estimate, the nation now has about four million illegal
immigrants, 85 percent of whom live in seven states. The state with the largest
number of illegal immigrants is California. New York has the second largest,
followed by Texas, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey and Arizona.

Many illegal immigrants cross into the United States from its borders with
Mexico and Canada, but nearly as many arrive by air and overstay their temporary
visas.

In the seven states with the largest population of illegal immigrants, the study
estimated, such immigrants pay $1.9 billion in state and local income taxes,
sales taxes and property taxes -- a contribution that most states do not take
into account. Illegal immigrants in the seven states pay a good deal more, some
$3.4 billion, in Federal income taxes; all taxpayers contribute more to Federal
coffers than to local ones.

Educating illegal immigrants represents the biggest price tag for the states. It
costs them $3.1 billion to educate some 641,000 illegal immigrant children, the
study found. That does not include the cost of American-born children of illegal
immigrants.

New York spends about $634 million to educate illegal immigrants, and Texas
about $419 million. Florida, which spends about $424 million on illegal
immigrants in its schools, drastically underestimated its costs as $180 million,
the study found.

The Urban Institute's research provides the first hard estimates of the
population of illegal immigrants in state prisons. It counted 21,400 such
inmates at a cost to the seven states of $471.4 million a year, with California
bearing most of the burden.

Congress has provided $130 million to offset this cost to the states in the
coming year.

The seven states say they are spending a total of $422 million in Medicaid costs
for illegal immigrants. The study found that California and Texas were probably
overestimating their costs, and most of the other states were underestimating
them. But the researchers said they did not have enough information to calculate
the health care costs themselves.

Over all, they noted, illegal immigrants are young, poor and inexperienced. With
time, many adjust their immigration status to become legal immigrants. And legal
immigrants have a higher average household income than native-born Americans
within 10 years of living in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 16, 1994, Friday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about a study of costs of illegal immigration misstated two
figures in a discussion of California's spending on the education of illegal
immigrant children. The state had said it was spending $2.1 billion a year (not
$2.1 million), a figure that the Urban Institute found to be $800 million too
high (not $800,000).


GRAPHIC: Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Revenues From Illegal Aliens" shows estimated
revenues to seven states from sales, property and income taxes paid by
undocumented aliens, in millions of dollars. (Source: Urban Institute)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 16, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 57 words


An article yesterday about a study of costs of illegal immigration misstated two
figures in a discussion of California's spending on the education of illegal
immigrant children. The state had said it was spending $2.1 billion a year (not
$2.1 million), a figure that the Urban Institute found to be $800 million too
high (not $800,000).

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 18, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Initiative Aims to Control Immigration

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 40;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Sept. 17


Attorney General Janet Reno today announced an initiative that she said was
intended to "shut the door on illegal immigration," particularly in California,
where the problem had become an issue in the campaign for governor.

The plan, which the Department of Justice calls Operation Gatekeeper, will bring
more money and more Federal personnel to California to try to make the border
with Mexico more secure, Ms. Reno told a civic group here. "Operation Gatekeeper
is specifically tailored for California," she said.

Immigration has been an issue in the California governor's race, where Kathleen
Brown, the Democratic candidate, is seeking to unseat Pete Wilson, a Republican.
Ms. Reno's spokeswoman said the visit to California was not intended as support
for the Brown campaign.

The Attorney General said the Immigration and Naturalization Service would add
200 agents in the San Diego area in the next 100 days. Over all, she said she
planned to send 700 new agents to the Southwest border area in the 1995 fiscal
year.

To help states pay for incarcerating illegal immigrants charged with crimes, the
Federal Government will transfer $130 million to California and other states in
the 1995 fiscal year, Ms. Reno said.

The initiative also calls for fingerprinting all illegal immigrants apprehended
in the San Diego area, starting Oct. 1. By December, the service will be ready
to process the prints using a computerized tracking system, Ms. Reno said.

Operation Gatekeeper also seeks to increase the number of deportations to 6,000
a year, from the 1993 level of 3,000.

The initiative further calls for tougher prosecution of those who smuggle
illegal immigrants and it steps up efforts to secure border crossings with
fences and lights.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 19, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Police State Is Alive and Well in El Paso

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 317 words


To the Editor:

Your Sept. 14 article in the series on the Immigration and Naturalization
Service praises the success of Silvestre Reyes, the Border Patrol chief in El
Paso: "Mr. Reyes is dispelling the widely held belief that the nation's borders
cannot be controlled without draconian, police-state tactics."

Without police-state tactics? You report that Mr. Reyes had to deploy 400
officers within his small district to seal off the border to his satisfaction.
If that is not "police-state tactics," I wonder what is?

And just what would you require, in the way of governmental response to illegal
immigrants, for that response to qualify as "draconian"? Heavy prison sentences
for attempted illegal immigration? Shooting from helicopters at Mexicans who
dare to wade across the Rio Grande?

Just where did you conjure the figure of 8,000 illegal crossings a day? From Mr.
Reyes, or perhaps from the Washington offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which earlier articles in your series have shown to be
abysmally corrupt? These statistics, like all statistics on illegal immigrants,
are highly suspect and obviously self-serving, especially when they come from
Government officials.

The truth is the Texas-Mexico border has been a justifiably fluid legal fiction
ever since it was established by American conquest a century and a half ago.
People have always crossed over to this side -- often to return just hours later
-- for numerous reasons. And vice versa.

The phrase "Tex-Mex" speaks of this cultural reciprocity. Even the actual border
has changed with the changing course of the Rio Grande.

Mr. Reyes's totalitarian maneuver is just the most recent of America's
hysterias. Communism gave way to the drug craze, which has been eclipsed by the
anti-immigration frenzy to which you regrettably lend yourself.

CHARLES ROSSMAN
Austin, Tex., Sept. 14, 1994

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 25, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: IN CALIFORNIA;
A Ballot Proposition Gives Voters the Opportunity to Influence National
Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 24


As Election Day 1994 approaches, Californians are poised to vote on a ballot
proposition that would take the far-reaching step of denying illegal immigrants
most major government services, including schooling and non-emergency health
care. Once again, the state's voters find themselves with the opportunity to
influence the course the nation takes on a major issue.

Polls indicate that the rancorously debated measure, Proposition 187, put on the
ballot by citizens groups, will win overwhelming approval from the nation's
largest contingent of voters, sending to Washington a strong message of growing
impatience with Federal immigration policy.

At the same time, passage of the measure would probably bolster the chances of
Gov. Pete Wilson to win re-election in one of the most important state races in
the country this year, a race whose outcome almost certainly will have an impact
on the 1996 Presidential race.

Mr. Wilson supports passage of the proposition, fully embracing the argument
that economically pressed California must take drastic action to stem a costly
"invasion" of illegal aliens because the Federal Government either cannot or
will not.

"It's the two-by-four we need to make them take notice in Washington," he said
of the initiative. "We will finally force Washington to accept responsibility."

By contrast, his Democratic challenger, State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, opposes
the measure on the ground that it would make a bad problem worse and eventually
be declared unconstitutional.

"What we really need," she said, "is for the Federal Government to properly
police our border and enforce laws already on the books."

Like many of the proposition's opponents, Ms. Brown is especially concerned
about a section of the measure that would require parents of all schoolchildren,
including American citizens, to prove legal residence. She calls that approach
"invasive" and an affront to basic human rights.

No one disputes the far-reaching implications of the debate over Proposition
187.

"The fight over 187 is one with a lot of major legal, social and political
implications, whichever side you take," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform.

The federation, which favors passage, is one of the many national lobbying
groups that have jumped into the fray alongside state lobbying organizations.
Some groups are broadly concerned about immigration policy. Others are driven
more specifically by economic, educational, health, police and civil rights
concerns.

One main opponent of the ballot measure is a group called Taxpayers Against 187.

"Sure there's an immigration problem," said Joel Maliniak, the organization's
spokesman. "But the answer is to strictly patrol the border and strictly enforce
laws about hiring illegals, not throw kids out of school and their parents out
of health clinics. If the Federal Government concludes 187 impinges on people's
civil rights, the proposition will backfire because Washington will then cut off
the $15 billion in health and school aid that it sends to the state each year."

Even the Mexican Government has become involved in the debate, saying on
Wednesday in a sharply worded statement that it did not want to meddle in United
States politics but nevertheless felt that discussions surrounding the
proposition too often had "racist and xenophobic" overtones and unfairly blamed
Mexican citizens for American problems.

The statement, issued by the Ministry of Foreign Relations, warned that the
debate and its outcome could adversely affect "commercial and economic relations
between our country and the state of California in this post-North American Free
Trade Agreement phase."

Reliable figures on illegal immigration and its cost to Federal and state
agencies are difficult to come by because of the inherently shadowy nature of
the problem. But there is no real dispute that the hardest hit border state is
California.

Supporters of Proposition 187 estimate that, at a minimum, there are already 1.7
million undocumented aliens living in the state, with another 125,000 slipping
in annually because of the Federal Government's inadequate border patrolling.

They say California, in economic recession and already struggling to balance its
budget, will be forced to spend at least $2.4 billion this year on government
services for undocumented aliens, and they contend that the Federal Government
should not only strengthen border patrols but should also reimburse the state
for its spending on services.

Governor Wilson agrees, calling Federal immigration policy a "dismal failure."
And he has repeatedly demanded, thus far without success, that President Clinton
declare an "immigration emergency." He also has filed lawsuits aimed at forcing
Washington to act more aggressively on the problem.

Many of his campaign advertisements stress the immigration issue, ending with
scenes of aliens slipping across the border and an announcer intoning, "They
keep coming."

Ms. Brown said that the Wilson advertisements were "cheap, inflammatory
political scapegoating."

The United States Attorney General, Janet Reno, has come up with several plans
to boost border surveillance but argues there is no immigration emergency. She
has said that Mr. Wilson and the supporters of Proposition 187 are "caught up in
politics." Still, last weekend she made a personal visit to the state to
announce the latest increase in border patrols.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Hunt Them Down

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words


When a nation sets out to persecute a segment of its population, to hound them
down, mark them, deprive them of the human care it gives to others, tells them
they cannot work to earn their bread, that nation takes a large step toward
persecuting other groups who live within its borders. It follows as blood the
wound.

In dictatorships, the first persecution is carried out by command, in full
knowledge that other groups are on the list.

In democratic countries, the first persecution is usually the result of
generalized public anxiety and uncertainty, manipulated and deepened by
politicians who scavenge and batten on antagonism within society.

The antagonism becomes a political movement in itself, frightening into silence
politicians who are aware of the dangers of the acceptance of any persecution of
any group but willing to push that into the back of their minds.

All this is taking place in America -- the anxieties being directed against a
small slice of the population, the heightening by political propagandists, the
submission of the political center.

The target is the residents of the U.S. who have come to this country in search
of work or refuge without securing admission papers -- the 3.2 million people
called "illegal aliens" or "undocumented immigrants." Usage depends on whether
you despise them or can muster up some memory of America's debt to the
paperless.

Americans suffering from jumpy nerves about immigrants should demand that
Washington spend more billions of their tax money to make the borders tighter,
knowing total tight is impossible. And it is in democratic order for the
Government to use its legal powers to deport illegals.

But it is not in democratic order for politicians to spread falsehoods about the
the economic "burden" of immigrants, legal and illegal, to use clubs of fear to
drive out immigrants, or to saddle the country with immigrant-hunting computer
banks and work licenses that will cut away at every American's liberty.

Immigration, legal and illegal figured in, adds up to an economic boon to
America. The estimate of the Urban Institute in Washington is that they
contribute $25 to $30 billion more money in taxes and jobs than social benefits
paid out.

Benefits. On the West Coast, there is lots of political noise about removing
them from illegals, to drive them out. Mean-spirited referendum items may pass
but they will bring little economic benefit. The truth is that the dreaded
benefit-swilling illegals now receive little more than the schooling for
children upheld by the Supreme Court and emergency medical help.

And now, an immigration "reform" commission appointed by the Clinton
Administration calls for a nationwide computer bank that would grant or withhold
the permission to work. Every job applicant, immigrant, naturalized or
native-born, would have to be computer-cleared as a legal resident of the U.S.
fit for a work license.

Lovely. Tomorrow, the Government could ask the computer to hunt down every
person who broke a law, had a bad credit rating or ever had a contagious disease
to see whether he should be permitted to work. Will Americans really stand for
this?

While we think it over, the "anti-illegals" crowd is moving against its next
target: immigration itself, the concept of America as a haven for refugees and a
place of economic hope for some of those who stupidly failed to be born in
America.

The anti's are so strong that many Republican and Democratic politicians who are
opposed to them just keep quiet. As antidote, I give you two quotations.

One is from Mario Cuomo, Governor of New York. "I love immigrants," he said.
"Legal, illegal -- they are not to be despised."

And this is from New York City's Mayor, Rudolph Giuliani.

"If you come here and you work hard and you happen to be in an undocumented
status, you are one of the people who we want in this city. You are somebody
that we want to protect and we want you to get out from under what is often the
life of being like a fugitive, which is really unfair."

One of them is a Democrat and the other Republican. But when it comes to
understanding America's roots and the dangers to them, you can't tell these
fellows apart -- my happy thought for the day.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 6, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New Border Defense Stems Volume of Illegal Crossings

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section D;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 5


He said that his name was Miguel and that he was very tired and discouraged.

For three nights in a row, he explained, he tried to slip into this country from
Mexico and for three nights in a row he was caught.

What was once something of an after-dark lark for illegal aliens, he lamented,
had turned into an ordeal because of a new effort by the "Yanquis" to seal the
porous San Diego section of the international boundary.

Dubbed Operation Gatekeeper, the new Border Patrol defense is an intricate, $25
million, quasi-military combination of fencing, high-intensity lights,
additional manpower and increased use of high-tech radios, night-vision devices
and motion detectors.

Begun last weekend, it has increased the number of apprehensions each night by
30 percent to 200 percent. Border Patrol officials say that more figures need to
be compiled and studied to determine exactly what the operation has
accomplished, but that they are notably upbeat after the initial figures.

"Something is happening out there," said William Pink, the agent in charge of
the six-mile-long stretch of border that runs from Interstate 5 to the Pacific
and traditionally has been the most troublesome border stretch anywhere in the
United States.

For one thing, it has given pause to many people like Miguel.

"I will not try again," Miguel said wearily as a Border Patrol agent led him off
for processing and yet another forced return to the poverty of Mexico.

Maybe.

The lure of jobs and dollars to the north in places like Los Angeles, Denver and
Chicago is powerful. Year in and year out, hundreds of thousands of Mexicans and
other Latin Americans -- nobody really knows how many -- try their luck at a
nocturnal border crossing, an estimated 50 percent of them in California.

There is no guarantee they will stop now or that Operation Gatekeeper, in part a
response by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to rising political
criticism of its border patrol efforts and over-all management, will succeed.
Other clamp-downs have failed, victims of indifferent follow-through and the
persistent probing for weakness that begins each day at dusk from the shore of
the Pacific to the shore of the Gulf of Mexico, 2,000 miles away.

California officials, especially Gov. Pete Wilson, not only continue to complain
about the lack of enforcement in their state, despite Gatekeeper's early
success, but are also pushing a far-reaching voter referendum, Proposition 187,
that would try to stanch the flow of aliens by denying them most government
services, including schooling and nonemergency medical aid.

Polls indicate the proposition will easily win in November and possibly be a big
political help to Mr. Wilson, a Republican who is in a tough re-election fight.

Mr. Wilson has repeatedly accused President Clinton and Democrats in general of
not pouring enough money and manpower into what he contends is an immigration
state of emergency. He has also charged that his Democratic opponent, State
Treasurer Kathleen Brown, has no understanding of the immigration crisis and the
huge amounts it is costing California taxpayers.

Ms. Brown has responded that the Governor views the immigration problem
simplistically and even inhumanely, and Attorney General Janet Reno has accused
him of trying to use the issue for political gain.

Operation Gatekeeper has resulted not just from political pressure. Another
factor is a rare success enjoyed by the Border Patrol earlier this year on the
Texas border.

There, at El Paso, a big push with new agents and patrols resulted in a 70
percent decline in illegal crossings, leading immigration officials here to take
heart in their long struggle and come up with their own plan.

On the first night of Gatekeeper, Agent Pink reported, there were 825
apprehensions, compared with 259 on the same Saturday night in 1993. On Sunday,
there were 725 apprehensions, compared with 528 the previous year, while on
Monday there were 638 apprehensions, compared with 501 last year. Tuesday night
produced 534 apprehensions, compared with 379 for the same night a year earlier.

While something may well be happening to turn around the flood of illegal
immigrants, a man named Alfredo, who like Miguel refused to give his last name,
says he is not impressed.

"Sooner or later, I'll find their weak point and I'll slip across," he said
cockily, sitting astride the top of the forbidding new solid-steel fence that
now defines the border here.

Out there in the darkness, he knew, were fresh teams of agents, newly equipped
with radios, all-terrain vehicles, night-vision devices and motion detectors.
There were even agents riding horses and dirt bikes.

Told that in all there were 200 new agents, bringing the San Diego area patrol
force to 1,100, and that 300 more would be added over the next few months,
Alfredo shrugged. He shrugged again when he learned that they had 520 new radios
and 225 new patrol vehicles.

"They still won't be able to stop me," he said, keeping a wary eye on a Border
Patrol truck parked on a distant hill. "Maybe I'll wait a day or two."

The most tangible evidence of Gatekeeper is the forbidding 12-foot-high
solid-steel fence, starkly reminiscent of the Berlin Wall in looks if not in
intent. It runs six miles up and down the rocky desert hills of the
international boundary from the Pacific to where Interstate 5 crosses into
Mexico.

On the west, marshy flats rise sharply into steep hill country, covered with
rocks and scrub brush and riven by canyons and gullies. Farther east the terrain
begins to flatten out, with sparsely populated areas, subdivisions and
commercial buildings.

Throughout the area encompassed by Operation Gatekeeper, engineers have cut new
roads and trails, enabling Border Patrol agents to move quickly to the high
hills or down into deep ravines to track down illegal aliens.

Banks of high-intensity lights illuminate the fence and the first quarter of a
mile of the United States stretching back from the border toward the outskirts
of San Diego.

Behind that lit-up strip, three lines of Border Patrol agents are arrayed , not
the usual thin single line found along most of the Mexico-United States border.

"It used to be that we were forever on the defense," said Gustavo de la Vina,
the Border Patrol chief in San Diego and the new Western Region commissioner of
the immigration service. "But now we've taken the offensive. I think we finally
have come up with the formula for success. We've got agents in depth, and that
means that if they break through our first line, or even our second line, we
still have a good chance to get them before they can slip out of the brush and
get lost on crowded city streets."

Like California officials, Mexican officials have not exactly raced to embrace
Operation Gatekeeper.

Just as some complained last week about the potential harshness of the
California proposal to deny illegal aliens essential government services, so
some are now warning that they have begun to receive reports that some border
agents involved in Gatekeeper are roughing up apprehended aliens.

Border Patrol officials deny that.

"We have our view of enforcement, and they have theirs," Mr. de la Vina said.
"The tighter we make the American border, the more the potential for things to
get tight down in Mexico."

In the opinion of Alfredo, literally poised on the fence about whether to head
north or remain south, things already are tight.

"I don't have enough money to buy clothes," he said, tugging at his torn shirt.
"I work the fields in Mexico for $10 a day. In the U.S., you can make $10 an
hour on a construction job."

He turned to study the Border Patrol truck, still parked on the distant hill.

The agent at the wheel stared back, studying the great steel fence and the
dozens of Alfredos astride it for as far as the eye could see.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brighter lights and better roads have been deployed along the
Mexican border near Imperial Beach, Calif. The area shown is known as Smugglers'
Canyon and was a popular route for illegal immigrants. (Jim Wilson/The New York
Times)

Diagram: "HOW IT WORKS: Three Lines of Defense to Stop Illegal Aliens"

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has added more than 200 new agents
and poured money into new vehicles, boats and technology to try to close off a
porous six-mile stretch of the United States-Mexico Border in San Diego. The
service has divided the area into three defense zones, to try to stop illegal
immigrants bevore they disappear into urban areas just north of the border.
Diagram illustrates how the six-mile improved border works.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 13, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Campaign Briefs;
Hispanic Voters Split On California Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B;  Page 12;  Column 2;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 12


Like most Hispanic residents of California, Carmen Blas is a descendant of
Mexicans. And when she registered to vote recently, she had only one thing on
her mind: voting against a ballot initiative that would deny many state services
to illegal immigrants.

"They're looking for ways to tear down the Hispanic community and bring us
down," said Ms. Blas, a native of Tijuana who lives legally in the United
States, working for the Government and rearing two sons.

But Hispanic voters find themselves on both sides of the ballot question,
Proposition 187, which would require school, hospital and social workers to turn
in illegal immigrants, a provision that has added to the measure's standing as a
hot political issue.

Like Ms. Blas, many Hispanic Californians believe that Mexicans have a right to
live here and fill jobs that Americans do not want. But others, worried that
newer migrants are undercutting their own economic future, say tougher steps are
needed to curb illegal immigration.

Polls show that support for the initiative cuts across all ethnic lines. A
recent Field Poll showed that black and Asian-American voters supported it 53
percent to 37 percent. And a Los Angeles Times poll found that Hispanic
residents favored it 52 percent to 42 percent.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 14, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Clinic 'Shell Game' Is a Winner

SECTION: Section A;  Page 34;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 379 words


Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's plan to turn over 45 New York City health clinics to
the Health and Hospitals Corporation has been labeled a budgetary shell game by
some critics and an assault on children's health by others. The first criticism
appears true; the city wants to transfer health workers off the city budget in
order to create the appearance of deep personnel cuts. But the plan also makes
good health-care sense.

Merging city clinics with those the H.H.C. already runs is a smart way to bring
quality health care within easy reach of the city's poor. City clinics focus on
immunization and other children's preventive services. H.H.C. clinics provide
comprehensive primary care for the entire family. In some neighborhoods, city
and H.H.C. clinics are near each other and underutilized. A merger would cut the
waste. The merger allows the H.H.C. to do what the city cannot: create a network
of primary-care clinics throughout the city that are backed up by hospital
facilities for patients who need specialists.

Critics charge that the H.H.C. will not serve children well. But H.H.C.
facilities already handle over one million child visits a year. Another fear is
that the merger will harm illegal immigrants. But the H.H.C. routinely treats
illegal immigrants, and every other patient, regardless of money. City clinics
do not yet ask patients about Medicaid status before treatment, as the H.H.C.
does. But city health officials say it was only a matter of time before the
city, for fiscal and legal reasons, would have adopted the H.H.C. procedures.

Fear that the merger will trigger budget or service cuts seems exaggerated. The
H.H.C. would enter into contracts with the city and state requiring the clinics
to provide all current services for at least a year and a half. Besides, city
clinics would almost certainly have been subjected to budget cuts had they
remained under the strapped city budget.  The H.H.C. has done a better job than
the city of raising revenue for clinics by squeezing reimbursement out of
Medicaid and private insurers.

The H.H.C. plans to position clinics, linked to its hospitals, within easy reach
of most New Yorkers.  The proposed merger would, then, add to health-care
options in the city and subtract nothing.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 15, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Let's Look Closer at Border Control Numbers

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 256 words


To the Editor:

You report on a crackdown on illegal crossings at the United States-Mexico
border in an Oct. 6 news article. Gustavo de la Vina, Border Patrol chief in San
Diego and the new Western Region commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, tells you that Operation Gatekeeper is a great success
based on daily apprehensions.

According to the article, the Border Patrol reports that there were 825
apprehensions on the first night of the operation, a Saturday, compared with 259
on the same Saturday last year; 725 on the second night, compared with 528 in
1993, and 638 on the third night, compared with 501 a year earlier.

I have the statistics for apprehensions in the San Diego sector for 1993,
released by Mr. de la Vina in the Border Patrol's official report. This report
states that total apprehensions for 1993 were 531,689. That is an average of
1,456 a day. The daily tabulations report no fewer than 1,000 for any day.

The Border Patrol's claim of 825 apprehensions for the first day of Operation
Gatekeeper is 631 less than the average daily apprehensions the agency reported
for 1993.

Officials at the immigration agency often manipulate figures. Apparently, it
depends on whether they are lobbying for more funds, armor and personnel, or
claiming a victory for the latest escalation in the militarization of the United
States-Mexico border.
DONALD W. MC EVOY
Del Mar, Calif., Oct. 12, 1994
The writer is a volunteer with the border project of the American Friends
Service Committee.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 16, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Economy, Crime and Immigration Dominate First Debate in Governor's Race

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 15


Gov. Pete Wilson and State Treasurer Kathleen Brown finally met face to face in
a televised political debate on Friday night, with sharp, occasionally emotional
exchanges over crime, illegal immigration and California's struggling economy.

But neither emerged a clear winner from the largely low-key hourlong
confrontation, held in Sacramento and broadcast on statewide public television.
As a result, Ms. Brown still faces an uphill struggle to overcome Mr. Wilson's
lead of more than 10 points in what many political analysts say is one of the
most important governor's races in the country this year.

The Governor, a 61-year-old Republican who was behind more than 20 points when
he started his re-election bid but has since made a remarkable recovery,
doggedly repeated the theme that has been the mainstay of his campaign: his
"courage" to be relentlessly tough on crime and illegal immigration.

"Kathleen," he said at one point, breaking out of his normally soft monotone,
"you lack the courage."

Ms. Brown, a 49-year-old Democrat, focused on the theme of her campaign, the
struggling economy and what she described as Mr. Wilson's failure to halt its
slide. She argued that she had a detailed plan for governing California, while
Mr. Wilson had only "a plan for re-election."

Pollsters say that while Mr. Wilson is an unusually unpopular governor, Ms.
Brown's own standing has eroded because she has never fully convinced voters
that she has a solid vision for running the state. Thus her concentration
through most of the evening on her "plan" -- except when the Governor questioned
her "courage."

Then she switched tack and lashed back in the emotional high point of the night.

Her smile was replaced by a hard glare, and she asserted that she understood the
need to be tough on crime because her own children had been crime victims, one
in a date rape, one in a robbery.

"You know, Pete," she said, "you've misrepresented my positions on crime
throughout this campaign. But I have to tell you that what I resent most of all
is you questioning -- questioning -- my commitment to be tough on crime.

"You cannot imagine what it's like to be a mother waiting for your daughter to
come home in the evening and having her come home and comfort her because she's
been raped. Or your son call while I'm working to say, 'Come home because I've
been robbed.' "

She added, "So don't question my commitment."

Mr. Wilson, a political moderate on most issues, replied that he nevertheless
had to question Ms. Brown's commitment because she opposed the state's death
penalty while he favored it.

In fact, he argued, there is a long history in the Brown family of opposing the
death penalty and being too liberal on crime. Ms. Brown's father, Edmund G.
Brown Sr., and her brother, Edmund Jr., both served as governor, and both
opposed the death penalty.

Polls show that Californians rank crime and the huge influx of illegal
immigrants across the state's southern border among their top concerns, along
with the state's flagging economy. As the economy has begun to strengthen a bit
in the latter part of the campaign season, Mr. Wilson has benefited in
particular from his emphasis on the crime and immigration issues while Ms. Brown
has lost some ground on the economic issue.

To Ms. Brown's further despair, pollsters have also found that many voters
believe that a male governor can handle crime and immigration problems more
effectively than a female governor.

In trying to keep the economic issue alive, Ms. Brown returned again and again
to her "plan," saying she would balance the state's budget and get the economy
moving by cutting $5 billion in waste and using the savings to strengthen
education, transportation and other essential state services.

"It won't work," Mr. Wilson countered. "It's not a plan; it's a pamphlet."

He argued that he had already cut billions in waste from the state's budget and
that even more would be cut if voters passed a proposition he supports to deny
most social services to illegal immigrants. Ms. Brown, he contended, is as
"soft" on the immigration issue as on the crime issue.

Midway through the debate, which the Governor had tried to avoid once he became
the front-runner in the race, a question was posed that went directly to the
national import of the Wilson-Brown race. Would Mr. Wilson serve out a second
term should he win?

"Yes," he replied to the question.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 18, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Patrols Stopping More Aliens In Region East of San Diego

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 17


A new crackdown on illegal immigration along the coast here is pushing people
crossing the border into sparsely populated mountains, fields and industrial
lands in the rugged region east of the city.

The more intensive patrolling by the Border Patrol, which began on Oct. 1, is
concentrating on a stretch of the border, from the Pacific Ocean inland about
four miles, that has historically been used to cross the border illegally. But
arrests in that area have declined since an initial increase immediately after
the new operation began.

Now, arrests are up at other Border Patrol stations to the east of San Diego,
indicating that more migrants are trying to cross there.

The president of the Border Patrol's national union, T. J. Bonner, said it was
now much busier in the Campo station where he works, about 30 miles east of San
Diego.

Arrests there rose to 241 in the first 13 days of October from 96 in the same
period last year.

"Campo had been lucky to catch 100 in a month" before the stepped-up program
began, Mr. Bonner said. "And there's more traffic than that. We just don't have
the agents to stop it."

Because of the increase in crossings to the east, many agents were skeptical
about optimistic pronouncements by top officials on the new program, Mr. Bonner
said, citing a statement by a deputy attorney general who declared a few days
ago that the Southwest border was being brought under control.

"That's naive," Mr. Bonner said. "We are not stopping anything. As long as
people are drawn to the United States, they will get in. The factors driving
illegal immigration are social and political."

But Gustavo de la Vina, the new western regional director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said the apparent shift east exactly fit what the Border
Patrol expected.

The agency wants to push illegal immigrants into rural areas where agents and
motion sensors can better detect them.

"All I have to do is saturate the area with sensors," Mr. de la Vina said. "The
advantage is clearly in our favor."

In addition to more arrests in the California desert, arrests are also expected
to continue increasing in Arizona.

For example, the Tucson sector of the Border Patrol had a 51 percent increase
last year after more stringent measures were put into effect in San Diego and El
Paso.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 20, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: BALLOT ISSUES;
2 in G.O.P. Attack Alien Plan

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 25;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19


A California ballot measure that would bar illegal immigrants from receiving
most public services drew its first opposition from national Republican leaders
today as two conservatives, Jack F. Kemp and William J. Bennett, denounced it.

The two, both former Cabinet secretaries, issued a statement criticizing the
proposition as contrary to conservative principles and likely to encourage
discrimination.

"For some, immigrants have become a popular political and social scapegoat," the
statement said. "But concerns about illegal immigration should not give rise to
a series of fundamentally flawed, constitutionally questionable 'solutions,'
which are not consonant with our history."

Gov. Pete Wilson, also a Republican, has made support for the measure,
Proposition 187, a cornerstone of his re-election campaign against State
Treasurer Kathleen Brown.

At an appearance in Los Angeles, Mr. Wilson played down the comments by Mr. Kemp
and Mr. Bennett, saying they "are two guys in Washington, and it's clear they've
been there too long."

In a recent poll of likely voters statewide, a majority of respondents told The
Los Angeles Times that they supported the measure, which will be on the Nov. 8
ballot.

The measure would deny illegal aliens public schooling, welfare, non-emergency
health care and other public benefits. Federal law already prohibits access to
welfare.

Mr. Kemp was Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in the Bush
Administration, and Mr. Bennett Secretary of Education in the Reagan
Administration.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 25, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Indecent Proposition in California

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words


If the polls are right, a mean-spirited, impractical and probably
unconstitutional California ballot initiative is headed for easy victory Nov. 8.

Proposition 187 would deny public education, non-emergency medical care and
other state and locally funded benefits to illegal aliens. Gov. Pete Wilson has
made support for Proposition 187 a central theme of his re-election campaign.
The Republican senatorial challenger, Michael Huffington, also backs the
measure.

Mr. Wilson's Democratic challenger, Kathleen Brown, opposes it, as does Mr.
Huffington's opponent, Senator Dianne Feinstein, President Clinton and two
leading conservative Republicans, former Education Secretary William Bennett and
former Housing Secretary Jack Kemp.

Proposition 187, named "Save Our State" by its proponents, is based on the
premise that California's social services are the main magnet drawing illegal
immigrants across the border. Turning off that magnet, they argue, will deter
new arrivals.

But no matter how harsh benefit policies become, the lure of California's jobs
and wages are likely to keep attracting Mexicans, Central Americans and others
over the border and keep most of the 1.5 million illegal aliens now estimated to
be in the state from voluntarily returning home.

Interestingly enough, when he was a Senator in 1986, Mr. Wilson fought hard for
a provision in that year's immigration law that let hundreds of thousands of
aliens enter the U.S. for temporary farm harvest jobs. A fair number presumably
stayed on to become today's illegals.

Illegal aliens, by definition, have no legal right to be in the U.S. Failures in
Federal immigration policy and enforcement put a fiscal burden on the handful of
states where most of these people settle, like California and New York. This
burden is partly offset by the economic contributions alien workers make and
mitigated by the fact that illegal aliens cannot lawfully receive most welfare
benefits. But they are constitutionally entitled, according to a 1982 Supreme
Court decision, to a public education for their children, and they can now
receive medical treatment at publicly funded facilities.

These benefits cost state taxpayers money. But the right answer is not to throw
alien children and the ill onto the streets. It is to increase Federal aid to
compensate states for the consequences of Federal immigration policies. Yet
Senator Feinstein now warns that the punitive provisions of Proposition 187
could lead Washington to cut off as much as $15 billion in health and education
aid.

Politicians supporting Proposition 187 concede that portions of it may be
unconstitutional under current Supreme Court rulings. But they hope its passage
could trigger a court fight to overturn those rulings. Even if successful, that
legal fight could cost California taxpayers plenty.

Ms. Feinstein opposes Proposition 187 on pragmatic and financial grounds. Ms.
Brown opposes it on humanitarian principle. Mr. Bennett and Mr. Kemp cite
traditional conservative support for economic opportunity and opposition to Big
Brother intrusiveness.

Governor Wilson brushes off such criticisms and has effectively used the illegal
alien issue, which he links to fears about crime and jobs, to revive his
campaign. The polls, which once showed him more than 20 points behind, now have
him more than 10 points ahead. He is again being talked about as a 1996
Presidential contender.

Whatever his other merits, his handling of this issue should give pause to
conservatives and liberals alike.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 25, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Candidates Hedge Their Bets On an Immigration Measure

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 24


Amid signs that recent attacks by nationally prominent Republicans and Democrats
may have slowed the momentum of a ballot initiative on illegal immigrants,
candidates in California's much-watched gubernatorial and Senate races are
backing and filling to adjust their handling of the issue.

The initiative, Proposition 187, which would deny most education and health
benefits to illegal immigrants, still seems likely to be approved. But with both
Democratic and Republican strategists saying their private polls confirm a slip
in momentum for passage, bets are being hedged.

Candidates suddenly seem unsure just how hard to come down on either side of the
issue.

On Friday Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, forcefully declared her
opposition to the measure, saying her stand might cost her re-election in a race
regarded as a tossup. Her Republican opponent, Representative Michael Huffington
of Santa Barbara, had come out in support of the measure the previous day and
was quick to call her decision to oppose it politically "yellow."

But today, Mr. Huffington's campaign aides said there were no plans to make a
major issue of Ms. Feinstein's announcement.

"Proposition 187 is just part of the Huffington campaign," said Ken Kachigian,
one of the Congressman's top political strategists. "We don't plan any special
television ads or anything like that, at least not that we can see at this
point."

Mr. Huffington has spent more than $15 million on advertisements attacking Ms.
Feinstein, a record for a Congressional campaign.

For her part, Ms. Feinstein issued a statement today calling for new penalties
for those caught helping to smuggle people into the United States. The statement
did not mention Proposition 187.

"We said our piece, and we are not going to make a great deal of 187 from here
on out," said Kam Kuwata, Ms. Feinstein's campaign manager. "Our real theme is,
and has been, that Huffington is nothing but an empty suit."

In the gubernatorial race, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican whose re-election bid
has been based in large part on his support for the initiative, put two new 187
television advertisements on the air today. But they were notably softer in
their approach to illegal immigration.

Gone was the earlier, hard-edged refrain, "They keep coming!" In its place was
language used by opponents of 187: "There's a right way and there's a wrong
way."

Opponents of the proposition have conceded from the start that illegal
immigration is a major problem. But they have argued that cutting off aid to
undocumented aliens would be the wrong approach; they suggest stepping up border
patrols and enforcing existing immigration laws.

Governor Wilson's campaign manager, George Gorton, said today that the new
immigration advertisements were "part of a continuing effort on our part to make
the distinction between those who play by the rules to immigrate legally and
those who don't."

The opponents of the proposition offered a different analysis.

"Pete Wilson and others who support 187 went out on a limb, and now they hear
the sound of sawing," said Joel R. Maliniak, a spokesman for Taxpayers Against
187, the largest group working against the initiative.

Mr. Maliniak said polls done for Taxpayers Against 187 indicated that the
initiative was losing a point or two of support every few days. He said a poll
completed over the weekend had the pro-187 forces ahead by fewer than five
percentage points.

The most recent independent polls, now more than two weeks old, had the pro-187
forces ahead by more than 25 points. Since they were taken, however, there has
been a drumbeat of announcements of opposition to the initiative. Many of those
have come from national political figures from both major parties, including
President Clinton and Jack Kemp, a former Housing Secretary and leading
Republican.

Governor Wilson's Democratic opponent, State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, has
welcomed the voices of disapproval, saying they bolster her longstanding
position against the measure. But she, too, made little today of 187 while
campaigning.

One of the Governor's close advisers, speaking on condition that he not be
quoted by name, said that trouble for Proposition 187 was "trouble for
Republican candidates, too."

"If the drop is significant," the adviser said, "then it puts a guy like
Huffington in a real bind. He's lost momentum, too, recently, and now he's got
to come up with a new wedge issue."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 27, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Administration Moves Against Tax Credit

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 13;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26


Mindful of next month's elections, in which immigration has been a hot issue in
California and other states, the Clinton Administration took a stand today
against illegal aliens' collecting a widely used tax credit that is intended to
benefit working poor people but has been a major instrument of fraud.

In making the move, the Administration appeared to depart from a long-standing
Government policy that makes illegal aliens eligible for benefits in the tax
laws, since they are also subject to its burdens.

Indeed, it appeared that Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen's statement today that
the department would "develop measures" by early 1995 to deny the benefit, the
earned-income tax credit, to illegal aliens indicated that Treasury lawyers
believe that it would require Congressional action. Thus the ban would not take
effect before the 1996 filing season.

The tax-credit move was announced along with other measures intended to cut down
on tax frauds. Since such restrictions have long been contemplated, the timing
of the announcement suggested an effort to score points for Democrats just
before Election Day. Illegal immigration has become a major issue in some
important states with close races, including Florida and California.

The earned-income tax credit, which is generally supported by politicians from
both parties, is intended to be a way for people to lift themselves out of
poverty by choosing work over welfare. Although it has been in place since 1975,
it has been made considerably more generous in recent years and is now claimed
on about 15 million returns a year.

Although there is no way of knowing the extent of fraud by illegal aliens, many
apparently make legitimate claims, said Stephen A. Saltzburg, a law professor at
George Washington University and director of a task force on tax fraud appointed
by Mr. Bentsen last spring. Some attach notes to returns contending that they
are eligible even though they must use a fictitious Social Security number
because they cannot obtain one legally.

Mr. Bentsen said that more than 150,000 illegal aliens claimed the earned-income
credit on their 1993 returns and that barring them was necessary because there
was currently no way to verify the existence of children they claim.

The other restrictions announced today involved refunds to taxpayers who file
their returns by computer. The Internal Revenue Service said it would stop
notifying these taxpayers of their refunds before the refunds are issued. This
move is intended to prevent people from using the notification of an expected
refund as collateral in obtaining a bank loan.

Lawrence B. Gibbs, a Washington lawyer and former I.R.S. commissioner who
represents the Electronic Filing Coalition of America, said low-income people,
many without bank accounts, accounted for the bulk of the 13.5 million
electronically filed returns last year.

Mr. Gibbs said that if the I.R.S. stops confirming for banks taxpayers'
anticipated returns -- a confirmation officially known as the direct deposit
indicator -- lenders would probably respond by limiting loans to those with
better credit or by raising fees.

The two actions are related, since many fraudulent claims of the earned income
tax credit are made by people who also take advantage of loans that accept their
anticipated returns as collateral. The loans allow them to get the money for
their fraudulent returns before the fraud can be detected by the I.R.S., tax
officials said.

The task force headed by Mr. Saltzburg estimated early this month that such
fraud was costing the Treasury as much as $5 billion a year.

The earned-income credit, which can bring a household cash payments of more than
$2,500 a year, "is not for cheats and frauds and slick operators," Mr. Bentsen
said in briefing reporters on the new measures. "We're going to do our best to
weed them and prosecute them."

The action ending the notification of refunds, which takes effect in the
upcoming filing season, came as "a real shock," Mr. Gibbs said.

"The people who are least able to afford it are the people who are going to get
penalized," said Mr. Gibbs, whose industry group is composed of preparers like
H.& R. Block, companies that file returns electronically and four banks that
specialize in loans based on taxpayers' anticipated returns -- Bank One of
Columbus, Ohio; Beneficial National Bank of Wilmington, Del.; Mellon Bank of
Pittsburgh, and Greenwood Trust, a division of Dean Witter.

Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman
of the Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs has long criticized the loans as too
expensive. Because the loan term is only for a few weeks, fees often amount to a
100 percent or even 200 percent annual interest rate.

Supporters of such loans argue that annualizing the interest rate misses the
point because the term is so short.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 27, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Huffington Admits Hiring Illegal Alien

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 27


Representative Michael Huffington, a candidate for the United States Senate who
favors stronger measures to stop illegal immigration, said today that he had
employed an undocumented alien at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif., until last
year.

Officials of the Huffington campaign acknowledged that the immigrant, a woman,
worked for five years for the Republican candidate and his wife as a nanny,
taking care of their two young daughters.

They also said that the couple did not pay the required payroll taxes for the
woman for the first two years she worked for them. The admissions came in
response to an article in today's Los Angeles Times.

Federal law requires employers -- even those who employ people for part-time
domestic work -- to verify that their workers are in the country legally before
hiring them, and provides for fines for violations.

Mr. Huffington and his Democratic opponent, Senator Dianne Feinstein, have tried
to position themselves as tough on immigration, and last week, Mr. Huffington
announced his support of Proposition 187, a popular initiative aimed at curbing
illegal immigration by denying most education and health benefits to illegal
aliens. Ms. Feinstein came out against the measure, saying that her stand could
cost her the race.

The proposition has become one of the most hotly debated issues in the election
and one that has drawn national attention.

A Huffington campaign official who spoke on condition of anonymity said the the
couple hired the nanny after their first daughter was born, and learned later
that she was in the country illegally. In 1990, the official said, they began
the process of attempting to obtain a green card for the woman, to allow her to
live and work in the United States legally, and they began to pay her taxes.

The process of making the nanny's status legal had not been completed, the
official said, when the Huffingtons moved to Washington last year after Mr.
Huffington was elected to Congress.

The official would not say what country the nanny was from, but said she is
still in the United States.

The question of hiring illegal aliens led President Clinton to withdraw two of
his nominees for Attorney General, Zoe Baird, a corporate lawyer who had failed
to pay Social Security taxes for illegal Peruvian household workers, and Judge
Kimba M. Wood of Federal District Court in New York, who had hired an illegal
alien as a babbysitter.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 28, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Florida to Try Early Deportation

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 25;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 27


Some illegal immigrants suspected of crimes in Florida may now be deported even
before they go to trial under a pilot program announced here today by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the state.

Under the three-month program, immigrants accused of misdemeanors and nonviolent
felonies for which they would have served little or no prison time could avoid
trial by agreeing to be deported, said Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of
the immigration service. Immigrants accepting the arrangement would have to
agree not to return to the United States.

Earlier this year, under an agreement with the Federal Government, Florida
became the first state to pull immigrants who had been convicted of crimes out
of prison and deport them. So far this year, 165 inmates have been sent to their
home countries, said Gov. Lawton Chiles, who was on hand for the announcement.

The United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, Kendall Coffey,
estimated that thousands of people would be deported under the program. Cubans,
however, would be exempt because the diplomatic ties allowing such deportations
do not exist.

Governor Chiles said deportations had saved Florida $5 million this year and
were freeing prison beds for inmates charged with more serious crimes. "It will
help us account for the impact that illegal immigration has on our criminal
justice system," said Mr. Chiles, a Democrat who is running for re-election in a
tight race in which crime and immigration are top issues.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 28, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: IMMIGRATION;
Reno Attacks Proposal on Aliens, and Aide Questions Its Legality

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 27;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 27


Attorney General Janet Reno said today that she opposed a bitterly debated
California ballot measure that would deny illegal immigrants educational and
other social services, and one of her chief legal advisers said the proposal was
open to constitutional challenge.

That adviser, Walter Dellinger, head of the Justice Department's Office of Legal
Counsel, reported to Ms. Reno in a memorandum that one of the measure's major
provisions, which would deny illegal aliens access to public education, was in
most respects "indistinguishable" from a Texas law struck down by the United
States Supreme Court in 1982.

The law, which barred the children of illegal immigrants from receiving a free
public education, was invalidated by the Court's 5-to-4 decision in Plyler v.
Doe.

The Office of Legal Counsel's views on whether there are constitutional flaws in
the California measure, Proposition 187, do not immediately affect its legal
status or prevent it from becoming law if the state's voters approve it.

But the judgment of the Attorney General and her legal adviser could have a
political impact on California voters. Opinion polls indicate that the ballot
measure will probably be approved but that its support is slipping.

In taking sides on the measure at her weekly news conference today, Ms. Reno
plunged into one of the most incendiary issues of the political season and put
at risk the historical role of the Attorney General as a legal officer who
steers clear of partisan electoral politics.

Ms. Reno has been criticized for taking sides in other disputes, and after the
news conference her aides sought to minimize the significance of her remarks.
They said she had been expressing her own opinion and was not directing the
Justice Department to prepare a formal opinion on the validity of the ballot
measure.

Carl Stern, her chief spokesman, said the Attorney General had merely asked for
a memorandum from the legal counsel's office and had discussed the ballot
measure with Deval Patrick, head of the civil rights division, who is assembling
the views of both offices for Ms. Reno.

The Supreme Court decision striking down the Texas law that Mr. Dellinger found
similar to the California measure focused on the Constitution's guarantees of
equal protection and emphasized too that the children of illegal aliens were not
responsible for their own illegal status. "The Court said the children of
illegal aliens could not be treated differently than children of people here
legally," said Susan Low Bloch, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center.

In addition to barring illegal immigrants from public schools, non-emergency
health care and other social services, the California measure would require
school administrators and health and social service workers to question people
whose residency status they suspected and report to the authorities those who
appeared be in the state illegally.

Addressing this provision at her news conference, the Attorney General said: "It
doesn't make sense to turn schoolteachers and nurses into Border Patrol agents.
It doesn't make sense to kick kids out of school or not to give them
immunizations."

Ms. Reno had avoided taking sides until today, although President Clinton, Vice
President Al Gore and Doris Meisner, the Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, had all spoken out against the measure.

Other Cabinet officers have also avoided taking a position. Today one of them,
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, brushed aside a question about his views on
the proposal, suggesting that to offer an opinion would be improper. "I don't
live in California," he said.

The partisan battle over Proposition 187 has become the most heated of the
election season in California.  Two Republican candidates, Gov. Pete Wilson, who
is seeking re-election, and Representative Michael Huffington, who is running
for the Senate, favor the measure. Their Democratic opponents, Kathleen Brown
and Senator Dianne Feinstein, respectively, are against it.

In recent months, Ms. Reno has traveled to California to promote the Clinton
Administration's program for curbing illegal immigration and has engaged in a
testy correspondence with Mr. Wilson, who has complained of ineffective efforts
by the Administration.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 28, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
California G.O.P. Candidate Admits Hiring Illegal Alien

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 27


Confronted with a disclosure that for five years his family had employed an
undocumented alien as a nanny, Representative Michael Huffington scrambled today
to salvage a once-soaring political campaign that had been based in good part on
a call for stricter immigration controls.

The Republican from Santa Barbara, who has spent almost $20 million of his oil
fortune in an effort to unseat Senator Dianne Feinstein, faced the most daunting
obstacle yet in his costly quest: a contradiction between talk and action on
illegal immigration, the hottest political issue in California this fall.

"We have made a mistake, no question about it," Mr. Huffington conceded during a
news conference this afternoon in Santa Barbara with his wife, Arianna.

"But who among us hasn't?" he asked. "Including my opponent. We are all human."

He said that the nanny, identified only as Marisela, was hired by his wife in
the late 1980's and that at the time she had not disclosed that she was
undocumented. She stopped working for his family when he moved to Washington two
years ago but long before that, he conceded, the family had discovered that she
was undocumented.

"I should have put my foot down, ignored the pleas of my wife and children," he
said when asked why he did not dismiss the nanny upon learning that she hand no
work papers. His inaction, he went on, stemmed from the fact that the family,
particularly the children, loved the nanny "like a member of the family."

Mr. Huffington, at times grimacing, said he took full responsibility for the
legal lapse. He added that although he had broken a 1986 Federal law that made
it illegal to employ illegal aliens, the family had tried to get a work permit
for the woman and had begun paying her taxes.

Ms. Huffington, emotion creasing her face, too, said, "The only phone number my
5-year-old knows by heart is Marisela's."

A week ago, Mr. Huffington announced his support for Proposition 187, the
much-disputed citizen initiative on California's fall ballot that would impose
new strictures on undocumented aliens. Senator Feinstein announced her
opposition a day later.

In his announcement, Mr. Huffington cited a failure of will on the part of
political leaders on the enforcement of immigration laws, which require
employers to check credentials of new workers. He said:

"We have cut corners, looked the other way and sent the wrong message -- that
breaking the law pays, that only fools go through the proper immigration
channels. Well, no more, I believe Proposition 187 will finally draw a line
between illegal immigration, which is harmful and divisive, and legal
immigration, which is beneficial to the nation and to California."

The initiative, which would deny most government services, including schooling
and nonemergency health care, to undocumented aliens has strong support in the
polls. But two new polls out today found that support had been slipping ever
since debate over possible unconstitutionality of the measure was taken up by
national political figures concerned about illegal immigration, among them
President Clinton.

One poll, by The Los Angeles Times, found the initiative's lead down to 10
points, compared with a 26-point lead two weeks ago. The other survey, by the
Field Poll of San Francisco, gave the measure a 14-point lead, down from a
37-point lead in July.

In his initial attempt, on Wednesday, to fend off the disclosure about the
maid's hiring, Mr. Huffington told reporters in San Diego that he did not know
of any hiring problem within his family.

Later, on Wednesday night, confronted with an article from The Los Angeles Times
that was headlined "Illegal Immigrant Worked 5 Years at Huffington Home," he
acknowledged that in fact an undocumented maid had been hired, but by his wife,
Arianna, not by him.

Then Mr. Huffington accused Senator Feinstein of hiring illegal workers. Today,
in response to a reporter's question, Mr. Huffington said that his campaign had
only heard that Ms. Feinstein had employed two women named Marta and Rita. Aides
later said they could not elaborate.

In a news conference in San Francisco this morning, Ms. Feinstein flatly denied
Mr. Huffington's assertion and countered that "what Mr. Huffington has done all
along is not really tell the truth about me, about my record, about what I've
tried to do."

"I have never hired anyone undocumented or illegal," said the Senator, who
favors more controls on illegal immigration but opposes Proposition 187 on the
ground that it is unconstitutional.

She added that she made a specific check in early 1993 to make sure of that
after several Clinton Administration nominees for top Government posts withdrew
their names from consideration because of disclosures that they had employed
undocumented workers.

Ms. Feinstein said the disclosure about the Huffington family maid had offered
the Congressman an opportunity to demonstrate to voters that he would always
tell the truth. But he threw away the opportunity, she asserted.

"I think the people of California," she added, "have to make that decision on
whether they can trust someone who is saying one thing and doing another. I
think the people on Election Day should drop him out."

In recent polls, Ms. Feinstein has had a slight edge over Mr. Huffington. Her
campaign manager, Kam Kuwata, said today that he expected the race to remain
very tight right up to Election Day, in part because of the impact of
Proposition 187 on the election.

"A lot of people are going to vote because of how they view 187," Mr. Kuwata
predicted.

Polls also indicate that the proposition is a factor in the California
Governor's race, the state's other big political contest this fall. In another
Los Angeles Times survey released today, many voters said their preference for
either Governor Pete Wilson or his Democratic challenger, State Treasurer
Kathleen Brown, ultimately would depend in part on what stand was taken on
Proposition 187.

Mr. Wilson, who strongly supports Proposition 187, was leading in the poll by 9
points, compared with a lead of 13 points in a Times poll released two weeks
ago. Ms. Brown opposes Proposition 187.

Since word of the nanny's hiring first began to spread on Wednesday, Mr.
Huffington has spent most of his time on damage control, trying to justify the
hiring with his strong support for Proposition 187.

Much of his day today was given over to adjusting and readjusting his schedule,
reworking his remarks and consulting constantly by phone with his staff in Costa
Mesa, which spent most of the day closeted in what one campaign worker described
as an emergency meeting.

What was originally billed as a "Huffington Victory" appearance late this
afternoon in Santa Barbara with the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, was
overshadowed by a news conference in which the Congressman offered yet another
explanation of how the maid came to be hired.

Mr. Kuwata, Ms. Feinstein's campaign manager, summarized Mr. Huffington's
predicament with a laugh today.

"This is a guy with his back up against the wall now," he said. "We're going to
peel him like an onion."


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Huffington, a Senate candidate, and his wife, Arianna,
in Santa Barbara, Calif., discussed their employment of an illegal immigrant.
(Associated Press) (pg. A27)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 29, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Public & Private;
Rewards in Freedom

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 19;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


When Guido Calabresi was sworn in as a judge in Connecticut on the 55th
anniversary of the day his family arrived in the United States, his speech
included this assessment of America: "Our tragic moments -- for which we are
still paying and will long pay -- are those times when our laws furthered
bigotry and discrimination."

The words of the immigrant boy, once dean of Yale Law School, now sitting on the
Second Circuit Court of Appeals, describe well Proposition 187, which
Californians will consider on Election Day.

The measure would attack the very real crisis the state faces because of its
enormous influx of illegal immigrants by denying them most government services,
including medical care and public schooling, systematically creating an
underclass of illiterate and unhealthy residents and turning doctors and
teachers into moles for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Proponents of the measure argue that this would dissuade Mexicans from swarming
over California borders. If they really believe that, they are blind to why
generation upon generation of the optimistic unwelcome have decided to adopt
America while America has derided them.

Our nation is a coast-to-coast contradiction, a country populated by a potpourri
of onetime outsiders that has nevertheless always harbored a deep-seated
xenophobia. "They keep coming," said one of Gov. Pete Wilson's re-election
commercials. Yep, and they always have. If they hadn't, half of me would be in
Italy, the other half in Ireland.

Governor Wilson says there is "a real sense of rage" about immigration. Surely
he must know that rage is as old as our history, as old as this 1830 ad from The
New York Evening Post: "Wanted -- a cook or chambermaid. She must be American
Scotch, Swiss or African -- no Irish."

When my Italian grandparents arrived in this country, their English was poor and
they poorer. Some of their daughter's most vivid memories of her childhood were
of being called "dago" and "guinea" by other children. Yet somehow their
descendants prospered, just as the grocery store Cuomos became the Governor's
mansion Cuomos, the hot-dog stand Iacoccas the Chrysler Corporation Iacoccas.

The word on today's new immigrants is that they are different, that they want
only to get on the American dole. The word on immigrants 100 years ago was that
they expected to survive through crime, everything from bootlegging to petty
thievery. The conclusion has never changed: the worst sort of people come here
for the worst sort of reasons and put upon those of us who have conveniently
forgotten where we came from and how we got here.

Unchanging, too, is the hypocrisy. The aristocracy of 19th-century Manhattan
derided the new arrivals but were happy to have them wash their linens, butcher
their beef, build their bridges. A decade ago Mr. Wilson, then a Senator,
insisted that any immigration reform act include a provision allowing hundreds
of thousands of immigrants into the country to harvest crops. It was a provision
that benefited California's growers -- and led to an enormous influx of
immigrants. Yet Mr. Wilson has made anti-immigrant fervor a centerpiece of his
campaign. His slogan might as well be "Pick our grapes, but don't dare eat 'em."

The Senate candidate Michael Huffington was forced to admit this week that for
five years his daughters were cared for by an illegal immigrant employed by his
family. "The only phone number my 5-year-old knows by heart is Marisela's," said
Mrs. Huffington plaintively. Yet her husband supports the proposition that the
woman who cared for his children should be barred from health care or schooling
for her own, as though politics were not about people, the Mariselas of the
world.

Proposition 187 is a simplistic answer to a complex problem. And it makes a
mockery of everything that has ever lured people to this country. Sure, they
came here to strike it rich. But many of them believed that America was in some
deeper sense a better place, a place that had elevated the dignity of man to a
governmental art form. "Rewards in freedom, first of all," was how Judge
Calabresi described it, "and in service and capacity to grow and do good."
Perhaps the only people still idealistic enough to believe that are those who
come in boats, on rafts, scrambling across our borders.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 29, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN:THE IMMIGRATION ISSUE;
California Students Leave School To Protest Alien Ballot Measure

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 9;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 28


More than 8,000 high school and junior high school students walked out of class
today across Southern California to protest the immigration measure that has
become this state's key election issue.

In one incident in San Diego, police had to intervene after about 200 students
in a group of 1,200 who were on break at Southwest Junior High School refused to
go back to class. In Los Angeles and its suburbs, more than 5,000 students
walked out of seven high schools, strolling in loose groups down surrounding
streets.

The measure on the Nov. 8 ballot, known as Proposition 187, would cut off
school, welfare and most health services to illegal immigrants and would require
school and health officials to turn in such immigrants.

In a related action today, the California National Guard alerted its commanders
to possible unrest during protests planned this weekend along the border,
between San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico.

"We are not putting soldiers in armories," said Lieut. Col. Bruce Roy, a
spokesman for the National Guard in Sacramento. "We are not going on alert. We
just want our commanders to be aware of the situation, to put fresh batteries in
their pagers, as it were."

Support for Proposition 187 has been falling, two recent polls show, but it is
still expected to pass.

In Los Angeles, police went on tactical alert today as a precaution because of
the student protests. About 2,600 students walked out of Chatsworth High School,
and 2,000 walked out of Monroe High School, both in the San Fernando Valley.
Several hundred students walked out of five other schools.

In Oxnard, north of Los Angeles, 1,500 to 2,000 students from 10 schools marched
to a park.

Two weeks ago, about 200 protesters showed up at the busy San Diego-Tijuana car
crossing point to protest Proposition 187, which they called racist, and to
demand a boycott of American companies.

On Saturday and Sunday, residents in eight Mexican border cities from California
to Texas plan similar protests.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 29, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE NANNY ISSUE;
Inquiry Starts On Candidate Who Hired Illegal Alien

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 9;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 28


The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun a preliminary
inquiry into whether Representative Michael Huffington violated Federal law when
he employed an illegal immigrant at his home in Santa Barbara for five years.

A spokeswoman for the immigration service, Virginia Kice, said today in Los
Angeles that the agency began looking into the matter after Mr. Huffington, a
Republican seeking a United States Senate seat, conceded at a news conference on
Thursday that a nanny who was in this country illegally worked at his home from
1989 until 1993.

"On the basis of that press conference, we have begun an investigation, which at
this point is basically information gathering," Ms. Kice said.

Under Federal law, anyone who hires an alien must first determine whether the
alien is a legal resident of the United States. A violation can bring a fine of
$250 to $2,000.

Mr. Huffington, who has vigorously called for stronger measures to control
illegal immigration, is in a neck-and-neck race with the incumbent, Senator
Dianne Feinstein. Mr. Huffington is a staunch supporter of Proposition 187, a
citizen initiative on California's Nov. 8 ballot to deny most government
services, including schooling and nonemergency health care, to undocumented
aliens. Ms. Feinstein is opposed.

This evening in a television interview, Mr. Huffington admitted that the nanny
was flown to Washington during his freshman term in Congress. At that time, Mr.
Huffington was the co-sponsor of a bill to outlaw the transportation of illegal
immigrants across state lines for purposes of employment, television station
KEYT in Santa Barbara said.

Jennifer Grossman, a spokeswoman for the Huffington campaign, said today that
the campaign had not been notified of the investigation and that the action
sounded like an effort by the Clinton Administration to help the Feinstein
campaign. But Ms. Grossman said the focus of any inquiry should be Mr.
Huffington's wife, Arianna, not the Congressman.

"Mrs. Huffington hired the nanny, and she was the one who always paid her," Ms.
Grossman said. As she had several times earlier, Ms. Feinstein denied an
assertion by Mr. Huffington that she once employed undocumented workers. Mr.
Huffington has said several times that he had received reports that the workers
were named Marta and Rita, but he has been unable to supply any further
information.

"There's never been a Marta or a Rita in my life and there's no truth to it,"
Senator Feinstein said.

Ms. Kice, the I.N.S. spokeswoman, said Ms. Feinstein was not the subject of an
investigation.

A poll published today by The Los Angeles Times showed the Feinstein-Huffington
contest had tightened over the last two weeks, with the Senator's lead dropping
to three points, from a previous edge of seven points. However, the poll was
taken before it became known that an illegal immigrant had worked in the
Huffington home.

The Times, the state's largest newspaper, also endorsed Ms. Feinstein today,
saying she had done a good job for the state and did not deserve "displacement
by a relative political unknown." The endorsement was the first made by the
paper in 18 years.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 30, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Caught!

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 14;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words


"This was not a case of cheap labor," Arianna Huffington told reporters. "This
is a case of a family falling in love with another human being . . ." Ms.
Huffington is, of course, the wife of California's Republican Senate candidate,
Michael Huffington, who has made getting tough with illegal aliens his battle
cry. The human being referred to is the family's former nanny -- herself an
illegal alien.

Seldom do politics offer up such sweet moments. The unmasking of monumental
hypocrisy is always a wonderful present to the public, and Mr. Huffington's
exposure for employing an illegal alien while making his name as an
alien-alarmist deserves some kind of award in the annals of campaign duplicity.

Proposition 187, the divisive ballot initiative designed to deprive illegal
immigrants in California of services and make enforcers out of health workers
and school officials, has been central to Mr. Huffington's campaign. It is a
dangerous piece of demagoguery, probably unconstitutional. Voters can now see
that the cruel ideas behind his rhetoric flitted so lightly through Mr.
Huffington's brain that he could not apply them to his own household.

This has been a year of political campaigns devoid of real content, driven by
tactics rather than any sense of elevating conviction. In the current crop of
empty candidacies, Mr. Huffington's has been the emptiest of the lot, grasping
at the immigration issue to fill a yawning void in thought.

California's voters have reason to relegate both Mr. Huffington and Proposition
187 to the obscurity they so richly -- and in Mr. Huffington's case, hilariously
-- deserve.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 30, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Feinstein Attacking Opponent for Illegal Nanny

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 29


Representative Michael Huffington struggled today with still another accusation
that he had aided and abetted illegal immigration, and Senator Dianne Feinstein,
his opponent in the Senate election, rushed to take advantage of his mounting
political adversity.

In the newest twist to his immigration problems, Mr. Huffington, a Republican,
acknowledged transporting an undocumented family nanny to Washington in April
1993. That was less than two months after he co-sponsored a House bill calling
for a five-year jail sentence for any employer who transported an illegal
immigrant for work purposes.

Mr. Huffington acknowledged the contradiction late Friday while talking to
reporters in Santa Barbara, his hometown. But he said he was "not at all"
bothered by it because the bill never became law.

Today, with the Feinstein campaign hammering Mr. Huffington's immigration
miscues with a major new advertising effort, his wife, Arianna, offered still
another perspective on the incident.

"The nanny really only flew out to Washington with us from Santa Barbara and
then right back to accompany a child," Mrs. Huffington said. "I know that,
because I run the house staff. I hire, and I pay. Michael has said he accepts
responsibility for all this, but he really has no legal responsibility. I'm the
one who runs the staff. I'm the one who should be castigated."

On Thursday, also in Santa Barbara, Mr. Huffington acknowledged an even more
serious occurrence: that the nanny was in the United States illegally when the
Huffington family hired her in 1989.

After that acknowledgement, the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service
began an inquiry into the nanny's employment.

The disclosures involving the nanny stem from investigative reporting by The Los
Angeles Times and have thrown Mr. Huffington's campaign into turmoil. He and Ms.
Feinstein have been locked in a neck-and-neck race for months, with Mr.
Huffington calling often and loudly for stronger immigration laws, the hottest
political issue in California this fall.

But many political analysts believe the nanny matter may just give the Senator
the edge she has been looking for. Certainly she is wasting no time going after
Mr. Huffington, and hard.

At a Democratic rally today in San Francisco at which she was joined by Hillary
Rodham Clinton, Ms. Feinstein accused Mr. Huffington of trying to use his
personal fortune to "buy" a Senate seat, adding, "I think it should be earned."

And continuing the hard line, one of her new ads begins: "Politician Michael
Huffington talks tough about illegal immigrants, but now Huffington admits that
for years he employed an illegal immigrant at his home. What else don't we
Californians know about Michael Huffington?"

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 30, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

In California, the Numbers Add Up to Anxiety

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 896 words


"ENOUGH is enough," said William King, executive vice president of Americans
Against Illegal Immigration, based in Southern California. Mr. King is a moving
force in putting an anti-illegal immigrant proposition on next week's statewide
ballot. "We're going broke in this state. It's just the enormity of the
situation." The schools, he complained, are now teaching in 96 different
languages. "It's insanity, it doesn't make sense and the average guy in this
country is not going to buy into it anymore."

Proposition 187, called "Save Our State," would deny social services like
schooling and non-emergency medical care to illegal immigrants. The visible
targets of the measure are the waves of undocumented workers, but it underscores
a growing discomfort with the number of newcomers.

Nowhere is this discomfort more keenly felt than in Los Angeles. The city has
become a giant jigsaw puzzle that no one knows how to put together anymore. Once
a laid-back expanse of pastel neighborhoods, its spirit exemplified by
skate-boarders and Christmas at the beach, Los Angeles is splitting into
separate and often clashing pieces. Of the estimated five million immigrants who
moved to California since 1970, two-thirds moved to the vast sprawl of the Los
Angeles basin.

In less than a generation, they remade what had been a bastion of predominantly
white Protestant migrants from the Midwest. Today one out of every four people
in Los Angeles County and the four counties that surround it is foreign-born.
One-fifth of America's immigrants call the area home.

This human influx left a legacy of social dislocations. In Pico Union,
Mexican-Americans compete for low-wage jobs with thousands of largely unskilled
refugees displaced by war in Central America. In Monterey Park, affluent
Taiwanese and Hong Kong Chinese began a building boom, rankling defenders of the
status quo, whose anxieties emerged in rancorous debates over foreign-language
signs. In South Central Los Angeles, the dense presence of Korean-owned liquor
stores in a predominantly black and Hispanic community set off an acrimonious
dispute about economic exploitation.

What changed these isolated conflicts into a general backlash against
immigration was four years of recession. After decades of boom, the California
economy has gone bust. While legal experts doubt the constitutionality of
Proposition 187, which cost millions to put on the ballot and will cost at least
as much to defend in court, it reflects a need to vent a growing anger, no
matter how expensive or futile the exercise. For some, the landscape has become
less and less familiar.

For more than 200 years, a time when Irish, Germans, Eastern Europeans and
Italians arrived by the millions, there have been sporadic instances of nativist
backlash, particularly at times of economic distress. But with assimilation,
these earlier immigrants became part of a different group: white America. The
latest migration is mostly Hispanic and Asian, and it has set in motion a
jittery dynamic of cultural misunderstanding and racial tension.

Mexicans represent the largest influx of immigrants over the last two decades.
Drawn by the lure of jobs in manufacturing, construction and the defense
industry, their numbers have grown to 2.5 million today from just 320,000 in Los
Angeles County in 1960. Mexican-Americans make up nearly 30 percent of the
county's population of 8.9 million. Mexicans -- 350,000 of them, by the
estimates of the Immigration and Naturalization service -- are also the largest
group of illegal immigrants.

Remaking the Mix

Asians and Central Americans, driven by war or economic opportunity, started
arriving in large numbers in the 1970's. Today immigrants from Mexico and El
Salvador make up more than 56 percent of those who came to the region between
1980 and 1990. Japanese, Koreans, Chinese and Southeast Asians account for
another 17 percent.

Non-Hispanic whites, the descendants of the Irish and Germans and Eastern
Europeans, were 40 percent of the county's population in 1990. Together,
Hispanics and Asians totaled 48 percent. Slightly more than 10 percent were
black. And once-homogeneous neighborhoods had been transformed by new arrivals.

Regardless of how the ballot measure fares, both sides of the issue agree that
Proposition 187 is probably the first of many proposals that will be provoked by
the immigration issue.

A century ago, it took two decades of debate over the influx of Eastern
Europeans, Italians and Irish before Congress enacted laws curtailing
immigration. After World War II, the number of immigrants began to increase
steadily to the current levels.

The latest influx differs markedly from the first, which long ago transcended
the strident xenophobia and bigotry it provoked and is remembered in nostalgic
terms as a movement of great hope and vigor.

Kevin McCarthy, coordinator of California research for the Rand Corporation,
said that for all the current angst over immigration, history suggests that the
backlash will eventually recede as immigrants adapt and as society as a whole
changes through exposure to the newcomers.

"I am optimistic about these things," Mr. McCarthy said. "Time is the only
issue. All the evidence I see suggests that the kids and grandkids of these
immigrants will become indistinguishable from the rest of society."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Catholic church in Los Angeles's Koreatown serves Central
Americans. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); Children at a Los Angeles school in
Chinatown. (Alex Webb/Magnum)

Table: "Favored Destinations" lists the urban areas that saw the most immigrants
arrive between 1980 and 1990.


Map: "People Patterns: How Los Angelas Has Changed" shows a race and ethnicity
breakdown of Los Angelas and its suburbs.

Graphs: "Decades of Diversifying" shows racial breakdown for Los Angelas county.
"Mexican Immigrants: Two Waves, Two Portraits" shows Mexican immigration
statistics for Los Angelas.

(Data provided by Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge, Sociology Dept., Queens College from
the Census Bureau; Richard Lovelady; Sacramento Census Data Center)



                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 2, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

America Can't Afford More Huddled Masses;
Unworkable Proposal

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words



To the Editor:

"Indecent Proposition in California" (editorial, Oct. 25) cites many good
reasons for opposing the drive to bar illegal aliens from public services. But
your critique, focused like most others on policy issues, ignores the basic
point that this whole discriminatory proposal is unrealistic, and should be
rejected as unworkable.

It would not work because the administrators of hospitals, schools and other
social service agencies lack the means to identify specifically who is "illegal"
among all their clients.

Most of the suspected illegals can present legitimate-residence "documents" of
some kind, which they have borrowed from friends or bought from counterfeiters.
The social administrators have to accept these at face value -- just like the
business employers who are hiring illegal workers nominally proscribed under the
1986 immigration law.

To be sure, if we had a system of formal and secure identification cards --
including signature, photograph, fingerprints, Social Security number and
holographs as a kind of enlarged Social Security card -- the illegals could be
sorted out, and indeed quickly deported whenever they surfaced.

Furthermore, few would try to cross the border, or overstay a visa, in the face
of such a control.

But the American public at present seems too worried about some supposed
"invasion of privacy," and about the $2 billion to $3 billion cost of ID cards,
to adopt such a system that would really regulate immigration in a comprehensive
way.

EDWIN P. REUBENS
New York, Oct. 26, 1994
The writer is a professor emeritus of economics at City College, CUNY.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 2, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

America Can't Afford More Huddled Masses;
Enforce Current Laws

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 139 words



To the Editor:

What you said in "Indecent Proposition in California" (editorial, Oct. 25) is
one of the reasons there is such a proposition and that it's going to pass
overwhelmingly.

You acknowledge that there are illegal aliens in this country and then go on to
say they are constitutionally entitled to the benefits that the proposition will
take away from them.  Your solution to the problem is to have the Federal
Government compensate the states for this.

That's not an appropriate solution -- having everyone chip in and pay for
benefits that people are constitutionally entitled to once they have got away
with breaking the law.

Would not a better approach be to vigorously enforce our immigration laws to
keep illegal aliens out of our country?

GERALD DEUTSCH
Port Washington, L.I., Oct. 25, 1994

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 2, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

America Can't Afford More Huddled Masses

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words



To the Editor:

"Indecent Proposition in California" (editorial, Oct. 25) would have had a shred
of credibility if you had any record in recognizing the negative impact
immigration is having on cities and states.

In an era of sharp cutbacks in government services, and when entitlement
programs soak up ever greater portions of government budgets, the net burden of
high levels of immigration can no longer be supported. The sentiments of Emma
Lazarus's anthem -- to send us your huddled masses -- are simply no longer
economically possible or desirable.

American incomes have been stagnant for the last 20 years. The taxpaying
population is in revolt and any new taxes to support transfer payments and new
social programs are not politically feasible. The impact of population growth on
cities and states is demonstrable.

California estimates that the net cost of illegal immigration to the state's
taxpayers is more than $3.5 billion. In New York City, the school population has
grown by more than 20 percent in the last three years, a phenomenon that is
almost entirely immigration-driven.

While immigrants do contribute to the economy, their net impact is negative,
especially if they cannot enter the more skilled professions. As welfare reform
becomes more urgent, the competition and friction between illegal immigrants and
citizens who must integrate into the work force at lower skill levels will
become more intense.

The country can no longer support the present legal immigration of 700,000
people annually, let alone illegal immigration levels that push total annual
immigration into the millions. Quality of life and environmental and economic
realities dictate that even our current population of 260 million consumes too
much of the earth's limited resources.

A halt to illegal immigration and a reduction of legal immigration are urgently
needed. If both can be accomplished, the natural birth rate of the United States
will eventually reverse our population to more sustainable levels.

You place misty-eyed ideology before hard reality in attacking California's
Proposition 187. Some of its provisions may be unconstitutional, but its real
import is that it is placing the question of out-of-control immigration policy
squarely in the center of public discourse where it belongs.

JOHN V. HUMMER
New York, Oct. 26, 1994

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 4, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Immigration Issue Flares Anew in Senate Race

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 29;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 3


The California Senate race, already in turmoil over the issue of illegal
immigration, was thrown into even greater confusion today by a case of mistaken
identity.

A report by a San Francisco newspaper said that Government records indicated
that Senator Dianne Feinstein, locked in a neck-and-neck re-election race with
Representative Michael Huffington, apparently employed a Guatemalan housekeeper
in the early 1980's who was in the United States illegally.

Ms. Feinstein, a Democrat, denied the report vehemently while her Republican
challenger, who has had his own problems over his employment of an undocumented
nanny in recent years, leaped to exploit the disclosure politically.

The Senator said that she had hired a housekeeper but that the woman had
presented documents indicating that she was in this country legally. Ms.
Feinstein also noted that at the time she employed the woman in the early 1980's
there was no law against hiring undocumented workers.

The Congressman held a news conference in which he called the Senator a
hypocrite and followed up with a statewide television ad that concluded,
"Feinstein, a career politician who'll say or do anything to stay in office --
even lie.

Then, late tonight, came word from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
that there had been a mistake.

The woman mentioned in the newspaper story, Annabel Paiz, was not the same
person who had worked for Ms. Feinstein for two years, said Ron Rogers, an
agency spokesman. The Feinstein houskeeper, he added, was Annabel Paiz
Realegend.

When Ms. Feinstein had a Guatamelan housekeeper, Mr. Rogers went on, Annabel
Paiz was not eligible to work because she held only tourist visa. But in any
event, he said, she was not working during that period for Ms. Feinstein.

And what of Annabel Paiz Realegend and her status during the period in question?

"Our computers are shut down for the night and we cannot say until tomorrow,"
Mr. Rogers added. "It could be good news for the Senator or it could be bad.
We'll see. We were asked by the paper to give the status of one Annabel Paiz,
which we are allowed by law to do, and that's what we did. Subsequently, we got
phone call from other papers saying that the person who actually worked for the
Senator was Annabel Paiz Realegend."

Before the mistaken was discovered, the report by the newspaper, The Free Press,
a paper put out in San Francisco by striking workers of The San Francisco
Chronicle and The San Francisco Examiner, produced some of the sharpest
exchanges between Mrs. Feinstein and Mr. Huffington of the entire campaign.

Ms. Feinstein quickly went back on the attack against Mr. Huffington, who has
been pummeled by the disclosure last week that he employed the undocumented
nanny.

"I have broken no law, but my opponent has," the Senator said. When Mr.
Huffington hired his nanny in 1989, Ms. Feinstein added, the prohibition against
hiring undocumented workers had been on the books for three years.

Ms. Feinstein opposes a much disputed California ballot initiative, Proposition
187, that would deny illegal aliens most government services, including
schooling and nonemergency health care.

Mr. Huffington favors the initiative. Before it was disclosed that he had hired
an undocumented nanny, he argued that the proposal would help reduce the hiring
of illegal aliens. Ms. Feinstein says the initiative would be too Draconian but
has called throughout her campaign for tighter enforcement of hiring laws and
more patrolling of the border.

The article about Ms. Feinstein's housekeeper was sent over the Internet, the
global computer network, by The Free Press.

Before the immigration service made its announcement tonight, Mr. Huffington
issued a biting statement in which he called the Senator "a liar and a hypocrite
and unworthy of the office in which she serves." He accused her of conducting a
"vicious campaign of lies and distortion" against him and of trying to cover up
her hiring an illegal immigrant.

Where the Feinstein-Huffington contest is headed at this muddled point, less
than a week to Election Day, is but a guess. Public opinion polls show it too
tight to call and offer little insight as to the play of the immigration issue,
particularly Proposition 187.

On Wednesday, about 10,000 students took to the streets of Los Angeles to voice
opposition to Proposition 187. There were more student protests today, but the
outpouring was considerably smaller.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Wilson Never Called for 'Identity Card'

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 14;  Column 3;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words


To the Editor:

"California Governor Suggests Requiring Citizenship Cards" (front page, Oct. 27)
misrepresents what I have proposed to help deal with the consequences of illegal
immigration.

Contrary to your headline, I have never suggested or urged that "every
Californian be required to obtain an official identity card." I am also opposed
to a "national identifier."

The Federal Government must fix what's wrong with the employer-sanction
procedures prescribed under the Immigration Reform and Control Act and provide a
means of verifying legal residency. Proposition 187 would impose the same legal
residency requirement as the condition of eligibility to receive services.

Existing Federal law purports to sanction employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants. To avoid the penalty, the employer must verify that a job applicant
is legally in the country by reviewing appropriate documentation. This
requirement has spawned a cottage industry of counterfeiters of the two dozen
forms of identification now accepted under the Federal law. A tamperproof system
for verification of legal residency must be developed by the Government.

You also falsely accuse me of "calling for students and the sick to carry
cards." You base that on reports of an interview that I subsequently corrected.
No one has suggested making anyone carry a card. Proposition 187, which I
support, requires that anyone seeking a taxpayer-financed service -- including
education and nonemergency health care -- be required to provide proof of legal
residency at enrollment, not that they carry an identifier card at all times.

This suggestion, which comes from those seeking to smear 187, conjures up an
odious "passbook society," which I reject as demagoguery by those who charge
immigrant-bashing as the motive of those of us who insist upon fairness for
California and on Federal responsibility. Legal immigrants in California resent
the charge that Proposition 187 is based on race, skin color or accent.

(Gov.) PETE WILSON
Sacramento, Calif., Nov. 2, 1994

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Campaign Refrain: 'My Opponent's a Hypocrite'

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 27;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 5


Politically embarrassed by disclosures that they had both employed undocumented
household workers, Senator Dianne Feinstein and Representative Michael
Huffington traded new charges of hypocrisy today as each struggled to regain
campaign momentum in California's most vituperative Senate race in years.

At a rally here with cheering campaign workers, Ms. Feinstein, the Democratic
incumbent, called Mr. Huffington, a native of Texas, a carpetbagger "who doesn't
give a whit about California." She then accused him of "running lies" about her
and her problems with the immigration issue.

"He's on a sinking ship, and he's trying to pull other people down with him,"
she declared before heading for two more rallies later in the day in the
voter-rich Los Angeles Basin.

Mr. Huffington, a Republican from Santa Barbara, also worked Southern
California, charging at a rally in Orange, before heading for other rallies at
Palm Springs, Bakersfield and San Diego, that his opponent had "lied about
employing an illegal alien" as well as about many other campaign issues. He
predicted victory on Tuesday.

"She has lied about me, and she has lied to the people of California," he
continued. "That's why voters are going to elect me -- because I tell them the
truth."

With only three days until Election Day, most polls indicate that the
Feinstein-Huffington contest is too close to call and may well be decided by the
illegal-immigration issue, which is not only the focal point of the Senate race
but also the focal point of California politics this fall.

Mr. Huffington, who has put up more than $25 million of his oil fortune in an
unprecedented personal cash effort to win a Congressional seat, spent most of
the first part of this week dealing with a damaging disclosure that he had
employed an undocumented nanny at his home for five years.

A few days before that disclosure, he had voiced unequivocal support for
Proposition 187, a hotly debated citizen initiative on the fall ballot that
would deny illegal aliens most government services.

Then, on Thursday, Ms. Feinstein, who has raised $11 million for her re-election
effort, suddenly found herself dealing with a damaging disclosure that she, too,
had employed an undocumented household worker.

A few days before that disclosure, at the time Mr. Huffington came under fire,
she had stated unequivocally that she had never employed an undocumented worker.

Together in their campaign spending, Mr. Huffington and Ms. Feinstein have
easily surpassed the old $26 million spending record for a Congressional race,
set a decade ago in North Carolina. And today, upping the spending ante, each
introduced a new, costly, biting television advertisement that impugned the
integrity of the other on the immigration issue.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 8, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Senate Candidates Trade Bitter Exchanges Over Immigration

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 7


The California Senate race, the most expensive Congressional race ever and one
of the most vituperative, ground through its last full day of campaigning today,
with the outcome of Tuesday's voting but a guess.

The race, in which Senator Dianne Feinstein, a liberal Democrat, is seeking
re-election in the face of a strong challenge from Representative Michael
Huffington, a conservative Republican from Santa Barbara, was marked in its
final hours by more bitter exchanges over illegal immigration.

Ultimately, the issue, the hottest in California this fall, could determine the
winner, producing an unusually large and equally unpredictable voter turnout.

Both candidates had undocumented aliens on their household staffs in the past,
and today Mr. Huffington accused Ms. Feinstein of "stonewalling" the public
disclosure of her employee's immigration records.

The Congressman, who also accused President Clinton of aiding Senator Feinstein
on the immigration matter, said the records would show that she knew all along
that her employee, a housekeeper, was in the country illegally.

"I believe the Clinton Administration, along with Mrs. Feinstein, is
stonewalling releasing the records because they want to see her elected," Mr.
Huffington asserted in San Luis Obispo during the first of a final series of
rallies around the state.

Ms. Feinstein, who insists she never knowingly hired an undocumented person,
answered Mr. Huffington's accusation with a final, acerbic television commercial
in which she said he was the one who knowingly hired an undocumented worker.

Like Mr. Huffington, Ms. Feinstein also embarked today on a final series of
appearances around the state.

At every opportunity, she accused Mr. Huffington of trying to buy an election, a
reference to the blitz of negative advertising, financed by $28 million from his
fortune in Texas oil money, that has ground down her once substantial lead. She
has recovered somewhat from the advertising blitz, private polls on both sides
indicate, particularly since the disclosure that Mr. Huffington's family once
employed an undocumented nanny. But the recovery is fragile, those who have seen
the polls say.

Ms. Feinstein also reminded audiences today that her opponent declared his
strong support for a state ballot initiative on illegal immigration just a few
days before the disclosure about the nanny.

The initiative, Proposition 187, would deny most government services to illegal
aliens. Ms. Feinstein favors stronger immigration controls, but she contends
that Proposition 187 is too drastic.

In recent days, the debate over the measure has been fanned by rallies and
demonstrations, most opposing it. This morning students at a number of Los
Angeles high schools and crowds of Hispanic workers in the city's garment
district took to the streets again to protest the initiative.

Polls indicate the vote on the proposition could go either way. Equally in doubt
is how much effect the proposition will have on voter turnout and which
candidates that will favor.

"It's the great imponderable of this election," said Steven Merksamer, a
Sacramento lawyer who has worked on numerous Republican campaigns. "You don't
know whether to believe what people have been telling the pollsters because the
proposition issue has so many overtones in it, not the least being race."

Mr. Huffington, whose fortune has been estimated at $75 million, has spent twice
as much on his campaign as the Senator, whose total stands at $14 million.

Mr. Huffington defended his unprecedented personal expenditure today with the
argument that "one of the reasons I'm spending my money is so that for the next
six years she won't be spending your money." The best way to cut down on
campaign spending, he added in an appearance at San Luis Obispo, is to provide
candidates with free access to television, the most expensive part of modern
political campaigns.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 9, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Protesters in Mexico City Ransack a McDonald's

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 8


About 40 masked men ransacked a McDonald's restaurant in Mexico City today to
protest a ballot proposal in California that would cut social benefits of
illegal immigrants and their families.

The assailants broke windows, threw cash registers to the floor, overturned
wastebaskets and painted graffiti denouncing the United States in the restaurant
in the fashionable Zona Rosa area of the capital, said a McDonald's marketing
manager, Manuel Juarez. He said no one was injured.

"Yankee Go Home!" "Solidarity With the Immigrants!" and "No to 187!" -- a
reference to Proposition 187, the ballot initiative in California -- were among
the messages scrawled on the restaurant's windows.

Witnesses said some of the assailants had earlier held a protest against
California's anti-immigration proposal on the street outside the restaurant.

Californians were voting today on Proposition 187, which would cut off
education, welfare and non-emergency health care to illegal immigrants and would
require doctors, teachers and police officers to report anyone they suspect of
being in the United States illegally.

The proposal, supported by Gov.  Pete Wilson in his campaign for re-election,
has stirred bitter protests among Mexican immigrants in California and drawn
wide criticism in virtually all sectors of Mexican society.

After wrecking the restaurant, the masked gang headed toward another nearby
McDonald's franchise, but police officers were quickly deployed to stave off a
second attack, according to radio reports.

In an effort to head off possible riots, hundreds of extra police officers have
been mobilized in southern California, where most of the state's 1.7 million
illegal immigrants, most of them Mexican, live.

In Mexico City, a string of protests has been held outside the American Embassy
in recent days, and officials expect huge demonstrations if Proposition 187 is
passed.

McDonald's is viewed by many Mexican leftists as a symbol of American
imperialism.

Mr. Juarez emphasized that all McDonald's restaurants in Mexico are franchises
owned by Mexican investors that employ only Mexican staff.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 11, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 ELECTIONS: CALIFORNIA;
Curb on Aliens Dims Dreams in Hollywood

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 28;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 10


The names of former students on the Wall of Fame at Hollywood High School
unscroll like credits from the movie of all movies.

Judy Garland . . . Mickey Rooney . . . Lana Turner . . . Carol Burnett . . .
James Garner . . . Tuesday Weld . . . Linda Evans . . . with music by the Four
Preps.

But the wall is from an era long past. The glitz is gone from Sunset Boulevard
and today the students who walk the halls of Hollywood High are concerned more
with making it in America than making it in Hollywood.

Mostly Hispanic immigrants, the new kids on the block here and elsewhere in
dozens of Southern California neighborhoods, they dream not of a place on the
Wall of Fame but of using their diploma from Hollywood High as a springboard
from grinding poverty to the good life of a full stomach and a new pair of
jeans.

But suddenly, in the aftermath of Election Day, many fear their dream may die.

On Tuesday, California voters overwhelmingly approved Proposition 187, a ballot
initiative that calls for a cut-off of most government services, including
schooling and non-emergency health care, to all illegal aliens.

Many students at Hollywood High are illegal aliens and in all of California, by
some estimates, there may be as many as 400,000 such undocumented students.

"Proposition 187 has got to be the worst thing that's ever happened to me," said
Antonio, an 18-year-old senior who would not give his last name but by his own
account slipped into the United States from Mexico.

"They'll kick me out of this school," he said at a class break. "I'm just
getting ready to graduate, and now this? I can't go back to Mexico. What am I
going to do out there on the streets? Get in some kind of trouble? It's just so
unfair."

Education authorities say that a good bet is that half of the students at
schools like Hollywood High, especially the Hispanic students, are in this
country illegally, smuggled in during some dark night by parents who regarded
America, and especially California, as the land of open-arms opportunity.

"We never ask them for any documentation about where they come from -- at least
we never did in the past," said Fonna Bishop, an assistant principal at
Hollywood High. "We've never felt that kind of police questioning is our job.
We've only asked if they lived within the Hollywood High attendance boundaries.
But under Proposition 187, we're supposed to start asking for immigration
documents and we're supposed to report those who we find don't have any. It's
not going to be a pleasant task."

For the moment, Ms. Bishop has been given a reprieve from such questioning.
Opponents of Proposition 187 persuaded the courts on Wednesday to stay
enforcement of the newly passed measure, pending determination of its
constitutionality.

But the reprieve has done little to allay the fears and concerns of Hollywood
High students, particularly Hispanic students.

"Sometimes I think the worst part about 187 is that if you don't have papers you
can't afford to argue your point of view," said Sofia Orantes, an 18-year-old
junior. "You certainly have a point of view but you're really helpless. You've
been living in this country and going to school in this country for years and
nobody has said anything to you or asked you anything and then, all of a sudden,
you're facing deportation. Is this what America is all about?"

While most students at Hollywood High worry that Proposition 187 is too
draconian, there are some, mainly non-Hispanic whites, who believe that the
illegal immigration problem must be dealt with head-on. They do not want to see
their classmates kicked out of school, but they are concerned about the rising
cost of providing government services to people who are not in the country
legally and, in the process, are causing state taxes to rise ever higher.

"I understand their point of view," Amy Pinter, a 16-year-old sophomore, said of
her undocumented friends. "We try to talk it out peacefully. But they are still
here illegally and they should try and respect our country. They should try to
come here the right way."

But to German Reyes, an 18-year-old senior, Proposition 187 smacks of racism and
will not help solve California's problems with a costly flood of illegal
immigrants.

"The proposition is just an excuse to beat up on people out of frustration," he
said. "The only way to stop illegal immigration is to stop it at the border, not
to go after people long after they have been here. Where are they going to find
the manpower to deport everybody? And if they can deport people, what are they
going to do about kids out in the street because they can't go to school and
people spreading sickness because they can't go to clinics?"

In the weeks leading up to the vote on Proposition 187, Mr. Reyes was one of the
thousands of California students who took to the streets to noisily protest
passage of the measure. Will he take to the streets again if the courts let the
proposition stand?

"We're talking about it," he replied. "Nothing definite. But we're talking."

Monica Sandobal, a 16-year-old Hispanic junior, argues that Proposition 187 will
actually increase state costs rather than reduce them.

"The kids out on the street and the sick people out of the clinics will end up
costing a lot more," she said. "And then you'll have to have more cops on the
street because there'll be more gangs and more homeless and sick people. People
who like to say now that illegal immigrants are a problem are about to find out
just how big a problem they really can be."


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The California proposition aimed at ending state services for
illegal aliens has divided students at Hollywood High School, where many
students are in the country illegally. Three students, from left, Tony Zurita,
German Reyes and Sofia Orantes, talked about the proposition on Thursday. (Jan
Sonnenmair for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 16, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

SPORTS PEOPLE: BOXING;
W.B.C. Planning Ban of California Bouts

SECTION: Section B;  Page 10;  Column 5;  Sports Desk

LENGTH: 123 words


The world's biggest boxing authority announced yesterday that it would stop
sanctioning world title fights in California because of what it termed racist
measures against illegal immigrants recently approved by California voters.

The World Boxing Council will not approve any world title fight in California as
of Nov. 22 this year, the W.B.C. president, JOSE SULAIMAN, told a news
conference in Mexico City.

He added that no Mexican boxers would be allowed to take part in professional
boxing in that state on pain of W.B.C. penalties.

The boycott will last until March 30 next year but may be extended if the
measures, known as Proposition 187 and approved by California voters last week,
are still in force. (Reuters)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In California, Uncertainty Chills Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 10;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 20


She said that her name was Maria R. and that she had slipped across the border
from Mexico three years ago, without immigration documents but with the hope of
finding work and making a better life, even if it was the furtive life of an
illegal alien.

No one, she said, had ever asked her for any proof of legal residence. In her
world, she explained, one does not go where people ask questions.

She said she had signed up for English classes at the local high school because
she knew no immigration questions would be asked. And, she went on, at the
Clinica Para las Americas, where she was waiting with her 2-year-old son, Leo,
to see a doctor, no one ever asked such questions.

"You learn where to go and how to do things," she said.

But wouldn't all that change now that Proposition 187 had been passed by
California voters?

What would she do should the courts not throw out the provisions of the new law
that instruct teachers and doctors to turn her away and report her if she cannot
produce proof of legal residence?

"I don't know," she replied, speaking through a translator but throwing in a few
new-found words of English. "Maybe I'll return to Mexico. Maybe not. Maybe
people like me will find new ways to stay here. Let's see what the courts
decide."

All over California, particularly Southern California, undocumented aliens like
Maria -- she was unwilling to disclose her last name fully -- are watching and
waiting. Uncertainty is about the only certain thing in an illegal immigrant's
life, and Proposition 187 is the biggest uncertainty yet.

The measure's supporters argue that, if it survives court challenges, it will
put an end to California taxpayers' shelling out more than $3 billion annually
for education and health benefits for illegal aliens. But opponents say it will
do more harm than good and, in fact, is so Draconian that it is
unconstitutional.

In any case, even in legal limbo, Proposition 187 appears already to be having
some effect on California's huge undocumented immigrant population.

School officials report that some immigrant children they believe to be in the
country illegally are being withheld from classes by their families, though the
attendance falloff is not yet very significant.

Officials at medical clinics that serve poor immigrants, like Clinica Para las
Americas here in the MacArthur Park section of central Los Angeles, say they
also have noted a falloff in patients they believe to be illegal aliens.

In particular, they report, the falloff has been notable among patients who can
postpone treatment. For example, only half as many people are now showing up for
immunization shots, even those shots for illnesses that easily become epidemic.

"I know people who are avoiding school and who are not going to the doctor
unless they are very, very sick," Maria said.

What about her visit to Clinica Para las Americas, a nonprofit medical center
that receives some state financing and thus would appear to fall under some of
Proposition 187's provisions?

"The doctors here say they will never ask me any questions about where I come
from, whatever the law says," she replied. "But I wonder. The police are
powerful -- I know this from Mexico -- and one day I may come in and . . ."

Her voice trailed off. Leo, in for a checkup, fretted a bit. She shifted him to
the other hip.

"He was born here," she said, smoothing the child's hair. "That makes him an
American citizen. If I must return to Mexico, what about that?"

Again her voice trailed off.

In the adjacent examining room, a woman who identified herself only as Edith F.
waited for a doctor to see her 3-year-old son, Timothy, an asthma patient.

The debate over Proposition 187, she said, had not only increased uncertainty in
the lives of undocumented aliens but also had stirred up new animosity toward
them.

"You can feel it out on the street now, the hate," she explained. "Since I came
from Mexico four years ago, it is much different. Then people seemed happy to
have someone who would wash dishes or mow lawns for little money. But now some
people say to your face, 'Go back where you came from.' "

Worst of all, she lamented, were the rumors.

"Even though the news reports say the proposition is caught up in the courts,
the rumors are that we'll all be kicked out tomorrow, maybe today," she said.
"Some people warned me I should not bring Timothy to the doctor, but I had to.
You find yourself wondering whether the next person you meet will demand, 'Show
me your papers!' What will happen? What will happen to Timothy?"

Proponents of Proposition 187 argue that the problem is created by illegal
immigrants themselves.

But a wholly different point of view comes from Silvia R. Argueta, a lawyer for
the American Civil Liberties Union, one of the organizations challenging the
legality of the proposition.

"If Proposition 187 stands, there won't just be people kicked out of school and
health clinics," she said. "There are thousands and thousands of families in
California that could be broken up because some members -- parents or children
or relatives -- are documented and other are undocumented. After letting this
kind of thing go on for so long, rightly or wrongly, we can't, as a nation,
suddenly turn on these people. There's got to be a better answer."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I know people who are avoiding school and who are not going to
the doctor unless they are very, very sick," said Maria R., an undocumented
alien. She hugged her 2-year-old son, Leo, last week at the Clinica Para las
Americas in the MacArthur Park section of Los Angeles. (Jan Sonnenmair for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 29, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Loophole at the Pier: A special report.;
For Aliens, a Bahamas Cruise Is an Easy Way Into the U.S.

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 2243 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.


For illegal immigrants, getting into the United States can be as simple as
climbing the gangplank of a cruise ship in the Bahamas and strolling off again
in South Florida a few hours later -- without ever showing any proof of
citizenship or exchanging even a word with an immigration service inspector.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's own investigators found more than a
year ago that foreign criminal gangs have used day cruises to the Bahamas as a
virtual underground railroad for smuggling aliens and drugs into the United
States.

Yet the agency has made no major changes in the way it carries out immigration
inspections on cruise ships, continuing to conduct them on board the ships. This
practice is much criticized by the Border Patrol, the Justice Department and
even some cruise line executives.

"It's kind of a joke," said Marsha Lightsey Tivoli, who carried out dozens of
"en route" inspections aboard ships that cruise to the Bahamas until she
resigned from the immigration service last year. "There's no clear-cut way to
say you've seen every person on that ship -- or even really know who's on the
ship."

It is also a potent demonstration of the immigration service's lackadaisical
approach to correcting its glaring problems, even after the agency's own
employees illuminate them. A New York Times reporter traveling on the ship
Discovery I of Discovery Cruises recently found that the loopholes of en route
inspections remain wide open -- even as the agency pours money and manpower into
Southern California to keep illegal immigrants out, promising, as the Western
Regional Commissioner of the immigration service put it last month, that "now
we've taken the offensive."

Most international passengers arriving in the United States face greater
scrutiny. At airports, they pass through an immigration checkpoint where
inspectors can look at their passports and check their names against a computer
data base. And for most long international cruises, passengers are inspected
when they step off the ship.

But for nearly all day cruises to the Caribbean, and even some longer ones,
inspections are carried out en route. This procedure is also often followed on
cruises from West Coast ports to points in Mexico, where it is equally
haphazard.

Inspectors generally enjoy the work, said Allen McAtee, who was a senior
inspector in Fort Lauderdale until he retired last summer. In fact, the Justice
Department found that inspectors often took friends and family along, and the
cruise lines gave them free or discounted tickets.

But a Border Patrol investigation found that while these people were
vacationing, illegal aliens were smuggling criminals into the United States.

For en route inspections, the immigration inspector usually boards the cruise
ship in the morning with the passengers and generally retires to a stateroom
provided without charge. When the ship docks in the Bahamas, the inspector is
free to shop or swim, as the vacationers do. Then, just after the ship sets sail
again, the inspector starts working.

The inspector sits in a room and waits as an announcement over the ship's public
address system asks all noncitizens of the United States to appear for an
inspection. The inspector looks at the papers of the people who choose to come
and pays no attention to everyone else. Any illegal aliens who have come aboard
in the Bahamas can ignore the announcement, and if they do, they are never asked
to show identity papers to anyone.

Dan Cadman, who heads the immigration service's Miami office, acknowledges that
en route inspections hold inherent flaws. But "tourism is a huge industry in
South Florida," he said.

"Cruises are a huge industry, and we are faced with the dilemma of trying to
expeditiously clear people off of those cruise ships and at the same time trying
to conduct some kind of inspection. If we were to do all of it at landside, we
would detain all of those ships from conducting their business."

Two cruise lines, Discovery and Sea Escape, offer day cruises from Fort
Lauderdale to the Bahamas four times a week year-round. On some days the ships
carry 1,000 or more passengers.

The day cruises are among the most loosely regulated forms of international
travel originating in the United States. Aboard these ships, compliance with
immigration laws "is mostly a voluntary kind of thing," said Lloyd Lofland,
supervisor of the anti-smuggling unit for the Fort Lauderdale office of the
Border Patrol, an arm of the immigration service.

The agency cannot say how widespread alien smuggling aboard the day-cruise ships
really is or what nations most of the aliens come from. But a five-year
undercover investigation by one of Mr. Lofland's Border Patrol agents found that
day cruises had become a favorite way for criminal organizations to smuggle
aliens and drugs into the United States.

In fact, the investigation, Operation Seacruise, showed that foreign criminal
gangs used the cruises to smuggle their soldiers into the United States, where
they sold drugs, smuggled weapons, committed "homicides, assaults, drive by
shootings, and other terror tactics," a Border Patrol report said.

When Operation Seacruise ended in April 1993, at least 22 people had been
convicted on Federal charges of alien smuggling, document fraud, drug
trafficking or for related offenses. But the investigators found that the
criminal rings simply smuggled in replacements on the cruise lines.

Joe Foster, the Border Patrol special agent who ran Operation Seacruise, said he
took the lessons from his investigation to the cruise lines and his own agency.

"The cruise lines, they would do anything we wanted," he said. "But we couldn't
get the service to do anything about it."

The Investigation
Smugglers Grow Bolder

Mr. Foster began work on Operation Seacruise in the autumn of 1987 after the
Border Patrol started receiving reports of alien smuggling aboard the cruise
lines. Over the next few years, he traveled to the Bahamas dozens of times. He
concluded that an organized ring was carrying out the smuggling and that its
leaders seemed to prefer the day cruises largely because the price was so low,
generally just a little over $100.

As Mr. Foster described it, Bahamian gang members living illegally in Florida
would obtain voter registration cards or some other false document and then
board the ships pretending to be United States citizens. Before the ships docked
in Freeport, the cruise lines gave each passenger a pass to take ashore. To
reboard the ship, each passenger generally had only to show this pass.

Sometimes, Mr. Foster found, a dozen or more smugglers would be aboard. One
would collect the passes and tickets from all the others, go ashore and then
hand them over to aliens who had paid $1,000 or $2,000 to be smuggled into the
United States. These people would then board the ship, showing the passes as
they walked up the gangplank. Nobody counted to see if the number of people
boarding the ship was the same as the number who got off earlier.

In Fort Lauderdale, the illegal aliens would simply walk off the ship.

As his investigation proceeded, Mr. Foster found, the smugglers grew bolder.
They began requiring some aliens to strap on several pounds of cocaine to
smuggle into Florida as payment for their passage. By the late 1980's, as the
smuggling groups expanded in size and sophistication, they formed drug and arms
trafficking rings in South Florida that grew ever more ambitious -- and
dangerous, Mr. Foster said.

As one case report said, the investigation "targeted a multidimensional criminal
organization involved in the smuggling of aliens into the United States,
trafficking in cocaine, the manufacture of crack cocaine, marriage fraud,
identity-document fraud as well as dealing in firearms and homicide."

Before the investigation ended last year, Mr. Foster persuaded the cruise lines
to make one procedural change: Instead of giving out passes, they would stamp
the back of each passenger's hand before the passenger got off in the Bahamas.

The new procedure was effective only briefly. The immigration service quickly
found that aliens were wetting the stamp with rubbing alcohol so they could
duplicate it onto the back of somebody else's hand. In addition, said Joe Verdi,
chief of operations for Sea Escape cruise lines, "we have had the stamps
counterfeited in the past."

The only real solution, Mr. Foster concluded, was to inspect the passengers as
they boarded the ship in Freeport, or when they got off in Fort Lauderdale. But
the agency demurred, presumably for the same reasons Mr. Cadman now offers: it
would delay debarking passengers and possibly damage the cruise industry. And
today little has changed.

The Voyage
No One Is Stopped For Questioning

At check-in early one Wednesday morning, a ticket clerk for Discovery cruises
asked for proof of United States citizenship. She glanced quickly at a Maryland
voter registration card, which is easily obtainable by mail. She then issued the
$123 ticket and waved the passenger aboard.

Just before the ship set sail at 8 A.M., the immigration inspector boarded. She
settled into her stateroom; her work would not begin until the trip back more
than nine hours later. Meanwhile, she had little to do.

The ship docked in Freeport about 1 P.M. There, all 600 passengers debarked to
spend the day as they chose -- swimming, snorkeling, shopping, sightseeing. As
they stepped onto the gangplank, a cruise line employee pressed a rubber stamp
coated with ultraviolet ink onto their wrists. Ashore, Bahamian immigration
officers simply watched as the passengers filed through the entry hall toward
taxis outside.

The passengers began returning shortly after 4 P.M. They passed easily through
Bahamian immigration; an officer merely glanced at the ship ticket. Two
cruise-line employees greeted the passengers at the top of the ship's gangplank.
The immigration inspector was nowhere in sight. One employee handed each person
a United States Customs declaration form, to be filled out on the return trip.
The other held a small ultraviolet light over each wrist to look for the stamp.

By now, many passengers had been swimming or snorkeling. Some had taken showers.
As a result, many of the stamps were badly smudged. The Times reporter
deliberately smeared his stamp with rubbing alcohol -- mimicking the procedure
investigators said smugglers use to copy the stamp -- so that no distinct image
remained. But the cruise-line employee simply waved the light like a talisman
over his wrist and allowed him on board.

For more than an hour, no one was stopped for questioning, and no other
identification was required to reboard the ship. In fact, the cruise line had no
way to know if the people stepping onto the boat were the same ones who got off
a few hours before.

Shortly after the ship left dock, an announcement went out over the public
address system: "Would all non-U.S. citizens including resident aliens,
Canadians and Bahamians, please proceed to the main casino, upper deck, for
immigration inspection?"

There, the people who had declared themselves to be aliens reclaimed the
passports or identity cards that had been taken from them in Fort Lauderdale.
They were questioned by the immigration service's inspector, who now sat at a
blackjack table with her papers, rubber stamp and a cup of coffee. An hour or
two later, her job was done. She never questioned any passengers who did not go
to her table in the casino.

The ship docked in Fort Lauderdale just after 10 P.M. As debarking passengers
reached the end of the gangplank, the immigration inspector and another one who
had joined her glanced at each person's Customs declaration card, the forms that
were freely available to everyone on board.

Two Customs Service officers waited at tables inside the terminal to see if
anyone owed duties on goods bought abroad. That was all.

The Agency
A Report Is Ignored

In a report issued last April, the Justice Department Inspector General urged
the immigration service to abandon en route inspections, calling them "improper
and inefficient." The immigration service defended the practice, saying, "The
risk of illegal aliens entering the U.S. using cruise ships is low due to the
quality of cruise-line personnel, the general type of vacationing passengers who
routinely travel on cruises and the low frequency of detected illegal aliens."

After that, en route inspections continued unchanged, and Mr. Foster's work
seemed to have no effect on the agency. In fact, Mr. Cadman, the Miami district
director since January 1993, said he had never heard of Operation Seacruise
until a reporter brought it to his attention.

In a statement issued in September, the agency said the en route inspection
procedure "benefits both the cruise lines and the I.N.S."

But Martin Salzedo, president of Discovery cruise lines, disagrees.

"I would much prefer to have the inspections done just like at airports -- just
prior to boarding or when they get off," he said.  "That way we can save the
cruise experience shipside. You don't have to hear all these page announcements
calling people for immigration. People can relax."

When Discovery I redocks in Fort Lauderdale, "the passengers have to queue up
for Customs," Mr. Salzedo added. "So they might as well queue up for
immigration, too. That's just a part of traveling."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Illegal aliens are easily able to enter the United States on
the return trip of day cruises to the Bahamas. Cruise-line employees stamp
passengers' hands with ultraviolet ink, as shown above, before letting them
debark in Freeport. But since the stamp can easily be removed by water or
rubbing alcohol, it is ineffective as an identifying mark for returning
passengers.; Foreign citizens showing picture identifications before boarding a
day cruise to the Bahamas from Fort Lauderdale, Fla. (Photographs by Cindy Karp
for The New York Times) (pg. B12)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 4, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Alien Sentiment Spreading In Wake of California's Measure

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 3


Voter approval of sanctions against illegal aliens in California is reshaping
the nation's immigration debate, with movements forming in other states to push
through similar propositions and leaders of the new Republican-dominated
Congress planning early hearings on immigration-control legislation.

The California measure, Proposition 187, which requires teachers and clinic
doctors to deny help to undocumented aliens and then report them to the police,
has also driven a deep ideological wedge into the conservative wing of the
Republican Party.

Two possible Presidential contenders, Gov. Pete Wilson of California and former
Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, and two leading party ideologues, William J.
Bennett, the former Education Secretary, and William F. Buckley, the author and
columnist, are entangled in an argument over the proposition that is so acerbic
it has the potential to threaten party unity in 1996.

Mr. Wilson and Mr. Buckley contend that passage of Proposition 187, with its
strict cutoffs in aid, was needed to get Washington's attention and force
Federal action to stanch illegal immigration.

But Mr. Kemp and Mr. Bennett argue that the proposition is so Draconian that it
probably is unconstitutional. They warn that the proposition will hurt a party
that had trumpeted the can-do spirit of immigrants and the willingness of this
nation to open its arms to the less fortunate from other lands.

The seven states with the largest immigrant populations account for two-thirds
of the electoral votes needed to win the Presidency.

The day after California voters approved the proposition, by a 3-to-2 margin,
opponents persuaded a Federal judge to delay putting the education and health
services cutoffs into effect until a possible court test of the proposition's
constitutionality.

All in all, the passions now being voiced over the proposition and immigration
generally constitute one of the most serious national debates in many years over
whom to welcome to the United States, whom to turn aside and, most contentious
of all, whom to deport.

"Immigration is one of those touchy issues for Americans that can suddenly turn
ugly and flower into a major national argument," said Charles Wheeler, the
executive director of the National Center on Immigrant Rights, an assistance
group in Los Angeles. "We like to boast about what immigrants have done for our
country. Then, when a problem arises with one or another group of recent
arrivals, like now, we tend to start having doubts and start asking all kinds of
questions, a lot of them unwarranted and tinged with political opportunism,
racism, xenophobia, the whole nasty bag."

The influx of legal immigrants is also at issue in the debate. Like many illegal
aliens, legal aliens also cost American taxpayers in government services.

For a decade or so, more than 3.5 million illegal immigrants from Mexico and
elsewhere have slipped into the country, with roughly 40 percent of them
settling in California. At the same time, more than twice that many legal
immigrants have entered.

The numbers vary widely, but by some estimates illegal and legal immigrants
together receive more than $8 billion in government aid annually, about half of
it paid for by states, even though states have no control over the influx of
aliens.

Ira Melman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington group
that favors tighter immigration controls, said the passage of Proposition 187
was symptomatic of "a larger unease that has been percolating for a long time."

"When you take illegal and legal immigration and total it all together," he
said, "we're adding the equivalent of a million-person population center every
12 months. There's no way we can smoothly assimilate and build enough schools,
roads and the like for that many people in that brief period. That's why this
has become a national debate."

Here in California, supporters and opponents of Proposition 187 are not waiting
to see how the spreading national debate turns out. Their bitter fight continues
unabated.

Two days after the proposition was approved, its supporters began organizing
recall campaigns against some school and municipal officials who had called for
a court test.

Supporters also have begun pushing for similar laws in other states with large
populations of recently arrived aliens, like Arizona, Florida, Illinois, New
York and Texas.

But no other state has been affected as much by newly arrived immigrants as
California, so the prospect for the immigration-control movement elsewhere is
more in doubt.  Still, the Proposition 187 forces are on the move beyond
California.

"We've had phone calls from at least 15 states about how to get a 187 movement
going," said Robert Kiley, a political consultant from Yorba Linda who helped
guide the California initiative to passage. "We remind them that the goal,
ultimately, is not just to cut off aid to illegal immigrants but to put pressure
on Washington to do something about illegal immigration in general."

In most states, the activity at this point involves telephone calls and faxes.
But in Florida, at least one organization, Floridians for Immigration Reform, is
up and running.

"We've signed up about a hundred members," said JoAnn Peart, a Del Ray Beach
homemaker who is head of the group. "We've been talking to our Congressional
delegation about action in Washington. They'd better get on the move because,
just in case they don't, we're laying the groundwork to petition for our own
cut-off proposition on the next Florida ballot, just like they did in
California."

Washington already is well aware that something is afoot.

The new Republican leaders, including the likely House Speaker, Newt Gingrich,
are talking about legislation to tighten borders and take some of the load off
both the Federal and state governments, including the burden of providing
services to legal immigrants. There also is talk of imposing stricter penalties
on employers who hire undocumented aliens.

President Clinton has questioned the Proposition 187 solution, arguing that it
is so restrictive that it is probably unconstitutional. But he has begun to
dispatch extra immigration agents and border patrol equipment to California and
has acknowledged that something must be done to lighten the load now carried by
the states.

Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican in line to head the House
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, predicts "a lot of action" on the issue
in 1995.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

In Suffolk, Less of a Sanctuary for Salvadorans

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;   Page 6;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: BRENTWOOD, L.I.,


Nine years ago, at the height of the civil war in El Salvador, Suffolk County
took the bold step of joining a few dozen communities in the United States that
voted to protect Central American refugees by barring public officials from
reporting them to immigration authorities.

For a staid suburban region far removed from the war and with few Salvadoran
residents, it was an unusual move, but one that County Legislator Gregory J.
Blass said was the "humane thing to do."

After a decade of migration to Long Island by Salvadorans, however, Suffolk is
sending a revised message. The ordinance protecting refugees was repealed last
year.

And this summer, months before the passage of California's anti-illegal
immigrant measure, Proposition 187, the County Legislature overwhelmingly
approved a resolution asking the state for permission to deny health care and
welfare benefits not just to illegal immigrants, but even to legal immigrants
who are not yet citizens. They called the measure the America First Welfare
Reduction Program.

"When resources become limited, government has to cut back somewhere," said Mr.
Blass, a Republican of Jamesport. "It's harsh, but you have to prioritize."

The state refused to grant Suffolk County's request. But the passage of the
America First resolution underscores the recent extension of the immigration
debate beyond traditional havens to suburban and rural areas newly dotted with
new immigrant communities.

From Palisades Park, N.J., where the arrival of Hispanic immigrants has prompted
ordinances on loitering and overcrowded housing, to the suburban Los Angeles
communities of Monterey Park and Alhambra, where clashes over development and
culture followed the arrival of thousands of affluent Chinese, communities that
once considered themselves insulated from urban dilemmas have found themselves
grappling with a changing world.

The controversy on Long Island has focused on the thousands of Central Americans
who began settling in the area in the early 1980's, drawn not by the county's
haven resolution, but by jobs in factories and farms.

Before the outbreak of the civil war in El Salvador in 1979, about 5,000
Salvadorans lived on Long Island. By 1990, there were between 30,000 and 40,000.
Refugee workers estimate that up to two-thirds may be in the country illegally.

The Salvadorans represent fewer than 2 percent of the 2.6 million people on Long
Island, but their presence is keenly felt in the towns where most of them live
-- Hempstead, Glen Cove and Brentwood.

"You walk through the schoolyard and all there is is Salvadorans," said Hank
Mastermaker, who has lived in Brentwood for 31 years. "It's too many in one
area. They buy a house and the next thing you know, six families have moved in."

Many of the Central Americans remain unaware of the debate over their presence.
A decade ago, they never knew that they were being welcomed, except as a source
of cheap labor. Today, few have any idea that they are being scorned.

Rosa Fuentes, a factory worker at Austin Sculpture in Holbrook, said she spends
all her time working and rarely has any contact with Americans. "I don't have
time to worry about those things," she said during a break from her job.

Many longtime residents voice discomfort over changes that they never expected
in their suburban enclaves. Mary Crotty, of Brentwood, said that stores she used
to frequent had closed and reopened with Spanish signs.

"It's a shame," she said. "It makes me feel a little uncomfortable, like I'm a
person they're not welcoming in. I don't care where a person is from. I'd feel
the same if all the signs were in Greek."

The Rev. John Long, a Presbyterian minister who was one of the leaders of the
sanctuary movement in 1986, said he could never have foreseen the resentment
that has built over the years after the vote.

"This was our effort to make Suffolk a sanctuary county," he said. "It was a
pretty provocative stance."

But Suffolk has grown more conservative in the last decade. The America First
resolution is one of several initiatives that undo or contradict its past
progressive stances.

"We've had a recession and everyone is grabbing onto their little piece of the
pie," said the legislature's minority leader, Maxine S. Postal, Democrat of
Amityville, who abstained in the vote on the America First resolution. "The
feeling now is that everyone has to guard what they have. Forget about building
bridges; we're building walls."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Tracking Long Island's Salvadorian Residents" shows
concentrations of Salvadorian residents on Long Island (Data: Dr. Andwrew A.
Beveridge, sociology department, Queens College)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 15, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Initiative on Aliens Suffers Its Biggest Setback Yet

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 14


A Federal district judge here barred California today from carrying out most
provisions of Proposition 187, a decision that could block enforcement of the
measure for a year or more.

The judge, Mariana R. Pfaelzer, ruled that the voter-approved initiative, which
would deny most government services to illegal immigrants, appeared to conflict
with Federal law on health and social services and even with the Federal
Government's authority to regulate immigration.

The major provisions of Proposition 187 had already been stayed as a result of
temporary restraining orders issued last month by Judge Pfaelzer and, in a
separate case, by another Federal judge.

But today's decision went one step further: Judge Pfaelzer issued a preliminary
injunction, which will remain in effect until after trial of a challenge brought
against the measure by a number of civil rights and immigrant advocacy groups.

Completion of such a trial could be years away. And although the state has said
it will appeal any judicial decisions against Proposition 187 all the way to the
United States Supreme Court, resolution of that appeal could itself take at
least a year.

Proposition 187, approved at the polls last month by 3 to 2, would deny
undocumented aliens public education, nonemergency medical care and most other
government services, and would require teachers and doctors to give immigration
authorities the names of all people they know or suspect to be in the country
illegally. The aim is to ease illegal aliens' burden on the state treasury, a
burden estimated by California officials at $3 billion a year.

But after a two-hour hearing today, Judge Pfaelzer, who was nominated to the
Federal bench by President Jimmy Carter, said that although "I do weigh the
state's interest, and I give it heavy weight," the measure appeared to conflict
with Federal authority.

The judge noted that Proposition 187 would deny health and other social services
to some immigrants who might be entitled to receive them under Federal laws
that, for instance, provide for an array of services to undocumented aliens at
hospitals that receive Government funds.

Denial of such services might pressure those immigrants to leave the country,
said the judge, who added that only the Federal Government had the authority to
determine who may enter and remain in the United States. "The law does conflict
with immigration laws regarding deportation," she said.

"What is the harm to the plaintiffs?" she added, explaining her decision to
issue the injunction. "It's very serious. If they have a right to stay, they may
lose the right by leaving. There are absolutely no procedural safeguards."

Judge Pfaelzer also invoked a frequent argument of the measure's opponents: that
its health care provisions had the potential to abet epidemics. "The loss of
medical services for illegal aliens," she said, "could result in greater health
risks for the general population."

The decision blocked enforcement of provisions barring illegal immigrants from
public school education, nonemergency medical treatment and most other benefits.
It upheld provisions that prohibit illegal immigrants from attending public
colleges and universities and that increase the penalties for sale or use of
fraudulent immigration documents.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Florida's Plea for Immigration Relief Fails

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 20


In a troubling signal for states seeking relief from the costs associated with
illegal immigration, a Federal District Court judge today threw out a lawsuit in
which Florida officials sought to recover nearly $1 billion a year from the
Federal Government to pay for services to illegal immigrants.

In his decision, Judge Edward B. Davis said he recognized the tremendous
financial burden to Florida "due to the methods in which the Federal Government
has chosen to enforce the immigration laws." But he said that did not create a
legal theory under which the state could recover money.

The judge agreed with the Federal Government's argument that the case presented
"a political question," not a legal one, over "the proper allocation of Federal
resources and the execution of discretionary policies" dealing with national
defense, immigration and foreign affairs.

The decision was a bad omen for at least six other states that have also sued to
shift costs to Washington for some immigration-related expenses, saying they are
bearing a disproportionately high influx of illegal immigrants.

Seeking restitution in court is seen by some of those states as a preferable
alternative to measures like denying benefits to the aliens, as voters in
California chose to do last month with Proposition 187.

Governor Lawton Chiles of Florida called the court's decision today "only a
temporary setback" and said the state planned to appeal.

"I am committed to making sure that Floridians will not pay for the Federal
Government's failure to enforce its own immigration laws," he said in a
statement.

The ruling comes as more than 20,000 Cuban refugees await word about their fate
in American detention camps in Panama and at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in
Cuba.

Most of those refugees were bound for Florida when the Clinton Administration,
in a reversal of a longtime policy, decided in August to deny entry to Cubans
fleeing Fidel Castro.

More than 5,000 Haitian refugees are also detained in Guantanamo and want to
enter the United States.

In their lawsuit, Florida officials argued that the Federal Government had
failed to fulfill its obligations to guard against illegal immigration and to
deport such immigrants.

In a report released last March, state officials estimated that illegal
immigration cost Florida $884 million a year, primarily for education, social
services and law enforcement.

About 345,000 illegal immigrants live in the state, Florida officials said.

Governor Chiles opposes cutting off services as Proposition 187 would do, and
Judge Davis said in his decision that he agreed with Florida's argument that it
faced "a Hobson's choice," or one that offers no choice.

"If Florida chooses to not provide services to illegal aliens including closing
schools, emergency rooms, etc., the impact on the health, safety and welfare of
its citizenry could be potentially devastating," the judge said in his written
decision. "If on the other hand Florida chooses to provide the services, the
cost could cripple the state."

There are efforts by some groups in Florida to push for measures similar to
Proposition 187 in California, which requires teachers and clinic doctors to
deny help to illegal immigrants and to report them to the police. The measure,
which Californians approved 3 to 2, is under court review.

In Texas, one of the six other states that have filed suit to gain compensation
for some immigration-related costs, a Federal judge has said he was inclined to
dismiss the suit and indicated relief should come from Congress instead.

But Texas officials said they were optimistic that their arguments would prevail
on appeal.

"We believe strongly that the Constitution compels the Federal Government to
reimburse the state," said Ward Tisdale, a spokesman for the Texas Attorney
General's office. "We feel a judicial remedy is far preferable and more
responsible than the extreme measures we've seen in other parts of the country."

Florida officials said humanitarian Federal policies that had forced the state
to absorb successive waves of political refugees from Cuba and other countries
had also greatly strained resources in areas like education and health care.
Governor Chiles argues that if those now held in detention camps are allowed
into the United States they should have financial sponsorships and should
relocate in other states.

But Steve Forester, the supervising lawyer for the Haitian Refugee Center,
contended that politics rather than cost ultimately determines which immigrants
are acceptable. He cited the different treatment afforded to Cuban and Haitian
children held in the detention camps -- unaccompanied Cuban minors have been
allowed into the country but their Haitian counterparts have not -- and
attributed it to the political clout of the Cuban-American community in Miami.

"It has to do with domestic politics and the fact that the scapegoating of
immigrants translates into votes," Mr. Forester said.

On Monday, a Federal appeals court judge reversed a lower court ruling that
would have allowed the roughly 230 Haitian children who have been in the camps
since July to enter the country. Lawyers for the Government have argued that the
Haitians, unlike the Cubans, can now return to a democratic homeland.

Mr. Forester and others at the Haitian Refugee Center today called on Americans
to appeal to Attorney General Janet Reno to parole the Haitian children into the
United States.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Greeted at Nation's Front Door, Many Visitors Stay On Illegally

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section A;    Page 1;    Column 4;    Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1687 words


In the comfort of a flight from Belfast, Francis and Theresa S. arrived in the
United States three months ago as tourists. But they had no intention of
returning to their home in Northern Ireland after their sightseeing in New York
was over. They were coming to stay on as illegal immigrants.

Unlike the thousands of Mexicans and Central Americans clambering over the
flood-lit fences of the southern border, the couple merely walked through an
inspection booth at Kennedy International Airport. An immigration official,
checking their passports and plane tickets, smiled and waved them in.

"It was that easy," said Francis, who along with his wife did not want to be
fully identified for fear of being uncovered. "They just stamped our passports
and that was it," he said as he sat in a bakery in Woodside, Queens, taking a
break from moving into a new apartment with his wife.

Slightly more than half of the nation's illegal immigrants, including the vast
majority in the New York area, casually enter the country as tourists, students
or business people, and then simply overstay their visas.

And although the Immigration and Naturalization Service spends millions to
patrol the southern border, the agency virtually ignores those illegal
immigrants who, like Francis and Theresa, have walked in through the nation's
front door.

"There is absolutely no deterrence," said David Simcox, a senior fellow of the
Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, which favors restrictions on
immigration. "There isn't much there to stop anyone."

In fact, the I.N.S. has no specific programs aimed at seeking out and deporting
the 150,000 visitors a year who end up illegally settling here. Last year, only
about 600 people were deported for overstaying their visas, out of 39,000
deportations.

The estimates on illegal immigrants come from an I.N.S. study that uses air
passenger data, census surveys and immigration service statistics. While the
numbers provide only a rough approximation, they point out in broad strokes the
magnitude of the problem with illegal immigrants who overstayed their visits.

Of the four million illegal immigrants in this country, about two million first
arrived as visitors. Unlike those who sneak across the border, those who enter
as visitors come from a broad range of countries, including Italy, the Bahamas,
Poland and the Philippines. Together, they constitute a far more diverse
population than the public debate, focused on the border, tends to include.

In fact, outside of the border areas, Mexicans and Central Americans often make
up only a small part of the illegal immigrant population.

Cecilia Munoz, a deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
national Hispanic lobbying organization, said the Government's focus on the
border has distorted the debate on how to control immigration, turning it
instead into a blind bashing of Hispanics.

"Ninety-nine percent of enforcement efforts are directed at Latinos when, in
fact, illegal immigration is far more diverse," she said. "The border does need
to be controlled, but it is just half the problem."

In New York, which has the largest illegal immigrant population -- 529,000 --
after California, the biggest groups are from Italy, Ecuadorand Poland. Mexicans
are barely noticeable at just 2 percent of the state's illegal population.

Similarly, in New Jersey, with its population of 137,000 illegal immigrants, the
three top groups are from Portugal, Poland and Italy.

Indeed, for illegal immigrants from the vast majority of countries, the most
popular method for moving to the United States has been through overstaying a
tourist or business visa.

Nuccio R., for instance, a 24-year-old illegal immigrant from Sicily, still
marvels at the ease with which he came to the United States.

When he arrived at Kennedy four years ago, he simply collected his baggage and
headed for his uncle's house in Brooklyn.

He had just graduated from high school and only planned to stay for a few
months. But as he began to settle into life in America, he decided to stay for
good. He has a full-time job in a relative's delicatessen, a car, a driver's
license, credit cards and his own apartment in New Utrecht, near Bensonhurst.

"My life is pretty normal," he said. "Everybody knows I'm illegal. It's not a
big deal."

And the chance of Nuccio ever being caught in this country by immigration
authorities is virtually nil.

The immigration service's efforts to arrest illegal immigrants outside the
border areas concentrate largely on workplace inspections.

Under the requirements of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, employers
are required to check the immigration status of all employees, and are subject
to penalties for hiring illegal immigrants.  The theory behind the act was that
the flow of illegal immigrants would slow as it became more difficult to find
work.

But the law has proven easy to circumvent through the use of fraudulent
documents or through work in the small shops and family businesses that ignore
the law. And the immigration service also devotes few resources to enforce the
law. In the New York area, 15 agents are responsible for investigating
workplaces in 14 counties with over 12 million people.

Chip Bogdanski, spokesman for the I.N.S.'s New York district, said that, in many
ways, the agency can do little more to screen visitors as they arrive. Of 22
million visitors yearly, only a tiny proportion, fewer than 1 percent, end up
staying in the country, he said.

"That's not a bad ratio," Mr. Bogdanski said. "I mean we can't detain people
arbitrarily and sit them down for four hours until they break. If their
documents are in order, they have the money and they have reason to come here,
what are you going to do?"

In theory, visitors who are likely to stay in the United States are screened out
overseas by consular officials, who are responsible for issuing entry visas.

United States law requires that visa applicants be viewed as intending to
immigrate permanently unless they can prove sufficiently strong ties, such as
steady employment, family and property ownership, to their home country to
insure return. A round-trip ticket is also required.

Nyda Novodvorsky Budig, spokeswoman for the State Department's Bureau of
Consular Affairs, said that each year about a quarter of all visa applications
are denied, although the rate can shoot well over 50 percent for some countries,
including Bangladesh, Sierra Leone and Syria.

But even with the State Department's screening process, thousands still enter
the country and stay on illegally. In the case of some countries, including
Poland, Sierra Leone and Liberia, the overstay rate can shoot up to a quarter or
more of all visitors, according to the immigration agency's estimates.

Visas have also proven to be fertile ground for a variety of smuggling schemes.
In the last year, for example, Federal agents have discovered the growing use of
temporary business visas by Russian illegal immigrants, who bank on the lesser
scrutiny of visitors at ports of entry.

The problem with the screenings is that much of the consulate's decision is
based on what applicants themselves present to their interviewers. Fraud is
rampant and difficult to catch given the enormous number of applicants each
year. And even such close ties to the homeland as children provide no guarantee
that a visitor will return home.

A 50-year-old woman from India, who uses only the name Akka, left behind two
young children when she came to the United States eight years ago as a tourist.
She had no need to lie to a consular official, since leaving her children, who
were 10 and 14, would be proof enough that she would return.

But instead, Akka found a job as a baby sitter and now believes she is close to
winning her green card through the sponsorship of her employer.

Entering the country is even easier for residents of 22 countries in the
so-called visa waiver program. All they need to come to the United States for up
to 90 days is a round-trip ticket.

The countries, largely from Western Europe, were selected for the program based
on their low rate of visa denials.

But the list also contains some significant abusers of the system, including
France, Sweden and Italy. According to I.N.S. statistics, from 1988 to 1992
about 5 to 10 percent of illegal immigrants who overstayed their visits came
from visa waiver countries.

Some of the illegal visitors eventually come to the attention of immigration
authorities when they change their immigration status in some way, usually to
become permanent residents through marriage, work or the visa lottery.

But even then, few suffer any serious penalty because of the difficulty in
proving that they intentionally lied in coming to this country. Deportations for
overstaying a visit are virtually unheard of. For example, in 1993, just 29
Polish nationals, out of a total illegal population of 107,000, were deported
for violating their nonimmigrant status.

Many of the illegal visitors simply melt away into American society and bide
their time until they can become legal residents, primarily through marriage,
work or the visa lottery. Over just a four-year period surveyed by the
immigration service's study, 246,000 visitors who overstayed their visits became
legal residents. About 332,000 of those who overstayed their visits eventually
returned home.

Francis, 26, and Theresa, 22, like many of those who want to stay, have pinned
their hopes on the visa lottery and intend to apply every year until they win.

"If we got green cards, we'd be paying our taxes," Theresa said. "We only came
to work and give our children a better future."

But even if they fail, they said, it is no problem for them to continue living
as illegal immigrants. They both have jobs, he as a construction worker and she
as a bakery worker, and have settled comfortably into their new home in
Woodside, one of the centers of the Irish community in New York City.

"It's just like back home sometimes," Theresa said. "This has been like a
working holiday for us."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nuccio R., a 24-year-old illegal immigrant, has a full-time job,
a car, a driver's license, credit cards and his own apartment in New Utrecht.
(Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

Graphs: Page 1 graph compares the number of legal visitors to the United States
who have overstayed their visits to the number of those who have crossed the
border illegally. (Source: United States Immigration and Naturalization Service)
(pg. A1); "ADDING IT UP: Illegal Immigrants in the U.S. . . . " shows estimated
1994 illegal immigrant population in the United States, nation of origin and
method of entry. (Source: United States Immigration and Naturalization Service)
(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 16, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Newark, Immigration Without Fear;
A Neighborhood Remade By Unexpected Hands

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1323 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 11


Jack Santos, the owner of a restaurant in the Ironbound section of Newark,
remembered how easy it was 30 years ago picking out the Portuguese illegal
immigrants who had begun settling in what was then a gritty neighborhood of
factories and small shops. They were the ones running down Ferry Street whenever
an immigration van appeared.

The raids took place just about every week, he said, leaving scores of workers
hiding in their apartments and rows of driverless delivery trucks along the main
thoroughfare of Ferry Street.

"They would pick up people left and right," said Mr. Santos, who came to this
country illegally in 1966.

While the prowling immigration van hasn't been seen in the neighborhood in
decades, Mr. Santos notes with satisfaction that many of the same people who
scattered down the street are now legal residents and own many of the stores on
Ferry Street, turning it into a bustling market of Portuguese bakeries, clothing
stores and coffee shops.

"If you go through each business, one by one, almost every one started off
illegally," said Mr. Santos, 54, now a legal resident, as he took a break over
an espresso at his restaurant, the Portuguese Pavilion, near Ferry Street.

In the space of 30 years, the Ironbound -- a name drawn from the two railroad
lines that mark its boundaries -- has been transformed from a dingy industrial
haven to a thriving enclave of Portuguese life. The transformation comes in
large part from the entrepreneurship of the thousands of Portuguese illegal
immigrants.

The Ironbound provides a snapshot of illegal immigration in the Northeast, a
world that is strikingly different from that of the border states, which have
dominated the debate over illegal immigration. The Portuguese are the largest
group of illegal immigrants in New Jersey, with a population of about 17,000,
but they have easily melted into the mass of legal immigrants.

While the pervasive image of illegal immigration is one of a shadowy nether
world where impoverished immigrants live in hovels and work under harsh
conditions, the Ironbound provides an example of an illegal immigrant life that
is open, draws little scrutiny, and is virtually indistinguishable from that in
the legal world.

In the compact 4.5-square miles of the Ironbound, illegal immigrants own
businesses, pay taxes and, in contrast to the raids of 30 years ago, walk the
streets with little fear of arrest.

"We are totally invisible," said Paul Quintela, 32, a bar manager who illegally
came to the country in 1990. "No one knows about us. Being illegal is just a
label that doesn't mean anything."

Sitting with a steaming cup of espresso at the Jackson Cafe just off Ferry
Street, Mr. Quintela said that he never really thought of himself as an illegal
immigrant, but rather just an immigrant out to make a better life for himself.
From the beginning, he was the image of middle-class America -- a maitre d'hotel
at a tony French restaurant in Morristown, with a nice home in the suburbs and a
new Volkswagen sedan parked in the driveway.

He paid his taxes like everyone else, even using a Social Security number that
he made up from nine randomly picked digits. Even though the Internal Revenue
Service complained about the number every year, he said he always got his tax
refund. "No problem," he said.

Before coming to the United States, he had owned an ice cream parlor, but saw
little future for himself in Portugal. He found a job as a waiter on a cruise
ship, and after two years, simply left one day to join a friend in the
Ironbound.

He was startled to hear people speaking Portuguese everywhere on the street. He
smelled the familiar aroma of baking custard tarts and Portuguese bread. In the
taverns, he could linger at a table over a glass of Licor Beirao and espresso,
just like back home.

"I thought I was still in Portugal," said Mr. Quintela, who eventually became a
legal resident of the United States through the sponsorship of his employer at
the restaurant. "In a lot of ways, this is more home to me than Portugal. It was
built by people like me."

Fernando Santos, senior editor of Luso-Americano, a Portugese-language newspaper
in the Ironbound, said the neighborhood has drawn Portuguese immigrants since
the turn of the century, although they were just a small part of the flow of
Italians, Lithuanians, Irish, Polish and Germans who also settled in the area to
work in the nearby factories.

The area, roughly bounded by the Passaic River on the north, Amtrak tracks on
the west and Conrail tracks on the east, is still dotted with churches of
various denominations that serve as a reminder of the earlier multiethnic
influx, even though many of their original parishioners have long since left for
the suburbs.

Mr. Santos said that the Portuguese began to arrive in greater numbers after a
change in the immigration law in 1965 that gave preference to relatives of
immigrants already here. But the largest flow began after the 1974 military coup
in Portugal, which sparked a new migration of urban professionals, tradesmen and
entrepreneurs.

By the mid-1970's, the Italian and Cuban shops that had lined Ferry Street gave
way to a burst of Portuguese investment.

Today, out of about 40,000 residents who live in the modest brick and clapboard
homes in the Ironbound, at least 40 percent are Portuguese.

And now Ferry Street is a blend of Portugal and America, where Dunkin' Donuts
stores stand next to shops like Coutinho's Bakery and the Roque and Rebelo
restaurant.

"In Portugal, everyone knows where Newark and New Jersey are now," said Alvaro
Zanbujinho, who came as an illegal immigrant 10 years ago and is now a legal
resident and co-owner of Delicias Bakery on Ferry Street.

For some immigrants, however, the passage to America has not been as smooth. For
seven years, a man who would only give his name as Agostinho C. said that he and
his family have struggled to survive in the Ironbound on his wife's $300-a-month
salary as a baby sitter.

He came to the United States in 1987 on a tourist visa and easily found work in
one of the dozens of Portuguese construction companies in Newark. But after a
year, he suffered a severe head injury in a truck accident and has been unable
to work. Since then, he spends most of his time with friends. "I never go
outside of the Portuguese community," he said.

He remembered that when he and his family first came to this country, he sat
down with his 8-year-old daughter and explained that they were in the United
States illegally and warned her not to tell anyone.

"It bothers me, and it bothers her, too," said Agostinho, who is 37. "This is a
very hard time now. I'm more worried about being illegal than before."

But he said that in another three or four months, the family will probably
become permanent residents of the United States through the sponsorship of his
wife's employer.

"I thought it would take three years, but it's taken seven," he said. "I feel
good for my daughter. She will be going to college soon and she won't face what
we did. Soon my ordeal will be over."

He said that since 1986, the economy in Portugal has improved and there are
fewer and fewer illegal immigrants coming to the United States. Many have even
begun returning home because of the prolonged recession in this country during
the late 1980's and early 90's.

But even as the influx of Portuguese has slowed, the next generation of
immigrants to the Ironbound have already begun to establish themselves.

Drawn by their common language of Portuguese, Brazilian immigrants have been
flocking to the Ironbound over the last five to 10 years.

Brazilian shops and restaurants now dot the area, taking the place of Portuguese
stores that have moved outside the Ironbound to places like Elizabeth and Union
City.

"You see a lot of Brazilians now," Agostinho said. "They are going through the
same phase as the Portuguese 30 years ago."


LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ferry Street, in the Ironbound section of Newark, is the home
for many illegal Portuguese immigrants. The newcomers have turned the
neighborhood into a bustling markets of shops, bakeries and restaurants. (pg.
B1); Jack Santos, a Portuguese immigrant, as are many others in the Ironbound
section of Newark, in front of his restaurant in that section. (Dith Pran/The
New York Times) (pg. B4)

Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Ironbound" shows ancestrial breakdown of the residents of
Ironbound, along with statistics comparing the area with New Jersey with respect
to median household income, education, and the percentage of owner-occupied
homes. (Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College, from the census) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 18, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Crisis Seen Spurring Flow of Aliens

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17


With its $40 billion rescue plan for Mexico running into opposition from members
of President Clinton's own party, the Administration told leaders of Congress
today that the number of illegal immigrants crossing the border into Texas and
California would increase by 430,000 this year if the Mexican financial crisis
deepened.

That estimate would mean a rise of 30 percent over earlier projections of
illegal 1995 border crossings, as Mexican workers are drawn to a dollar that has
become 35 percent more valuable relative to the peso since the devaluation of
the Mexican currency began just before Christmas.

But the numbers did little to quell growing objections to the rescue.  The
opposition is led by Democrats who were pressured to vote for the North American
Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and who now say American taxpayer dollars should
not be put at risk to bail out one of the country's economic competitors.

Under the President's plan, announced last week, the United States would offer
Mexico loan guarantees of up to $40 billion, meaning that the Treasury would
have to lay out money only if Mexico defaulted on any of its huge borrowings.

The Administration has declined to say how much of a fee, akin to an insurance
premium, Mexico will be asked to pay the United States in return for the loan
guarantees.

But participants in meetings that lawmakers held on Capitol Hill today with
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan
Greenspan, said that to build support for the program, the Administration had
set a steep price: about 8 percent of the amount of the loan guarantees. That
means that if Mexico used the full guarantees, it would pay the United States
Treasury about $3.2 billion, money the Government would pocket as a profit if
the loans were repaid.

Mr. Clinton's plan was initially endorsed by top Republicans, led by the Senate
majority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas. But today Mr. Dole seemed to back away,
saying the President should not depend on Republicans to pass legislation
authorizing the bailout program unless he could bring along Democrats.

"He needs to work within his party," Mr. Dole said. "We're not going to carry
the whole load here and get hung out to dry."

The White House tried to minimize the depth of the opposition and said Mr.
Clinton would probably meet with members of Congress on Wednesday to win
support. The Administration hopes to bring the authorizing legislation to
Congressional votes within a week or so, Administration officials said.

"The President is very encouraged by what he's heard from his Treasury Secretary
about the discussions on the deal with members of Congress concerning the loan
guarantee package," said Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary,
who was traveling with Mr. Clinton in California. "They gave a very positive
response. It's been very reassuring to the markets and financial experts.
Conversations with the Government of Mexico have been very positive, and they
understand that we are going to have some concerns that will be raised in the
provision of these guarantees. Those discussions are proceeding."

But participants in today's meetings on Capitol Hill provided a less
enthusiastic account. By this account, several Democratic lawmakers told
Administration officials that they were unconvinced that the bailout would help
anyone except wealthy investors who had bought Mexico's short-term Government
bonds, which were used to cover the country's growing long-term debt.

"We must not be sending money to Mexico just to prop up a nation with the
fastest-growing number of billionaires in the world," said Representative David
E. Bonior of Michigan, the House Democratic whip.

Mr. Bonior has asked the Administration to establish much more stringent
conditions for the loan guarantees, including promises by Mexico to buy more
American products and an agreement that Mexican wages will be tied to increases
in productivity, a step that the Mexican authorities fear would fuel inflation
in their rapidly growing country.

The tensions the Administration faces within its own party were evident at one
session today when Lawrence Summers, the Under Secretary of the Treasury, was
asked why the United States was not demanding that Mexico put up collateral, in
the form of shares in the nationally held oil company, Pemex, which is
considered the crown jewel of the Mexican economy.

"The Government would fall," a participant in the meeting quoted Mr. Summers as
responding.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 21, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

The Overworked I.N.S.

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 422 words


Lennox Medina, originally from Trinidad, remained in the U.S. illegally for
nearly 20 years. The Immigration and Naturalization Service caught up with him
when he served time in New York City's Rikers Island jail for criminal
possession of a weapon in 1993. The I.N.S. ordered his deportation; but the
agency had no place to detain Mr. Medina, so it released him on a $10,000 bond.
When he failed to surrender for deportation, the I.N.S. did not pursue him. Two
modern-day bounty hunters working for the bondsman brought him in.

This surprising story recounted in The Times last week demonstrates the enormous
task facing the I.N.S. The agency is charged with finding illegal immigrants,
who have become a favorite target of angry voters. There may be four million
illegal immigrants altogether. Of that number, the agency has managed to target
only 472,000 for deportation. Many of those have simply overstayed their visas,
but 96,000 have committed crimes.

Even when the I.N.S. tracks down and prepares to throw out illegal aliens, it
has only about 6,000 detention cells for them. That means the vast majority are
released, either on their own recognizance or on bond, before their cases are
completed.

With some additional resources from Congress this year, the agency has now
decided that it will focus more aggressively on the group that most deserves
swift and sure deportation -- illegals who have also committed crimes. That
makes sense, especially in places like New York, where the problem is acute. New
York sued the I.N.S. in 1992 because the agency failed to take custody of
illegal-alien inmates who had served their time in state prisons but had not
been processed for deportation.

Now the I.N.S. is trying to process more criminal aliens while they are still in
Federal and state prisons. New York has started putting prisoners in three
facilities to make it easier for I.N.S. officials to find them in the system and
hold deportation hearings while they are still serving time. If the hearing and
appeal process can be completed by the time of release, the alien can be kicked
out of the country immediately.

Similar procedures are being pursued in Texas, where cases are handled more
expeditiously because the state provides counsel to criminal aliens. New York
should consider providing counsel or urging private lawyers to serve pro bono.
Giving fair and speedy hearings to more illegal aliens who are already behind
bars is a less costly and risky proposition than chasing them down.



LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 4, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Flow of Illegal Aliens Rises as the Peso Falls

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz., Feb. 3


The Border Patrol senior agent surveyed the tattered border fence that separates
Mexico and the United States and shook his head in consternation.

In broad daylight, as far as he could see to the east and west, people were
slipping through holes and gaps in the barrier, fleeing the poverty of Latin
America and making their way, illegally but unhindered, into the land of
economic opportunity.

Some tossed the agent, Kevin Oaks, a smile and a wave as they ducked into alleys
and side streets or disappeared into the tangled depths of rocky, trash-strewn
desert canyons in the distance.

"Nogales is the hot spot these days for sneaking into the U.S.," Agent Oaks
lamented. "We've been overwhelmed here over the past few months, ever since the
special push was ordered to shut down hard on illegal crossings over at San
Diego and back at El Paso. And things have only gotten worse since the peso
tumbled. Now there's even less work to be had in Mexico and if the peso tumbles
more -- Well, better pray."

Illegal border crossings at Nogales are already heavy. Last month the 80
overworked Border Patrol agents here arrested 10,476 illegal aliens, which was
more than ever before and more than twice the 4,293 arrested in January 1994.

No one knows, of course, how many aliens slipped past without being caught. But
if the scene playing out before Agent Oaks's frustrated eyes was any indication,
thousands and thousands more got through than were stopped.

Those who evaded apprehension made their way to urban areas like Los Angeles,
Chicago and New York with the help of friends or paid guides.

"The word is out down in Mexico that we're now the weak point in the defense,"
Agent Oaks said. "It used to be that two of every three illegal crossings were
attempted at San Diego and El Paso. Now a lot of the people we're catching here
tell us they specifically avoided going to those crossing points because of the
increased patrolling. They know there are more holes in the border here than we
have agents and equipment to plug them. We're something of a joke."

Unlike the Border Patrol stations at San Diego and El Paso, where the number of
field agents and supply of surveillance equipment have been more than doubled
recently, the station at Nogales has not been reinforced.

More people and equipment have been promised as part of an effort by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to slow what has become a costly and
politically embarrassing assault on the southern border of the United States.
But delivery is six months or more away.

"It's enough to drive you crazy," said R. S. Colburn, the chief patrol agent
here. "The Patrol has proved at San Diego and El Paso that the flow really can
be slowed and made almost manageable with the right mix of agents and
equipment."

In particular, immigration officials are pleased with the results from San
Diego, which was the most porous of all crossing points before the reinforcement
effort.

Last fall, when the reinforcements, extra night-vision scopes, radios and
all-terrain vehicles were deployed, monthly apprehensions more than tripled.
Then, near the turn of the year as word began to spread among aliens that
crossing at San Diego was no longer a breeze, illegal entry attempts began to
fall off, followed by a decline in apprehensions.

A few days ago, Border Patrol officials proudly reported the most encouraging
news to date. In January 1995, they said, there were 31,000 apprehensions at San
Diego, compared with 38,000 apprehensions for the same month a year earlier, a
decline of almost 20 percent.

At El Paso, monthly apprehensions are still running ahead of those for a year
earlier. But as at San Diego, the gap is beginning to close.

Meanwhile, here in Nogales, outnumbered Border Patrol agents find that not only
are they unable to apprehend thousands of illegal aliens but many of those they
do turn back often try to cross again -- usually successfully -- within a matter
of hours.

"Sometimes it seems that the biggest deterrent they face in crossing is not us
but the bandits and drug dealers who sometimes ambush them in the gullies and
alleys," Agent Oaks said. "We've noticed that as the number of crossings has
increased recently, so has border crime, especially robbery, drug running and
rape of women attempting to cross."

Late in the afternoon Agent Oaks helped apprehend a young man emerging from a
cross-border drain culvert. The man reported that he had just been robbed in the
dank tunnel by a group of teen-agers who had brandished knives and were high
from sniffing paint fumes.

Asked why he had ventured into the tunnel, the man, an auto mechanic who
identified himself only as "Osvaldo," replied that he could not find work in
Mexico and was willing to risk robbery to hunt for a job in the United States.

He said he was from a farming area west of Mexico City, had spent two and a half
days riding a bus to Nogales and was headed for Los Angeles.

Why, Agent Oaks asked, had he tried to cross at Nogales instead of San Diego?

"I heard that crossing at Nogales would be easier because there would be fewer
border guards," he replied, a slight smile creasing his weary face.

What would he do after being returned to Mexico? Would he go home?

"There is nothing at home for me," he said. "It is worse now after the fall of
the peso than it has ever been."

Would he try another crossing? Risk another robbery?

"Why not?" he replied. "I have nothing left to lose."

Another border agent moved in to lead him off. The slight smile returned.

"See you around," Agent Oaks said.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Five apprehended aliens were directed yesterday to a Border
Patrol vehicle at Nogales, Ariz., by an agent, Roy Pierce. Nogales is considered
an easy place to cross the Mexican border into the United States.; A 12-year-old
boy who acted as a guide for 29 aliens crossing into the United States at
Nogales, Ariz., stood with Border Patrol agents yesterday after the group had
been apprehended. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

Map of Arizone

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 6, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

62 New Guards Will Reinforce Arizona Border

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5


President Clinton today ordered 62 more border guards sent to Nogales, Ariz., in
response to a surge in illegal border crossings from Mexico, the White House
said in a statement.

The increase in border crossings has been prompted by the economic turmoil in
Mexico in recent weeks as the value of the peso has plummeted. The White House
said it expected that the pressure on the border with Mexico would subside now
that Mr. Clinton had taken action to stabilize the peso. Mr. Clinton offered
Mexico $20 billion in loans and loan guarantees last Tuesday as part of an
international aid plan.

The White House said the agents being sent to Arizona were being reassigned from
the Canadian border and from interior stations in Arizona and other parts of the
United States. They will begin to report for work on Tuesday, increasing the
border force by 17 percent.

The Administration, which had expected the number of illegal entries to increase
in Arizona as a result of its crackdowns in California and Texas, is training
100 new agents to reinforce the border at Nogales, the statement said.

"But illegal crossings increased so dramatically in January in the wake of the
peso devaluation that more agents are needed now," the statement said.

An earlier crackdown in the San Diego area was deemed successful. That $25
million operation, begun in October, was an intricate, quasi-military
combination of fencing, high-intensity lights, additional staffing and increased
use of radios, night-vision devices and motion detectors.

On the first nights of the operation, the number of apprehensions increased 30
percent to 200 percent.

By the turn of the year, word had begun to spread among illegal immigrants that
crossing at San Diego was no longer a breeze. Attempts at illegal entry there
began to fall off, followed by a decline in apprehensions.

Last week, Border Patrol officials said apprehensions in January were down
sharply, to 31,000, compared with 38,000 in the same month last year. San Diego
had once been considered the easiest place to sneak into the United States.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Working in Tijuana

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


Here I am in Tijuana and instead of buying a rhinestoned sombrero souvenir,
licking salt and slugging down a tequila, peering around for Mexicans plotting
to sneak into the United States or doing other useful border-type things, I am
just wandering around thinking of four fellows I have left in the car -- Rudy
Giuliani, Jack Kemp, Mario Cuomo and William Bennett.

They are in the trunk -- in the suitcase stuffed with the immigration file. Of
the hundreds of politicians, academics and journalists who have committed
articles, speeches or interviews about what is known as the immigration problem,
these four keep coming to mind.

In New York, I thought of them when a city official told me of telephone calls
in the middle of the night. People were listening to music on the roof, so they
must be illegal immigrants; come and arrest them.

In Los Angeles I thought of them when nurses and doctors said they would refuse
to obey Proposition 187. That is the new package of laws ordering them to report
to the police any sick person who might have that certain illegal look or sound.

I thought of them in San Francisco when the man near me at dinner turned out to
be an immigrant from China -- Chang-Lin Tien, now Chancellor of the University
of California at Berkeley. And in Washington -- when the House committee
stripped all other legal immigrants of 35 social and economic benefits.

So in Tijuana, probably the biggest border crossing, legal and illegal, in North
America, I return to the car to dig for what the four had said.

Their value was not in any sudden flash of inspiration but almost the opposite.
They had said things that were once taken for granted in America but had become
terribly unfashionable and, for politicians, even dangerous.

Last June Mr. Cuomo, then Governor of New York, decided against suing the
Federal Government to recover costs of social services spent for immigrants -- a
growing trend in some states. He decided it would send a false message that
immigrants were a national burden. Then he said something astonishing:

"I love immigrants. Legal, illegal, they are not to be despised."

Mayor Giuliani says it even more powerfully. In a City Hall interview he told me
that illegal immigrants were among the most hard-working in the city. He said
that if they continued to contribute to society, this Mayor would not hunt or
hound them or try to kick their children out of schools and hospitals, as the
new California regulations demand.

The Mayor, a former Federal prosecutor, was scathing about Federal failure to
deport those illegal immigrants who had committed serious crimes after coming to
America. Scores of thousands of cases are waiting for Federal action. So, he
said, New York has better things to do than pursue cases against illegals who
have never committed any crime but to come looking for work.

Mr. Kemp and Mr. Bennett issued a joint statement when they were possible
Republican candidates for President. They did not do themselves any political
good.

They said illegal immigration was a serious problem that should be met
principally at the borders. But they came out against Proposition 187, now in
the courts.

They said a concern about illegal immigration was no excuse for "fundamentally
flawed, constitutionally questionable steps that would help contribute to a
nativist and anti-immigrant climate." They warned that one day these steps could
haunt American minorities.

Immigration scares come in cycles. Something touches American anxieties. A
recession or technology threatens employment. Cultural changes make people look
more closely at faces, and listen to fear talk. Even Americans born to
immigrants begin worrying -- maybe it is time to pull up the gangplank.

Put together, what the men in the trunk were saying was a reminder that the
country was built heavily on immigrant brawn, brain and, yes, family values --
and that the time to think most carefully about this reality was when the
pressure was on against immigrants, legal or illegal.

So I smooth the four out and put them carefully back in the suitcase. Feeling
better, I decide to have one tequila after all. But that sparkling sombrero -- I
don't have the courage.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 11, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Latest Tool Of Shoplifters: Metal in Bags

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 25;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 920 words


In what the Nassau County police called the method of choice for professional
shoplifters, five people have been charged with using shopping bags lined with
metal to circumvent store security systems and steal more than $8,000 in
merchandise from a mall in Massapequa.

The suspects, all illegal immigrants, may be part of a shoplifting ring
operating along the East Coast, the police said.

"This is not the first time we have seen this," said Detective Lieut. Andrew
Fal. "It has occurred in other malls in New York and even in other states."

The shoplifters were caught when officers, on patrol for car thieves at the
Sunrise Mall, saw something odd Thursday afternoon: a group of shoppers kept
coming out of the mall, dumping merchandise in a car and going back in.

The officers quickly concluded, "Either they're very fast shoppers, or something
is wrong here," Lieutenant Fal said. What they found, he said, was a team of
thieves.

Along with the $8,000 in jeans, boots, blouses and shirts that had been taken
from stores including Macy's and J. C. Penney, the police found a map and list
indicating that the suspects had been stealing from malls throughout the
metropolitan area, and perhaps as far away as Delaware, for months.

The five people arrested, all Queens residents and all illegal immigrants from
Mexico, Peru and Argentina, were using three large shopping bags marked on the
outside with the name of a department store and lined with a second bag
apparently made of metal.

"There is no question that for the last six to eight months we have seen an
increase in this technique where shoplifters are using aluminium-foil-lined
bags," said Louis J. Chiera, a spokesman for Sensormatic Electronics
Corporation, the world's biggest supplier of electronic surveillance systems for
stores.

Mr. Chiera said in a telephone interview from company headquarters in Deerfield
Beach, Fla., that retailers with newer systems that could penetrate the aluminum
had caught thieves using variations on the theme.

A would-be thief at a New York City discount store had constructed a pair of
metal boxer shorts, a West Coast department store arrested a customer with a
metal pouch inside his pants and several stores reported bags lined with duct
tape that apparently had a high enough metal content to defeat the
anti-shoplifting devices.

Anthony Davis, the security manager at the Nordstrom department store in
Paramus, N.J., said some women had stuffed merchandise into specially designed
girdles. In recent months, one woman was caught with 15 dresses in her girdle.
Another attempted to conceal two leather jackets.

"It's just a common thing to see them now," Mr. Davis said. "Before, it was
like, 'Oh my God, look at this.' You are not talking about a person who is
shoplifting a $25 pair of jeans. You are talking about a person who conceals
over $1,000 at a pop."

In hardware stores, thieves have occasionally filled metal garbage cans with
goods they wanted to steal.

The Tower Records chain, an early victim of the technique, decided two years ago
to invest the extra $4,000 to $5,000 per store for a newer system that can
overcome the metal-lined bags and clothes, said Rodney A. Harris, assistant
director for loss prevention.

The anti-theft devices first introduced over 12 years ago worked on
low-frequency radio signals. Shoppers walked through an electronic bubble of
radio waves created around the entrance to the store. If they left with one of
the metal-lined plastic tags on an item of clothing, it would trip an alarm.

The metal-lined shopping bags prevented the security tag from returning the
radio signals. The latest systems use sound waves instead to activate the
security tags. The sound waves can penetrate the metal.

Retailers estimate the losses from shoplifting across the country in the
hundreds of millions of dollars annually.

"This area has been victimized by these people and their bags," said Peter di
Spagna, an investigator with the police burglary squad in Stamford, Conn. "The
bags come in all varieties, shapes and sizes."

Sometimes referred to as booster bags, he said the shoplifters sometimes use
pizza delivery bags and line them with lead sheeting similar to engine
insulation in tractor-trailers. The pizza bags can be slung over the shoulder of
the shoplifter and hidden under large winter coats.

"They are going after the high-ticket items," Officer di Spagna said. "These
guys do this for a living. They are sort of like semiprofessionals."

The police said such thieves often work in pairs, with one distracting the
salespeople while the other stuffs the bags. They said it was not uncommon for
thieves using the bags to make off with thousands of dollars in goods in a day.

On Long Island, Lieutenant Fal said that the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service have been called in to investigate
because a pattern was emerging of illegal aliens -- many who could not speak
English -- working in teams as shoplifters.

The five arrested were Juan Martinez, 47, of Flushing, and Pedro Ramirez, 36,
Adela Desoto, 39, Lucia Chanduvi, 38, and Jesusa Castro, 23, of Corona. All were
arraigned yesterday at First District Court in Hempstead and charged with
criminal possession of stolen property and possession of burglar tools.

The police said goods stolen in stores are often sold at a discount on the
streets of large cities or to retailers who are involved in the ring.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 12, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Rubber-Hose Factory Raided

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 49 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


The Immigration and Naturalization Service raided a rubber-hose factory
yesterday, seizing 57 workers it described as illegal aliens from Ecuador,
Honduras, Mexico and Peru. The workers face deportation hearings, and the
company, Flexon Industries, could be fined $2,000 for each worker.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 24, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Media-Wise Governor Runs A Smooth Race in California

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1743 words

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA. Calif., Oct. 20


If he had stumbled, it could have been an awkward moment for Gov. Pete Wilson's
re-election campaign, but you would never have guessed it. California cool,
sound-stage smooth, he gives nothing away; you can no more read his emotions in
his face than see through a mirror.

His big issue is illegal immigration. He has dramatized his promises to do
something about it by endorsing Proposition 187, a ballot initiative that would
require the state's schools, hospitals and other institutions to deny services
to illegal immigrants, who come mainly from Mexico. As the proposition has
gained strength, so has he, and together they have pulled well ahead in the
polls.

But Mr. Wilson has always had a lot of trouble with his party's right wing, and
this week two leading Republican conservatives, Jack F. Kemp and William J.
Bennett, both members of George Bush's Cabinet, denounced the ballot measure,
describing it as "fundamentally flawed and constitutionally questionable."

Reporters caught up with the Governor in an aircraft-assembly hangar in Long
Beach. Nobody had to tell him it was time to play the Beltway card.

"Those are two guys who have been in Washington too long," he said with his
tight, mirthless smile. "Nice guys, but when you spend too much time in an ivory
tower, you lose touch with reality. They ought to come out to California and
look at the real world."

Sound bite. Next question.

"In a state as large as this," the Governor of the nation's largest state said
later on board a private jet, heading north, "people don't have time for a lot
of fine points. You have to be crystal clear. We think people are most deeply
moved in three areas: crime and immigration -- a real sense of rage about those
-- and jobs, which is their broadest, most long-lasting concern. So that's what
we hit on, morning, noon and night."

Running a tightly focused, politically adept campaign has helped Mr. Wilson
overtake his Democratic rival, Kathleen Brown, the state treasurer, who is the
daughter and sister of former governors. So has Ms. Brown's late-starting
effort, which has somehow failed to capitalize on this year's anti-incumbent
mood, even though she is running against a man who has held public office
without a break since he was elected to the Assembly in 1966, a man right up
there in Edward M. Kennedy's and Mario M. Cuomo's and Thomas S. Foley's class
when it comes to incumbency.

Mr. Wilson's own analysis was dismissive if not condescending.

"In terms of energy and polish, she's fine," the Governor said of his opponent.
"But from the voter's standpoint, she's saying the wrong things."

Perhaps. Like President Clinton and other leading Democrats, Ms. Brown is
opposed to Proposition 187.

But that would not have mattered much without this year's upturn in the
California economy, which for Mr. Wilson could not have come at a better moment.
The rising economic tide may not be lifting President Clinton's boat much, but
it has floated Mr. Wilson's skiff off the rocks in the last few months.

Four years ago, having won a third solid statewide victory in eight years, Mr.
Wilson left the Senate and moved to Sacramento. California's politicians,
accustomed by the successes of Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan to setting
their sights high, began talking about him as a probable Presidential candidate.

But then came a sharp, sudden economic downturn, driven by trouble in aerospace
and real estate. It quickly produced a $14 billion state budget shortfall, to
which the Governor responded with a $7 billion tax increase and $5 billion in
spending cuts. His approval ratings plunged, and he cut state spending further,
admitting that it had been a policy as well as a political error, and a bad one,
to raise taxes at a time when the California economy was in the dumps.

By the beginning of this year, the 61-year-old Mr. Wilson's prospects for a
second term, let alone a race for national office, seemed close to nil.

That all seems a long time ago now. Then, he felt cornered, and it showed in his
defensive explanations. Now, he feels freed, and that shows, too, as he feeds
his audiences, stop by stop, day by day, little bits of evidence that California
has touched bottom and is on the way back. He sounds like a chamber of commerce
news release come to life.

In Anaheim, he tells them that Inc. magazine says, "Twice as many of the 500
fastest-growing entrepreneurial companies are in California as in any other
state." In Santa Clara, in the heart of Silicon Valley, he quotes a bank's
prediction, quoted in that morning's Wall Street Journal, that the state will
grow by about 4.8 percent next year. In Chatsworth, not far from the epicenter
of the Los Angeles earthquake, he talks about how many Fortune 500 companies
have moved their headquarters here.

At every stop, he praises the people of California, whom he calls "the most
innovative and entrepreneurial people the good Lord has ever created."

But he also praises Pete Wilson. What turned things around, he says, is his work
in making California a better place to do business. He cites reform of the
state's "onerous" workers' compensation laws and the efforts of his
bureaucracy-fighting "Red Teams," the expansion of state export-loan guarantees
and the enactment of a law allowing a 6 percent tax credit on manufacturing
equipment.

Not exactly crowd-rousing items, those, but then he is not exactly speaking to
crowds. There is not much glad-handing or other retail campaigning.

This is California, the media state par excellence, and like other candidates
here Mr. Wilson usually appears not at rallies but at carefully scripted
political mini-events, one-act plays intended to make a single point and planned
with an eye to picture possibilities ("Don't get in the shot, don't get in the
shot," the advance men cry at every stop when some unruly worker or onlooker
strays into the camera's range).

Show business is never far away in California, and the Governor's trip this week
was described, on the yellow and black cover of an explanatory document, as
"Pete Wilson's Greatest Hits Jobs Tour."

Thus, Tuesday's Chatsworth visit was meant to show, as the Governor likes to
say, that "California can compete with South Carolina or Singapore" when it
comes to high-tech industry, and indeed the ADC Fibermux plant, which makes
circuit boards for computer networks, starred in its assigned role. It looked as
spotlessly clean and felt as over air-conditioned as Singapore, and it was
staffed largely by Asian-Americans.

At almost every stop, someone stepped up to give Pete Wilson credit for making
California government friendlier to business, a partner instead of an adversary.
In Long Beach, for example, Dr. Carl Chen, the founder of Advanced Aerodynamics
and Structures Inc., the first new American builder of airplanes in decades,
said his company had been courted by many states and by countries from South
Korea to South Africa, because of its potential for creating jobs.

"Because of Governor Wilson and his reforms, we decided to stay in California,"
Dr. Chen declared.

Sometimes the little shows are convincing, sometimes less so. In Santa Clara,
the occasion was the announcement by Intel, the computer chip maker, that it
planned to enlarge its plant here, a project that will cost $500 million and
create 300 jobs. Mr. Wilson said this demonstrated once again the company's
commitment to California and his Administration's success at cutting red tape.

In fact, Intel has also promised in the last 18 months to build factories
costing more than $1 billion in Arizona and New Mexico, choosing those states in
part because they offered better tax breaks and lower regulatory hurdles.

The details have nagged a bit at Mr. Wilson on the immigration question, too.
Experts on the subject trace part of California's problem to a bill in 1986 that
allows illegal immigrants to come here as agricultural workers. Mr. Wilson, then
a Senator, had a hand in drafting the measure, but he insists that his version
would have forced the illegals to return home after the harvest. That safeguard,
he says, was dropped in the bargaining on the bill.

Looking a little like a prep-school teacher in his tweedy clothes, the Governor
plows diligently through his arguments: Services to illegal aliens eat up 10
percent of the state's budget; that means fewer computers for schoolrooms and
fewer new hospital beds; that is unfair to the people of California, and the
Federal Government ought either to seal the border or foot the bill. Whatever
else it is, this is a campaign about real issues, unlike many others this year.

On crime, Mr. Wilson takes the high road ("I am privileged to be the first
Governor in the nation to sign a three-strikes-and-you're-out bill into law," he
said in an Eastman Kodak warehouse in Hollywood) as well as the low. No matter
what Ms. Brown says to suggest that she, too, is tough on crime, he tars her
with her father's and her brother's aversion to the death penalty and their
tolerance of what he terms "our absurdly lenient laws on repeat offenders."

Many of those around him, including contributors, old friends and staff members,
fully expect to hear lines like that from the candidate Wilson in the 1996
Presidential campaign. California now casts nearly 10 percent of the votes in
the electoral college (and a similar percentage of those at party conventions).
Its primary will be early in 1996, not late, making it far more important. A
victory for Mr. Wilson would place him in a distinctly strategic position.

But he insists that he will not run. Is that an irrevocable no, a Shermanesque
no, a not-even-a-draft no? "It's a no," he said, adding that he was looking
forward to serving out a second full four-year term in Sacramento.

He may not mean it, though he reminds people that Mr. Cuomo said, no, and made
it stick. If he does shun a White House bid, one reason may be a quirk in
California law. Candidates for governor and lieutenant governor run separately,
and the clear front-runner for the No. 2 job this time is Gray Davis, a very
liberal Democrat who served as chief of staff to Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr.

It is quite possible, Mr. Wilson allowed drily, that the voters would resent a
Governor who was elected after a campaign in which he indulged in Brown-bashing
only to spend a year or so traipsing around the country, leaving a Brown acolyte
in charge back home.

NAME: Pete Wilson

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Pete Wilson, left, campaigned in San Diego on Friday. He
talked with Tracy Santanen, a trainee welder at the National Steel and
Shipbuilding Company, and Dick Vortmann, the company's president. (Jim
Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 4, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

MEXICO'S RESCUE PACKAGE: THE IMPLICATIONS;
A Darker Side for U.S. In the Mexican Solution

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section D;   Page 4;   Column 5;   Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1099 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3


Just before the peso crisis began two weeks ago, Clinton Administration
officials celebrated the anniversary of the approval of the North American Free
Trade Agreement by proudly announcing the first fruits of victory: Mexico had
overtaken Japan as the No. 2 consumer of American exports.

Now the Administration is facing the darker side of the broad economic alliance
it pressed so hard to bring to pass. To restore confidence in the Mexican
economy, it has supported -- and helped shape -- a plan that is almost certain
to cut back the pace at which American goods flow across the border. Moreover,
it is a plan that seems certain to increase the inducements for Mexican workers
to come to the United States illegally.

For one thing, the decision announced today by President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce
de Leon to let the peso float freely at its devalued levels will mean that
American wages are now about 30 percent more valuable to Mexican workers than
they were just a few weeks ago.

The result, Administration officials conceded today, will likely be visible
within weeks along the 2,000-mile-long border. In the name of stabilizing the
Mexican economy over the next year or two, Mr. Clinton's aides have decided to
run the risk of another wave of illegal immigration into regions of the United
States that are growing increasingly intolerant of the cost it imposes on
American workers and taxpayers.

"In the end there is no choice," one Administration official who has been
involved in the growing trade with Mexico said today. "Mexico has become an
integral part of the North American market. That started way before Nafta. The
two economies are intertwined in trade, in commerce, in the movement of people.
And in the end, the bigger need is to have a stable country on our border."

Throughout the currency crisis, the White House has been acutely aware that
while the political stakes are enormous for Mr. Zedillo; they may also loom
large for Mr. Clinton.

After a contentious debate in the fall of 1993 before approval, the North
American trade agreement faded as an issue, costing Mr. Clinton little. But that
calculation may now change, especially in Texas and California, two states that
are critical to his re-election hopes. Many residents there are among those most
suspicious that they are paying the price for helping Mexico overcome its
economic problems. Opponents of the trade accord, who said American workers
would be hurt more than they were helped, may look more prescient in coming
months if the flow of both low-priced goods and low-wage immigrants from Mexico
to the United States sharply increases.

"The Clinton Administration has fallen into the same trap as the Reagan and Bush
Administrations," said Jeffrey J. Schott, a senior fellow at the Institute for
International Economics, who has written extensively about the benefits of the
trade accord. "It has been forced to oversell the effects of a trade deal on
American economic growth. And sometimes, it comes back to haunt you."

Certainly there is good news as well for Washington in the economic recovery
package announced today by Mr. Zedillo, who has been in office for less than a
month. Mr. Zedillo's insistence that unions agree to wage increases of no more
than 7 percent, and that corporations keep their profits minimal in an effort to
keep prices down, seem likely to cut off the momentum of devaluation and
inflation that many feared could cause the economy to spin out of control.

More important, Mr. Zedillo has chosen to speed changes in the economy that the
North American Free Trade Accord set in motion. He is allowing private
investment in railroads and satellite operations, promising to further
liberalize foreign investment rules and promoting more competition in domestic
telephone services.

All those steps are likely to eventually benefit American companies racing for a
firmer foothold in the Mexican economy. In some areas, Mr. Zedillo is handing
Washington openings it sought -- and was denied -- when the trade agreement was
negotiated under the Bush Administration.

The Mexican President is also hoping to wean his country from its dependence on
short-term investments to finance its current-account deficit -- the difference
between what it takes in from exports and what it pays for imports and to meet
its foreign-debt obligations. Those investments make the economy more vulnerable
to market speculators, who helped send the peso on its fall.

Instead, Mr. Zedillo hopes to pay for Mexico's deficit with more direct
investment from foreign companies, getting them to build factories and
businesses in the country. That may be more attractive than ever, because the
cost of investing in Mexico has declined by a third.

But American companies will have to be convinced that Mr. Zedillo has the unions
and the country's elite behind him. They also have to be persuaded that they
will not suffer a similar fate to that of investors of recent months and years,
who have been hit with millions of dollars in losses in the last two weeks.

And they must learn to live with slower growth -- much slower than the 4 to 6
percent growth that Mr. Zedillo was confidently predicting in Washington a few
weeks ago, before his inauguration.

Such problems, of course, are not inherent to investors in Mexico. China, the
largest potential investment market of all for American companies, already has a
surging inflation rate of 24 percent and seems ripe for a Mexico-style market
correction. Throughout much of Eastern Europe, the kinds of tough economic
choices that Mexico deferred during its presidential election last year have
also been avoided.

But as President Clinton learned during the national debate in 1993 over the
North American trade deal, there is something special about Mexico. The specter
of more illegal immigration and of political trouble on the United States'
border gives a vivid immediacy to the country's economic troubles that outweigh
Mexico's size or influence on the American economy.

What the Clinton White House still has not learned, some experts contend, is
that its much touted foreign economic policy must be approached like arms
control: The focus has to be on prevention, not response.

"What we need now is a new method for consultation and support between the two
countries to reduce the likelihood that problems like this become crises," said
Robert A. Pastor, the director of the Latin American and Caribbean program at
the Carter Center at Emory University in Atlanta. "That will be the most
important long-term change."

NAME: Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon of Mexico, presenting
his economic stabilization plan. (Associated Press)

TYPE: Biography; News Analysis

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 11, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION REVIEW;
Entering the U.S. Illegally And Provoking Anger

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section C;  Page 18;  Column 5;  Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 392 words


"Slamming the Door" captures the spreading resentment against immigrants,
particularly against illegal immigrants and most particularly against illegal
immigrants who commit crimes.

Phil Jones, of the "48 Hours" team, talks to workers in a New Jersey insurance
company who lost their jobs to newcomers from India with temporary work visas.
Through a loophole in the law, the noncitizens were paid half what the Americans
were making.

In the small town of St. George, Utah, Erin Moriarty finds an 11-year-old girl
who was raped by an illegal immigrant from Mexico already possessed of a
criminal record. Everyone, including an official of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, agrees that the understaffed service does little to
crack down on the illegals. Those who are deported just keep coming back.

Even immigrants who commit no crime except slipping into the country are
imposing burdens on cities like Miami, which receives 100 or more children a day
into its schools from Cuba and other lands to the South. Perhaps half of them
are in the United States illegally, but school officials say they are barred by
law from inquiring. Parents at a P.T.A. meeting show sympathy for the children
along with concern for the expense.

Medical costs, too, are running high. Richard Schlesinger reports that pregnant
women from Mexico come to the San Diego area to have their babies: it's safer
and cheaper, with the extra attraction that children born on this side of the
border become American citizens. For California, these and other medical costs
are reaching $1.2 billion a year.

The sharply focused hour ends with an interview with Barbara Jordan, now heading
a commission that recommends tightened border controls and tougher checks at
workplaces. Such crackdowns are trumpeted periodically, but this time the
Administration seems to be putting some money where its trumpets are. The anger
heard tonight leaves the concern that if something effective is not done soon
about the illegal immigrants, legal immigrants, too, will feel the growing
wrath.

48 HOURS
Slamming the Door
CBS, tonight at 10
(Channel 2 in New York)

Written by Greg Kendra; directed by Eric Shapiro and Ron Flaum; Linda Martin,
producer; Mary Noonan, associate producer; Al Briganti, senior producer;
Catherine Lasiewicz, executive producer.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 21, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Arrests in Immigrant Fraud

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 20


Federal authorities said they had arrested nine people who were involved in an
operation that supplied forged papers to illegal immigrants.

Officials said on Friday that one of the people arrested in the two-year
investigation was the syndicate's leader, Alfonso Castorena Ibarra, 53, an
illegal immigrant from Mexico who lived in Los Angeles.

The operation generated more than $1 million a month in sales, officials said,
and had branch operations in Colorado, Georgia, Nevada, New York and Texas.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 15, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 108 words



Alien Law Is Blocked

A Federal judge put California's Proposition 187, denying government services to
illegal immigrants, on hold for a year or more. Page A18.

Owners Set to Play Hardball

Baseball talks broke off, clearing the way for owners to declare an impasse and
finally impose the salary cap players have resisted. Page B23.

State-of-the-Art Whodunit

The Gardner Museum is still missing works valued at $300 million that were
stolen in March 1990. Page C11.

A Leaf With a Past

Scientists in Australia have found a grove of pine trees of a kind that were
thought to have disappeared with the dinosaurs. Page A3.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 18, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Bias in Immigration Agency Is Subject of House Hearing

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 33;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17


Representative John Conyers Jr. gave the nation's immigration chief what he
called a "public spanking" today during a hearing before the House Government
Operations Committee that detailed accusations of widespread discrimination
against black employees of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, promised
that she would work to correct employment problems at the agency. She pledged to
hire and promote more minority members and to train the agency's executives,
almost all of whom are white, to be more openminded.

But Mr. Conyers, Democrat of Michigan and outgoing chairman of the House
committee, said he did not want to hear "any more promises and pledges" from an
agency that he said operated in a "time warp," as if it had "just discovered
that there are laws against racial discrimination."

"I'm going to need a lot more than your personal commitment to change," he told
Ms. Meissner. "This matter is clearly not going to be resolved by sensitivity
sessions for people who don't give a damn."

Black immigration officers say they are excluded socially and professionally by
the "old boys" style network that controls the agency. The Border Patrol, the
traditional stepping stone to advancement in the agency, is 1 percent black, and
there are no blacks in senior executive positions.

In 1991, 19 black agents in Los Angeles, angered about repeatedly being denied
promotions, filed a complaint against the immigration service. Last spring it
grew into the largest discrimination case ever against a Government agency, a
class action on behalf of 850 black officers.

At today's hearing, Ms. Meissner said the agency would make an offer
"imminently" to settle the case. She said she was "very distressed" about the
poor representation of blacks in the higher ranks of the agency, which she
called "an unacceptable situation" that she inherited a year ago when she became
commissioner.

But the black officers who testified said that their supervisors generally did
not express the same concern. Instead, the officers said, they not only suffered
discrimination but also retaliation for pursuing discrimination complaints
against the agency.

Clarence L. Smith, a black Panamanian-born deportation officer who works at an
immigration jail in Alabama, testified about what happened to his career after
he gave a statement to an investigator supporting another black officer's
discrimination complaint. Suddenly, he said, after 13 years with the immigration
agency, his English was found to be deficient, and his performance ratings
plummeted.

John Thomas Wills, a special agent in Los Angeles, testified that his supervisor
ordered him to accompany Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat of California, to
an immigrant neighborhood where he was operating undercover as a drug dealer.
When he protested that his cover would be blown and the Senator endangered, his
supervisor cursed at him, returned to his office and strapped on his gun to
continue the conversation. Mr. Wills said black agents in his office were
constantly being undermined by white supervisors.

Maria Estela Padilla, who served as an Equal Employment Opportunity counselor
for the immigration agency for two years, said the agency's managers "twisted
and turned and made a joke out of" her efforts to battle discrimination.

"The I.N.S. is run by white males," Ms. Padilla said. "Because the I.N.S. has to
scrutinize so closely those of other races, colors and nationalities, I believe
that I.N.S. officials grow to believe they are superior. They make a mockery of
civil rights."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH  ; UNITED STATES;

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 3, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

At Work;
Solving the Zoe Baird Problem

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

SECTION: Section 3;  Page 21;  Column 3;  Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1071 words


SOME people achieve celebrity and others have it thrust upon them. Just ask Zoe
Baird, the erstwhile Clinton Administration nominee for Attorney General, whose
nightmarish 15 minutes of fame may never end, thanks to the infinite ability of
the English language to absorb new idioms. Whether the uproar over her
revelation that she employed two undocumented aliens was fair or not -- and she
has many off-the-record defenders -- the phrase "to have a Zoe Baird problem"
has roosted in the vocabularies of the professional classes in any large
American city with an immigrant labor force.

The phrase is now instantly recognizable code for failing to comply with any of
the trillion or so immigration and tax laws that cover the employment of a
foreign-born worker, especially a foreign-born worker who is not authorized to
work. At a forum at the Association of the Bar of the City of New York last
week, immigration lawyers and immigrant rights groups contended that the Zoe
Baird problem was built into the process of finding and hiring someone to
provide child care or other types of in-home care for family members.

The panel -- and several members of the audience -- urged changes in immigration
and tax laws that would simplify the hiring process and protect workers who have
an employer problem. The movement has no real legislative champion in Washington
yet and, given the nativist mood in many parts of the country, may be hopeless
for the foreseeable future. But the need, those present argued, is great.

The root of discontent is the Immigration Act of 1990, an attempt by Congress to
diversify the pool of immigrants to the United States and to expand the number
of individuals who could enter the country to work.

Congress expanded the number of visas available for employment-based -- as
opposed to family-based -- immigration, but slotted most of the visas for
professional or technically skilled workers, in the process virtually
extinguishing the "other worker" category into which much home-care employment
falls. It limited to 10,000 the number of visas for so-called unskilled labor,
or any job requiring fewer than two years of post-secondary school education,
training or experience, even though there is a shortage of caregivers,
especially live-in caregivers.

Employers must receive Labor Department certification that they made a
good-faith effort to find a native-born employee before hiring a foreign-born
worker. To obtain legal status, immigrants must have the sponsorship of a close
relative or employer. The latter category, according to immigrant rights groups,
is fraught with opportunities for exploitation.

The immediate impact of the law, when it went into effect in 1991, was to throw
unskilled workers -- including home-care employees who had already applied for
permanent resident status -- into a Kafkaesque administrative holding pattern.
In January, the last time the State Department did a tally, there were 94,000
people on the waiting list. The cases of people who filed papers as of May 1,
1988, are currently coming up, according to a State Department spokesman.

The practical effect of the law has been to extend the wait for a green card to
a decade or more, some contend, from three or four years. "If I establish in
1994 that I can't find a U.S. worker and they approve it, is it rational that I
have to wait for 10 to 15 years to hire them legally?" said Frances C. Berger,
chairwoman of the Immigration Committee of the New York Women's Bar Association,
who moderated the forum.

Theoretically, the foreign-born can work only if they are in the United States
legally and have the correct documentation, but as everyone learned before a
conveniently childless candidate ended the search for an Attorney General, the
hiring of illegal caregivers is an endemic labor practice, among paralegals and
secretaries as well as $250,000-a-year executives, in cities like New York, Los
Angeles or Miami -- points of entry to the United States as well as centers of
immigrant population. Cities with a baby sitter or nanny labor force tend to
lack even the fragile, faint day-care networks that exist in other parts of the
country.

Several proposals drafted by bar associations and immigration lawyer groups are
in circulation. They aren't identical but share a concern to balance protecting
the employment opportunities of native-born workers and the interests and rights
of immigrants, legal or illegal, while expanding the pool of in-home care
workers.

The proposal drafted by the Task Force on Quality Legal Child Care of the New
York Women's Bar, for example, includes these provisions:

* Set up a new temporary visa category for foreign workers whose employers have
received Labor Department certification. This would allow many workers to move
from the limbo of being illegally unemployed -- and at risk of deportation --
into a legal category.

* Reclassify the home-care worker category to "skilled" from "unskilled." This
would transfer many foreign workers out of the category for which there are only
10,000 visas annually and into one for which visas are more readily available.

* Require employers to comply with Federal, state and local laws and pay the
prevailing regional wage for in-home care.

While many employers want to do right by their employees, some are obviously
quite prepared to exploit the vulnerability of illegal aliens by paying them low
wages, working them long hours and worse. Live-in workers particularly run the
risk of ending up in virtual indentured servitude, at the mercy of sponsors with
no compunction about threatening to call in the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to extract more work.

Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, said in
an interview after the forum that she had not seen all of the proposals but that
she supported requiring employers to pay the prevailing wage and the principle
of detaching the immigrant's fate from the sponsor's. "We need to find a
mechanism within the law to be sure that women can be independent, so they have
work authorization that allows them to move from an abusive employer," she said.

Live-in workers are especially vulnerable. "They work around the clock in
isolated conditions," Ms. McHugh said. "It's been extremely difficult to reach
them. We feel desperate for a change in the law to improve their working
conditions."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Still a big center of immigration, New York has a huge pool of
women who work as nannies. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN RECORD NUMBERS WANT CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 1


The number of legal immigrants applying to become United States citizens has
nearly doubled in the last year, an increase that one immigration official
described as "an unprecedented surge" stemming partly from recent initiatives
passed in California and in Congress that would deny many benefits to
noncitizens.

From October 1994 through January of this year, the first four months of the
Federal fiscal year, applications for citizenship rose to 232,850, about 80
percent above the same period a year before, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

And there are some signs the trend is accelerating among the nation's
approximately 10 million legal immigrants. In January, the most recent month for
which statistics are available, there were 65,959 applications, the highest
monthly total on record at the agency and more than double the 31,846 filed in
January 1994.

The biggest reason for the increase, immigration officials contend, is the fear
that many government programs that are now legally available to noncitizens will
be cut off.

Rudolph Brewington, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington who
described the increase as unprecedented, said: "There is a fear of losing
benefits. They talk about the G.O.P.'s Contract With America, they talk about
welfare reform."

While many of the immigrants themselves cited the fear that benefits might be
cut off, others said their decisions were based on an even broader concern. They
said that all noncitizens, whether in this country legally or illegally, were
stigmatized in the current political climate.

And with a more than doubling of applications here in Texas and in Southern
California, some experts see yet another factor at work: the declining economic
conditions in Mexico.

"In older days, many Mexicans who came here said it was better to stay a
first-class Mexican than become a second-class American," said Leonel J.
Castillo, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization in the Carter
Administration who now runs a program in Houston offering citizenship classes.

"Now they don't talk that way, especially the younger ones," Mr. Castillo said.
"It isn't just the economic crisis, or the political crisis. Their whole notions
of Mexican patriotism have changed. They're feeling like becoming a U.S. citizen
is not such an act of disloyalty."

Sirelio Flores, a 36-year-old appliance repairman in Houston who is a Mexican
citizen with legal authorization to live in the United States, became eligible
for American citizenship nearly 10 years ago but chose not to apply for what he
said were "sentimental reasons." He said he had also thought of returning to his
native Mexico to retire, as many Mexicans who spend their working lives in this
country do.

Now, as he studies for the citizenship examination and plans to apply to become
an American, he cites a number of reasons, one of which is the turmoil in his
native country.

"The way things are going in Mexico, I think the U.S. is looking like a better
choice all the time," he said.

And just as important, he said, he was deeply angered by what he had heard of
moves in Congress to take away benefits now available to noncitizens who are
here legally. "I'm afraid they are trying to take everything away from us," Mr.
Flores said. "I pay my taxes all the time. I've been very straight with the
Government here. So why are they coming after us?"

The recent welfare overhaul package passed in the House of Representatives as
part of the Republicans' Contract With America, and now pending in the Senate,
would strip legal immigrants of eligibility for dozens of major aid programs,
including food stamps, Medicare, rental assistance and testing for lead
poisoning in children. Such cuts are intended to save about $20 billion over
five years and affect at least 2.2 million legal immigrants.

That vote and other moves that are widely perceived as anti-immigrant have been
exhaustively covered in the Spanish-language press here and in other immigrant
communities. So has California's Proposition 187, the referendum approved by
voters last fall that would make illegal immigrants ineligible for nearly all
Government programs except emergency medical aid. While the measure was not
specifically directed at them, many legal immigrants view it as part of a
backlash directed at all foreigners. The measure has been tied up in court
challenges, and most of its provisions have not been enforced.

To be sure, there are plenty of other forces at work in the increase in legal
immigrants' becoming citizens.

For one thing, under terms of the 1986 Immigration Act, there is a sizable pool
of formerly illegal immigrants who were granted amnesty and in recent years have
become eligible for citizenship.

For another, the immigration service is now requiring all people who prior to
1979 were issued a "green card," or authorization to live in this country, to
apply for new, computer-compatible cards similar to bank cards. The new card
costs $75 while an application for citizenship costs $95, and many people are
simply deciding to use the moment to spend the extra $20 on a citizenship
application, immigration officials and advocates say.

In general, immigrants who have been in this country for five years with proper
authorization are eligible to apply for citizenship and, in the absence of any
criminal history, are entitled to receive it. Immediate relatives of those who
have become citizens are eligible to become citizens more quickly. Some
demographers predict that the current boom in applications will only amplify as
new citizens sponsor other members of their families.

Still, the rise in applications is less a function of increasing numbers of
people coming to this country than of more people who are already here deciding
to apply. In the past, many legal immigrants decided to delay or forgo applying
for citizenship, either because they intended to return to their native
countries or because they just did not see American citizenship as necessary.

One Federal immigration study a few years ago suggested that as many as
two-thirds of those eligible to apply in any given year were not doing so; what
may be happening now is a return to past generations, when roughly two-thirds of
those eligible chose to become naturalized citizens. One major reason for the
dip was the ever-increasing number of immigrants from Mexico, who typically had
less difficulty returning to their native country than other noncitizens and may
have felt less need to become United States citizens.

For many of the Mexicans now applying for citizenship, the decision seems tinged
with both excited anticipation and more than a hint of bitterness.

"I want to vote, I'll tell you that," said Monica Guerra, a 21-year-old Mexican
who is applying for citizenship now that her husband, Angel, a welder in
Houston, has received his.

"I don't believe there's justice for immigrants now," she said recently at the
home of a neighbor in Houston's Spring Branch area, clutching her 7-month-old
daughter, Jennifer. "The Hispanics, the Mexicans, they have done all the hard
work that nobody else wants to do. It's not fair to deny them."

Mrs. Guerra's application is part of a surge in Houston. From a total of 937
citizenship applications in February 1994, the number rose as high as 2,734 last
September and was 1,674 this February, said Mariela Melero-Chami, a spokeswoman
for the immigration service here.

Mrs. Guerra and others are taking English and citizenship classes and studying
sample questions for the test, including, "What is the name of the ship that
brought the Pilgrims to America?" "What are the colors of our flag?" and "Who is
the President of the United States today?"


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Legal immigrants are applying for United States citizenship in
increasing numbers. Monica Guerra, 21, in Houston with her daughter, Jennifer,
is seeking citizenship now that her husband has received his. (F. Carter Smith
for The New York Times) (pg. 28)

Graph: "ADDING IT UP: U.S. Citizenship Applications" tracks number of new
applications submitted by legal immigrants, per month, from October 1992 through
January 1995. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. 28)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 15, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Two in Congress Who Fought to Improve Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14


More than any other members of Congress, Senator Alan K. Simpson and
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli have fought the immigration wars, and when they
reflect on more than a decade of effort, both speak with weary despair.

Mr. Mazzoli, a Democrat from Kentucky, is chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee, and Mr. Simpson, a Republican from Wyoming, is the ranking
minority member of the Senate counterpart. They were co-sponsors of the most
important immigration legislation in the last 20 years, the Simpson-Mazzoli Act
of 1986. And now both men say they have come to the disturbing conclusion that
Congressional oversight of the Immigration and Naturalization Service just does
not work.

Most members of Congress want nothing to do with the immigration service. To
them, the agency is "political poison," as Alfred Giugni, director of the I.N.S.
office in El Paso, put it. Mr. Simpson and Mr. Mazzoli heartily agreed.

"Everything about it is negative for me," Mr. Mazzoli said.

Mr. Simpson said, "That is certainly true" in the Senate as well.

The problems begin when they try to recruit other members to serve on the
immigration subcommittees. Nobody wants to do it.

"A member would have to take two or three long gulps before they would say yes"
and "take the subcommittee on immigration," Mr. Mazzoli said. "You have to
virtually shanghai people to get them onto this thing. You've got to dragoon
them."

Jerry Tinker, staff director of the Senate immigration subcommittee, said, "We
could find only three Senators who were willing to be on it." That is the
minimum number.

The fundamental problem, members of Congress say, is that the nation has reached
no consensus about how to handle immigration. Loud lobbies representing large
segments of the public want to let in more and more immigrants. Other large
lobbies that are just as loud want to put up fences. So whatever position a
member of Congress takes, it is almost certain to irritate a powerful interest
group.

Mr. Simpson said: "Every time one of us starts talking about more effective
immigration controls, somebody else throws up the Statue of Liberty, how we're a
nation of immigrants and all of that." He shook his head. "The debate takes on
tinges of racism, emotion."

There are other negatives. Mr. Mazzoli said: "Since my race for re-election in
1981, it's been used against me every time. 'Why am I wasting time on
immigration instead of helping Louisville?' "

So the immigration committees are pariahs, and an inevitable result is that
Congressional oversight is largely ineffectual. In fact, Mr. Mazzoli said, he
felt no political pressure -- from the public or elsewhere in Government -- to
create an "efficient, up-to-snuff I.N.S."

When the chairmen of two House subcommittees left Congress in 1980, Mr. Mazzoli
was given a choice: Do you want to be chairman of the subcommittee on crime, or
the subcommittee on immigration?

"I could have made that choice in a nanosecond," he recalled. "There was no
downside to crime." In that job, he could help cities hire new police officers,
take credit for sending dangerous criminals to jail. "And there was no upside to
immigration."

But personal entreaties from people he respected persuaded Mr. Mazzoli to take
the immigration subcommittee.

He sighed as he discussed his efforts to solve just one of the immigration
service's many endemic problems.

"So here we are 14 years later at about the same place," Mr. Mazzoli said,
"listening to that oft-told tale of things that were going to get done that
never got done."

NAME: Alan K. Simpson; Romano L. Mazzoli

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the ranking Republican on
the Senate subcommittee on immigration. (The New York Times, 1991);
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, who heads the House
immigration subcommittee. (Paul Conklin, 1990)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 21, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

29 Haitians, Rejected, Return Home

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, June 20


The gleaming white Coast Guard cutter Vindicator pulled into the harbor here
today, barely visible through a thick haze, and delivered its cargo of 29
Haitian boat people.

The 29, who included two pregnant women and a baby, were the first to be
returned since American officials began interviewing Haitian boat people to
determine whether they should be sent back or granted refugee status because of
a "well-founded fear of persecution" at home.

After their arrival, at which point they received about $20, most were detained
by Haitian immigration officials, an unusually high percentage. In the past,
only a group's organizers were held.

Generally, a handful of refugees would have been detained for about 48 hours and
charged with smuggling. It is illegal to leave Haiti without proper papers but
few, if any, of the refugees have been charged.

6 Allowed Into the U.S.

The 29 returned refugees were among 35 aboard a flimsy boat intercepted by Coast
Guard cutters last week. They were the first to be processed under President
Clinton's new policy of providing a hearing to Haitian boat people before
determining if they should be returned.

The refugees were interviewed by American immigration officials aboard the
Comfort, a hospital ship, in Kingston Harbor. Six young men were found to have a
credible case for political asylum and were allowed into the United States.

The refugee policy has been a thorny issue for President Clinton, who as a
candidate criticized the Bush Administration's policy of returning all Haitian
boat people.

But once in office, the President quickly adopted that policy. He was criticized
by refugee rights advocates, and a hunger strike by Randall Robinson, the
TransAfrica Forum's executive director, forced him to change the policy two
months ago.

The 35 refugees were picked up 15 miles northwest of the Windward Passage by
Coast Guard cutters patrolling the area. A boat intercepted on Sunday was
carrying 44 Haitians, who are now being interviewed in Jamaica.

40,000 Haitians Flee

Since 1991, after the coup that ousted the Haitian President, the Rev.
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, more than 40,000 Haitians have taken to the high seas.
About 10,000 have been allowed into the United States to apply for political
asylum.

To persuade Haitians not to leave, officials here began broadcasting public
service announcements on Creole-language radio stations. One highlights the
dangers of the journey; another warns Haitians not to sell all of their
belongings because they may be sent back to nothing.

"We're hopeful that we won't get a massive influx of boat people," said Stanley
Schrager, an American Embassy spokesman. "But we're prepared to handle it if it
comes."

This afternoon, the boat people walked off the Vindicator out of sight of
foreign journalists, who were kept outside the port area by Haitian officials
who have declared the port and some other parts of the city sensitive areas.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New Stowaway Rule

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 38 words


In a case based in Newark, a Federal court has struck down a United States
immigration policy requiring owners of ships and airplanes to pay the cost of
detaining stowaways who apply for political asylum.

Article, page B8.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Allows Deportation Of Drug Dealer

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 431 words


A Federal judge in Manhattan reluctantly refused to block the deportation of a
convicted drug dealer to China yesterday, even though the judge acknowledged
that he could be sending to his death a man who had helped the United States
prosecute a number of important drug cases.

"It is not disputed," said Judge Charles S. Haight, that the defendant, Sik Sze
Yan, 42, "faces a very real risk of assassination if he is returned to China."

"That risk was created because he agreed to cooperate with law-enforcement
officials in this country and abroad," the judge said. "Having served purpose
useful to the United States Government, he is quite possibly being sent to his
death by the same United States Government."

Nevertheless, Judge Haight said the law prevented him from blocking efforts by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport Mr. Yan, leaving him, he
said, "with the uncomfortable sense that in this case, law triumphs over
justice."

Letter in Support

Judge Haight also was said he was disappointed that immigration officials could
not have reached an agreement with the United States Attorney in Manhattan that
could have prevented Mr. Yan's deportation.

Mr. Yan had offered a letter to the court from Karen Patton Seymour, an
Assistant United States Attorney, in which she said her office believed that Mr.
Yan "no longer poses any danger to the community of the United States." The
letter was viewed by the judge as showing that the United States Attorney did
not support Mr. Yan's deportation.

"It is disappointing," the judge said, that immigration officials and Federal
prosecutors "could not reach a solution that would accommodate the
responsibilities of both offices."

Marvin Smilon, a spokesman for Mary Jo White, the United States Attorney for the
Southern District of New York, said Mr. Yan "had repeatedly declined offers to
enter the witness-security program, which would have allowed him to remain in
this country."

"Nevertheless, this office will revisist Judge Haight's decision and consult
with with I.N.S.," Mr. Smilon said.

Mr. Yan's lawyer, Howard Jaffe, said, "I'm imploring the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to exercise its discretion and release my client."

Mr. Yan, who came here legally from China in 1976, pleaded guilty in 1989 to
charges that he intended to sell more than a kilogram of heroin and was
sentenced to five years in prison. He then agreed to cooperate with drug
law-enforcement authorities, and provided what they said was "truthful, valuable
information about many heroin traffickers."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Bombing Figure Gets 20 Months For An Immigration Violation

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 362 words


Telling him that he was "very lucky" to get off so easy, a Federal judge in
Manhattan sentenced the fifth and last defendant in the World Trade Center
bombing to 20 months in prison for his guilty plea to a minor charge of lying to
immigration officials.

The defendant, Bilal Alkaisi, a 29-year-old Jordanian, was originally charged,
with five others, in the bombing conspiracy but was dropped from the case after
Federal prosecutors concluded that they did not have enough evidence to convict
him. One defendant in the case fled the country, while the four others were
convicted in March and received life sentences without the possibility of
parole.

After rejecting a plea agreement that would have required him to plead guilty to
being part of the conspiracy and which carried a five-year sentence, Mr. Alkaisi
instead agreed to admit to lying to immigration officials when he entered this
country from Jordan, which under sentencing guidelines would require a sentence
of up to six months.

But Judge Kevin T. Duffy of Federal District Court in Manhattan decided to
impose a harsher sentence, saying that Mr. Alkaisi was still getting off easy.

"You are a very lucky man, whether you know it or not," Judge Duffy said as he
gave Mr. Alkaisi the 20-month sentence.

Time Already Served

Because Mr. Alkaisi has already been confined without bail for 16 months, he is
expected to be released in three months, with one month off for good behavior.
He is then scheduled to be deported immediately.

"The chances of you being convicted if you had been tried were very, very
strong," the judge said.

J. Gilmore Childers, an assistant United States attorney, said that while the
Government believed it did not have sufficient evidence to convict Mr. Alkaisi
in the bombing, there was still enough evidence to show that he was involved in
a conspiracy of terrorist acts other than the one that culminated into the
deadly bombing of the World Trade Center, which killed six people on Feb. 26,
1993.

Moreover, he argued that Mr. Alkaisi lied to immigration officials in 1992 in
order to keep from being deported so he could "carry out terrorist acts."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 15, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Process Slights Chinese Refugees

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 412 words


To the Editor:

You identify discrimination against Haitian boat people in President Clinton's
announced policy of denying them refuge in the United States even if they
qualify for political asylum (editorial, July 7). But what about the Chinese
boat people, who are treated even more shabbily under the President's
immigration policies?

Unlike Haitian boat people, Chinese boat people intercepted on the high seas do
not even get interviewed by United States immigration officials. They are simply
sent back to China.

On June 18 the Coast Guard intercepted a ship carrying Chinese nationals off the
Virginia coast. The 108 Chinese were transported to the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where Haitian boat people are processed and receive asylum
interviews. But Chinese boat people, who have traveled farthest, at the greatest
risk, receive no process or interview before being returned to China.

We agree that Haitians are discriminated against by the U.S. Government compared
with Cubans. But we think U.S. treatment of Chinese boat people is even more
egregious.

This is consistent with the Administration's selective hostility toward Chinese
asylum seekers manifest in the imprisonment for more than a year now of those
from the Golden Venture. Asylum seekers of no other nationality are subjected to
such harsh treatment.

Chinese have historically suffered discrimination under our country's
immigration laws, which were founded on principles established under the Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882. Our naturalization law until 1943 permitted the
naturalization of only "white persons and persons of African or Western
Hemisphere descent" and used national and racial quotas to restrict Asian
immigration until 1965.

Even now, country quotas and explicit exclusion of Chinese from the immigration
visa lottery discriminate against Chinese.

While Americans may not be united on what to do about Haiti or immigration
generally, there is consensus that whatever policy is ultimately adopted, it
should not be racially or ethnically discriminatory.

Racial and ethnic discrimination may be traditional in U.S. immigration law and
policy, but we call upon President Clinton to buck this deplorable tradition and
make a change for the better.

KATHLEEN BLANCHARD
JAN C. TING
Philadelphia, July 11, 1994
The writers are, respectively, past president, Asian American Bar Association,
Delaware Valley, and professor of law, Temple University.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 10, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Ruling Delays Return Of Immigrant

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 622 words


A Federal District Court judge in Manhattan has rejected an immigration court
ruling that denied asylum to a Chinese passenger of the freighter Golden
Venture, adding a new legal tangle to Government efforts to expel him and fellow
passengers from the country.

Although the ruling is not binding on other judges, lawyers said that the
decision, announced yesterday, could affect more than 200 similar cases for
Golden Venture passengers who are appealing their claims for political asylum.

"If it is applied by other judges, it would have momentous results," said
Michael Osborne, a lawyer for the plaintiff, Xin-Chang Zhang, 31.

Rather than overruling the immigration court, Judge Robert P. Patterson Jr. of
Federal District Court ordered the case returned to a board of immigration
appeals to be reviewed again. A lawyer for the Government, F. James Loprest,
said the United States Attorney had not decided whether to appeal.

In his decision, Judge Patterson ruled that the board of immigration appeals
failed in two respects in Mr. Zhang's case: it took an improper position on
qualifications for political asylum, specifically regarding China's tough
one-child policy, and it wrongly argued that he did not enter United States
territory legally.

Last June, the Golden Venture, carrying nearly 300 illegal immigrants from
China, beached off Queens and 10 passengers died trying to swim ashore.

No Deportations Yet

Despite efforts by the Clinton Administration to expel passengers from the
Golden Venture swiftly, in an attempt to deter immigrant smuggling, not one of
the passengers has yet been sent back to China. A spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said that 214 passengers from the ship remain in
detention in New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Louisiana.

Mr. Zhang is being held in the I.N.S. detention center in Manhattan.

Almost all the passengers have applied for political asylum and been denied by
immigration courts, but they have been able to delay deportation by appealing to
a board of immigration appeals. The board's decisions can then be appealed to a
Federal district court, the spokesman said.

In his decision, Judge Patterson took a novel position on an issue that has
divided Department of Justice officials for years: whether China's one-child
policy should be grounds for granting political asylum in this country.

Focus on One-Child Ruling

In all but a few Golden Venture cases, immigration courts have ruled that
China's coercive population-control policy did not single out individuals for
persecution, and so could not be grounds for political asylum.

But Judge Patterson ruled that the immigration courts overlooked a January 1993
order by the Attorney General that interpreted China's one-child policy as a
basis for political asylum. The judge ignored other rulings that contradicted
the 1993 order.

Judge Patterson's ruling on the second point -- legal entry to United States
territory -- may be more far-reaching. Until now, every immigration court ruling
on a Golden Venture case has accepted the Government's argument that passengers
did not enter the country legally.

While the immigration court held that it was Mr. Zhang's burden to show that he
entered the country legally, Judge Patterson ruled that the burden of proof of
illegal entry should be on the Government.

Mr. Zhang's case was only the second by a passenger from the Golden Venture to
reach a Federal court. In the first case, involving Guo Chundi, Judge Thomas S.
Ellis of Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., ruled in January that
victims of China's one-child policy were eligible for asylum because of a lack
of coherence in the United States policy.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 30, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE POLICY;
U.S. WILL PROPOSE REDUCING BARRIERS TO CUBA MIGRANTS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29


The Clinton Administration plans to ask the Cuban government to halt the exodus
of boat people in return for an offer by the United States to relax its
immigration rules and grant residency visas to more than 20,000 Cubans a year.

During the last year, the United States granted residence visas to only 2,700
Cubans. The low number has caused Mr. Castro to complain that it was far below
the legal ceiling of 27,845 Cubans that the Administration is authorized to
admit.

Last week, Mr. Castro asserted that the failure to grant more visas to Cubans
has helped cause the mass exodus of Cubans aboard rickety rafts and boats.

Today, as the weather cleared in the Florida Straits, the flow of refugees
increased again, and scores of Cubans took to their boats in the hope of being
rescued by the United States Coast Guard. [Page A10.]

The new Administration offer was being prepared in advance of talks scheduled
for Thursday with Cuban diplomats in New York intended to resolve immigration
issues and ease tensions over the refugee cisis created when the latest exodus
of Cubans began early this month.

The Administration's plan represents another twist in its immigration policy
toward Cuba, this time in the form of bending immigration laws to make it easier
for Cubans to enter the country legally.

For instance, it plans to grant entry to cousins and grandparents of
Cuban-Americans and grant refugee status to some Cubans even if they do not meet
the strict standards for asylum.

Under existing rules, the parents, children, spouses and siblings of naturalized
Americans can qualify for visas, but cousins do not.

According to several officials, Attorney General Janet Reno plans to use her
emergency powers under the immigration laws to raise the number of Cubans
admitted each year to the legal ceiling.

To help reach the ceiling, she is also expected to allow some or all of the
19,700 Cubans who are on a waiting list for visas to jump the line and receive
visas this year. Some of those Cubans, many of them brothers and sisters of
Cuban-Americans, have been waiting for visas for 10 years.

Several Administration officials said they hoped that this new offer would win
Mr. Castro's approval and put an end to the refugee crisis, in which the Coast
Guard has picked up more than 18,000 Cubans in the Straits of Florida since Aug.
1.

"We think the Cubans need to control illegal departures and we need to
facilitate legal departures," said a White House official.

Mr. Castro has long pushed Washington to expand legal immigration from Cuba,
partly because it would help serve as a safety valve for discontented Cubans to
leave the island.

In 1984, the Reagan Administration agreed to grant visas to up to 20,000 Cubans
a year. Immigration laws that went into effect in 1990 raised the ceiling to
27,845.

"We are going to recommit to that number and be more precise about how to get to
those figures," a senior Administration official said.

The officials said that Ms. Reno and Doris Meissner, the Commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, are developing additional ideas to be
presented Tuesday at a White House meeting on how best to raise the number of
Cubans accepted each year to the ceiling.

Fear of Favoritism

The United States and Cuba agreed to meet on immigration after the Clinton
Administration requested the talks to resolve the current refugee crisis. Mr.
Clinton has steadfastly refused to discuss topics other than immigration at
Thursday's talks even though Mr. Castro has called for negotiations on a wide
range of subjects, including the 31-year-old trade embargo against Cuba.

One fear that Administration officials said they have about their new offer is
that other ethnic groups like Chinese-Americans or Haitian-Americans will
protest that the Cubans are being granted preferential treatment. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service currently has a list of 3,442,000
foreigners awaiting visas, some of whom have waited for 10 years.

Still, one senior Administration official said, "For 30 years, we've been
treating Cubans differently from everyone one." Under the Cuban Adjustment Act
of 1966, the Administration welcomed all Cubans who arrived on American shores.
But on Aug. 19, Mr. Clinton, fearing a flood of Cuban refugees, ended that
policy and decided to send Cubans intercepted at sea to the naval base at
Guantanamo Bay.

A senior State Department official said, "I've been assured that whatever steps
we take regarding Cubans will in no way delay the admission of anyone else."

Castro's Response Unknown

Administration officials acknowledged that they were unsure whether Mr. Castro
would agree to stop the exodus of rafts in response to the proposal.

Still, there was hope that Mr. Castro would accept the offer because it might
earn him some goodwill with the United States, perhaps encouraging the
Administration to discuss easing economic sanctions.

"If he wants a debate in this country on Cuba policy, he has to act
responsibly," said a senior Administration official.

Another factor that could push Mr. Castro to accept the offer, officials said,
is that he must recognize that the flotilla of fleeing Cubans is sabotaging his
efforts to entice Western tourists and investors.

In return for the offer to increase legal immigration, the Administration also
wants Mr. Castro to take back 226 refugees being held at Guantanamo Bay who have
asked to return to Cuba.

The list of 19,700 Cubans awaiting visas includes 10,900 brothers and sisters of
American citizens, 5,100 spouses and unmarried children of permanent resident
aliens and 3,000 married sons and daughters of American citizens.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "TALLY: Fleeing Cuba" shows number of Cuban refugees picked up
by the Coast Guard from Aug. 1-29th, and the number housed at Guantanamo base
each day from Aug. 24-29th. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service,
United States Coast Guard) (pg. A10)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 12, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

One Broker's Slide Into Bribery

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 10;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Va.


When Norberto Escobar and his wife, Ivette, hung out their shingle as
immigration brokers in October 1990, they knew little about United States
immigration laws. For a time, Mrs. Escobar had worked in another broker's
office; Mr. Escobar had recently lost his job selling cars.

Their company, Best Services, was a modest venture, run from their home at
first. The Escobars said they had taught themselves the rudiments of the law
from a handbook published by the American Immigration Lawyers Association. And
so they set to work guiding fellow Salvadorans through the labyrinth of
immigration service forms.

Across the country, thousands of people like them provide immigration advice at
rates far below those charged by lawyers. (An application for political asylum,
for example, might cost $2,500 if done by a lawyer; Mr. Escobar charged $700.)
Many brokers offer legitimate services. But they also are prominent in
corruption cases, both as bribers and as vendors of fraudulent documents. They
are unlicensed and do not face the kind of bar association oversight that
lawyers do.

Mr. and Mrs. Escobar said they had begun paying bribes to compete with Osvaldo
Vera, another broker.

Mrs. Escobar told investigators that Saundra Thomas, a clerk in the Washington
district office of the immigration service, approached them in April 1991 and
said she wanted $100 for each work card she delivered. "Money talks," Mrs.
Escobar remembers her saying.

Over the next few months, Mr. Escobar and his wife told investigators, they
passed thousands of dollars in cash to Mrs. Thomas and a co-worker.

"It was a wrong decision," Mr. Escobar said, "but it was a business decision."

In the bribery schemes that beset the Washington office of the I.N.S., the
brokers profited the most. While the employees were typically making $100 per
work card, the middlemen were charging immigrants $500 to $700.

When the investigations were over, Mr. Escobar, Mr. Vera and four other brokers
stood convicted of bribing Federal employees. Their sentences ranged up to two
years. Mrs. Escobar was not charged.

Mr. Escobar cooperated with the authorities and received two years' probation
and 60 days in a work release program. He now works for a trucking company and
says he wants nothing further to do with the immigration business.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 13, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Porous Deportation System Gives Criminals Little to Fear

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 2608 words

DATELINE: GILROY, Calif.


Jorge Luis Garza Gorena, a beefy man with tattoos like scrollwork, was first
deported to Mexico 20 years ago. But within a week Mr. Garza, a thief, burglar
and heroin addict, had walked back across the border, smiling at an immigration
inspector as he falsely declared himself a United States citizen.

Over the next 15 years, immigration officers deported Mr. Garza five more times.
And five more times he easily returned, flashing his California driver's license
at inspectors who had no access to his records. Then, in 1989, after a
bureaucratic slip-up, the Immigration and Naturalization Service lost track of
Mr. Garza altogether, sticking his bulging case file into a drawer stuffed with
lost causes.

In early August, it took The New York Times about four hours to find Mr. Garza
in this Central Valley town, drawing only on the information in his I.N.S. file.
It would have taken less time if a reporter had looked first in one of the most
obvious places -- Mr. Garza's mother's house on Forrest Street, as listed in the
file.

Mr. Garza fits the profile of the alien whom immigration officials most want to
deport: the career criminal. At 42, he has spent half his life behind bars. His
record includes at least 10 felony and 12 misdemeanor convictions, mostly for
burglary, theft and drug possession. He is a multiple, flagrant violator of
immigration laws. And yet, while technically on the lam, he lives in this
country freely.

That is because the immigration agency, plagued by inefficiency, has not even
begun to address the vast task of getting convicted criminal aliens out of the
country.

Keeping track of people like Mr. Garza is a challenge for the agency. Expelling
them is an even more elusive goal. Preventing criminal aliens from returning,
officials said, is the final Sisyphean task.

Illegal aliens convicted of crimes in this country are deportable just by dint
of their illegal immigration status; legal immigrants can be deported if they
commit almost any drug crime, most violent crimes, money laundering, firearms
sales or felonies loosely defined as "crimes of moral turpitude."

Convicted criminals make up a minuscule fraction of this nation's 20 million
immigrants and only about 5 percent of those who are eligible for deportation.
Since the 3.75 million other candidates for deportation are mostly industrious
immigrants, convicted criminals are the agency's focus -- by order of Congress.

But of an estimated 200,000 or more convicted criminal aliens, the agency
deported only about 20,000 last year.

Mr. Garza was not one of them. As his mother mopped the kitchen floor, he
fidgeted with his glasses and described the immigration agency's repeated
pursuit of him through six deportations as little more than a nuisance. From the
first time officers pushed him out the border gate at Calexico, Calif., he knew
he had to come back, he said. He simply did not know how to survive in his
homeland.

"One of the things about me," he explained, "I was always a good thief. Those
were my means of support. But in Mexico, you don't do that. I couldn't get away
with it."

Mr. Garza said he lived in real dread of only one official: Sgt. Dan Crumrine of
the Gilroy Police Department, an unrelenting lawman known on the streets as
"Deadeye." By comparison, he said, immigration agents were mere "mosquitoes."

Mr. Garza understood that by granting an interview he risked calling the
immigration agency's attention to his whereabouts. But he said he felt that the
risk was minimal.

"After all the funds and all the time that immigration wasted, I guess they
finally just got tired of hassling me," Mr. Garza said. "I haven't heard from
them for years."



The Priority
Focusing Efforts On Criminals

I.N.S. officials attribute many of the agency's difficulties to the nation's
ambivalence about immigration, a profound empathy tempered by a fear of being
overwhelmed.

But much of that empathy vanishes when it comes to criminal aliens. And the
mandate from Congress and the governors of the major immigrant states could not
be clearer: get rid of them.

Yet, as Mr. Garza's case shows, even high-priority immigration programs suffer
from the poor financing, mismanagement and faulty oversight that cripple every
aspect of the agency's work.

Eight years ago, Congress formally directed the agency to make criminal aliens a
primary target. Since then, the number of criminals deported has increased
twentyfold. But a majority of deportable criminal aliens still do not have to
worry.

Immigration officials acknowledge that they seldom visit city and county jails
and almost never check with parole offices.

Immigration agents, for example, never interview any of the prisoners in the 49
counties of Northern California, between Bakersfield and the Oregon border. And
in the El Paso area alone, where the local immigration office plans to begin
screening probationers soon, about 7,000 candidates for deportation have been
ignored until now.

While the I.N.S. does pay more systematic attention to state prisons, agents
miss many foreign-born inmates in them as well. And many of the inmates they do
find are released from prison before their immigration cases have been
processed. Then they are virtually free to disappear. About 11,000 "aggravated
felons" -- convicted mostly of drug crimes and violent crimes -- had absconded
from the system by 1992, the last year the agency counted.

Once criminal aliens disappear, the agency deploys few officers to chase them.
With overwhelming caseloads, the nation's 284 deportation officers rarely get a
chance to leave their desks, much less to search for fugitives and remove them
from the country.

"We are not successful where removal is concerned, by and large," said Doris M.
Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.

Many who are deported re-enter the country easily. They face stiff penalties --
up to 15 years in prison -- and each year the Justice Department prosecutes
about 1,000 criminal aliens who have returned. But so many get away with it that
in California many criminal aliens, once they have come back, even resume
reporting to their state parole officers.

The Problem
In Custody, Out of Custody

The immigration agency does not know the size of the criminal alien population,
or what proportion are illegal aliens. Congress ordered a census of criminal
aliens in 1990. But a senior immigration official said the agency never did it
because it would have taken three years and cost $2.2 million, money that had
not been allocated.

All the agency knows for sure is that Federal and state prisons hold about
90,000 foreign-born inmates and that most of them are deportable after they
complete their sentences. Immigration agents concentrate their energies on
finding these aliens, since they are already in government custody. But they
consider it a daunting task to reach even them, since there are more than 4,700
penitentiaries in the country and only 33 I.N.S. district offices.

For years, the immigration agency has been negotiating with the states to funnel
all foreign-born inmates through a handful of prisons for interviews and
hearings.

To prepare their cases against criminal aliens, immigration agents must
personally interview them and investigate their stories.

"Remember that people don't usually get arrested selling crack with their
Dominican passport in their pocket," said Charles Ferrigno, chief of the
criminal alien division in New York's immigration office. "If they're selling
dope under a phony name, we have to prove who they are and that they are an
alien."

A recent visit to the deportation screening program at New York City's jail on
Rikers Island illustrated just how labor intensive each case is, especially
given that many inmates do not tell the truth and that the agency's computer
system is unreliable.

On a foggy morning in July, an immigration agent interviewed a Colombia-born
inmate who had once pretended to be Ecuadorean. A 33-year-old with spiky hair,
the inmate told the agent that, first, he was innocent of promoting prostitution
and, second, he had a green card locked away with his wallet. The agent asked
him if any relatives knew his green card number.

"We try to find a relative because often a computer screws up," said the agent,
who would speak only anonymously. "We have to check with mom to get the correct
information."

After that, the agent interviewed a 17-year-old Trinidadian, an illegal alien
serving four months for attempted robbery. Tall, thin and scared, he blinked as
his eyes welled with tears when he realized he faced deportation.

The young man insisted that his parents still lived in Trinidad, hoping the
agent would not try to telephone them. But the agent had already spoken to the
teen-ager's mother that morning, in Queens. "She was happy to tell me that he
had overstayed his visa," the agent said. "She said, 'Please, send him home.'
You'd be surprised how often parents contact us and say, 'Please, deport him and
save his life.' "

In all likelihood, immigration officials will release this young man, either on
his own recognizance or on a bond. If he is subsequently ordered deported, then,
as the system works, he will have a choice: turn himself in or remain here
illegally.

The Honor System
Many Fugitives, Few Pursuits

The Immigration and Naturalization Service conducts most deportations on an
honor system. It mails deportees notices asking them to turn themselves in on a
given day. But so few surrender that deportation officers sarcastically refer to
the notice as a "run letter." In New York, about 96 percent of those receiving
the letter run.

Nationally, the agency has a docket of about 90,000 fugitives who failed to show
up for either their court hearings or their scheduled deportations. Immigration
officials say most are able to evade the system because the agency lacks the
resources to go after them. Some deportation officers, however, bitterly noted
that their supervisors had allowed others to spend the agency's paltry resources
on apartment building raids while criminal aliens remained at large.

A few immigration districts, like Boston, assign squads to search for fugitives,
but most only sporadically send officers out on what the agency calls a "bag and
baggage" -- "bagging" a fugitive who then, theoretically, packs his baggage.

'Wall of Shame'

"Every now and then, we like to have each officer pick from his docket and have
a chance to get out," said Tony Marian, an assistant district director in San
Francisco. "But with 4,000 cases an officer, it's a losing proposition."

In that office, Bob Magee, a deportation officer, keeps 11 mug shots on his
bulletin board. He calls it his "wall of shame." Are these the toughest
criminals he has deported recently? No, he said, they are all the aliens he has
deported in the last year.

To expedite the deportations, the immigration service began an "institutional
hearing program" eight years ago. The idea is to hold deportation hearings in
state prisons before inmates are released rather than afterward in immigration
courts. But the program has met with only limited success because lawyers and
judges are reluctant to make the trek to the far-flung prisons.

Still, the agency believes that the hearing programs are the key to exerting
some control over the problem of criminal aliens. And it is negotiating with the
states to make the system work better. But critics of the I.N.S. distrust the
prison hearings, saying the aliens have limited access to counsel.

The critics also note a contradiction: the agency is eager to speed
deportations, yet it does not have a nationwide system that allows inmates to
waive their right to a hearing and leave the country immediately.

The Revolving Door
One Deportation After Another

Born in the northeast Mexico state of Tamaulipas, Mr. Garza, who now lives with
his mother here in Gilroy, moved to the United States at the age of 2. That was
40 years ago, and now George, as he calls himself, is thoroughly Americanized.
He speaks better English than Spanish, with a singsong inflection but no accent.
He refers to Gilroy, "the garlic capital of the world," as his home.

Mr. Garza started getting into trouble early. By the time he was 18 he had been
arrested 10 times and spent a term at a correctional ranch. From that point on,
addicted to heroin, he thieved, burgled and sold drugs to support his habit. He
often bungled his crimes. One time he stole a leather jacket from a department
store and got caught only because, tags dangling, he courteously held the door
for a security guard.

"George is a stone-cold burglar but not a very good one," said Sergeant
Crumrine, who said he has arrested Mr. Garza at least 10 times.

Mr. Garza was first found deportable in 1974, when a judge ruled that a string
of burglary convictions reflected "moral turpitude." But Mr. Garza lasted just
10 days in Mexico. Within a year of his return to the United States, he ended up
back in state prison. On his sentencing, a local assistant district attorney
noted: "This man is an incurable heroin addict. Although he is an alien,
deportation would solve nothing since he would only return illegally."

With every new deportation, Mr. Garza walked out the border gate, lingered a few
hours in Mexicali or Nogales, Mexico, and then marched back through inspections.
It is unlikely that an inspector ever received word from a deportation officer
to look out for him, officials said. That is not procedure.

Each time Mr. Garza returned, he fell into the agency's net only after he landed
back in prison. In 1988, while he was serving time for parole violations, the
immigration service opened Mr. Garza's most recent deportation proceeding. But a
genial immigration judge released him on $5,000 bail because of his "good work
history." Between sentences, Mr. Garza had held down jobs as a furniture
deliveryman, painter and factory worker.

Mr. Garza never showed up for his subsequent deportation hearing, but he had a
good excuse. He was back behind bars. This time, immigration officials placed a
detainer on him at the Santa Clara County Jail. Still, officials there released
him, probably because they had a shortage of beds or because the agency did not
get him promptly.

And that was that. The agency dropped his case.

Then, this summer, Juan Bustos, a deportation officer in San Francisco,
inherited 1,000 cases from an officer who had been transferred. He stumbled upon
Mr. Garza's thick file, which was so disorganized that Mr. Bustos did not
realize that he had been deported so many times. But he did shake his head.
"What's wrong here?" he said. "This guy should be picked up."

But Mr. Bustos rarely gets permission to leave the office. And Gilroy, a
two-hour drive south of San Francisco, lies outside the radius of his
deportation activities. So, as Mr. Garza's file shows, Mr. Bustos sent a
memorandum to the Border Patrol station in Salinas, Calif., asking that office
to "assign this case for location."

Mr. Bustos suspected that the Border Patrol would do nothing. He was, he said,
just covering his behind.

Chaos at the Gates

TODAY: The most wanted: A poor record of deporting criminal aliens.

SUNDAY: Immigration agency is mis-managed; its ranks, demoralized.  YESTERDAY:
The corruption virus: It spread through the Washington office.

TOMORROW: A Border Patrol success story fell on deaf ears in Washington.

THURSDAY: Cold, rude and insensitive: The agency ill serves its clients.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Chaos at the Gates: Third of five articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigration agents gave up looking for Jorge Luis Garza Gorena.
(pg. A1); "I was always a good thief," said Jorge Luis Garza Gorena, pictured
with his mother at her home in Gilroy. Calif. (pg. B9) (Jim Wilson/The New York
Times)

Map/Diagram: "SNAPSHOT: In the United States and Serving Time"

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says that an overwhelming majority of
foreign-born inmates in Federal and state prisons are deportable. Below,
foreign-born convicts serving time in Federal prisons nationwide, or in prisons
of the top immigrations states. (Sources: I.N.S.; Corrections Departments in
California, New York, Texas, Florida and Arizona) (pg. B9)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 19, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Jerry M. Tinker, 55, Senate Staff Official

SECTION: Section D;  Page 9;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 205 words


Jerry M. Tinker, the staff director of the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration
and Refugee Affairs and an authority in those fields, died on Friday at his home
in Bethesda, Md. He was 55.

The cause was a gastrointestinal hemorrhage, The Associated Press reported.

Mr. Tinker was also an aide to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts
Democrat whose staff he joined in 1970.

A statement from Senator Kennedy's office in Boston said Mr. Tinker was
instrumental in shaping every piece of immigration legislation for two decades,
including the sweeping Immigration Reform Act of 1990.

Mr. Tinker worked for the immigration subcommittee for many years and became its
staff director in the late 1980's.

He was born in Fountain Valley, Calif., and he received a bachelor's degree from
the University of Redlands in Redlands, Calif., in 1961. He studied in India in
1962 and 1963 and earned a master's degree from American University in 1965.

His 1972 marriage to Anne Timothy Gaud ended in divorce in 1992.

He is survived by his mother, Lucille Hurt of Irvine, Calif.; two daughters,
Katherine and Caroline, both of Bethesda; a half-brother, Paul Hurt of El Toro,
Calif., and a half-sister, Nancy Hurt of Irvine.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 6, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Offers Testimony That Sounds Familiar

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section D;  Page 21;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5


As Representative Romano L. Mazzoli presided over his final hearing as chairman
of the House immigration subcommittee today, the testimony was remarkably
similar to what he heard at one of his first hearings as chairman more than 13
years ago: Doris Meissner, the Immigration Commissioner, promised that
fundamental change at her agency lay just ahead.

"We always seem to be at the same point," Mr. Mazzoli complained. "About to do
this, about to do that."

Mr. Mazzoli, a 61-year-old Kentucky Democrat, is leaving Congress at the end of
this term. At today's oversight hearing, he expressed clear frustration with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and with his own panel, the House
Judiciary Subcommittee on International Law, Immigration and Refugees, over a
lackluster record of meaningful change in immigration management during the last
14 years. He wondered aloud whether it was even possible to manage the
immigration service effectively.

"Is it an oxymoron to talk about a manageable I.N.S.?" he said. "We wrestled
with that over a long period of time. It's been a real adventure, a real journey
for me."

Ms. Meissner testified at length about the many changes and improvements she
planned. Mr. Mazzoli asked her whether she agreed with the findings of a series
of articles in The New York Times last month that described an agency in
disarray as a result of widespread management failures. The articles told of
demoralized employees, commonplace corruption, aliens with criminal records who
usually escape notice of the I.N.S. and ill treatment of legal immigrants by
rude, insensitive staff.

"It certainly pointed out areas that need to be addressed," Ms. Meissner said,
"and we are addressing them."

Ms. Meissner was also the chief witness at one of Mr. Mazzoli's first
immigration oversight hearings, in June 1981, when she was Acting Commissioner
of Immigration. Even then, Mr. Mazzoli was complaining about record keeping at
the I.N.S., calling it "the Bob Cratchit school of accounting" in which millions
of immigration records were stacked in cardboard boxes, with the result that
nobody knew where most of them were.

At the 1981 hearing, Ms. Meissner assured him that the immigration service was
about to automate its records. "Our patience," he replied, "is getting thin."

Now, almost 14 years later, the immigration service remains crippled by the lack
of a central, computerized record-keeping system, and many records still sit in
cardboard boxes.

Today Ms. Meissner assured Mr. Mazzoli once again that over the next year or so
the agency would automate its record keeping. The Clinton Administration has
given the agency a 25 percent increase in resources this fiscal year, she said,
and much of it will pay for computer equipment.

To Mr. Mazzoli's larger complaint that change at the agency always seems to be
just over the horizon, Ms. Meissner said, "I would argue that much already has
been done." She pointed to a new border-control initiative in Southern
California and to the Administration's new policies for dealing with illegal
immigrants from Haiti and Cuba.

"We're not the agency we were a year ago," she said, "and we are not the agency
we are going to be a year from now."

Mr. Mazzoli welcomed her promises of change but once again noted his
frustration. The immigration service, he pointed out, still has trouble "opening
the mail, answering the phones, depositing the receipts."

"We always seem to be on the verge," he said, "at the cusp, of doing something."


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 10, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Retreat on Denying Welfare to Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 9


House Speaker Newt Gingrich today backed away from his party's plan to deny
food, health and welfare benefits to hundreds of thousands of low-income
immigrants who are in the country legally.

He said Republicans would "revisit" the plan to drop legal immigrants from
welfare rolls, but said sponsors "should take a fairly significant
responsibility" for the immigrants they bring to the United States.

"I think legal immigration has given America many of its most dynamic and
creative citizens," Mr. Gingrich said at a news conference to promote the
restaurant industry's role in welfare change, "and I think that we would be a
very, very self-destructive country if we sent negative signals on legal
immigration."

As he spoke, Mr. Gingrich was surrounded by restaurant managers, chefs, owners
and corporate officials who began their careers washing dishes, sweeping floors
and making salads.

Herman Cain, president of the National Restaurant Association and Godfather's
Pizza Inc., promised that his industry would give welfare recipients jobs,
training and a chance to gain economic success.

The "Contract With America," the blueprint on which many Republican candidates
ran for the House in the last election, includes a welfare bill that would
impose time limits and work requirements on welfare recipients while stripping
most legal immigrants of public assistance.

Last week, an analysis of the Republican plan by the Social Security
Administration found that at least 400,000 legal immigrants would be denied
benefits from Supplemental Security Income, a welfare program for the elderly,
blind and disabled.

The Republicans estimated savings from its ban on welfare to immigrants at $22
billion over five years.

But today, Mr. Gingrich said Republicans believed they could save much more by
freezing welfare spending, collapsing hundreds of social programs and turning
over much of the responsibility for the poor to the states, in block grants.

"The governors have just told us they are prepared to accept a cap for five
years, which gives us $40 billion," Mr. Gingrich said. "The governors are
prepared to say to us if we will radically decentralize, give them the job, they
will do the job."

Under current law, the affidavits of support that sponsors are required to sign
are legally unenforceable, said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, a group that advocates tougher immigration
requirements.

Mr. Gingrich said, "I have no problems saying if you're going to sponsor
somebody to come to the U.S., we're prepared to make that sponsorship real and
binding."

He said sponsors could be held liable for the immigrant for three to five years,
but declined to say that the Republicans had had a "change of heart" on the
issue.

"We did not control the Congress," he said. "We didn't have access to the
resources. We were trying to find the least destructive way to pay for a very,
very important program."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 26, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Empty Promise for Legal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 387 words


The House Republicans' "Contract With America" promises to eliminate legal
immigrants from the welfare system. This punishing provision, which deprives
these residents of a safety net their own tax dollars helped build, did not sit
well even with many Republicans. So Nancy Kassebaum, head of the Senate
committee overseeing welfare, and several House G.O.P. members have come up with
a novel way to avoid internal party squabbling: Congress would turn the whole
issue over to the states, letting them decide which poor residents deserve
assistance.

Their solution, unfortunately, is not really a solution at all, however benign
it may appear on the surface. The reason is that in time the states themselves
may decide to let legal immigrants fall through the net. In addition, the
solution makes no sense in terms of the normal division of labor between states
and the Federal Government.

Devolution of Federal programs from Washington to the state houses, programs
like transportation, can make sense when local taxpayers are asked to pick up
the cost of programs that provide primarily local benefits. But welfare confers
no benefit to local taxpayers. That makes it a national responsibility. If
Congress pretends otherwise, immigrants will get caught in a competitive vise.

Even if the taxpayers in every state started with charitable intentions toward
poverty-stricken legal immigrants, their generosity would soon unravel. First a
few states, driven by budgetary shortfalls, might decide to save money by
cutting legal immigrants from the rolls. At that point neighboring states would
likely follow suit. Otherwise they would be subjected to financial drain as poor
immigrants flocked to take advantage of their relatively generous welfare rules.
Throwing welfare eligibility back to the states risks triggering a vicious race
to ratchet down eligibility rules.

Poor legal immigrants are every taxpayer's responsibility. The proper role of
Congress would be to set national eligibility standards and, unlike now, minimum
benefit levels. Congress could then let states figure out the best way to meet,
or surpass, these norms. But what Congress should not do is create a
beggar-thy-neighbor sequence among the states. That can only threaten what is
already one of the country's most vulnerable groups.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

125 Arrested in Nebraska Immigration Raid

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 19;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: SCHUYLER, Neb., March 4


About 125 workers were arrested in an immigration raid today at a meatpacking
plant here and were prepared for deportation.

The raid at the plant, owned by the Excel Corporation, proceeded despite an
apparent double-murder and suicide the previous night in the plant's parking
lot. The shootings and raid were unrelated, company and immigration officials
said.

The company, based in Wichita, Kan., worked more than a month with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to plan the raid, said Michael Went,
deputy director of the service's office in Omaha. The raid was part of an
18-state program.

About 800 workers had been notified earlier in the week to report to work today
for a half-shift, Mark Klein, a company spokesman, said. Instead of work, the
employees found officers checking driver's licenses, Social Security cards and
other identification.

The shootings at the plant occurred about 10:30 P.M. on Friday. After killing
Carmen Panameno, 40, and the man she had been living with, Jose Martinez, 41,
the gunman, Edwin Escalera, also 41, killed himself. The gunman had described
Ms. Panemeno as his common-law wife.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 2, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Frank H. Partridge, Immigration Official And General, 100

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 46;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 311 words


Frank Huber Partridge, a retired major general in the Army and former assistant
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, died on Tuesday at
Mount Vernon Hospital in Alexandria, Va. A former resident of Arlington, he was
100.

Born in Scranton, Pa., he began his military career in 1917 when he was
commissioned as an infantry officer. He attended the University of Pennsylvania
and also graduated from the Command and General Staff College at Fort
Leavenworth, Kan.

He served tours of duty in the Philippines and in the United States and a stint
as chief of staff at Fort Benning, Ga. At the end of World War II he was
assistant commander of the 97th Infantry Division with the rank of brigadier
general. The division distinguished itself in combat in the Ruhr Valley just
before the German surrender.

He was awarded the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and the French Croix de
Guerre with palm, among other decorations. He retired in 1953 as deputy
commander of the Sixth Army, which had its headquarters in San Francisco.

After retiring, General Partridge worked for the immigration service, first as a
consultant and then as an assistant commissioner responsible for the Border
Patrol. The appointment came only after heated arguments in Congress, which had
to exempt him from a law generally prohibiting retired military officers from
holding such positions.

Democratic opponents objected to the size of his consultant fee. They then
asserted that President Dwight D. Eisenhower was illegally trying to load the
Government with military men. And they accused the head of the immigration
service, Joseph M. Swing, himself a retired lieutenant general, of surrounding
himself with "cronies" in top-level posts. General Partridge retired from the
immigration service in 1961.

He is survived by his wife, Gertrude Drew Partridge.

NAME: Frank Huber Partridge

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 30, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Ugo Carusi, 92, Immigrants' Son Who Helped Wartime Refugees

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 27;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 447 words


Ugo Carusi, an immigrants' son who became the United States immigration
commissioner in World War II and then helped to resettle hundreds of thousands
of European refugees during the Truman and Eisenhower Administrations, died on
July 21 at his home in Washington. He was 92.

The cause was heart failure, his family said.


Mr. Carusi, who was trained as a lawyer, spent more than four decades in
full-time Government service. He served as an executive assistant to six
successive United States Attorneys General, starting in March 1925. He retired
at the end of 1963 from the staff of Senator George D. Aiken of Vermont, but he
went on one more mission in 1967, to South Vietnam to study the plight of
refugees there.

His parents emigrated from Italy, moving to Barre, Vt., before his birth. He was
born while his parents were visiting the town of their birth, Carrara, Italy,
and they took him to the United States when he was 4 months old.

He graduated as the class valedictorian in 1931 from National University Law
School, now George Washington University Law School, where he later taught a
graduate course on constitutional law and was a professor of administrative law.
He entered public service in 1922 as secretary to the Attorney General of
Vermont.

Three years later, Mr. Carusi returned to Washington to become the private
secretary and assistant to the Attorney General. He held that and equivalent
positions until January 1945, when he was appointed United States Commissioner
of Immigration and Naturalization.

A Flood of Refugees

In 1948, postwar Europe was flooded with people without a home or country to
call their own, so President Harry S. Truman asked him to survey the situation.
Because of that, the President established a Displaced Persons Commission,
appointed him its chairman and allowed some 400,000 refugees to seek a new life
in the United States.

In the early 1950's, Mr. Carusi headed the Washington branch of the office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. After that he served in
President Dwight D. Eisenhower's refugee program and on the President's
Committee for Hungarian Refugee Relief in 1956. He joined Senator Aiken's staff
two years later.

He was in a group from various voluntary relief organizations that went to South
Vietnam on a study mission in 1967 and reported to President Lyndon B. Johnson
on the "tragic and massive" plight of the children left homeless in that nation.

Mr. Carusi is survived by a sister, Iole, of Barre. His first wife, Edith Warner
Carusi, and their dayold son died in 1935. His second wife, Anita Shaeffer
Carusi, whom he married in 1941, died in 1984.

NAME: Ugo Carusi

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ugo Carusi (The New York Times, 1948)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 30, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Seven European Nations Try to Erase Borders

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section 5;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Travel Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: BONN


Flying from Munich to Paris? Or Madrid to Amsterdam? Then, in theory, you no
longer need to go through immigration controls. Technically, you don't even need
your passport for most of the journey.

Since March 26, 7 of the 15 European Union countries have been participating in
an exercise in integration, allowing travelers between any of those countries to
cross borders on land without stopping to show passports and to use special
lines at airports without showing identification, as if they were on domestic
flights.

The idea is to advance the freedom of movement between the various European
states, but it has its down side: to get into the seven so-called Schengen
states -- named for a town in Luxembourg where the agreement was signed 10 years
ago -- travelers have to submit to even more rigorous controls than before, to
insure they do not appear on a computerized list of criminals and prohibited
immigrants.

The new rules do not make that much difference for American travelers entering
Europe: the United States already had reciprocal visa agreements with all seven
of the Schengen group -- Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,
Portugal and Spain -- and European immigration officials maintain that the new
controls are not time-consuming.

Indeed, said Paul Fritsch, a spokesman for the United States Consulate in Bonn,
since the new procedures were introduced, there have been no reports of major
delays specifically affecting Americans. In fact, he said, the removal of
immigration controls between the seven countries and the dismantling of highway
border posts has removed one more choke point for travelers in Europe.

The new system is not as liberating as it may first appear, however,
particularly for Third World travelers, who will most certainly have a harder
time securing entry visas for any one of the Schengen countries than they did in
the past.

Even within the seven countries, traveling from one to another is not like
taking a flight from New York to Chicago or Miami. Airlines may still check the
name on a ticket against a passport. Authorities in some European countries,
notably France, are fully entitled to ask foreigners (and their own nationals)
to prove their identity at any time, so Americans should keep their passports
with them. And, Mr. Fritsch said, United States authorities in any case advise
Americans against leaving their passports behind when they embark on travel in a
foreign country.

Moreoever, the Schengen agreement is far from Europe-wide. Austria and Italy
have both said they want to join when they have linked their own national
immigration computers to the Schengen data base, which contains files on some 10
million people. And there's strong resistance from the British, who argue that
the Schengen control procedures are far too lax and will simply open Europe's
doors to terrorists, criminals and undocumented aliens. They cite the
flourishing of organized crime in Russia and the former Communist countries of
eastern Europe.

Advocates of the new arrangement insist that a single "external" border around
all their countries is easier to police than internal frontiers. But on the
other hand, opponents say, the broader the Schengen agreement becomes, the more
unwieldy the external frontier will become.

The agreement also has police wondering what they should do if criminals skip
across a dismantled frontier to escape arrest. German police, for instance, may
pursue suspects into France but, once there, do not have the power of arrest and
may not use their guns.

And as for the goal of promoting European unity, the agreement seems only to
have undermined it at times. On the French-Italian road frontier on the Riviera,
for instance, traffic moved easily between these European neighbors until March
26. Then, however, the crossover point became a border between Schengen and
non-Schengen countries, and traffic snarls built up for miles.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 27, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Accept Asylum Pleas For Sex Abuse

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday announced new guidelines
that formally recognize rape, domestic abuse and other forms of violence against
women as potential grounds for political asylum.

In the past, sexual violence had been largely viewed by the agency and
immigration courts as a private act, even when committed by soldiers or
government officials. Rape, for example, was often seen by immigration officials
as a street crime rather than a form of torture or punishment.

But prompted by the mass rape of women in Bosnia and the growing awareness in
the United States and abroad of phenomena like forced abortion and domestic
violence, the immigration service acknowledged that there are distinct forms of
persecution suffered only by women.

The United States becomes the second country after Canada to adopt specific
guidelines for women's asylum cases. The guidelines take effect immediately.

"This is a major shift in both the commitment of the agency and in its
understanding of the way that the asylum claims of refugee women differ from
those of men," said Michele Beasley, a member of the Women's Commission for
Refugee Women and Children, a nonprofit New York group that helped draft the
guidelines. "This makes it clear that just because a woman is not persecuted in
the same way as a man, she isn't deserving of the protection that the United
States can offer."

Doris Meissner, the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said the guidelines were not an open door to all asylum claims by women, but
rather were a way to sensitize immigration service asylum officers and to help
insure that worthy cases from women are not ignored.

"These new guidelines do not lower the standard that must be met by women
seeking refugee status," she said in a written statement. "What they do is
educate asylum officers about the gender-based discrimination and provide them
with procedures and methods for evaluating whether individual claims meet the
refugee standard."

In some type of asylum claims, such as those involving forced sterilization and
abortion of women in China, the guidelines may have little impact. The Federal
courts have already held in most cases that these practices alone do not
constitute grounds for asylum because individual political persecution is not
involved.

But T. Alexander Aleinikoff, general counsel for the immigration service, said
the guidelines were a significant development in shifting perceptions on asylum
claims involving less common issues, like spousal abuse or rape, which might
have been dismissed in the past.

"These cases are beginning to be brought now," he said. "What we are doing is
trying to draw attention to cases that might have been dismissed before because
they were novel."

The guidelines are the latest in a series of developments over the last few
months that have begun to reshape the status of women under immigration law.

In September, Congress enacted the Violence Against Women Act, which plugged a
hole in the immigration law by allowing immigrant women living in the United
States to leave abusive husbands without risking deportation.

Last month, for the first time, an immigration judge granted political asylum to
a Jordanian woman on the ground that her Government had failed to protect her
from her husband's physical assaults.

In deciding the case, the judge, Paul A. Nejelski, said the woman should not be
forced to live "in a harem completely 'protected' by her husband, his society
and his Government."

This month the Board of Immigration Appeals designated as a controlling decision
for the immigration courts a case of a Haitian in which the board recognized
rape as a form of political persecution. The case involved a woman who had been
gang raped by soldiers because of her political support for President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti, who was then in exile in the United States.

She had been denied asylum by an immigration judge, in part because the judge
did not believe that the woman had been raped in retaliation for her political
beliefs. The appeals board overruled the immigration judge's decision, saying
that the rape of the woman was clearly done in retaliation for her support of
Mr. Aristide.

"The whole atmosphere for women has changed," said Deborah Anker, a founding
member of the Women Refugees Project at Harvard Law School, which was
instrumental in shaping the new asylum guidelines. "Women have always been
invisible in the law, and it's time for that invisibility to end."

Ms. Anker said that neither the Haitian woman's case nor the immigration
service's asylum guidelines created new law, but rather constructed a new way of
applying existing law to women.

Under the current law, applicants are eligible for political asylum if they can
prove they were persecuted on account of their race, religion, nationality,
political opinion or membership in a particular social group.

The guidelines outline examples of the forms of harm women can experience, such
as infanticide, genital mutilation, slavery and forced marriage. And they stress
that women must still show how their personal political beliefs made them a
specific target of state persecution.

For the immigration service, constructing the guidelines had been a delicate
balancing act between recognizing the circumstances of women and preventing a
flood of new asylum claims from women around the world.

Asylum applications grew to more than 146,000 last year from about 24,000 in
1984.

Mr. Aleinikoff stressed that deciding asylum claims is still done on
"case-by-case basis."

Nancy Kelly, the coordinating lawyer for the Women Refugees Project, said the
standards for political asylum are still high, requiring claimants to show an
individualized fear of persecution.

She said that since Canada instituted its asylum guidelines for women two years
ago, only about 200 had been granted asylum in that country because of the new
rules.

"There is still a very high burden of proof," she said. "This only gives women
the same rights that men have always had. It doesn't give them expanded rights,
just the same rights since up until now they have been judged by a male
standard."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 5, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

CHANGE OF POLICY ON U.S. IMMIGRANTS IS URGED BY PANEL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A;    Page 1;    Column 6;    National Desk

LENGTH: 1637 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4


A Federal advisory commission will soon recommend gradually reducing legal
immigration by one-third and reshuffling visa priorities to speed up the
admission of spouses and young children of legal aliens, members of the panel
have said.

The proposals, to be presented to Congress later this month, would make the
biggest changes in more than 40 years in policies governing the selection of
legal immigrants.

The panel's plan would clear up a huge backlog of visa applications from the
immediate relatives of permanent resident aliens. But it would also eliminate
longstanding visa preferences for siblings and adult children of United States
citizens, making immigration more difficult for them.

The nine-member advisory panel, the Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by
former Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas, will emphasize the importance of
the nuclear family as the basic unit of immigration, members said.

Under the panel's recommendations, the immediate relatives of United States
citizens -- spouses, children under the age of 21 and parents -- would still be
allowed to immigrate without a waiting period or limits on the number admitted
each year.

But panel members said they would recommend eliminating immigration preferences
that have been granted for decades to other close relatives, including the
brothers, sisters and adult children of United States citizens. In general,
those relatives could not obtain visas to immigrate unless they qualified
because of their job skills.

The commission's proposals are likely to be influential on Capitol Hill because
Congress created the commission, appointed eight of the nine members and is
seeking new ways to overcome deep disagreements on immigration policy.

Since lawmakers have not yet seen the report, there is no way to know how its
recommendations will fare in Congress. But it is built on a complex set of
trade-offs intended to offer something to all sides in the immigration debate.
And it will no doubt further appeal to many in Congress simply because the
commission and its report offer some political cover on highly contentious
issues.

Many Republican lawmakers favor new limits, but some, like Dick Armey of Texas,
the House majority leader, see immigration as an engine of economic growth and
oppose new restrictions.

In addition, the recommendations come at a time when many Americans are
expressing concern about immigration, whether legal and illegal. In California
last November, voters approved a ballot measure that would make illegal aliens
ineligible for public education and most social services. Judges have delayed
its enforcement while it faces legal challenges.

In addition, the House of Representatives in March approved a bill that would
deny welfare, food stamps and Medicaid to legal aliens.

Some members of the immigration panel said they were reluctant to discuss its
recommendations because they were still editing the report. But some suggested
that public concern about illegal immigration was inevitably influencing public
attitudes toward legal immigration.

One member of the panel, Bruce A. Morrison, a former Democratic member of
Congress from Connecticut, said: "Current levels of legal immigration are not a
problem. But in the context of substantial illegal immigration, there is a
problem."

Lawrence H. Fuchs, a professor at Brandeis University who is vice chairman of
the commission, said, "In the aggregate, on balance, immigrants have contributed
to strengthening the United States." He deplored what he described as a public
"fixation on numbers" but added, "We have to have limits because of the
disproportionate impact of immigration in some places like Los Angeles."

At a closed meeting, from May 23 to 25, commission members said, they affirmed
the value of legal immigration, but voted to recommend that Congress reduce it
by one-third over the next few years from its average over the last three years
of 830,000 a year. In the transition period, 700,000 immigrants would be
admitted annually. After the transition, 550,000 would be admitted each year,
and that would become the normal level of legal immigration.

As a corollary, panel members said, Congress should eliminate the large backlog
of visa applications already filed on behalf of the spouses and minor children
of permanent resident aliens. Congress could do that over three to eight years,
they said.

An immigration expert who worked with the commission said: "Both sides of the
equation are necessary. Reducing immigration without expediting the entry of
immediate relatives flies in the face of human nature. It will only increase
illegal migration. But expediting their entry requires the elimination of other
categories in order to get the needed visa numbers."

Susan Martin, executive director of the commission, said there were 1.1 million
would-be immigrants on the waiting list of spouses and minor children of legal
permanent residents. About 850,000 are relatives of illegal aliens who gained
legal status under an amnesty program created by Congress in 1986. Most others
are overseas relatives of recent legal immigrants.

Ms. Martin said it would take at least a decade to work through the backlog
under current law. Commission members said it was not in the national interest
for families to be apart for so long.

The panel's major recommendations were approved by votes of 8 to 1. Commission
members said they were surprised that they had achieved a bipartisan consensus.
The dissenter was Warren R. Leiden, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, whose members represent legal and illegal
aliens, their relatives and employers.

"This is a short-sighted proposal," Mr. Leiden said in an interview. "I would
support revising the priorities for family immigration, but cannot support the
commission's proposal to eliminate three of the four existing family preference
categories. I also oppose the reduction of almost 30 percent in the ceiling for
employment-based immigrants."

The commission recommends that the Government levy substantial fees on employers
who want to bring in foreign workers like computer scientists, engineers and
health professionals. The fees are meant to discourage employers from hiring
foreign workers when Americans are available. Employers willing to pay the fees
could import foreign workers faster than they do now.

Mr. Leiden criticized this proposal as a tax on American businesses that use
foreign workers. He said it would hinder access to the skills needed to compete
in a global economy.

Another panel member, Harold W. Ezell, a former Western regional commissioner of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said: "I believe immigration is good
for America. But too much of a good thing can be harmful. I love certain types
of candy, but if you eat too much, you'll overdose on chocolate. We've got to
have balance."

Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican who is chairman of the Judiciary
Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration, has proposed a 25 percent reduction in
legal immigration over the next five years, to provide "a breathing space." The
current flow of legal immigrants is more than can be "comfortably absorbed," he
said.

In September, the commission recommended a crackdown on illegal immigration
along the border and at work sites. It said the Government should establish a
computerized register of the names and Social Security numbers of all citizens
and legal aliens authorized to work in the United States, so employers could
verify the immigration status of job applicants. In February, President Clinton
said he wanted to test such a system, but many civil liberties advocate,
Hispanic organizations, and Chinese and Jewish groups have opposed such
proposals, saying they could increase job discrimination.

The argument that illegal immigration would undermine support for legal
immigration upsets many immigration lawyers. "In essence, legal immigrants are
being made scapegoats for the inability of Congress and the Administration to
control illegal immigration," said Stephen Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration
law at Cornell Law School.

The proposed changes come just five years after Congress authorized increases in
immigration for certain groups, including highly skilled workers. The 1990 law
more than doubled the number of immigrants who could be admitted because of job
skills, to 140,000 a year from 54,000. The Jordan commission proposes reducing
the number to 100,000, on the ground that no more are needed.

Commission members said they would also recommend eliminating the annual
allotment of 10,000 visas for unskilled workers seeking jobs in the United
States. The commission concluded that these immigrants compete directly with
unskilled American workers and young people entering the labor force. In
addition, panel members said that hundreds of thousands of welfare recipients
would soon be looking for jobs if, as expected, Congress imposes tough work
requirements as part of a bill to overhaul the welfare system.

Many unskilled immigrants work in restaurants and home-care jobs, helping people
who are elderly or disabled. About 79,000 unskilled workers are on the waiting
list in this category. The Government is now issuing visas to people who have
been waiting five years.

Ms. Jordan, the chairwoman of the commission, is a professor at the University
of Texas in Austin. The other members of the panel, besides Mr. Morrison, Mr.
Fuchs, Mr. Leiden and Mr. Ezell, are Richard Estrada, an associate editor of the
editorial page of The Dallas Morning News; Robert Charles Hill, a lawyer in
Washington; Nelson Merced, a former state legislator in Massachusetts, and
Michael S. Teitelbaum, a program officer at the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in
New York.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Legal Immigration" shows legal immigration in
the U.S. from 1979 1994. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Services)(pg.
B7)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 8, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Embraces a Proposal To Cut Immigration by a Third

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section B;   Page 10;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7


The White House today welcomed a Federal advisory panel's recommendation to cut
legal immigration by one-third. But the proposals met fierce opposition from
Hispanic, Asian-American, Roman Catholic and Jewish groups, as well as from the
National Association of Manufacturers.

Barbara Jordan, chairwoman of the panel, the Commission on Immigration Reform,
delivered the plan to President Clinton, and he congratulated the panel.
"Consistent with my own views, the commission's recommendations are pro-family,
pro-work, pro-naturalization," he said.

Mr. Clinton said the panel had "laid out a road map for Congress to consider."
His press secretary, Michael D. McCurry, said that "the President indicated to
Barbara Jordan today that he will support such reductions," which would
represent the biggest change in immigration policy in more than 40 years.

In addition, Mr. Clinton said the proposal "appears to reflect a balanced
immigration policy that makes the most of our diversity while protecting the
American work force so that we can better compete in the emerging global
economy."

The President's statement places him in the middle of an explosive political
debate, at odds with many of his usual supporters, but sympathetic to the
concerns of people who want to restrict immigration. Many Republicans, like
Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on
Immigration, want to reduce legal immigration. Others see immigration as an
engine of economic growth.

Representative Dick Armey, the Texas Republican who is the House majority
leader, said: "The commission fails to tell us why we should so dramatically
reduce legal immigration. It is long on recommendations, but short on analysis."
He said the proposals were "a misguided attempt to make legal immigrants the
scapegoats for America's problems."

The panel said that Congress should initially reduce legal immigration to
700,000 a year and ultimately to 550,000 from the current level of about
830,000. As a corollary, it said Congress should speed up the admission of
spouses and young children of legal aliens.

At the same time, the panel said Congress should eliminate visa preferences for
siblings and adult children of United States citizens. It would lower the limit
on employment-related immigration to 100,000 a year from 140,000, and would
eliminate the annual allotment of 10,000 visas for unskilled workers.

The panel also recommended reducing the number of refugees to 50,000 a year,
down from the more than 100,000 admitted in each of the past five years.

The proposals drew criticism from a wide range of business, ethnic and religious
groups.

Phyllis H. Eisen, a policy analyst at the National Association of Manufacturers,
said: "We are distressed at the proposed cutback in legal immigration. It's
shortsighted. We got an increase in business visas in 1990 for good reasons.
Most manufacturing companies are deeply involved in global markets. They need to
seek out talent globally. The scientists and technical experts they bring to the
United States create jobs. There is no displacement of American workers."

Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic group, said: "The recommendations are stunningly radical. They're
irresponsible. The whole point of establishing the commission was to take the
discussion of immigration out of politics. Instead, the commission chose to jump
on a political bandwagon."

Karen Narasaki, executive director of the National Asian Pacific American Legal
Consortium, a civil rights group, said: "We are outraged. This is an attack on
the Asian community. There are a million Asians whose families have filed
applications for them to immigrate in categories that would be eliminated by the
commission -- brothers and sisters and adult children of U.S. citizens."

Maynard I. Wishner, president of the Council of Jewish Federations, an umbrella
group for Jewish charities, said that if Congress agreed to cut refugee
admissions, the United States would be "turning its back on its moral
commitments and its history."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

June 4-10;
Politics Magnifies an Immigration Proposal

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 254 words


Reports of blue-ribbon commissions often fade into obscurity as soon as they are
issued. But the recommendations of a Federal panel advising Congress on
immigration policy are already getting serious attention on Capitol Hill, and
that only promises to increase as next year's Presidential campaign heats up.

The panel, headed by former Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas, suggested
last week that Congress gradually reduce legal immigration by one-third, to an
annual level of 550,000. It also suggested speeding up the admission of spouses
and young children of legal aliens.

Hispanic, Asian-American, Roman Catholic and Jewish groups harshly criticized
the commission's recommendations, which include a proposal to cut refugee
admissions by more than 50 percent, to 50,000 a year.

Nevertheless, President Clinton endorsed the recommendations within a few hours
of meeting with Ms. Jordan. This surprised immigration officials and some White
House aides, who had urged a more cautious approach.

Immigration seems likely to be an issue in next year's Presidential election.
Gov. Pete Wilson of California, who is likely to seek the Republican
Presidential nomination, has repeatedly expressed concern about illegal
immigration, and many Republicans in Congress are trying to cut off welfare
benefits for legal aliens.

Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic group,
said the commission had "jumped on a political bandwagon" to restrict
immigration.   ROBERT PEAR

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Hiding in Plain Sight: Search for Haitian Exile

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words


Emmanuel (Toto) Constant, leader of a violent anti-democracy group in Haiti, was
well known to United States officials. He had been on their payroll as an
informer even as he headed the opposition to the American-led effort to
reinstate President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Late last year, he embarrassed
American authorities when he eluded Haitian prosecutors by fleeing to the United
States, entering legally on an old visa.

But as Mr. Constant circulated freely in New York -- stopping in at coffee
shops, visiting nightclubs and creating a stir in the Haitian exile community --
immigration officials assigned to find him seemed to be starting from scratch.

They began their investigation by looking not for Mr. Constant, but for his
picture. In their search for a photograph, the immigration authorities called
Jocelyn McCalla, the executive director of the National Coalition of Haitian
Refugees in New York.

"My response was the guy has been in all the newspapers and on television," Mr.
McCalla said. "They had to have a picture of him in his State Department file.
He had a visa."

"I thought it was ridiculous," Mr. McCalla said.

Nearly two weeks ago, when agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
arrested Mr. Constant, he was hardly well hidden. They found him at at his
aunt's white stucco house on a middle-class block in Laurelton, Queens, where he
had been staying openly. He is now in a Maryland prison awaiting a deportation
hearing, and has denied requests for interviews.

The ease with which Mr. Constant ducked American authorities for nearly five
months seems to reveal a lack of urgency by American officials in finding him,
even though his organization is thought responsible for the murder, rape and
torture of thousands of people in his homeland.

Since he managed to escape retribution from fellow Haitians as he lived openly
as a fugitive, it also reflects the peculiar nature of exile communities, which
import animosities from their homeland and carve out a fragile coexistence with
their enemies. Some Haitians have long been nervous about the presence of Mr.
Constant's group, the Front for the Advancement of Haitian Progress, known as
Fraph, in this country -- its headquarters were in Far Rockaway -- particularly
after a supposed hit list of its enemies circulated in New York and Miami.

But, suspicious of the American Government's allegiances, many assumed that the
group had its tacit approval, just as they assumed that Mr. Constant could not
have entered the United States without the authorities' permission.

Last fall, because Mr. Constant had publicly renounced violence, the American
officials who led the Haiti intervention decided not to arrest him when they
raided the offices of his group, and arrested 30 others.

"He was apparently not dealt with harshly by the United States despite his
record and reputation," said Representative Robert G. Torricelli, a New Jersey
Democrat and a member of the House Intelligence Committee.

But the Haitian authorities moved to prosecute him, and Mr. Constant quietly
evaded them by flying to Puerto Rico on Dec. 24.

Officials had never checked to see if he had a valid United States visa, which
he did. They were apparently taken by surprise when a Haitian newspaper reported
his presence in Washington in January.

Even then, the wheels of the Government turned slowly. His visa was not revoked
until Feb. 14, and immigration officials said they did not begin searching for
Mr. Constant until March 29, when Secretary of State Warren Christopher wrote to
Attorney General Janet Reno requesting that Mr. Constant be deported to Haiti to
answer charges against him and his group.

"If they were hot after him, they would have gotten him much sooner," said
Ronald Aubourg, a policy analyst with the Haiti Coalition on AIDS in Brooklyn,
who said his cousin in Haiti was killed by members of Mr. Constant's group.

Mr. Constant apparently felt little pressure to hide while he was in the United
States.

His arrival was announced in January in an interview he gave from Washington
with the New York-based weekly Haiti Observateur. Officials at the Haitian
Embassy in Washington received reports of Constant sightings in Washington and
Maryland. He was spotted walking along the strip of Haitian-owned businesses on
Linden Boulevard in Queens and at a coffee shop called Farranos on Nostrand
Avenue in Brooklyn within the last few weeks. He was also said to have
frequented the Cafe Des Arts, a Haitian nightclub on Long Island.

"People knew he was around New York," said Kim Ives, a reporter for Haiti
Progres, a newspaper in Brooklyn. "It was well known. He'd been spotted going
into various places. He's a big, tall guy, and people had seen his picture."

One Haitian immigrant, sitting at the bar of the Queens Brasserie Creole
Restaurant last week, said he saw Mr. Constant several times recently walking on
Linden Boulevard. He recognized him from CNN television, he said. "I looked at
him and said: 'This is the guy,' " said the man, who asked not to be identified.

Mr. Constant is so reviled by many in the exiled Haitian community that the mere
mention of his name at a Haitian-owned auto garage in Brooklyn last week
prompted a mechanic to raise his head from under a car hood and spit: "Hitler."

That Mr. Constant avoided retribution from pro-Aristide exiles is testament to
what Mr. McCalla said are most Haitians' nonviolent tendencies. "Haitians have
never been big on retaliation," he said.

But it also suggests that Mr. Constant was careful to avoid areas of New York,
particularly Brooklyn, where devoted Aristide supporters live, choosing instead
to stay in safer areas. In Haiti, Mr. Constant was an enemy of the poor, said
Paul Joseph, a Haitian exile who is a mechanic in Brooklyn. "In Brooklyn, poor
people live," he said. "Rich people live in Queens and Long Island."

Immigration agents found Mr. Constant after a tip from an informer. Russ
Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said the
agency was not flooded with calls, even though people now say they spotted him
in the New York area.

"Just because individuals might have seen him, it doesn't mean that they ran out
and called I.N.S. and said Emmanuel Constant is sunbathing next door," Mr.
Bergeron said. He said the immigration service found Mr. Constant quickly,
"considering the fact he could have been anywhere in the United States."

Mr. Christopher requested Mr. Constant's deportation because his presence in the
United States could "have potentially serious adverse foreign policy
consequences." He said, "opposition to Fraph is a key element of our Haitian
foreign policy."

Mr. Schrager, the spokesman at the United States Embassy in Haiti, said Mr.
Constant's arrest was important because some Haitians suspected that he was
helped in his flight by contacts in the United States Government, renewing
questions about its connections to groups like Fraph.

"There were frankly some Haitians who thought we were in collusion in getting
Emmanuel Constant out of Haiti and into the United States," he said.

NAME: Emmanuel (Toto) Constant

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emmanuel Constant, leader of an anti-democracy group in Haiti,
on July 7, 1994. Later that year, he eluded authorities and fled to the United
States. (Les Stone/Sygma)

Chart: "CHRONOLOGY: Important Dates in the Case"

1993

OCT. 11
Emmanuel (Toto) Constant, the head of the Front for Advancement and Progress of
Haiti, a pro-military group known as Fraph, leads a protest against the docking
of a United States Navy ship that has sailed to Haiti to try to restore
democracy. The ship turns and leaves.

1994

OCT. 3
United States forces in Port-au-Prince raid the Fraph headquarters. The forces
arrest about 20 Fraph members but not its leader, Mr. Constant.

OCT. 4
Under pressure from United States officials, Mr. Constant makes a public
statement calling for "no more violence" and support for the return of President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

OCT. 6
Reports are published that say Mr. Constant was a paid informer of the Central
Intelligence Agency until spring 1994.

DEC. 24
Facing an inquiry into Fraph's activities by a Haitian magistrate, Mr. Constant
flees Haiti for Puerto Rico using a valid visa.

1995

JAN.
A Haitian newspaper published in Brooklyn reports Mr. Constant's arrival. Exiled
Haitians spot him in New York and Washington.

FEB. 14
United States officials confirm that Mr. Constant is believed to be in the
United States, and they revoke his visa.

MARCH 29
Secretary of State Warren Christopher writes to Attorney General Janet Reno
requesting that she "do everything possible" to find Mr. Constant and return him
to Haiti to face criminal charges.

APRIL
Mr. Constant is seen in Brooklyn and Queens.

MAY 10
Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrest Mr. Constant outside
his aunt's house in Laurelton, Queens. He is at a prison in Maryland awaiting a
deportation hearing.

(pg. B2)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 8, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SENATE APPROVES ANTI-TERROR BILL BY A 91-TO-8 VOTE

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 6;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7


The Senate today approved broad counterterrorism legislation that would give
Government law-enforcement officials expanded powers, make it easier to deport
illegal aliens suspected of terrorism and limit most death row prisoners to one
appeal in Federal court.

Seven weeks after the Oklahoma City bombing and after four days of debate, the
package of bills, the Comprehensive Terrorism Prevention Act of 1995, won
passage on a vote of 91 to 8, with wide bipartisan support.

Although drafted by the Republican majority, the legislation would give
President Clinton most of the provisions he requested in a counterterrorism
measure he first proposed after the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993.

"We did it in a way not in the emotion of the moment," said the Senate majority
leader, Bob Dole of Kansas. "We believe we can look back on this legislation a
year from now, two years from now, ten years from now, and say that it is a good
product that won't trample on anybody's constitutional rights."

Some took issue with that assessment, however, and predicted a string of court
challenges, particularly against the measure's limitation on death row appeals,
a restriction that has already been approved by the House of Representatives and
appears destined to become law.

"In a well-intentioned effort to solve serious problems, we find ourselves
throwing our constitutional rights at every perceived ill in the misguided hope
that it will somehow cure those ailments," said Gerald H. Goldstein of San
Antonio, president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers,
which represents 8,700 private criminal defense lawyers, public defenders and
law professors.

The President praised the Senate for having acted so swiftly after the Oklahoma
City bombing.

"This legislation," Mr. Clinton said, "will give law enforcement the tools it
needs to do everything possible to prevent this kind of tragedy from happening
again. It will also help us prosecute and punish terrorists more effectively. I
urge the House to do its part and get a bill on my desk without delay."

The House Judiciary Committee is to take up a similar measure next Monday, with
debate by the full House expected in the next few weeks. Prospects for some
version of the legislation there are considered good.

The Senate-approved package, comprising dozens of bills, would authorize nearly
$1.8 billion for domestic and international counterterrorism programs. It would
make terrorism committed by foreigners in the United States, activity now
subject to prosecution under a variety of laws, a specific Federal offense;
would increase the penalties for terrorism committed by Americans, and would
make it easier for law-enforcement agencies to conduct multiple wiretaps against
suspects who use numerous telephones to evade detection. It would also give the
military a limited role in investigating domestic threats involving chemical or
biological weapons.

But it is the limits on death row appeals that are among the most significant
and contentious provisions of the legislation. Republicans added the provision
once the two suspects held in the Oklahoma City bombing had been charged with a
Federal offense punishable by death, and Mr. Clinton, who had initially opposed
the language, said on Monday that he would accept it.

The Senate's final version of this provision, similar to what the House has
already passed, was adopted today in an amendment sponsored by Senator Orrin G.
Hatch of Utah, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee.

It would give most death row inmates, whether in Federal or state prisons, one
year from the time of conviction to appeal their sentences in Federal court and
would allow them no more than one appeal there. Any exception would be limited
to the issue of newly discovered evidence.

A floor fight against the provision was led by the Judiciary Committee's senior
Democrat, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, who said: "We should not
sacrifice certainty in the name of speed, or fairness in the name of vengeance.
This has to do with fundamental fairness. The death sentence is unlike any
other. There is no turning back once it has been imposed."

But Senator Hatch declared, "If the Federal Government is incapable of putting
any meaningful limit on the number of times that a prisoner can challenge this
conviction over and over again, then this Government is, I submit, not serious
at all about fighting crime."

The issue had threatened to be a sticking point until Monday, when Mr. Clinton
dropped his objection to including the provision in the counterterrorism bill.

Mr. Clinton's about-face, however, did not stop Democrats today from trying,
unsuccessfully, to alter the amendment to make it apply only to Federal
prisoners.

"This bill goes far beyond terrorism, and far beyond Federal prisoners," said
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. "It severely limits the
ability of any state prisoner -- not just terrorists, but any state prisoner --
to seek Federal court review of Federal constitutional rights. This is a highly
controversial, very complicated proposal, and it is wrong to sneak it into an
anti-terrorism bill that all of us want to pass as quickly and as responsibly as
we can."

Such was the bipartisan push toward passage of the overall package, though, that
both Mr. Biden and Mr. Kennedy wound up voting for it, their strong objections
to the death-appeals limitation notwithstanding.

On other fronts, the Democrats were more successful.

The Republicans had initially rejected several of Mr. Clinton's major requests.
But under a Democratic threat to tie up debate by introducing scores of
amendments, the Republicans agreed to a minority-drafted provision that would
allow the military to provide limited technical assistance in terrorism cases
involving biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction. And they also
accepted a provision that would allow Federal law-enforcement officials, having
obtained only one warrant, to use so-called roving wiretaps on highly mobile
suspects who use different telephone lines to try to escape detection.

Senate Democrats and the Administration also got approval of their proposal
requiring that chemical tracing elements, known as taggants, be contained in
dynamite and other explosives. In addition, the Treasury Department, the parent
of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, would study ways of making
common chemicals like fertilizers inert and thus unusable as an explosive.

Some provisions of the measure would codify in law what until now has been
nonstatutory policy. For example, the measure would grant the State Department
authority to deny visas to people who belong to groups suspected of terrorism or
who come from countries that sponsor terrorism. And it would allow the President
to designate certain foreign organizations as terrorist and to prohibit American
citizens from raising money for them or contributing to them.

Another provision would speed the deportation of illegal aliens suspected of
terrorism. The current lengthy administrative proceedings would be replaced by a
special "terrorism court" where the accused alien could be denied access to
national-security documents supporting the charges against him.

The legislative push for the counterterrorism measure did not gather steam until
after the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in downtown Oklahoma
City on April 19. Mr. Clinton and Senate Republicans then added a list of
domestic law-enforcement proposals to their packages.

Today, in the wake of the legislation's passage, Mr. Dole, the front-runner for
the Republican Presidential nomination, was generous in his praise of Mr.
Clinton, saying the President's efforts this week in discouraging Democratic
amendments to the bill had helped speed the process.

"Immediately after the Oklahoma City tragedy, President Clinton was right on
target when he said that the perpetrators of this vicious crime should face
justice that was 'swift, certain and severe,' " Mr. Dole said. "I am pleased to
report to the American people, and to the President, that with today's passage
of the anti-terrorism bill, we are one giant step closer to achieving this
important goal."

Two Republicans -- Senators Mark O. Hatfield and Bob Packwood, both of Oregon --
voted against the bill and were joined by six Democrats: Senators Russell D.
Feingold of Wisconsin, Carol Moseley-Braun of Illinois, Daniel Patrick Moynihan
of New York, Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island, Paul Simon of Illinois and Paul
Wellstone of Minnesota. Most were motivated by their opposition to the limits on
death-row appeals.

The only nonvoting Senator was Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, who was
absent.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, center, having led the drive for
anti-terror legislation, celebrated its passage at a news conference with two
Republican colleagues: Don Nickles, left, and James Inhofe, both of Oklahoma.
(David Scull/The New York Times) (pg. B12)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

24 Criminal Aliens in Florida Deported to Free Prison Space

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 29


Under an unprecedented agreement with the Federal Government, Florida sent home
24 imprisoned illegal aliens today, the first group deported to free up space in
the state's prisons.

The prisoners, 15 men and 9 women, received clemency from prison terms in their
homelands in exchange for agreeing to be deported and never to return, and to
waive any pending legal challenge.

Half the first group came from Colombia; the rest were from the Dominican
Republic, Grenada, Jamaica, the Bahamas, Honduras, Peru, Mexico and Nicaragua.
All were drug offenders. They were serving sentences ranging from 3 to 15 years.

"If I keep them here, then I'm having to turn out a violent Floridian or U.S.
citizen," said Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat who is running for re-election.
The state says 26,000 American prisoners were released early because of
overcrowding from 1988 to 1991.

The clemency means that the aliens do not have to be jailed in their homelands,
as would otherwise be required under treaties with the United States. "The host
countries have all been notified," Mr. Chiles said.  Florida has 2,700 aliens
behind bars at a cost of about $60 million a year. Mr. Chiles said that he hoped
half would be eligible for the program and that 500 could be deported in the
next year. So far, 113 deportations have been approved.

The deportations involve only nonviolent offenders. If the prisoners return to
the United States, they will be subject to Federal charges and will be sent back
to prison.

Possible Model for States

Dan Cadman, director of the Miami branch of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said the program's novel mix of deportation and clemency would probably
be a model for other states.

"I think this is a great deal for both the State of Florida and the I.N.S.," Mr.
Cadman said. "We think its a precursor of programs that will be undertaken and
enacted in various states."

Mr. Chiles said, "For millions of people around the world, arrival on these
shores has been a ticket to a better life, but for criminal aliens who prey on
our citizens, the only ticket we offer them is a one-way trip back to their own
country."

An agreement between Mexico and the United States allows Mexican immigrants to
be sent home to serve their time, but no clemency is provided.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A New Effort to Stop Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 4;  National Desk

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General Janet Reno yesterday praised a crackdown
against illegal immigrants in California, which has stopped 1,550 illegal
immigrants in its first two days, triple the normal number. All were returned to
Mexico. Border Patrol agents in vans yesterday drove past people at the border
who appeared to be waiting for dark to try to cross into the United States
illegally at Imperial Beach, Calif. (Associated Press)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 18, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Fearful Of Alien Surge

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 57 words


Countering growing opposition from President Clinton's own party to its $40
billion rescue plan for Mexico, the Administration told leaders of Congress that
the number of illegal immigrants crossing the border into Texas and California
would increase by about 430,000 this year if the Mexican financial crisis
deepened.

Article, page A3.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 26, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Trying to Help Aid Plan, U.S. Asks Mexico for Border Crackdown

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1111 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25


In an effort to overcome Congressional opposition to a proposed emergency aid
package for Mexico, top Clinton Administration officials said today that they
had asked Mexico to help prevent illegal aliens from crossing into the United
States and to place strict controls on its economic policy.

The proposed conditions for the bailout package would effectively give the
United States enormous influence in how Mexico deployed its police along the
countries' border, battled narcotics and managed its economy.

But in the more than four hours of Congressional hearings on the package today,
not a single member of the House Banking Committee, Democrat or Republican,
expressed support for a $40 billion set of loan guarantees -- in which the
United States would essentially co-sign a loan to the country -- and several
members vowed to defeat it.

By the end of the day, Republican leaders who earlier had predicted quick
approval of the package, probably by the end of this week, were saying that it
would take far longer to negotiate and that the outcome was in doubt.

Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, complained that the White House
had failed to rally its own party around the deal and said that despite his
support for the plan, Republicans would not engineer its passage alone.

"Unless there is some help on the other side of the aisle, forget it," Mr. Dole
said. "It is not going to happen."

In the most explicit description yet of the conditions that would surround a
loan guarantee, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said today that Mexican
leaders had agreed "in principle" to turn over to the United States all of their
country's earnings from foreign oil sales if Mexico defaulted on
American-guaranteed loans.

The loans would be intended to restore investors' confidence in Mexico and
enable it to borrow money again on world financial markets after last month's
devaluation of the peso. The devaluations were caused by Mexico's overborrowing
of short-term funds and printing too much money.

Even while the Clinton Administration's promise of tough conditions was
appearing to win few converts on Capitol Hill, it remained unclear how Mexico
would react to the escalating list of political and economic conditions tied to
any loan. Opponents of the Government in Mexico City have already criticized
plans to tie repayment of any loans to the state-run oil monopoly, Petroleos
Mexicanos, and the Government of President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon has
repeatedly said that it would accept no conditions that compromised Mexican
independence.

Asked about objections in Mexico, a senior Clinton Administration official said
today, "The fact is, they don't have a lot of bargaining chips."

At today's hearing Mr. Rubin, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, fielded heated questions about the
proposed rescue and warned again that the United States had little choice but to
come to Mexico's rescue.

If Congress fails to act, Mr. Christopher said, "America's prosperity and
security will be put at risk" as the financial crisis spreads around the world.

Later, in an interview, Mr. Rubin predicted that if the package was not approved
quickly, there could be "a catalytic impact around the world" as investors
pulled billions of dollars out of other emerging markets that have followed
Mexico's formula of economic reform.

"This creates the possibility of less capital," Mr. Rubin said, "and social and
political troubles that could follow."

But the Administration is facing growing objections, many from members of
Congress, who complain that the biggest beneficiaries of the loan guarantee will
be some of the richest American and Mexican investors. Those investors bought
$28 billion in the Mexican notes, or tesobonos, that the government cannot pay
off since the 35 percent devaluation of the Mexican peso.

The Administration's problem is that the United States cannot bail out Mexico's
economy -- and thus help preserve 700,000 American jobs that are linked to
exports to Mexico -- without also saving a raft of investors both here and
abroad. Those investors run the gamut from millionaires to holders of pension
and mutual funds that joined the boom in investing in Mexico.

So far, the Administration's message that the stakes go far beyond bond holders
has largely fallen on deaf ears on Capitol Hill.

"People don't understand it," said Representative Patricia Schroeder, Democrat
of Colorado, "and they think it's a bailout of big guys."

Compounding the Administration's troubles is widespread confusion over what
Mexico would be required to do in return for the help.

Mr. Christopher has fought to keep political conditions -- especially on illegal
aliens and drugs -- out of the authorizing legislation in Congress, for fear
that opponents of the North American Free Trade Agreement would load the bill
with more and more demands. So the Administration is pressing for a "side
letter" from Mexico, in which the Zedillo Government would commit itself to
crackdowns on emigration and narcotics without making that a strict condition of
the loan.

Even the financial conditions are murky. There are several versions of the bill
authorizing the loan guarantee, but the Administration has yet to submit a
single bill for formal debate.

Today it was rushing to placate Democrats who insisted on new conditions that
would require Mexico to tie wage increases to increases in productivity, a way
of assuring that Mexican products -- already, thanks to the devaluation, a third
cheaper in dollar terms than they were a month ago -- will not be made even
cheaper.

Representative Jim Leach, the Iowa Republican who heads the banking committee
and supports the bailout, said today that the bill was "the most ad hoc process
of development of legislation I have experienced in my public life."

Administration officials said they were walking a tightrope between satisfying
Congress and preventing the insertion of conditions so onerous that they would
slow Mexico's growth or lead to the spread of anti-government uprisings. Some
members of Congress say that the guarantees of repayment are a sham and that the
United States, for example, would hardly cut off the money Mexico earns from oil
if the Mexican economy worsened.

"What we're going to do if the deal goes south is take the money they will
desperately need to keep their people fed?" asked Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, Democrat
of Massachusetts. "Politically, it will never work."

Mr. Kennedy, echoing a theme heard from conservatives and liberals alike today,
said: "Let the markets work it out."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 27, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Mexicans Deny They Would Order Border Crackdown in Return for U.S. Loan
Guarantees

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 10;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 26


Mexican officials strongly denied today that they would agree to block migrants
from crossing illegally into the United States or give American officials
greater influence over their anti-drug efforts in return for $40 billion in
proposed loan guarantees.

United States officials also backed away from suggestions on Wednesday that they
would try to use the aid to win such concessions from Mexico.

"We have been very, very, very careful in dealing with the Mexicans on this,"
said an American official familiar with the discussions. "In some cases we may
want to push the Mexicans farther than they are. But we are trying to make the
case to people that we are already working well together, and that we are
getting increased assurances of cooperation."

"We are not," the official went on, "trying to come up with any sort of
political conditions on this."

What commitments Mexico might make to win Congressional approval of the loan
guarantees in the United States has become a sensitive political issue in both
countries.

Without waiting for the Clinton Administration, Congress has variously demanded
the opening of Mexico's state-run oil industry to private investors, Mexican
efforts to stop illegal migration to the United States, and an end to Mexico's
amicable relationship with Cuba.

In response, a growing number of Mexicans have begun to oppose the plan, arguing
that the loan guarantees and their conditions could jeopardize the independence
of this country without solving its deeper economic problems.

"The series of conditions that the White House and the United States Congress
seek in order to aid Mexico financially show the characteristics not of an
economic operation but of open and inadmissible blackmail," the left-leaning
newspaper La Jornada editorialized on its front page last week.

As in the United States, much of the criticism in Mexico comes from political
agendas that go far beyond the $40 billion. And as was the case in earlier
negotiations over the foreign debt and North American trade, the outcry may
partly serve the Mexican Government's cause by hinting to the American Congress
that refusal to help could bring more political instability south of the border.

Many Mexican political analysts believe their countrymen care less about the
threats to their sovereignty that the loan guarantees might imply than about the
economic disaster that could ensue if they are voted down.

Yet concern about a nationalistic backlash has become increasingly evident in
the Government of President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon. One after another,
senior Mexican officials have been paraded in recent days to promise that the
country's dignity will not be risked. In a hastily scheduled speech on Tuesday
night, Mr. Zedillo himself mentioned the word sovereignty 19 times.

"The highest aim of my Government is the full exercise of national sovereignty,"
he said. "We will accept no commitment that violates national sovereignty or
threatens the legitimate interests of the Mexicans."

Mexican and United States officials have not differed in their public
description of the financial conditions of the proposed guarantees.

Because of the difficulty Mexico faces in persuading investors to renew the $28
billion in short-term debt securities it has outstanding, it plans to use the
guarantees to issue new debt bonds that would be repayable over a period of up
to 10 years. Mexico would pay a commission and interest. As collateral, the
Mexican central bank would also have importers of Mexican oil deposit their
payments with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, putting them under American
control in the event Mexico had trouble paying them back.

Just as American critics of the guarantees have portrayed them as outright
loans, so have Mexican opponents suggested that they would give the United
States control over Mexico's oil exports. But the more political conditions that
might be attached to the plan have been even more open to interpretation.

According to officials from both countries involved in negotiations on the
assurances Mexico might offer to make the loan guarantees more attractive,
Mexico has said it will pledge greater cooperation with the United States on
such matters as immigration, drug control and environmental protection along the
border. But the assurances that Mexico would provide are not expected to be very
specific, and they are not expected to require new formal agreements.

On the migration issue, senior Mexican officials said the Zedillo Government's
main commitments would be to promote greater economic development in regions
that have traditionally exported undocumented migrants to the United States and
to expand a special police force created to deal with crime along the border.

Mexico has already announced that it is considering both of those steps, and
officials said they might consider allowing migrants caught sneaking across the
border to be deported into the Mexican interior.

In testimony Wednesday before the Banking Committee of the House of
Representatives, Secretary of State Warren Christopher cited the expansion of
the special police force as an example of the "very significant" actions that
Mexico would take on law enforcement and narcotics.

Yet the force, known in Spanish as the Grupo Beta, has in fact had the primary
mission of protecting undocumented migrants from criminal attacks.

Mexican officials said that what the Zedillo Government was prepared to do about
narcotics was to increase the exchange of intelligence between the two countries
and step up their cooperation in fighting money laundering by traffickers. The
administration has also made those commitments in the past.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Wide Review Is Planned for Airport Workers

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 42;   Column 4;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 495 words


Seeking to tighten security after more than 100 undocumented aliens were
arrested at Newark International Airport, the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey said yesterday that it would review the records of all employees hired by
private companies to work at its airports.

The detained workers, employed by a cleaning company, had been granted security
clearances that allowed them to work in restricted areas of the airport, as well
as on airplanes.

"There is going to be a systemwide look into all of the documents at all of our
airports," said Bill Cahill, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey. "We would almost certainly conduct reviews at all of our facilities
to see if we have similar situations."

The nighttime sweep of Newark's Terminal C last Thursday by agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Port Authority was the conclusion
of a 15-month investigation of undocumented workers at the airport.

Federal officials said the investigation began after they had received tips that
the cleaning company, Lisbon Cleaners Inc. of Newark, which employs about 500
people in northern New Jersey, had a large number of undocumented employees.

Mr. Cahill said private employers were responsible for conducting background
checks, going back at least five years, to determine whether potential employees
were legally authorized to work in the United States.

"If someone is going to be issued the credentials to work on an aircraft or in a
restricted area of the airport, that person has to get security credentials from
the Port Authority," Mr. Cahill said. "The employer, in applying for the
security credentials, fills out the form and brings the form and the employee to
the Port Authority offices at each of the airports, where they take photographs
and turn in the form."

The loophole in the system, said Greg Gagne, a spokesman for the immigration
service, "is how difficult it is for every employer to verify that the
individual who is applying for employment has proper credentials."

Besides the so-called green card -- in fact, they are pink, but used to be green
-- job applicants must submit a collection of as many as 29 documents, Mr. Gagne
said, "that, in one combination or another, verifies that they are authorized to
work."

"There's a huge industry going on in constructing these fraudulent documents,"
Mr. Gagne continued. "It takes, in most cases, a kind of expert to understand
what's real and what's not. Even very well-meaning conscientious employers find
themselves with illegals on the payrolls."

Gina Matos, the director of operations for Lisbon Cleaners, said she believed
that her company had complied with Federal laws regarding immigration status,
including requiring workers to show identification and immigration papers.

Investigators have determined that none of the illegal workers arrested Thursday
had a criminal record or is suspected of smuggling, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Wilson's '96 Drive Is Bruised but Alive

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

SECTION: Section A;   Page 14;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 4


Gov. Pete Wilson's budding Presidential campaign may have suffered some damage
since it was disclosed on Wednesday that he once employed an undocumented
Mexican maid and failed to pay her Social Security taxes.

But the Governor's top aides, along with leading fellow Republicans, and even
many top Democrats, said today that the damage caused by those disclosures,
while serious, was not sufficient to force Mr. Wilson to quit the 1996 race.

"It will have no lasting effect on our campaign's success," said Craig Fuller,
the top political adviser to Mr. Wilson, who is expected to formally announce
his candidacy this month.

In fact, friend and foe alike, as well as neutral observers, continued to say
what they have been saying all along about a Wilson candidacy: his biggest
problem continues to be that he is a little-known moderate in a party dominated
by conservatives, an out-of-the-mainstream Republican who has raised taxes in
the past and who supports homosexual and abortion rights.

"Embarrassing but not fatal, so let's move on to serious issues like how to
solve the medical care problem," Rich Bond, a senior political adviser to
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, said of the maid incident. Mr.
Dole is currently the front-runner in the 1996 Republican nominating
sweepstakes.

Charles Cook, an analyst for a Washington political newsletter, mused: "Bottom
line? Wilson's problems are ideological, not ethical. This isn't a killer, not a
wounder. It's marginally a shiner."

Still, the issue stirred plenty of angst and vitriol today, mainly because Mr.
Wilson has been such a strong advocate of immigration controls. He could not
fully overcome that with his contention that the hiring took place 17 years ago,
that he did not know then that the maid was undocumented and that he would now
pay all her back taxes plus penalties and interest.

Bill Press, chairman of the California Democratic Party, called the Governor a
"common criminal" and a "hypocrite" and demanded a "full investigation" by the
United States Justice Department.

"Wilson got caught in his dirty little secret," Mr. Press said today at a news
conference held outside the Governor's adjunct office in Los Angeles. "Wilson
broke the law. Wilson should be prosecuted, just like any other common
criminal."

Sharp criticism of Mr. Wilson also came from the camps of two contenders for the
Republican nomination, Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Senator Phil Gramm
of Texas.

Mr. Alexander's spokesman, Mark Merritt, asserted that Mr. Wilson had "made a
career out of saying one thing and doing another," while one of Mr. Gramm's
political advisers, Alex Castellanos, quipped: "Live by illegal aliens, die by
illegal aliens."

Less sharp-edged and more typical of the day's criticism was the reaction from
William Kristol, a conservative Republican Party strategist who so far has not
taken sides in the Presidential rivalry. "The maid thing will make life more
difficult for Wilson," Mr. Kristol said. "But he really isn't out of the blocks
yet. What's for sure is that for a candidate not well known around the country,
this is not the way you want to get well known."

Statements on behalf of Mr. Wilson were also issued, though none were from the
Governor, who returned to Sacramento from a trip to the East Coast and went
straight to his capitol office without comment.

The lengthiest of those statements was from Mr. Fuller, who besides asserting
that the maid incident would not lastingly hurt the Governor, also promised that
the incident would not cause Mr. Wilson to abandon his longstanding demand for
stricter immigration laws.

"Clearly, there are those who hope that this will somehow discourage Pete Wilson
from continuing to address the serious problem of illegal immigration," Mr.
Fuller said. "Nothing could be further from the truth.

"At a time when the Federal Government is unable or unwilling to police its
borders, and when services to illegal immigrants and their families cost this
nation's taxpayers billions of dollars a year while services to legal residents
are reduced or eliminated, the people of this state and this nation need someone
who is willing to stand up and fight for what is right. That person has been and
will continue to be Pete Wilson."

A canvass of the other announced candidates in the 1996 race found all saying
that they had never employed an illegal alien and had always paid Social
Security taxes for all their employees.

Larry Sabato, a political scientist at the University of Virginia who
specializes in campaign scandal and press coverage, saw the maid issue as
"another of those campaign things that can get all blown out of proportion by
the press and political enemies."

"You surely can't ignore what happened," he said, "But you should keep in mind
that it is relatively minor and happened a long 17 years ago, even if it does
smack a bit of hypocrisy. We're just starting Campaign '96 and, my God, I hope
it doesn't turn out to be another of those campaigns in which every little
candidate wart is viewed as cancerous."

NAME: Pete Wilson

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 11, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

The Prison on Varick Street

BYLINE: By Alisa Solomon;   Alisa Solomon is a staff writer at the Village
Voice.

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 793 words


On Sunday, 150 people gathered outside the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's detention center on Varick Street in Manhattan to protest the inhumane
treatment of those held inside. A letter from the longest-held detainee,
Lulseged Dhine, was read. It described his harrowing four-year detention, and he
promised that if released, "I will leave all bitterness behind and will dedicate
much of my time to helping I.N.S. detainees."

News coverage of the rally focused on the Chinese who were taken into custody
last year when their ship, the Golden Venture, ran aground off Brooklyn. But Mr.
Dhine's plea apparently did not go unnoticed by the I.N.S.  He was awakened at
4:30 Tuesday morning and put on a plane to a detention center in Arizona --
separating him from his lawyer and supporters.

The agency says Mr. Dhine was moved for his own benefit -- a spokesman, Charles
Troy, said it was "to accommodate his request for fresh air and outdoor
recreation." But a well-meaning gesture shouldn't require action without warning
in the middle of the night. Besides, Mr. Dhine and his lawyer had rejected a
move to Arizona last month, fearing that it would lengthen his incarceration.

Mr. Dhine, a 31-year-old Ethiopian Jew, entered the U.S. legally in 1978 as a
"conditional entrant refugee" (this was before the current political asylum
statute was enacted). In Ethiopia, his parents and brother had been executed and
he had been tortured.

He began using marijuana as a teen-ager and was convicted a few times on
misdemeanor charges of drug possession. After he served a short sentence, the
I.N.S. took him into custody and began deportation proceedings, even though an
immigration judge ruled that he had "shown an ability to rehabilitate his ways."

There are virtually no Jews left in Ethiopia as a result of the airlift to
Israel in 1991, and thus no community for him there. Ethiopia has refused to
take Mr. Dhine back. Yet the I.N.S. persists in running him through a seemingly
endless series of hearings and appeals. His lawyer, Douglas Baruch, says his
research has uncovered no case in which someone with such a well-founded fear of
persecution has been deported for misdemeanors. (Florida was widely criticized
this week for a plan to start deporting illegal aliens for such offenses.)

Mr. Dhine could be making a contribution to society -- and paying taxes --
instead of costing taxpayers money while wasting away in confinement. Montgomery
Carlin, a lawyer who saw him while visiting clients at Varick Street, was so
impressed by his facility with languages -- he translated detainees' complaints
from the Italian, Spanish, French and Chinese -- that he testified he would give
Mr. Dhine a job if he were released. He has also been assured of housing by
Jewish agencies.

Perhaps it's Mr. Dhine's willingness to help fellow detainees that has prolonged
his plight. As something of a jailhouse lawyer, he has gathered affidavits
attesting to abusive treatment by guards at the center, informed detainees of
their legal rights and helped them write letters of appeal. This is a crucial
function, given a two-year American Civil Liberties Union investigation that
found that detainees at the Varick Street center were often denied access to
lawyers and were subject to arbitrary segregation, punishment and abuse by
guards.

The center is unsanitary, and detainees' medical needs are often ignored. One
man waited 18 months for his eyeglass prescription to be filled. There are no
recreational activities and the small library carries no newspapers or
magazines, nor any material in foreign languages. Visiting hours -- 1 to 3 P.M.
on weekdays -- are shorter than those at most high-security prisons.

The center was intended to house detainees for no more than a week when it
opened in 1984; the average stay is now longer than five months. Mr. Dhine was
denied access to the outdoors for four years -- the center's windows are sealed
and covered with wire mesh. He told me that his prayer shawl and other religious
items had been frequently seized. Guards, he says, have spat in his food and
hurled anti-Semitic taunts -- calling him a "bloodsucking Jew" and a "baby
seller." The I.N.S. has denied none of this, and said only that it would look
into the charges.

Mr. Baruch has petitioned the I.N.S. to return Mr. Dhine to New York and grant
him a discretionary release. I spoke with Mr. Dhine after he arrived in Arizona.
Although he had hardly eaten -- they haven't provided him with kosher food --
his spirit wasn't broken. He reminded me of his words that were read at the
rally: "The cause for which you have assembled here today will prevail, simply
because bigotry and social injustice have no place in America."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 31, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: SOUTHEAST QUEENS;
Immigration Jail Faces Neighborhood Battle as Its Lease Runs Out

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 7;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 444 words


Five years ago, the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service turned the
two-story brown brick warehouse at 145-55 226th Street into a 100-bed detention
center without warning the residents of the tranquil neighborhoods around it,
Springfield Gardens and Rosedale.

Now, with the lease expiring in September and amid talk that the agency wants to
double the center's capacity, residents have stepped up pressure to force it
out.

"We will do whatever it takes," said Anthony Isaacs, a resident of Springfield
Gardens-Rosedale. "The I.N.S. is destabilizing this upper-middle-class black
community against our efforts to make it out of the slums. We tried to move up,
they put a jail in our community."

Springfield Gardens and Rosedale, 10 minutes from Kennedy International Airport,
are composed largely of black professionals in one- and two-family homes. The
average household income is more than $45,000 annually, one of the highest
levels in the city.

Barbara Brown, president of the Springfield-Rosedale Community Action
Association, said the community planned to take its protest to the I.N.S.
regional office in Burlington, Vt., in August.

Representative Floyd H. Flake, Assemblyman Gregory W. Meeks, the Queens Borough
President's office and Community Board 13 have joined the protest. "Ever since
the Wackenhut facility was thrust upon this community in 1989," Representative
Flake said, referring to the Wackenhut Corrections Corporation, which runs the
center, "it has represented a frontal attack upon this community's stability."

Because the warehouse was zoned for commercial use, the immigration service did
not need community board approval before reopening it as a detention center. But
the I.N.S. later agreed to listen to residents on future projects, said Nicholas
G. Garaufis, counsel to the Queens Borough President, Claire Shulman.

Mr. Garaufis said a lawyer representing Wackenhut contacted him recently about
renewing the lease and doubling the center's capacity. An immigration service
representative, Roseanne Sonchik, citing a Federal regulation prohibiting
disclosure of ongoing bids, said she could not comment on the case.

Residents say the center has lowered property values and poses security risks.
The I.N.S. acknowledges that five inmates escaped in 1989.

For Willie Dell Lyons, 69, a retired office worker, the shelter is a slap on the
face. "I worked hard all those years and hoped to retire to a nice place to
spend my golden years in peace and comfort," she said. "We had no idea the
I.N.S. suddenly slapped something like this on us. The democratic process did
not prevail in this case."   J.L.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 26, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE ARRIVALS;
As Florida Center Is Filled, Cubans Are Taken to Texas

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 13;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 25


With a growing number of Cubans making it past the Coast Guard and Navy armada
in the Florida Straits, the Immigration and Naturalization Service today started
flying new arrivals to a detention center in Texas because the one near Miami
was nearly full.

This afternoon, 49 Cubans were flown from Key West to the Port Isabel Service
Processing Center in Port Isabel, Tex., near Brownsville in south Texas, said
Amy Otten, an agency spokeswoman.

Among the refugees was a group of 12 Cubans who pulled their wooden motorboat up
to the sea wall on the south side of Key West this morning, beating the odds by
making it through the dragnet.

It is a scene repeated every day in the Florida Keys as Cubans land despite
President Clinton's order that they be intercepted at sea and taken to the
United States Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

624 Cubans at Florida Center

In the Keys alone, 18 Cubans arrived on small boats on Sunday, 28 on Monday, 48
on Tuesday and 58 on Wednesday, said Mariela Melero, another immigration service
spokeswoman. By this morning, the Krome Detention Center west of Miami, with
room for 800 immigrants, was home to 624 Cubans as well aliens from other
countries.

About half the Cubans in Krome made it to Florida on their own or were picked up
by cargo vessels and cruise ships. The rest were the last to arrive on Coast
Guard cutters before President Clinton ordered that Cubans who are intercepted
be taken to Guantanamo.

The dozen Cubans who arrived today, after two days at sea, included men, women
and children piled into an 18-foot craft, said Al Rodriguez, a Key West police
officer.

Lieut. Comdr. Jim McPherson, a Coast Guard spokesman in Miami, said that even
with 25 Coast Guard cutters, 50 small boats, 30 aircraft and five Navy ships in
the straits, some boats were sure to avoid detection because the area being
covered is so big.

Most of the boats that make it are motorized, said Greg Artman, a spokesman for
the sheriff's office in Monroe County, which encompasses the Florida Keys. The
immigration service would not say who arrived in which boats, and since last
weekend the agency has not granted journalists access to the detained Cubans.
But a spokesman said the group that landed in Key West at 3 A.M. today was among
the 49 flown to Port Isabel.

                             --------------------


HOUSTON, Aug. 25 (Reuters) At least 36 Cubans have been arrested in recent days
trying to enter the United States along the Texas border with Mexico, the
Federal authorities said today.

Although the officials said they thought the Cubans had left for Mexico before
the flood of refugees began heading toward Florida, they expressed concern that
more Cubans might try to enter the United States after traveling to Mexico.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "TALLY: Fleeing Cuba" tracks number of Cuban refugees picked up
by the Coast Guard each day since August 1. Also tracked are the number of Cuban
refugees housed at Guantanamo base each day since August 22. (Sources:
Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S. Coast Guard)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 28, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT;
QUEENS UPDATE

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 7;  Column 2;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 160 words


* SPRINGFIELD GARDENS Federal officials have decided to close a 100-bed
immigration detention center at 145-55 226th Street. While neither the
Immigration and Naturalization Service nor Wackenhut Corrections, which runs the
center, would comment, Representative Floyd H. Flake's office in Washington said
the proposed site for a new center is in an industrial complex next to Kennedy
International Airport. The center has been a point of controversy in the area
for years, and last month, protests erupted after residents discovered that a
bid to renew the lease and double the holding capacity had been submitted.



* REGO PARK A crowd estimated in the hundreds marched shut down Queens
Boulevard's eastbound service road for almost three hours Tuesday as part of a
protest of sex-related businesses. There are six on a mile-long stretch of the
boulevard. Five are longtime residents in the area, but Wiggles, a nude club,
opened last month.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Guest Worker Programs Do a World of Harm;
Native-Born Displaced

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 235 words


To the Editor:

Re "Foreign Workers, American Dream" (Op-Ed, June 1): Julian L. Simon, in his
plea for a renewed "bracero" guest-worker program, quotes the leading scholar in
the field, George J. Borjas of the University of California at San Diego, as
saying there is "no evidence" that immigration adversely affects native-born
earnings.

But Mr. Borjas has subsequently concluded that such evidence does exist (see his
"Economics of Immigration" in last December's Journal of Economic Literature).
Mr. Simon should remember this, because I pointed it out to him when we debated
my book "Alien Nation: Common Sense About America's Immigration Disaster" at a
National Review Institute conference.

I also pointed out that in Mr. Simon's book "The Economic Consequences of
Immigration," he repeatedly concedes that while immigrants may make more jobs
than they take in aggregate, they do displace specific groups of native-born
Americans. And there is no guarantee that the groups displaced get the benefits.

Nevertheless, I applaud Mr. Simon's courage in proposing a guest-worker program
(which I endorse). For too many on both left and right, immigration policy is a
sacred cow. By blindly dismissing any reform effort as "racist," these
immigration enthusiasts make public explosion inevitable.

PETER BRIMELOW
New York, June 1, 1995
The writer is a senior editor at Forbes magazine.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 5, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Golden Venture's Tarnished Hopes;
Most of Ship's Human Cargo, a Year Later, Is Still Confined

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 39;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1984 words


A year after jumping into the frigid waters off Queens from a tramp steamer
named the Golden Venture, all that 19-year-old Li Huaqing has seen of the
outside world is a single street and a pale corner of sky beyond the windows of
his cell in lower Manhattan.

For hours, he has gazed at the people walking by or sitting in the restaurant
across the street, imagining himself among them.

But as the months in detention have dragged on, the once-reassuring vision of
freedom has become only a bitter reminder of his continued confinement.

"I don't want to look outside anymore," said Mr. Li, a laborer from Fujian
Province. "It is too sad to even look."

For Mr. Li and other passengers aboard the Golden Venture, the desperate swim
from their grounded vessel off Queens last June 6, was not the end of a long
journey, but only the beginning of another ordeal.

Of the nearly 300 Chinese aboard the rusting steamer, 10 died fleeing the ship.
Five eluded capture after the grounding, and 49 others have been released from
detention. Twenty of those aboard -- crew members or so-called enforcers, some
of them non-Chinese -- have pleaded guilty to criminal charges in connection
with the immigrant-smuggling enterprise.

The rest, 224 in all, are being held in detention centers and prisons as they
press their claims to stay in the United States with no sign of when they will
be released.

The complexity and seemingly erratic course of their asylum hearings -- with
some freed, but others who believe they have equally compelling cases kept
behind bars -- has left them angry and confused.

Many Say They Fear Being Tracked Down

Uncertainty persists even among those who are free: some could still be
deported, and many say they fear being tracked down in this country by the
agents of the smugglers who brought them here, seeking payment for the voyage.

In the York County Prison in York, Pa., where scores of the passengers have been
sent, some spend hours each day constructing intricate models of pagodas and
animals out of torn magazines to ward off boredom. Some wander their cells
aimlessly, rarely speaking. There is nothing left to talk about anymore.

"At least on the boat, even though it traveled so slowly, we knew that each day
we were moving a little closer to America," said Lin Ping, a 27-year-old
construction worker from Fujian Province who is detained at York. "We were full
of hope. But we have been here in prison for nearly a year. Even a little hope,
there is none."

For the passengers of the Golden Venture, detention has been a part of their
17,000-mile journey stranger than they could have imagined.

Storms and hardship aboard ship they had prepared for. But to be in detention
for a year after coming so close to their goal is a twist they never considered
when they left their homes, some as long as three years ago.

Like many other passengers on the Golden Venture, Mr. Li, the young laborer,
said he had decided to leave home for a variety of reasons: the desire to make a
better living, the wish to escape from an oppressive life back home and
opposition to the policies of his government.

His parents in Fujian Province had borrowed $5,000 to give to the smugglers,
known to the Chinese as "snakeheads," as a down payment on his trip.

Prepared to Die

The four-month journey was only for the strong. All but 19 of the passengers
were men. Most were kept in the hold by the Indonesian crew. There was one meal
a day of rice and vegetables. Toward the end, even the vegetables ran out.

A terrible storm lashed the ship near the Cape of Good Hope, and the voyagers
prepared to die. When they emerged safely, many took it as a sign that they
would complete their journey.

After more than 100 days at sea, they finally glimpsed the lights of New York.

The ship ran aground about 2 A.M., and the passengers began diving into the dark
waters in droves. Some say they thought that as long as they touched American
soil they would eventually be released if caught by the authorities.

Mr. Li was caught on a street by police officers and was eventually taken with a
small group to the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service's
detention facility on Varick Street in lower Manhattan.

There were already a few other Chinese there who had not arrived on the Golden
Venture, including one man whom they jokingly called Singapore because he had
been caught at the Los Angeles International Airport with a forged Singaporean
passport.

'I Started to Worry'

"Do you have any idea how long we will be detained here?" Mr. Li recalled
asking. The man had no answer except that he had been there for more than year.

"Then I started to worry," Mr. Li said.

Compared to the crowded, rusting holds of the Golden Venture, the detention
cells at Varick Street, York and elsewhere are like palaces. The detainees have
three meals a day, clean clothes and at least temporary haven from the
smugglers.

But the small comforts of detention have not changed the fact that they are
trapped. In the Varick Street center, Mr. Li said, there are others who have
been confined for more than four years.

Lin Ping, who left his wife and two children in China a year and a half ago,
said he has thought about returning to China, but he said there would be no way
he could earn enough to repay the $10,000 his family borrowed to send him to
America.

A Complex Legal Process

As for staying in this country, each step in the legal process has left him more
baffled and frustrated than before.

Several men in detention have simply succumbed to the long and uncertain wait.
Detainees described one man who over the months has slowly withdrawn from the
others and now mutters to himself: "Don't send me back. Don't send me back."

"Compared to before, it was like there were two different people," said Wang
Libin, who was released from detention two months ago. "I couldn't even look at
him. I would only cry."

At least part of the uncertainty stems from the complex nature of United States
immigration procedures, with numerous court hearings and legal distinctions.

Before the arrival of the Golden Venture, Chinese routinely applied for
political asylum, and often received it, based on opposition to China's 1979
policy of limiting families to one child. Violating the policy can mean fines or
forced sterilization or abortion.

But most passengers on the Golden Venture have discovered that their asylum
claims based on the one-child policy are being largely rejected. So far, only
four of the Chinese are reported to have won on such grounds.

"We left home and suffered so much aboard ship," Mr. Lin said. "It wasn't for
fun. Why do they say that some can have asylum and some not? Why have some left
and I am still here?"

Suing the Government

The lawyers around the country who have taken on the Golden Venture cases
without charge have filed several lawsuits asserting that the Government has
unfairly singled out the Chinese immigrants as an example for others who may
contemplate the same journey.

The Government has denied the assertions, stating that it has neither interfered
with the asylum hearings nor violated the immigrants' right of due process, said
Ana Cobian, a Justice Department spokeswoman.

The immigrants' lawsuits have met with little success so far, and as the cases
drag on, the passengers in detention have sunk into a numbing despair, although
none of them has been sent back to China so far.

Zheng Binhua, a 31-year-old father of two, says he spends 10 hours a day in the
communal cell at York rolling pieces of paper into tiny sticks that others use
to build their models. "There isn't much else for us to do," he said.

One three-foot pagoda, festooned with tiny American flags cut from magazine
advertisements, was made for one of the detainees' attorneys. It carried a
hopeful couplet in Chinese:

Drifting across 10,000 miles in search of freedom,

On the verge of hopelessness, I meet with mercy.

Even rolling the scraps of magazines, however, has its limits. Mr. Lin worked on
the models for six months before he gave up. "I don't have any interest in it
anymore," he said.

Most have trouble eating the food in prison. They had never tasted chili con
carne, spaghetti and tomatoes before and barely stomach them.

'The Rest I Can't Tell'

Writing letters home has become a painful exercise. "I tell my family that I
have a very good attorney," Mr. Lin said. "The rest I can't tell them. I don't
want to cause any more trouble for them."

Chen Shengqiao, 17, has buried himself in learning English and translating for
lawyers. As one of the few English speakers among the Chinese in the York County
Prison, he has become friends with some guards and keeps busy helping the prison
chaplain with the mail.

"I've always been an optimist," he said. "I keep up my hope because I don't want
to go crazy."

But for most, the difficulty of the journey and hardship for their families has
made them believe now that the price of coming to America is too high for anyone
to pay.

"If I had the chance, I would tell my friend, don't come to America," said Chen
Benxu, who was granted asylum and released from Varick Street last week based on
his opposition to China's one-child policy. "It's not worth it."

Mr. Chen is one of just 25 who have been granted political asylum and released.
Another 24 have been released for other reasons, including parole while their
deportation cases are pending.

But even with the relative security of their release, under terms allowing them
to work and apply for their families to join them, their ordeal is not over.

Wang Libin, a 25-year-old former student, was granted asylum because of his
involvement in the 1989 student democracy movement.

He now works at a publishing house assembling books and has just begun studying
English. His demeanor has changed, from withdrawn and depressed to optimistic
about his chances of succeeding in this country.

'No Way to Hide'

His freedom, however, is only partial. Hanging over him is the $24,000 he owes
the smugglers for his trip. He says he gave them $6,000 before leaving China.

Since his release, he has been hiding in a city far from New York and says he
has had no contact with the smuggling ring that brought him to this country.
Even in the comfort of his new home, he worries that they will eventually find
him and threaten the family he is staying with.

He has begun looking for his own apartment and preparing to repay his debt to
the smugglers.

"You can hide for a few years, maybe a year or two, but you can't for a
lifetime," he said. "You have friends, those friends have friends, you have
family. They will find you. There is no way to hide."

Even in the comfort of his new home, he is haunted by the memories of his
journey to America and the long months in detention.

He said he was shaken recently by a dream in which a passenger from the Golden
Venture who he knew had drowned in the swim to shore appeared in his dream
alive. "Chen Yihan?" he thought to himself. "The newspapers said you were dead."

He awoke puzzled at why he would think of someone he barely knew.

The memories of the storm near the Cape of Good Hope and the boredom of sitting
in detention still force their way into his mind at times.

He says he is terrified when he thinks of the long, cold swim to shore that
killed 10 of his shipmates.

At those moments, he can feel the darkness and the freezing waters around him.
He can feel the same panic that seized him as he looked at the lights of the
city so far away.

He struggles in the water. All around him, he can hear the voices of his
shipmates screaming in the darkness. Some seem close by; others are more
distant.

"Jiu ming! Jiu ming!" they yell. "Help me! help me!"

He hears their voices, and in the cold recesses of his memory, he swims on.


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I keep up my hope because I don't want to go crazy," said Chen
Shengqiao, 17, a passenger from the Golden Venture who is detained at the York
County Prison in Pennsylvania while waiting to find out if he is granted asylum.
(Bill Cramer for The New York Times); Some of the Chinese passengers from the
Golden Venture awaiting transportation to detention centers after the ship was
grounded off Queens last June 6. Of the 288 passengers aboard, 224 are still
being held in detention centers and prisons. (Paul J. DeMaria for The New York
Times) (pg. 39); The Golden Venture, shown Friday sitting in drydock off Staten
Island, where it has been for months. It was sold by the United States Marshals
Service for $35,500 to a shipping company that is refurbishing it. (Keith
Meyers/The New York Times); "If I had the chance, I would tell my friend, don't
come to America," said Chen Benxu, who was granted asylum and released last week
based on his opposition to China's one-child policy. "It's not worth it." (Bill
Cramer for The New York Times) (pf. 44)

Graph: "UPDATE: Where They Are"

Nearly 300 passengers were aboard the Golden Venture. Graph shows their status
today. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service; Medical Examiner's
Office)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

2 Sentenced In Smuggling Fatal to 10

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 344 words


A Federal judge sentenced the two top officers of the Golden Venture yesterday
to close to the maximum sentence of five years for conspiring to smuggle illegal
Chinese immigrants into the United States.

The judge, Reena Raggi, said she wanted to "send as strong a message as possible
to those who collaborate with smugglers."

Smugglers ordered the Golden Venture, a freighter, to be run aground off Queens
last year in a desperate effort to land its human cargo of nearly 300 immigrants
after plans to meet smaller craft went awry. Ten passengers drowned while trying
to swim ashore.

Knowing Participants

While the two officers, who pleaded guilty, were not accused of organizing the
smuggling scheme or of issuing the order to ground the ship, Judge Raggi held
that the men -- Amir Humuntal Lumban Tobing, the captain, and San Lwin, the
chief officer -- had knowingly participated in the scheme. Although the officers
cooperated with prosecutors against other defendants, the judge sentenced Mr.
Lwin to four and a half years and Mr. Tobing to four.

"I am sorry," Mr. Tobing, 45, a citizen of Indonesia, said as he stood before
the bench in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. He was reportedly deposed from
command by the smugglers' chief agent on board well before the grounding.

"I terribly regret the loss of 10 people's lives," said Mr. Lwin, 35, who is
Burmese. "I made an effort to make sure the passengers were safe."

Judge Raggi also sentenced six other defendants to 36 to 48 months for smuggling
conspiracy pleas. Investigators originally described them as enforcers who had
supervised the passengers, but the judge called them managers. Officials say
they were among the illegal immigrants being smuggled into the country and had
become supervisors in hopes of getting a discount on the smugglers' fee of
$30,000 a person.

Jodi Avergun, a prosecutor, said that all 21 people charged in the case had
pleaded guilty to various offenses, and that 19 have now been sentenced. Others
believed to have been involved are being sought.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 16, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

14 Detained In Bid to Bar Cuban Exodus

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 15


In a demonstration that it is serious about discouraging unauthorized
immigration from Cuba, the Federal Government has detained 14 men it suspects of
smuggling aliens or hijacking boats from Cuba.

The detentions came as 371 Cubans landed in Florida over the weekend, the
largest three-day total since the Mariel boatlift in 1980, said a Coast Guard
spokesman, Chief Warrant Officer Dan Waldschmidt. During the 1980 exodus, about
125,000 Cubans came here in a five-month period.

The men, nine of whom were being held in the Monroe County Jail, near Key West,
and five at the Krome Avenue Federal immigration center in Dade County, have not
been charged with any crimes. But a Justice Department spokeswoman in
Washington, Ana Cobian, said that officials were reviewing four separate
incidents involving the men and that charges could be forthcoming.

"In keeping with our emergency immigration plan, we're being proactive in
discouraging people from a mass exodus," Ms. Cobian said.

Last week, Attorney General Janet Reno said the United States would not tolerate
a replay of the Mariel exodus and would intensify efforts to intercept and
prosecute people engaged in the smuggling of Cuban nationals.

Departure Blocked

Despite this warning, efforts to leave Cuba have intensified. In Mariel,
hundreds of Cubans boarded a Maltese-registered oil tanker on Sunday in hopes of
sailing to the United States. But the Cuban authorities blocked the ship, and
news reports quoting state television in Havana said the 500 or so would-be
emigrants left the vessel peacefully today.

Tension between the United States and Cuba has been heightened by the hijacking
of four Cuban government vessels in two weeks. On Aug. 5, President Fidel Castro
of Cuba said the United States was encouraging piracy, and he warned that his
government might stop blocking Cubans who tried to leave the island.

That caused concern in Florida that another Mariel boatlift, which state
officials said had strained Florida's social services and cost millions of
dollars, was in the offing.

Mr. Castro told reporters in Havana on Thursday that a Cuban naval officer was
killed last week by a 19-year-old military mechanic who had commandeered a
government vessel. The mechanic, Leonel Macias Gonzalez, is among the nine men
being held in the Monroe County jail. Mr. Castro demanded his prosecution by the
United States or his return to Cuba.

The others facing Federal charges include three men, two of them United States
residents, who, the authorities say, brought 20 Cubans to the Florida Keys last
week; five men accused by the crew of a fishing boat of seizing the vessel in
Cuba at gunpoint last weekend and taking it to Florida, and five men who came to
Florida aboard a commuter ferry hijacked in Havana on Aug. 3.

The Coast Guard says that since January 5,786 Cubans have arrived in Florida,
compared with 3,656 during all last year, and that thus far this month 1,055
have landed.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

MISSION TO HAITI;
Haitians Picked Up After 8 Days at Sea

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 10;  Column 6;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 3


A boat carrying 20 Haitians, the body of a baby and two other men was spotted
off the coast of Georgia on Sunday, and the two men were being investigated for
immigrant smuggling, a Coast Guard spokesman said today.

The 20-foot motorboat, registered in Florida, had been drifting for eight days
by Sunday evening when it was sighted 30 miles southeast of Savannah, Ga., by a
fishing boat whose occupants alerted the Coast Guard.

All of the survivors were in very poor physical condition from exposure and
extreme dehydration, officials said. Federal officials were investigating
whether there was smuggling involved, the Coast Guard spokesman said. The
nationality of the two non-Haitians was not known.

The survivors were taken to the Coast Guard's Tybee Island station Sunday night,
and then to three hospitals for treatment.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

           March 23, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final(New Jersey)

New Jersey Daily Briefing;
14 Indicted in Immigrant Racket

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


A violent gang brought boatloads of Chinese immigrants to this country under
extremely harsh conditions, then imprisoned them until each paid a $25,000 fee
for their illegal passage, Federal prosecutors say.

The indictment of 14 reputed gang members yesterday is the first time the
Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, used so often
against organized crime figures, has been used in an alien smuggling case, said
the United States Attorney, Faith S. Hochberg.

The case began when the Coast Guard intercepted a fishing boat last summer 350
miles off Norfolk, Va.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.N. Links G.O.P. to Boat People's Riots

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, May 23


United Nations officials asserted today that a Republican-sponsored proposal to
offer asylum in the United States to thousands of Vietnamese boat people set off
riots last weekend that left more than 200 injured in Hong Kong.

They also warned that the bill could lead to a new exodus from Vietnam.

Refugee officials say the riots last Saturday began when 1,500 Vietnamese, many
of them carrying handmade metal spears, refused to be transferred from one
detention camp in Hong Kong to another in preparation for their deportation to
Vietnam. It was the most violent clash in years between the boat people and the
Hong Kong police.

The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which oversees
the detention camps in Hong Kong, said the Vietnamese were emboldened to riot by
the recent move by Republicans in the House of Representatives to offer asylum
to as many as half of the 40,000 Vietnamese still held in detention camps in
Asia.

"Absolutely," said Jahanshah Assadi, head of mission for the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, when asked if there was a connection between the
legislation and the riots. During the riots, he said, "you saw U.S. flags all
over the place, you saw portraits of President Clinton all over the place."

At least 180 Hong Kong fire, police and corrections officers were hurt in the
clashes on Saturday in the Whitehead detention center, the largest of the Hong
Kong camps used to detain the Vietnamese. Dozens of Vietnamese were also hurt in
battles in which the camp was blanketed by thick clouds of tear gas.

Representative Chris H. Smith, a New Jersey Republican who is a sponsor of the
legislation, said in a statement today in Washington that there was no evidence
of a connection between the legislation and the violence in Hong Kong. It is
"grossly unfair to blame resistance to forced repatriation on the very people
who are trying to come up with a peaceful and gentle solution to the problem of
these refugees," he declared.

Mr. Smith has said that many of the Vietnamese residents of the camps, including
Buddhist monks and former soldiers of the American-backed South Vietnamese
Government, are legitimate political refugees who could be persecuted by
Vietnam's Communist Government if sent home.

While the Republican-drafted legislation is opposed by the Clinton
Administration and faces an uncertain fate in Congress, word of the Republican
plan is already circulating in the camps in Hong Kong, where nearly 21,000
Vietnamese are now detained. Mr. Assadi said in a telephone interview that the
Vietnamese who joined in the riots "have the false hope of going to the United
States."

Even if the bill is defeated in Congress or vetoed by President Clinton, he
said, "the damage has been done," since many Vietnamese now believe that they
can resist deportation because "they have strong support from influential
members of Congress."

Mr. Assadi said the American asylum proposal could also lead to a new exodus of
Vietnamese, taking to rickety boats and pushing off into the dangerous waters of
the South China Sea in the hope of becoming one of the lucky 20,000 who might be
offered resettlement in the United States.

"That risk is definitely there now," he said. The $30 million asylum plan is
part of a foreign affairs appropriations bill now before the full House of
Representatives. The bill has already been approved by the House International
Relations Committee.

While some Vietnamese rioters waved photographs of President Clinton last
weekend, the Administration is in fact a strong advocate of a United
Nations-backed plan to return virtually all of them to Vietnam.

While the United States granted asylum to most of the more than one million
Vietnamese who fled their homeland after the Vietnam War, sympathy for the boat
people has mostly run out. The State Department says that virtually all
Vietnamese who remain in Asian detention camps are economic migrants who have no
legitimate fear of persecution in Vietnam and are not entitled to asylum.

The deportation program, known as the Comprehensive Plan of Action, was supposed
to empty most of the detention camps around Asia -- there are also large camps
in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand -- by the end of the year.

The Hong Kong Government is clearly outraged that the moves in Congress may have
contributed to the violence in the camps.

                             --------------------


Rebuke by White House

WASHINGTON, May 23 (By The New York Times) -- Administration officials said
today that they had predicted that the proposed Republican measure would
encourage thousands of boat people who were not qualified for refugee status to
refuse to be returned to Vietnam.

"We are opposed to the proposed legislation which, at the 11th hour, seeks to
abrogate an international undertaking," said one State Department official. "The
proposed legislation would reopen large-scale screening of those already found
to be ineligible for refugee status."

Administration officials predicted that the bill would encourage further riots
like the one that occurred on Saturday in Hong Kong.

"The proposed legislation will end voluntary return to Vietnam and create new
levels of false hope and result in further disturbances," a State Department
official said.

Administration officials assert that the $30 million the bill would set aside to
handle the Vietnamese migrants would result in less money being available to
handle those found to be legitimate refugees from Vietnam, Cuba, Bosnia and
Russia.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Bars Return of Refugees to Cuba

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 25


Responding to a lawsuit that seeks political asylum for Cuban refugees held in
detention camps, a Federal district judge here barred the Clinton Administration
today from turning over to Havana a group of refugees detained at the United
States naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

The emergency order, by Judge C. Clyde Atkins, blocked the last-minute departure
of a flight carrying 23 Cuban refugees who had requested repatriation. A hearing
was scheduled for Wednesday on whether to grant a temporary restraining order to
block other flights until the refugees had a chance to meet with lawyers.

The refugees, who have been held since the Administration began its policy of
indefinite detention last August after thousands of Cubans set out in boats and
rafts for the United States, are now volunteering to return home. Justice
Department officials said 42 Cubans had returned and that others who wanted to
leave were being screened.

But a group of 25 lawyers, including former United States Attorney Roberto
Martinez and former Mayor Xavier Suarez of Miami, contend that the
Administration is "coercing" the refugees into going back by keeping conditions
on the base unbearable. On Monday, they filed a class-action lawsuit on behalf
of the detainees seeking to stop the repatriations and allow the lawyers access
to the refugees to advise them of their rights and options for asylum.

The lawyers said they rushed to court this morning to seek the emergency order
after officials from the United States Attorney's office notified them that the
23 refugees were leaving in less than two hours.

The detentions followed the largest exodus from Cuba since the Mariel boatlift
of 1980, with more than 30,000 Cubans taking to the seas on makeshift
watercraft. In a reversal of its longstanding policy of granting entry to Cubans
fleeing the Communist Government of Fidel Castro, the Administration ordered the
interception of the rafts and boats and the detention of the refugees.

This month Federal officials said they would allow the entry of unaccompanied
minors under 13 and refugees older than 70 into the United States. But advocates
for the refugees say all 32,000 Cubans held in camps at Guantanamo and in Panama
should be allowed to apply for entry as refugees.

The lawyers who sued contended that the refugees suffered from inadequate
medical care and poor living conditions and that the Cuban Government had
offered no assurances that theywould not face reprisals.

Harold Hongju Koh, a Yale law professor who serves as an adviser in the case and
who unsuccessfully argued before the Supreme Court against the repatriation
policy in the case of Haitian refugees, said that at least the Haitians had
known that there was a plan for the return of democracy to their country and
that their detention would end.

"People have a right not to be in limbo, to assert their asylum claim," he said.
"This is not a Cuban issue, this is a human rights issue."

Justice Department officials said that no one was being forced to leave and that
most were doing so because of personal reasons. They said that among the people
scheduled to leave today was a man whose wife, in Cuba, had just had a
miscarriage.

Carl Stern, a spokesman for the department, noted that those returning were
eligible to apply for entry into the United States. So far, the Administration
has said that refugees held at Guantanamo and elsewhere will not be processed
for admission. "One of the perverse results of this lawsuit is that it cuts off
the only legal means these people have to get to the U.S.," he said.

A spokesman for Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida said that the Governor supported
the limited release of some of the refugees for humanitarian reasons but that he
opposed the flow of illegal immigrants into the state. Governor Chiles, who is
in a tight race for re-election in November against a Republican challenger, Jeb
Bush, has used his quick action to stop the Cuban immigration before it
overwhelmed the state to bolster his political campaign.

"Governor Chiles made every effort at preventing Mariel II," said the spokesman,
Ron Sachs. "Florida could ill afford it in August, and nothing has changed."

The lawyers in the class-action suit contend that the Cubans are already in
United States territory and that they are illegally excluded from
"Congressionally-mandated asylum or refugee processing procedures without due
process, and based solely on their national origin." In addition to access to
counsel and processing of refugee claims, the suit asks for the immediate parole
into the United States of minors and pregnant women in the camps.

                             --------------------


13,500 Return to Haiti

WASHINGTON, Oct. 25 (AP) -- Of the nearly 20,000 Haitians taken to Guantanamo
Bay, 13,500 have voluntarily gone home, the State Department said today.

In addition, 1,026 of those still at Guantanamo have been recruited for training
as part of a new Haitian police force and are awaiting movement back to Haiti,
said Christine Shelly, the State Department spokeswoman.

More than half of the Haitians who have gone home -- 7,782 -- have returned
since the military operation began, Ms. Shelly said. She put the number still in
Guantanamo at 6,428.

"We have not reached a point yet where there is a residual group that is
refusing to return," Ms. Shelly said.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 31, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Cubans in Limbo

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 306 words


Six months after the exodus ended, nearly 30,000 Cubans who set out for the
United States in rickety boats or rafts are still being held in detention camps
in Panama and at the American naval base at Guantanamo. With incidents of
rioting and attempted suicide increasing and the cost to U.S. taxpayers
mounting, Washington and Havana should move quickly to lift these dispirited
Cubans from limbo. Those who are eligible should be resettled in this country;
those who are not should be returned home.

Under new guidelines worked out in talks between Cuba and the United States, the
only sure route now from Cuba to the U.S. is to apply for a visa inside Cuba.
The Administration has already made exceptions for about 3,000 of the refugees
at Guantanamo and in Panama on humanitarian grounds. With the remaining Cubans
in Panama soon to be moved to Guantanamo, Washington must decide how to deal
with those who are still in detention.

To accept them all would undermine the new policy and encourage more Cubans to
circumvent the agreement. But it should be possible to process the refugees at
Guantanamo along with those who apply from elsewhere in Cuba, making clear they
will not jump to the front of the line and will get no advantage from having
fled Cuba last summer.

The first step in the process is to determine whether the applicants can
demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution at home -- which would legally
qualify them for refugee status in the United States. They should have access to
legal counsel to help them present their case. If they do not qualify as
refugees, they should be allowed to apply for an immigrant visa, as other Cubans
now can. Those who do not qualify on either basis would then be sent back to
Cuba. Life in Cuba is not easy, but it is better than confinement at Guantanamo.



LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 20, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

This Country Needs A Guest Worker Plan

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 14;  Column 3;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words


To the Editor:

Amid the distortions and emotional statements about the mass migrations of the
world's rural peoples to urban areas, it was heartening to read a few sensible
words from President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico (news article, Nov.
14). Mr. Salinas stated that the movement of millions of Mexicans "is
inevitable, and it is better to order and regulate it than to confront it with
administrative measures that are not going to stop it."

May I suggest we do as other countries in the Americas do? Allow workers to
enter with a passport and pay taxes until they are finished -- however long that
might take. They could purchase insurance and accrue wealth and retirement
benefits. When they finish, they go home.

If these workers abuse the hospitality of the host country by engaging in
criminal activities, they can be deported. Dependents might join the wage
earner, but all would keep their original citizenship. They would not have to
give up their national identities to make money in the legal job market.

JIM SCANLON
San Rafael, Calif., Nov. 14, 1994

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 13, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Free Trade Era, World's Sweatshops Thrive;
A Bay Area Case

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 237 words


To the Editor:

While "Despite Tough Laws, Sweatshops Flourish" (front page, Feb. 6) focuses on
New York, it rings true for exploited immigrant workers around the country.

The problem is that the sweatshop system allows big garment manufacturers to eat
their cake and have it too -- to profit handsomely from routine violation of
wage, hour, health and safety laws while pointing the finger at contractors,
then washing their hands of responsibility for what their contractors do.

Take the case of the San Francisco manufacturer Jessica McClintock Inc.
Seamstresses were to be paid $5 for McClintock dresses that sold for $175, but
in fact were paid nothing when the contractor they worked for went bankrupt.
Although not legally liable, the manufacturer is unquestionably morally
responsible.

McClintock's corporation grossed $145 million in 1994, while the workers sewed
at piece rates for poverty wages just like the majority of the Bay Area's 20,000
garment workers. Garment workers and their supporters organized a campaign for
corporate responsibility and a boycott against McClintock, which is entering its
third year.

The manufacturers that reap the benefits of sweatshop labor should show
responsibility to these workers. And consumers also should demand to know how
their clothes are made.

MIRIAM CHING LOUIE
Media Coordinator
Asian Immigrant Women Advocates
Oakland, Calif., Feb. 8, 1995

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 17, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Concern Rising On U.S. Shores As Cubans Flee

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., Aug. 16


By the hundreds, the Cubans stream through the refugee center's doors, some clad
only in their underwear and Coast Guard-issue gauze jumpsuits, eager for a
shower, a meal and a new life.

Sunburned and gaunt, they have been arriving in United States waters in
increasing numbers recently -- 868 since Friday alone, Federal officials say. It
is the largest five-day total since the Mariel boat lift in 1980, when 125,000
Cubans arrived in Florida over five months. On Monday, 282 refugees were rescued
by the Coast Guard, and by 9 o'clock tonight at least 215 more were picked up.

The influx of refugees, about 6,000 so far this year, is a matter of growing
concern for state and local officials and for the Clinton Administration, which
has signaled President Fidel Castro of Cuba that the United States will not
tolerate a replay of Mariel. The Government has also warned people in this
country that it would prosecute those who smuggle aliens from Cuba.

The Coast Guard has begun distributing leaflets at marinas from Miami to Key
West, warning against bringing aliens into the country. Those who do so will
have their boats seized and face Federal smuggling charges. If convicted, they
could face prison terms of up to five years and fines of up to $250,000.

With countless small boats in the straits between Florida and Cuba, however, the
Coast Guard is also asking boat operators to do all they can to pick up Cubans
in sinking vessels or to notify the authorities of those who are in distress,
said a Coast Guard spokesman in Key West, Petty Officer Adam Wine.

Mr. Castro has paid particular attention to the mounting number of Cubans trying
to flee. On Monday, he visited the village of La Boca in Mariel Harbor, 25 miles
west of Havana, where more than 700 Cubans had taken over a docked oil tanker,
registered in Malta, according to foreign wire service reports from Cuba. Cuban
navy ships blocked the tanker from departing, and by Monday night the Cubans had
left the ship.

Under United States immigration policy, nearly all Cubans refugees are admitted
because they come from a Communist country. Mr. Castro has said that the policy
is encouraging Cubans to flee. Many of the refugees have said, however, that
they left their country because of its crippled economy.

Haunted by memories of Mariel, local officials like Emery Major, a Key West City
Commissioner, worry that the refugee influx will overwhelm Key West, a resort
island that is two miles wide, four miles long and home to 28,000 people.

"It's going to be a boom," Mr. Major said of the growing number of Cubans. The
problem, he said, is that few local contingency plans have been made since the
flood of refugees in 1980. "It shouldn't have taken 14 years to be caught with
our pants down," he said.

Dozens of volunteers are working round the clock at the Transit Home for Cuban
Refugees on Stock Island, cooking meals, handing out new clothes, washing linens
and calling Miami to track down relatives of the new arrivals.

Memorial to the Missing

In the two years since it opened, the Transit Home has become a kind of
privately run Ellis Island. In one room, where new arrivals are interviewed and
their paperwork processed, the walls are covered with more than 1,700 squares of
note paper bearing names, each representing a boatload of Cubans who left the
island but never arrived.

To the Transit Home staff, they are "walls of sorrow for the Cuban Holocaust,"
for the staff members believe that thousands of men, women and children have
died as they attempted the 90-mile crossing.

"You understand the idea of fatherland or death?" asked Arturo Cobo, the Transit
Center's founder, referring to Cuba's long-time national motto. "Now it's
liberty or death."

Mr. Cobo, who fought Mr. Castro's army in the failed Bay of Pigs invasion in
1961, runs the Transit Home. In two years, about 9,000 Cuban refugees have come
through the center, fleeing a economy that has crumbled since the loss of Soviet
financial and political support.

Although the scene is always hectic, the 30 or so volunteers and the small paid
staff keep things going -- always cooking, always looking for clothes that fit
the new arrivals and always trying to make room for the next boatload.

The first stop for the refugees is the Coast Guard base at Key West, where
agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service interview them before
turning them over to the Transit Center.

"Our key is buses," Mr. Cobo said. "When we have 100 people we give them food,
medical attention, moral support, and we put them on the buses to Miami."

Once in Miami, about 75 percent of the immigrants find family members who take
them in, Mr. Cobo said. The others are handed over to Church World Services or
to the Catholic Conference, both federally financed private groups that house
the new arrivals in Miami motels until they can be resettled in other American
cities, Mr. Cobo said.

Taste of a New Life

But it is during the stay at the Transit Home, normally for less than a day,
that the refugees get their first taste of a new life. For 17-year-old Dennis
Rondon, it meant a meal of rice, beans and a concoction of potatoes and hot dogs
that was simmering in a huge skillet.

"I can't remember the last time I had meat," Dennis said, guessing it had been
two or three months.

Dennis, who arrived this morning with his mother and 9-year-old brother on a
raft made of foam, was covered with a blistering sunburn from four days at sea.
"My hope is to have a new life and prosper, to work hard and fight to live well
-- and to never go back," said Dennis, who described himself as a New York
Yankees fan.

For all the joy of arrival, there is abundant sorrow as well. On Monday an
8-year-old boy arrived after a storm capsized his boat; his parents were
believed drowned. The boy, Daniel Bussot, wearing the vessel's only life jacket,
clung to a floating plank until another small refugee boat came by and rescued
him. "A child has been orphaned searching for liberty," said Mr. Cobo, who
called the boy's parents martyrs. "This has to be told to the world."

Mr. Castro heightened fears of another Mariel two weeks ago when, angered by the
hijackings of Government boats, he warned that he might allow anyone who wanted
to leave the island to do so.

Mr. Cobo said Mr. Castro was beginning to make good on his threat. New arrivals
have told him, he said, that while some fleeing Cubans have been detained,
others have been pointed north by the crews of Cuban gun boats and wished a good
day.


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A group of 13 Cubans, picked up at sea on Monday by the Coast
Guard, at a transit center in Key West, Fla. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 18, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Brothers Arrested in Smuggling

BYLINE: LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 60 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


Two brothers from India were arrested yesterday in connection with a conspiracy
to smuggle aliens from India into the United States through Belize and Mexico,
prosecutors said. The brothers, Gurmit Singh, 27, and Harvinder Singh, 23, who
live in Roselle Park, were also charged in a Federal indictment with laundering
some $285,000 from drug trafficking.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 1, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Major Benefits Are Foreseen In Crime Bill

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1608 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


From the streets of Brooklyn to new jail yards upstate, from after-school
programs in Atlantic City to police training in New Haven, the Federal crime
bill could bring hundreds of millions of dollars to the New York region to pay
for thousands of new police officers, prisons, prevention and keeping criminal
immigrants in jail.

Members of Congress from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, and their
Governors, are still sorting out the fine print in the sweeping $30 billion bill
that House and Senate negotiators settled on this week. They agree that the bill
-- which is going back to both houses for expected passage -- would give many
benefits to a region especially burdened by crime, though there is uncertainty
just how many, or where, or when.

For New York City, which has already set aside money to bring up its police
force to record staffing levels, the bill holds out new financing for computers
and overtime pay that could help it put even more officers on neighborhood
beats, plus grants to community groups and local sports leagues.

For New York State, it means perhaps $48 million a year to offset the $60
million cost of jailing illegal immigrants who have committed crimes. The
Federal Government now pays nothing.

For New Jersey, it could mean doubling the budget, to $20 million a year, for
the interagency force that now uses 400 people from police agencies around the
state in drug-enforcement efforts, and for Connecticut, it could mean new prison
cells to relieve severe overcrowding.

"We see program after program come through Washington, and urban areas in
general and New York in particular get ignored," said Representative Charles E.
Schumer of Brooklyn, who has had major responsibility in steering the bill
through the House. "This is our No. 1 problem, and we need help from the Federal
Government. We don't have natural disasters like California, but we have a huge
man-made disaster called crime, and just about every corner of the bill was
created with that in mind."

Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who has gone so far as to sue the Federal Government to
force it to bear the cost of jailing illegal immigrants, and who is now facing a
tough re-election campaign for a fourth term, chose to discern a broader kind of
good news for New York: tangible evidence of the benefits of having a Democratic
Administration in the White House.

"This is extremely significant," Mr. Cuomo said of the bill, which President
Clinton has made a centerpiece of his agenda. "This finally, for me, is a
reversal of the new federalism, of 12 years of Reagan-Bush. This President, this
Governor from Arkansas, is helping the states instead of dropping the load on
them."

Political interpretations aside, the bill would bring indisputable benefits,
both in spending determined by formulas based on crime rates, population and
other indicators, and new grants made at the discretion of Federal agencies.

New York City

The central feature of the bill is a trust fund, to be created with expected
savings from cuts in the Federal work force. Though there is considerable
skepticism that the assumed savings would actually materialize, the White House,
Mr. Schumer and other Democrats insist that the money is real, though so far
none has been appropriated, and indeed, this authorizing bill has not yet
passed.

Among other things, the fund would pay for 100,000 more police officers on the
streets nationwide over the next six years, at a cost of $9 billion, distributed
at the United States Attorney General's discretion. If the city received its
proportionate share, Mr. Schumer estimates that it would qualify for about $255
million, enough to pay for 3,000 to 5,000 officers.

But because of the huge-scale police hiring plan passed under Mayor David N.
Dinkins, which set aside special tax revenue for the purpose, Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani had sought greater flexibility to use the money in other ways. After
extensive negotiations with Mr. Schumer -- and despite some stiff objections by
the White House, which wanted to keep the focus on hiring -- the final bill
would allow the city to spend money on computerization and other efforts to free
more officers for patrol.

"But we wrote into the bill," Mr. Schumer noted, "that they have to show, on a
year-by-year basis, that the number of cops on the beat would increase."

Another feature would be grants for crime-prevention programs, including $60
million to each of 15 high-crime communities to start neighborhood
crime-prevention programs developed by local groups. Mr. Schumer, who originated
this provision, says New York should be confident of receiving one or two of the
grants.

At a more modest level, the bill includes $24 million nationwide over six years
to help nonprofit organizations recruit minority police officers -- the idea was
suggested to Mr. Schumer by the Rev. Johnny Ray Youngblood of St. Paul Community
Baptist Church in East New York -- and $40 million to create academies for
violent youths that combine education, job training and discipline, a suggestion
by the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in
Harlem.

New York State

For the entire state, the Governor's office estimates that the bill would
provide $400 million for police hiring, for a maximum of 6,000 officers,
including any hired in New York City.

One of the biggest boons for the state would be new money to defray the cost of
jailing illegal immigrants who have committed crimes. The bill calls for $1.8
billion over six years to address this problem nationwide. If the funds were
distributed at the rate of $300 million a year, New York would qualify for about
$48 million a year, based on its having about 16 percent of the nation's
criminal alien population. The state now spends $60 million to $68 million
annually to house such prisoners.

"In short, we think it's really good for us," said Mr. Cuomo's Washington
counsel, Sandra Cuneo. "It could help us significantly, and we have a lot of
programs that would qualify for assistance."

The bill also calls for $1 billion nationwide to hasten deportation of criminal
aliens, and to expedite asylum proceedings for immigrants fleeing political
persecution. It provides for a new asylum-processing center in Rochdale, Queens,
that would employ 85 to 90 workers to help reduce a backlog in applications from
the stream that comes through John F. Kennedy International Airport.

Over the next six years, the state estimates that it would qualify for $327
million for prison construction, under a formula based on its rate of violent
crime. Under a separate provision inserted by Republicans, intended to force
states to make prisoners serve their full sentences, New York could qualify for
a further $94 million in the law's first two years.

It could receive more after that only if it met a series of tests showing that
it was moving toward assuring that violent offenders served 85 percent of the
imposed sentences -- a goal that it is nowhere near meeting now, in part because
of prison overcrowding.

State officials say they also believe that New York would qualify for several
hundred million dollars in discretionary grants to community groups to fight
crime over the life of the bill.

New Jersey and Connecticut

The New Jersey and Connecticut state offices in Washington both say that they so
far have no comprehensive estimates for how their states might fare under the
measure. But representatives from the two states offered a few tentative hints.

Tina Kreisher, deputy director of the Washington office of Gov. Christine Todd
Whitman of New Jersey, said that because many community-grant programs in the
bill were entirely new, it was unclear precisely who would qualify and how the
program funds would be distributed. But she said New Jersey had many programs
likely to win new support.

Depending on how money is allocated in the final bill, New Jersey stands to
receive $20 million to $25 million a year -- double the amount it gets now --
under a program named for a New York officer, Edward Byrne, who was slain by
drug dealers in 1988. The money can be used to help local police departments and
other law-enforcement agencies coordinate their drug-fighting efforts around the
state.

The state would also gain money for prison construction. And, at a local level,
Ms. Kreisher said, many community programs would be strong candidates for
grants, like an after-school program in Atlantic City intended to keep
teen-agers out of trouble.

For Connecticut, Jan Kaplan, director of the state office here, said she was
still trying to get final details from the House and Senate negotiators who
pieced together their compromise bill early on Thursday. "We really haven't seen
any numbers," she said.

Nina Bang-Jensen, a legislative assistant and counsel to Senator Joseph I.
Lieberman, said Connecticut's experience with community policing should qualify
it for a decent share of new money for police hiring.

She added that the provision for at least some prison-construction money without
regard to whether prisoners were serving full sentences was "very good news,"
because Connecticut's prisons have been so crowded that the state "can't come
close" to having inmates serve full sentences.

Representative Rosa L. DeLauro of New Haven won financing for two programs based
on experiments in her district. The bill includes $5 million nationwide for
youth anti-crime councils like one the Congresswoman started in New Haven, and
$20 million overall for programs intended to train police officers in how to
deal with children exposed to violence.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. PROPOSAL WOULD OVERHAUL WELFARE SYSTEM

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1410 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21


The Republican team taking over the House of Representatives will propose a
welfare bill that eliminates a decades-old guiding principle of poverty and food
programs: that anyone who qualifies for these benefits automatically gets them.

Under the proposal drafted by House Republicans for submission in January,
Congress would set an overall annual limit on welfare spending and replace food
stamps and child-nutrition programs with a lump sum payment to each state.

The Republicans would consolidate 10 nutrition programs into a "food assistance
block grant," cut the available money by 5 percent and then set a limit on
future spending. The limit would be adjusted for increases in population and
food prices in the prior year.

The programs to be consolidated in this way include food stamps, the Special
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children and the school
lunch and breakfast programs. The food stamp program costs $25 billion a year
and helps feed 27 million people. The program for women, infants and children,
or WIC, serves 6.2 million people at a cost of $3.1 billion a year. The school
lunch program costs $4.5 billion a year and feeds 25 million children a day.

House Republicans said today that the bill would also require state welfare
officials to provide the Federal Government with information to help identify
illegal immigrants. The proposal would also curtail aid to aliens, both those
who are in the United States illegally and many of those who are legal
residents.

Each of the bill's proposals is big enough to insure long, impassioned debate
next year, but one is particularly striking.

Under the Republican bill, people now eligible for welfare, food stamps and free
school lunches would no longer have a legally enforceable right to such
assistance. Instead of such "entitlements," specific sums would be appropriated
each year for food assistance and welfare. If the money ran out before the end
of the year, benefits could be scaled back, people could be removed from the
rolls or new applicants could be turned away, depending on state decisions.

House Republicans, led by Newt Gingrich, the Speaker-in-waiting, have said they
will bring the bill to the floor within the first 100 days of the next Congress,
as promised in their 10-point "Contract With America." A copy of the bill was
obtained by The New York Times from state officials who have been following the
issue and meeting with House Republicans.

As such, it will be a focus of debate in the House next year and appears to have
a better chance of passage than any other welfare bill. But to become law, it
will have to pass the Senate, where some senior Republicans have supported
expansion of food programs. It would also be subject to approval by President
Clinton. Mr. Clinton's willingness to veto measures he opposes, and his ability
to sustain those vetoes, are two of the imponderables of the next Congress. A
veto can be overridden by a two-thirds vote of each chamber.

While Mr. Clinton has called for overhauling the welfare system, he has focused
on job training and limits on the duration of welfare payments, not on food
programs.

The Republican bill would repeal the Food Stamp Act of 1977, the Child Nutrition
Act of 1966, the National School Lunch Act of 1946, the Emergency Food
Assistance Act of 1983 and several other Federal laws intended to prevent
hunger.

It would replace the money allocated under those laws with the new block grant,
which states would use for the general purpose of food assistance but without
having to follow the detailed nutrition standards set by existing laws and
regulations. Current rules say, for example, that school lunches must supply at
least one-third of the recommended dietary allowance for various nutrients. In
addition, under the proposal, states could provide people with cash instead of
food stamps.

Republicans said their proposal would save money and force Congress to face up
to the cost of welfare and food assistance, rather than continue these programs
on autopilot.

But Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the Democrat who has been chairman of
the Agriculture Committee for eight years, said the Republican proposal would
"lead to a dramatic increase in hunger and will leave states stranded to deal
with the fallout on their own." He said he had worked closely with Republican
senators like Bob Dole of Kansas and Richard G. Lugar of Indiana to strengthen
food programs.

Mr. Lugar is expected to become chairman of the Agriculture Committee. Mr. Dole,
who is in line to be the new Majority Leader, said in 1982 that "the Federal
Government should retain primary responsibility for child nutrition programs,"
and he noted that President Richard M. Nixon expressed the same view in 1969.

Officials of two groups that advocate Government assistance for needy people,
Edward M. Cooney, deputy director of the Food Research and Action Center, and
Isaac Shapiro, acting co-director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,
said the Republican proposal would hamper the Government's ability to respond to
urgent need.

"In the event of a recession," Mr. Shapiro said, "the need for food assistance
increases sharply, but the food stamp program would not be able to expand to
meet the need," because of the Republican plan's spending limits. In late 1991
and early 1992, food stamp rolls sometimes grew by more than 300,000 people a
month, and the number of recipients soared to more than 24 million.

In a further effort to control spending on social welfare programs, the House
Republican plan would deny most forms of assistance to people who were not
citizens, including many legal aliens.

State welfare officials would have to provide the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service with "the name, address and other identifying
information" on illegal aliens whose children were United States citizens.

The Republican bill, the Personal Responsibility Act, lists 60 programs for
which illegal aliens and many legal aliens would be ineligible. These include
Medicaid, maternal and child health care, community health centers, migrant
health centers, the school lunch and breakfast programs, the WIC. program,
public housing, child immunizations, job training, aid to homeless people and
the screening of youngsters to detect lead poisoning.

This proposed ban is similar to one approved this month by the voters of
California, in Proposition 187. Civil liberties groups and some Hispanic
organizations are challenging the California measure in court, saying it
violates the constitutional guarantee of equal protection of the laws.

Under current law, illegal aliens are ineligible for most major Federal and
state benefit programs, but they may get emergency medical care under Medicaid,
and mothers with small children can get supplemental food assistance. In
addition, the Supreme Court has said children who are illegal aliens may not be
denied a free public education. Presumably, some of these children get school
lunches, because there is no test of citizenship or alien status.

Legal aliens, especially permanent residents of the United States, are currently
eligible for most Government benefits available to citizens, like education and
housing assistance. The Republican proposal would make aliens ineligible for
many of these.

But the restrictions would not apply to refugees, to emergency medical services
or to permanent resident aliens who are over 75 and have lived in the United
States for at least five years.

The Republicans' bill would also, for the first time, set a limit on the growth
of Federal spending for welfare programs, including Aid to Families with
Dependent Children; Supplemental Security Income, for elderly, blind and
disabled people, and on 15 types of housing assistance for low-income people.

In general, the bill says, the states would not be allowed to pay welfare
benefits for a child whose paternity had not been established, nor could the
states provide welfare benefits for children born out of wedlock to women under
the age of 18.

Money saved from these restrictions would be returned to the states as block
grants to provide services, but not cash payments, to help young mothers with
illegitimate children. The money could be used "to establish and operate
orphanages," to operate group homes for unwed mothers, to promote adoption and
to reduce out-of-wedlock births, the bill says.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Republican Party may have swept to power in Congress, and
Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia may be in line to be the House Speaker
and to propose the "Contrast With America" plan to overhaulo welfare, but that
does not mean everything is perfect for the Republicans. Mr. Gingrich waited,
vainly, for a missing bag at an airline luggage carousel in the Atlanta airport
yesterday. (Michael A. Schwarz for The New York Times) (pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 4, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Sports of The Times;
Yank Recalls Old Victory Over Brazil

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 27;   Column 1;   Sports Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.


THE worst moment was when Fernando Clavijo was down on his hands and knees
cleaning the carpets, and he saw the men in the suits and the plain dark shoes.
Immigration. The Feds. They were asking all the busboys for their papers.

"I don't move, I am so scared," recalled the starting defender for the United
States in the World Cup, one passport and 14 years later. "I was on the floor. I
sat down at a table. The waiter said, 'Start drinking.' They say I am their best
customer. I went through hell."

Fernando Clavijo survived that moment, the way many immigrants must survive,
doing the dirty work, often without the necessary piece of paper. Today, Clavijo
will be doing dirty work, but also glamorous work, trying to stop the Brazilians
from messing up his national holiday.

This is the dream, the American dream, to survive the obstacles, to become a
citizen, to make a better life. And for a soccer player, it is to one day put on
the national uniform and play in the Rose Bowl against samba-dancing,
foot-flashing, head-faking, hip-swiveling Brazil.

Like many immigrants, Clavijo retains a great love for his first country,
Uruguay. All week his friends have been calling, reminding him of the day
Uruguay beat Brazil.

It was in Rio de Janeiro in 1950, and a crowd estimated at 200,000 jammed into
Maracana Stadium for the final game.

According to Paul Gardner in his book, "The Simplest Game," a Uruguayan official
told the players: "We'll be lucky if they don't drown us in goals. Do your best,
but even if you lose, 4-0, it will be a victory of sorts."

Instead, Uruguay stormed back for a 2-1 victory to win the World Cup. Forty-four
years later, Clavijo has been telling his American teammates about that game
because he believes there is an object lesson.

"Americans never give up," Clavijo said. "The people keep coming. We play
Colombia, people give up before the game is over. Maybe you call it unrealistic.
I can see it as a big plus for us."

He was naturalized in 1987, a late bloomer who never played for the national
team until 1990. At 37, he is the oldest American player, an object lesson of
his own for all American soccer officials: they must locate other Fernando
Clavijos who are out there on their hands and knees, cleaning carpets, doing the
dirty work.

While the U.S. tilts its lance at Brazil today, there may very well be better
players in this country, players with citizenship or with green cards,
Spanish-speaking athletes who have been playing this world sport since they were
infants, at picnics and in dusty streets.

Because most settled Americans are uncomfortable with the Spanish language and
with Hispanic customs, many good players slip through the net of America's
suburbanized soccer network and remain in the so-called ethnic leagues rather
than make it to national programs.

Clavijo, who is quick and bright, forced his own luck. He and his wife, Martha,
left Uruguay when he was 22.

"We worked in a factory," he said. "I didn't come to play soccer, just to have a
better life. I played for a club in New York, but my club in Uruguay heard about
it and I went a year without playing.

"I was a busboy at the Steer Barn in Great Neck, then Scotto's in Little Neck.
Soccer was my life. It was in my blood. I was looking for something. I was
worked so hard. The owner really trusted me. He protected me when I saw the guys
with jackets on asking for papers."

Eventually, his speed and his talent brought Clavijo to professional teams in
the hybrid sport of indoor soccer. He came to the attention of Bora Milutinovic,
the Serb who has spent much of his career coaching in Latin America, and the two
became fast friends.

It didn't hurt that Clavijo can still outrun 22-year-olds.

"I just hope to be part of the game," Clavijo said. "If it is not on the field,
it is off the field. I was willing to do that. How we behave. I was lucky enough
to get to this place."

When he heard he was starting against Colombia, he called his mother, Irma, back
home in Maldonado. "She starts to cry and says she is going to light a candle. I
say, 'Mom, you better light four or five.' "

When he took his place against Colombia, Clavijo said: "To be honest, I had
tears in my eyes when they played the national anthem. I promised my father a
long time ago I would play for the national team. I didn't tell him which team."

His nation is now the United States.

If his nation is wise, it will take notice that there are other fast and skilled
players like Fernando Clavijo in this country, waiting to be discovered.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Clavijo (Shaun Botterill/Allsport)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 4, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Seekers Need Only a Reasonable Fear

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 600 words


To the Editor:

The concern about the fairness of the procedure and the confusion about the
criteria in the screening of Haitian boat people aboard United States ships
described in June 17 and 18 articles from Kingston, Jamaica, are symptomatic of
a political and not a legal dilemma. The law is well established. The
controlling standard was laid down by the Supreme Court in Immigration and
Naturalization Service v. Cardoza Fonseca.

The essence of this decision was that applicants for asylum in -- or refugee
admission to -- the United States are not required to show that they would be
singled out for punishment if sent back to the country from which they fled. Nor
do applicants have to demonstrate the likelihood, let alone the clear
probability, of such punishment. A reasonable possibility of persecution is, or
should be, sufficient to support an asylum or admission request.

Since the refugee legislation of 1980 was meant to bring United States law in
concordance with the United Nations Convention, the Court felt at ease in
adopting criteria developed by the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees. It quoted approvingly the refugee agency's
explanation that an applicant's fear in general "should be considered well
founded if he can establish, to a reasonable degree, that his continued stay in
his country of origin has become intolerable for him for the reasons stated in
the refugee definition, or would for the same reason be intolerable if he
returned there."

And the Court, to make quite clear how it wanted the new standard implemented,
stated in a memorable caveat: "There is simply no room . . . for concluding that
because an applicant only has a 10 percent chance of being shot, tortured or
otherwise persecuted, that he or she has no well-founded fear of the event
happening."

Fear is a subjective reaction. And it was this aspect of the Court's decision,
delivered by Associate Justice John P. Stevens, that Justice Harry
A. Blackmun addressed in his concurring opinion.

He pointed out that the term "well-founded fear" demanded a particular type of
analysis -- "an examination of the subjective feelings of an applicant for
asylum, coupled with an inquiry into the objective nature of the articulated
reasons for fear," the sort of analysis for which Justice Blackmun commended the
"well-reasoned opinions of the courts of appeals that almost uniformly have
rejected the I.N.S.'s misreading of statutory language and legislative history."
And he ended with a stern admonition:

"The efforts of these courts stand in stark contrast to -- but, it is sad to
say, alone cannot make up for -- the years of seemingly purposeful blindness by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which only now begins its task of
developing the standard entrusted to its care."

These words were written seven years ago. Alas, they are still apt in the
Haitian context. It is as easy to impugn the motives of asylum seekers as
basically economic as it is difficult for an outsider to comprehend fully and to
untangle the components that lead people to conclude that life in Haiti has
become intolerable. But as long as there is a possibility, and be it only a 10
percent possibility, that an individual upon return to Haiti will be exposed to
the retaliatory vindictiveness of a murderous regime, that person is protected
by a decision of the United States Supreme Court.

ROBERT P. DE VECCHI
CHARLES STERNBERG
New York, June 22, 1994

The writers are the present and former executive officer of the International
Rescue Committee.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 3, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

School Panel's District Plan Ignites Debate

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 998 words


A proposal to redraw the boundaries of New York City school districts for the
first time in more than two decades would increase the percentages of minority
and immigrant students in several districts in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx,
while making other districts whiter.

The authors of the plan, which was released yesterday, said they intended it to
help black, Hispanic and Asian parents to elect representatives to the city's 32
community school boards and help the city to comply with the federal Voting
Rights Act. But some black and Asian school board members and other educators
were critical.

"This plan was drawn to give some districts a whiter population and to prevent
minorities from being elected to school boards, especially African-Americans
like myself," said Dennis Coleman, a member of the nine-person board in District
8, which covers the southeast Bronx.

The plan would create three districts, one each in the Bronx, Queens and
Brooklyn, and change the boundaries of 10 of the 32 existing districts. District
lines in Manhattan and Staten Island will remain unchanged.

The plan is the preliminary proposal of an advisory panel appointed in January
by the central Board of Education. After citywide public hearings scheduled for
October, the panel must submit its final proposal by Nov. 1. By February, the
full board is to approve a final plan that would take effect in September 1996.
The redistricting must also pass review by the Justice Department under the
Voting Rights Act.

The goal of greater minority representation and the need to avoid segregation of
students complicated the efforts of the panel.

Gary Orfield, the director of Harvard University's Project on School
Desegregation, had not seen the plan, but said that a series of Supreme Court
decisions have found that changing school district boundaries in a way that
increases segregation in schools is unconstitutional.

The issue is complicated, however, because creating electoral wards within a
school district to guarantee minority representation "would be not only legal
but proper," he said.

Any change in the city's 32 districts is certain to cause anxiety among New
Yorkers because there are wide differences in the educational quality of
districts, a variety closely reflected in real-estate values.

No students would be assigned to different schools as a result of the plan, but
the choices available to students under citywide or district school choice
programs could change. However, neither school officials nor the plan's authors
could describe yesterday how significant those changes might be.

William Donohoe, the executive of an architectural firm who chaired the
10-member Redistricting Advisory Study Group, said that the panel had been "very
concerned" about increasing segregation.

"The last thing we wanted to do was create a more segregated climate," Mr.
Donohoe said. He said that lawyers from City Hall's Office of the Corporation
Counsel had advised the panel.

The Panel's Goals

James Meier, the panel's executive director, said that state law set a dozen
goals for the redistricting, including reducing the size of some very large
districts, keeping neighborhoods intact, and ensuring that "racial and language"
groups are given effective representation under the Voting Rights Act.

Mr. Meier acknowledged that under the proposed plan, several districts would
become whiter while the concentrations of minority students in adjacent
districts would increase. He said it was not at all clear that those trends at
the district level would contribute to segregation in individual schools.

The proposed redistricting, required by the state law that decentralized the
city's schools 25 years ago, would affect 141 of the city's 1,069 schools: 9
middle and 46 elementary schools in Queens; 1 middle and 9 elementary schools in
Brooklyn; 17 middle and 60 elementary schools in the Bronx.

In the Bronx, the plan would create a new district by dividing the existing
District 10 into two districts, a richer northern district covering Riverdale,
and a poorer southern one covering Morris Heights and Tremont.

The current voting age population in District 10 is 36 percent white and 64
percent minority. Under the plan, the new northern district, designated 10B,
would be 48 percent white and 52 percent minority. The southern district, 10A,
would be 3 percent white and 97 percent minority.

A Critical View

Clint Roswell, a spokesman for Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, said Mr.
Ferrer "was not happy" with the panel's process.

"He thought there was a lot of back-room stuff going on and that it was coloring
the process," Mr. Roswell said.

In Queens, the plan would carve a new District 33 in the Elmhurst, Corona and
Jackson Heights areas, which are currently part of districts 24 and 30. The plan
would increase the white voting-age population in District 24 from 49 to 76
percent, while decreasing the percentages of minority voters. The student
population of the new District 33 would be 4 percent white and 96 percent
minority.

The plan would create a district covering Howard Beach, Ozone Park and the
Rockaways in Queens that would have twice as many white students as the existing
District 27.

The plan's authors noted that the new District 33 would have the highest
concentration of Asian voting-age population of all districts, perhaps enabling
more Asians to be elected.

But Louisa M. Chan, a Chinese-born parent who was the only non-white elected
last year to Board 24, said: "They are segregating the new immigrants, which is
an awful idea. I will definitely oppose this."

In Brooklyn, the plan would redraw the boundaries of Districts 18 and 22, both
of which are currently divided between largely poor and minority northern
neighborhoods and largely white middle-class southern neighborhoods. The result
would be to concentrate the minority neighborhoods in District 18 and the white
neighborhoods in District 22.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 1994, Sunday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about a proposal to redraw the boundaries of New York City
school districts misstated the boroughs in which three new districts would be
created. One new district is proposed for the Bronx and two are proposed for
Queens.


GRAPHIC: Chart: "ON THE TABLE: Districts in Flux" shows the Board of Education's
plan to redraw district boundaries and their ethnic effects.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 8, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P.'s Voice on Aliens Roars Challenge to Party

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;   Page 20;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7


Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Republican Party's most influential voice on
immigration matters, is charting a defiantly independent course that puts him at
odds with plans of the House Republicans.

In an early sign of the divisions that are certain to emerge within Republican
ranks in the new Congress, Senator Simpson said in an interview on Tuesday that
he opposed a cornerstone of the House Republicans' plans for immigration: a
cutoff of many Federal benefits to immigrants living legally in the United
States.

"It's almost like they don't understand what a permanent resident alien is," the
Wyoming Republican said. "The only thing they can't do that you and I can is
vote. Period."

He added, "We're certainly not going to do anything to permanent resident aliens
that hasn't been done before."

In a wide-ranging discussion of immigration policy, Mr. Simpson declared his
intention to gore a herd of sacred cows that he said had been preserved over the
years by both Democrats and Republicans.

He also said his defeat by one vote last week in the contest for Senate majority
whip left him feeling free to forge alliances with Democrats and to speak out
more openly on immigration, an issue that is expected to be pivotal in the next
Congress.

Among the things Senator Simpson said he planned to do were these:

*Seek repeal of a politically sensitive 1966 law that has accorded Cubans
preferential treatment, giving them a speedy path to legal status in the United
States.

*Push for a five-year "breathing space" in which the United States would cut
legal immigration by about 25 percent, to 500,000 annually from 675,000 people.

*Oppose efforts to limit education benefits for illegal aliens as was provided
in Proposition 187, the California ballot initiative that was approved
overwhelmingly last month.'

*Resume his long-running campaign for a "counterfeit-resistant" national
identity system that employers could use to verify a job applicant's immigration
status.

Mr. Simpson, who is 63 and is serving his third term in the Senate, had some
stern words for the advocates of Hispanic rights and other groups who in past
years turned to Democratic representatives and House staff members to
substantially rewrite legislation the Senate had passed. "Those days are over,
they're history," he said, "And I'm certainly tickled to death."

Senator Simpson's proposal to repeal the 1966 law, the Cuban American Adjustment
Act, is certain to kindle a firestorm of opposition from a constituency that has
deep roots in the Republican Party. Under the law, any Cuban admitted to the
United States may get his "green card" for permanent residency after only a year
in this country. Other foreigners face an elaborate application process in which
only a small number are ultimately eligible for status as a permanent resident.

Republicans have been reluctant until now to seek repeal of the cold war
statute, which has added hundreds of thousands of anti-Communist Cuban refugees
to the rolls of the Republican Party in Florida.

The Clinton Administration slowed the program a few months ago when it stopped
granting most Cuban refugees the status they need to qualify for a green card.

In recent years the statute has been criticized as a relic of the cold war that
affords Cubans a smooth path toward citizenship while Haitians and other
refugees must surmount considerably more hurdles.

His voice rising, Senator Simpson asked: "Why can one group of people come to
Disney World, spend the year shopping with a sister, and then get a green card,
no questions asked, after one year? Is there something sensible about that? Is
there?"

He said he wanted to make his proposal this year but did not do so out of
deference to Senator Connie Mack, the Florida Republican who was running for
re-election.

Lucas Guttentag, director of the Immigrants' Rights Project at the American
Civil Liberties Union, said repeal of the Cuban act would represent a
significant change in the nation's treatment of immigrants.

"For so many years, U.S. refugee policy was driven by the cold war," Mr.
Guttentag said. "Suggestions of repeal reflect both the decline of that ideology
and the growing restrictionist trend which is taking its place."

For his part, Mr. Simpson bridles at any suggestions that he is a
restrictionist, and notes that his plan to cut legal immigration to 500,000
annually for five years could well forestall a much deeper, permanent reduction
in the number of people permitted to immigrate to this country.

For nearly 15 years, the Senator has been the Republican lawmaker most closely
identified with efforts to rewrite the nation's immigration laws. He was the
co-author, with Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat, of a 1986
measure that imposed penalties on employers who knowingly hire undocumented
aliens.

"This is not something that is going to come up at the tail end of next year,"
Mr. Simpson said, adding that all 11 Republican freshmen in the Senate cited
immigration as an issue in their campaigns. "This baby is red hot and we're
going to move."

Republicans are openly divided about how to deal with the influx of illegal
immigration.

Gov. Pete Wilson of California revived his political fortunes and won
re-election with his enthusiastic endorsement of Proposition 187, the ballot
measure approved last month by California voters that cuts off education and
most other social services for illegal aliens.

But Jack F. Kemp, the former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development who is a
possible Republican Presidential candidate, and William J. Bennett, another
former Cabinet member, opposed the proposal, saying the immigration issue
amounted to a battle for the soul of the Republican Party. Senator Simpson
appears to have taken their side.

"I just couldn't believe they would limit the education of undocumented
children, because the Supreme Court said so clearly in the Texas case that you
couldn't visit the sins of the parent on the child," Mr. Simpson said. "How
could they possibly limit education to a 7-, 8- or 9-year-old child? I never
could understand that, and therefore didn't say anything."


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming says his defeat last week in
the race for Senate majority whip will enable him to speak out more openly on
immigration issues. At his desk in the Capitol yesterday, Mr. Simpson sifted
through telephone messages from friends concerned about his defeat. (Karin
Anderson for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 8, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Proposed Border-Crossing Fee in Clinton Budget Touches Off Storm

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;   Page 6;   Column 3;   National Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7


A White House proposal to impose a fee on everyone entering the United States by
land has generated sharp protests in Congress as well as from Canada and Mexico,
where critics contend that it would suppress tourism and trade.

The proposal to charge $3 for each vehicle and $1.50 for each pedestrian
crossing the border was included in the budget President Clinton submitted to
Congress on Monday. The Administration has said the fees would raise $400
million a year to help ward off illegal immigration.

But lawmakers from border districts have said the plan would unfairly dampen
commerce and impose a financial burden on their regions to help combat a
national problem. The Canadian Government has delivered a diplomatic note
warning that it would cause an unwelcome turn in relations between countries
that share the world's longest undefended border.

"We don't like this one too much," said George Rioux, a spokesman for the
Canadian Embassy here. "In fact, we don't like it one bit." Mr. Rioux said the
imposition of a border crossing fee would "send a very bad signal" a year after
the United States, Mexico and Canada agreed to open their borders to free trade.

In acknowledging today that the proposal has proven controversial, the White
House said that it would be a subject of discussion later this month when Mr.
Clinton meets in Ottawa with Prime Minister Jean Chretien. But the
Administration has continued to defend the plan as the best way to raise money
to improve buildings, fences, roads and lighting along the borders.

When the idea was first proposed last year by a commission headed by Barbara
Jordan, the former Democratic Representative from Texas, it was denounced by the
Government of Mexico. A spokesman for the Mexican Embassy here said today that
his Government would register an official complaint to Washington by the end of
the week.

The plan was included in the Administration's proposal to add $1 billion in
spending next year to combat illegal immigration. In an executive order, Mr.
Clinton has directed Federal agencies to give new priority to a crackdown on
"abuse of our immigration laws."

But on Capitol Hill, members of the House and Senate took to the floor today to
say that it would be wrong to force the millions of tourists, commuters and
legal immigrants who cross into the United States each year to finance costly
border improvement projects.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 10, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Republicans Advance Proposal To Replace the Welfare System

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1231 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9


House Republican leaders moved today to undo more than a half-century of social
welfare policy by proposing to eliminate the right of poor women and children to
receive cash assistance from the Government.

In place of the welfare program established 60 years ago as part of the Social
Security Act, Republicans said they wanted to make a lump sum payment of $15.3
billion a year, which the states could use "in any manner reasonably calculated"
to assist needy families with children. This represents the amount spent in
1994; there would be no allowance for inflation. Benefits would no longer be
automatically available to people who met certain criteria.

Republican leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the most hotly debated
features of their proposal, which would deny cash assistance to hundreds of
thousands of unmarried teen-age mothers and to most immigrants, including legal
aliens.

These provisions, fleshed out today with new detail by Representative E. Clay
Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, immediately encountered a barrage of criticism
from some Republicans, from opponents of abortion and from liberal defenders of
child welfare programs.

In a speech at the United States Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Shaw, who is chairman
of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources, said the Republican
proposal embodied "tough love," using hard measures to save poor people from a
life of dependence on the dole.

The subcommittee will begin voting on welfare legislation next week. House
Speaker Newt Gingrich, Republican of Georgia, has promised a floor vote on the
bill by mid-April, as part of the Contract With America. The Senate appears
likely to support major changes to require welfare recipients to work. But
Senator Bob Dole, the Republican floor leader, predicted last month that neither
teen-age mothers nor legal immigrants would be cut from the rolls.

In a confidential memorandum to President Clinton on Jan. 19, Donna E. Shalala,
the Secretary of Health and Human Services, harshly criticized the Republican
proposal to abolish the individual entitlement to welfare benefits and replace
it with a "block grant" to the states.

But the White House has taken a much more ambiguous position. Indeed, some
Administration officials say President Clinton has sent subtle signals to
Congress that he will not oppose converting the main cash assistance program,
Aid to Families With Dependent Children, into a block grant to the states.

At a news conference today, Mr. Clinton shied away from explicit criticism of
the Republican proposal.  The President, a former governor, said he was "willing
to go a long way" toward letting the states design their own welfare programs,
as governors have demanded.

Mr. Clinton spoke in general terms, saying: "There is a national interest in
making sure that the food, the nutrition, the health care of the children of
this country are protected."

Officials at the Department of Health and Human Services, the Treasury and the
Labor Department have said they want the White House to take a firm stand in
favor of preserving the entitlement status of Aid to Families With Dependent
Children. Mr. Clinton has so far avoided a confrontation with Republicans,
saying only that the Federal Government should set national standards to protect
poor children.

Under current law, poor people can file suit to get welfare benefits to which
they are entitled. Mr. Shaw's bill would abolish "all entitlement of individuals
to benefits" under Aid to Families With Dependent Children.

The Federal Government and the states now share the cost of this program. Mr.
Shaw's proposal would eliminate any requirement for states to continue spending
their own money, though Republicans said they hoped the states would do so. The
Federal Government expects to spend $12.5 billion, or 1 percent of the Federal
budget, on the program this year, while the states are expected to spend $10.3
billion.

Breaking with his party, Representative Henry J. Hyde, Republican of Illinois,
denounced the proposal to deny cash assistance to children born out of wedlock
to women under 18. In an interview today, Mr. Hyde said it was unfair to punish
children for parents' behavior. "The children need clothing, shelter and
nurture," Mr. Hyde said. "You don't want to reward promiscuous pregnancy, but on
the other hand, you don't want to make the children suffer for the
transgressions of the parents."

The Roman Catholic Church and the National Right to Life Committee also oppose
this part of the Republican bill, saying it would probably increase abortions.
"Many pregnant teen-agers will feel compelled to have abortions if they feel
they cannot provide for their children or get A.F.D.C.," said Douglas D.
Johnson, chief lobbyist of the National Right to Life Committee.

Mr. Shaw's bill would prohibit states from using Federal money to give extra
welfare benefits to women who had additional children while they were on
welfare. Many opponents of abortion object to this provision too.

Some Republicans also denounced the proposed denial of benefits for legal
immigrants. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican whose Miami
district includes many Cuban emigres, said the proposal would cut off aid to
"many permanent resident aliens who have paid taxes and are willing to get
drafted and fight for the United States."

Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, described the prevailing
view of his party. He said the Republican bill was "strong on punishing children
and weak on getting their parents to work." Representative Harold E. Ford,
Democrat of Tennessee, said, "This proposal is tough and mean, and it's directed
at our most vulnerable citizens."

In June 1994, Mr. Clinton sent Congress a bill "to end welfare as we know it."
Under his proposal, welfare would remain a right, and the bill would not cut off
benefits for unmarried teen-agers. It would allow states to cap the amount of
payments so there would be no extra allowance for children born to women already
on welfare.

The Clinton bill would provide welfare recipients up to two years of education
and training and would guarantee publicly financed jobs for people who could not
find jobs in the private market. Under Mr. Shaw's bill, welfare recipients would
have to work to get cash payments after two years, and in no event could they
get assistance for more than five years.

Illegal immigrants are already ineligible for most welfare benefits, but legal
immigrants have long been eligible for such assistance.

Mr. Shaw said he and his Republican colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee
were planning a radical change. "Our bill will cut off most welfare benefits for
most legal immigrants," he said. "Those age 75 and older will continue to
receive welfare, and so too will legally recognized refugees."

In addition, a summary of Mr. Shaw's bill, prepared by his staff, says that
noncitizens could qualify for some education and training programs, so they
could obtain jobs and become productive citizens. Mr. Shaw said: "There will be
some flexibility for the states. The details are still being worked out."

Mr. Clinton would permit legal aliens to get benefits, but he would tighten the
eligibility rules. He would require American citizens to take greater financial
responsibility for the immigrants they sponsored.


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, in his
office preparing a speech he gave yesterday on revamping the nation's social
welfare policy, including denying cash assistance to poor mothers and children.
(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A16)

Chart: "IN THEIR OWN WORDS: From the G.O.P. Welfare Proposal"

Cash Grants

Spending on cash welfare will be capped for five years, saving taxpayers $7.6
billion.

States will be prohibited from using Federal tax dollars to:

--pay cash welfare to mothers under 18 who have children out of wedlock

--give extra payments to families that have more kids while on welfare

--pay cash welfare to a single family for more than five years.

Child Care

About a dozen current Federal child care progams will be merged into a block
grant.

States will be given enormous flexibility to better serve their residents,
simplify programs and save taxpayers money. We will at last do away with the old
canard that more Federal spending equals more compassion.

Reducing the Rolls

Drug addicts and alcoholics will no longer be considered disabled.

Non-citizens will no longer be eligible for most welfare programs. (pg. A16)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Once Commandos for U.S., Vietnamese Are Now Barred

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1275 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13


They say they are the lost patrols of America's war in Vietnam: more than 50
Vietnamese commandos who worked in secret behind enemy lines for the Central
Intelligence Agency and the United States military.

The commandos and more than 400 of their fellow spies were captured and
imprisoned in the 1960's, Government records show. They survived for decades in
forced-labor camps. Now they want to leave Vietnam, where they are reviled as
traitors, and come to the United States.

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service does not believe their
stories and has rejected their applications, and a spokesman refused to discuss
the case.

But recently declassified 25-year-old Pentagon reports strongly support their
claims. So does the man who was the Defense Intelligence Agency's top analyst on
prisoners of war in Vietnam. Now the United States Ambassador in Thailand has
taken up the lost commandos' cause.

In a cable sent from Bangkok last month and distributed widely throughout the
nation's intelligence agencies, the Ambassador, David F. Lambertson, said the
former Defense Intelligence Agency analyst, Sedgwick Tourison, had presented
"specific and detailed information" showing that the Vietnamese commandos were
"U.S. contract employees and that, prior to their capture, they were paid with
appropriated U.S. Government funds."

Mr. Lambertson, who was a Foreign Service officer in Vietnam from 1965 to 1968,
said the Immigration and Naturalization Service should reconsider its rejection
of the pleas for refugee status. The United States Embassy in Bangkok has long
handled Vietnamese immigration and refugee issues.

"We believe they qualify, based on their associations with U.S. policies and
programs and serving long incarcerations," said the cable from the Ambassador.

It said the Vietnamese commandos were captured "while engaging in U.S.-directed
missions to collect intelligence, conduct military and psychological operations,
or to render assistance to downed American air crews."

A spokesman for the immigration service said tonight that he was unable to
answer any questions.

As the 20th anniversary of the fall of Saigon approaches, old wounds are being
reopened for many Vietnamese. None will be more painful than the lost commandos'
story, said Mr. Tourison; he was chief of analysis of the Defense Intelligence
Agency's special office for P.O.W.-M.I.A. affairs in the 1980's and a principal
author of the final report of the Senate Select Committee on Prisoners of
War/Missing in Action in 1993.

"There is no doubt in my mind that these agents are who they claim to be, that
they undertook the missions they say they did and that we, the United States
Government, have known their fates since the mid-1960's," Mr. Tourison said in
an interview. His book on the commandos, "Secret Army, Secret War," is to be
published in August by Naval Institute Press.

The former investigative counsel for the Senate committee on prisoners of war,
John Mattes, who is preparing to file a suit in Federal Court seeking the
captured commandos' back pay, said: "While it is a tragedy that we left these
P.O.W.'s behind, it's a national scandal that we would seek to deny their
existence and to rewrite history to eliminate them."

Mr. Mattes was referring both to the actions of the immigration service and to a
long-secret, recently declassified Pentagon history of the commandos: the Macsog
report, short for Military Assistance Command/Studies and Observations Group. He
and Mr. Tourison said information about the commandos in the 1970 report was
deliberately withheld from the Pentagon Papers, the official Government history
of the Vietnam war.

"This was the secret," said a senior official of the Clinton Administration who
served in Vietnam in the 1960's. "This was our pathetic and utterly unsuccessful
effort to undermine the North Vietnamese."

The Macsog report describes the commandos' experience as "a one-way street with
no hope of return."

The commandos were a mix of South Vietnamese Army officers and civilians; many
originally came from North Vietnam and knew the terrain and the dialects. The
money came from the United States Navy's covert operations budget and was
laundered by the C.I.A. through off-shore transactions.

"Members of Congress didn't ask and the Navy didn't tell what the funds were
used for," said Mr. Tourison, who has reviewed the Macsog report and interviewed
retired C.I.A. officers who served in Vietnam.

McGeorge Bundy, national security adviser to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson,
recalled the operations in an interview as "a covert infiltration of specially
trained Vietnamese."

"It didn't work," he said. Nearly all of the commandos were killed, captured or
lost.

"The program was a disaster," said Mr. Mattes, who has read the Macsog report.
"By '69 we had lost them all. The majority were captured alive, and we knew it.
They were tried as war criminals and Radio Hanoi broadcast their sentences, up
to 30 years. We went to their families and said, 'They're dead.' We wrote them
off. We did nothing to seek their return or release. We kept the operation
secret."

The commandos slipped into North Vietnam by night on junks, sampans and
speedboats, were parachuted in by the South Vietnamese Air Force, or were
dropped by the C.I.A. from Air America planes into Laos to walk into the war
zone.

And there they disappeared. The Macsog report lists 52 "long-term agent inserts"
of teams as large as 17 commandos between 1961 and 1967. And it lists their
fates:

"Captured soon after landing."

"Hanoi Radio announced capture."

"Team destroyed."

"Last radio contact 2 Dec. '66."

"Team believed under North Vietnam control."

"Team reported in Laos again and ready for pickup. Could not locate."

"Captured soon after landing."

"Captured soon after landing."

"Doubled, played, terminated."

That last phrase suggests that the United States discovered that a commando team
was secretly working for North Vietnam, used the team to feed false information
to the enemy and then killed its members.

In his memoir, "Hazardous Duty" (Summit Books), a retired Army major general,
John K. Singlaub, says the United States Army delivered "booby-trapped gift
packages" to the suspect teams, including "time bombs or demolition charges set
to explode when a carton of cigarettes was opened."

The commando operations began as a C.I.A. effort no later than 1961; the
Pentagon took them over in January 1964 under an ambitious covert program called
OPLAN 34-A. The highest-ranking White House, State Department, C.I.A. and
Pentagon officials knew of the missions.

In his new book, "In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam" (Times
Books), former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara writes that the 34-A
commando missions were "essentially worthless," because "most of the South
Vietnamese agents sent into North Vietnam were either captured or killed."

But he adds an intriguing mystery.

He says he met with President Johnson; Mr. Bundy; the Director of Central
Intelligence, John McCone, and others after the Maddox, an American destroyer,
was attacked by the North Vietnamese in the Gulf of Tonkin on Aug. 2, 1964 -- an
incident that led to the dramatic intensification of the war. All present were
aware that a 34-A commando raid had been carried out on two islands in the Gulf
of Tonkin two days earlier.

The attack on the Maddox was "so irrational," he writes, that "some believed the
34-A operations had played a role in triggering North Vietnam's actions" -- and
thus in transforming a small, out-of-the-way conflict into a full-bore war.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Rallies Will Oppose A U.S. Bill

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 664 words


The Cuban Government, alarmed that a bill in the United States Congress would
allow Cuban-Americans to lay new claims to property abandoned or seized when the
Communists took power in 1959, is planning a series of huge public meetings in
Havana and other cities to drum up opposition, the president of Cuba's National
Assembly said in an interview on Friday.

The official, Ricardo Alarcon, a former Foreign Minister of Cuba and now its
chief negotiator with Washington in immigration talks, said the Congressional
effort could severely worsen already bad relations with the United States. Mr.
Alarcon added that the bill could produce more illegal immigration but denied
that Cuba would use the meetings to promote a new wave of migration in
retaliation.

The bill, which would also tighten a trade embargo, is sponsored by Senator
Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who is chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. A companion bill, sponsored by Representative Dan Burton,
Republican of Indiana, has been introduced in the House.

The European Union and Canada have protested to Congressional leaders, saying
the bill would put improper pressure on other countries with business in Cuba.

The public meetings will begin in Havana on May 3 and continue indefinitely, Mr.
Alarcon said in an interview at the Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New
York.

"We in the National Assembly are organizing public hearings, but not the kind of
public hearings that you may have in the House or the Senate," he said. "We are
going to do this on a massive scale throughout the entire country. We want every
Cuban to know very well the law. We'll make Mr. Helms very popular, and this law
will be the best-known document in Cuba."

Mr. Alarcon is to attend talks beginning Tuesday on the progress of an
immigration agreement signed with the United States in September that allows
20,000 Cubans to enter this country legally, in the hope of deterring a new
influx of boat people as the Cuban economy worsens.

"This law specifically and concretely affects everybody in a manner we never
imagined before," Mr. Alarcon said. "If this passes, you will have to face a
reaction from many quarters."

More than 22,000 Cubans remain in United States custody at the American military
base at Guantanamo, after President Clinton last year changed the policy that
allowed all Cubans to be granted asylum.

Mr. Alarcon denied that the public gatherings could provoke fears that would
lead to a new exodus of Cubans, condoned if not encouraged by the Government.

"There is no such threat," he said.  "But at the same time, we have always said
that the embargo is the main factor that encourages or creates in certain
sectors of our society a desire to emigrate."

He added: "This bill intends to make life more difficult for Cubans. The bill
doesn't intend to abandon the blockade, but to strengthen it. I cannot deny that
if the embargo the main factor provoking the desire to emigrate, then the
strengthening of the embargo should strengthen that factor."

Cuban officials are concerned that the Helms bill will, in its final form,
include a property-claim clause more sweeping than they have had to face before,
Mr. Alarcon said. He added that this could "fundamentally" alter relations for
years to come, and affect many more Cubans.

He said Cuba had become accustomed to dealing with roadblocks to better
relations with the United States, beginning with claims filed when Cuba
nationalized businesses and agricultural land after the 1959 revolution, and
continuing through crises brought on by Cuban-Soviet relations and Cuba's
involvement on the side of a Marxist army in the Angolan civil war.

Now, he said, a new generation of American citizens would be encouraged to
impose liens on the schools, homes and even day-care centers of a new generation
of Cubans, "the majority of them born after the nationalizations," who now own
or occupy the properties in question.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Rallies Will Oppose A U.S. Bill

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 664 words


The Cuban Government, alarmed that a bill in the United States Congress would
allow Cuban-Americans to lay new claims to property abandoned or seized when the
Communists took power in 1959, is planning a series of huge public meetings in
Havana and other cities to drum up opposition, the president of Cuba's National
Assembly said in an interview on Friday.

The official, Ricardo Alarcon, a former Foreign Minister of Cuba and now its
chief negotiator with Washington in immigration talks, said the Congressional
effort could severely worsen already bad relations with the United States. Mr.
Alarcon added that the bill could produce more illegal immigration but denied
that Cuba would use the meetings to promote a new wave of migration in
retaliation.

The bill, which would also tighten a trade embargo, is sponsored by Senator
Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who is chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. A companion bill, sponsored by Representative Dan Burton,
Republican of Indiana, has been introduced in the House.

The European Union and Canada have protested to Congressional leaders, saying
the bill would put improper pressure on other countries with business in Cuba.

The public meetings will begin in Havana on May 3 and continue indefinitely, Mr.
Alarcon said in an interview at the Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New
York.

"We in the National Assembly are organizing public hearings, but not the kind of
public hearings that you may have in the House or the Senate," he said. "We are
going to do this on a massive scale throughout the entire country. We want every
Cuban to know very well the law. We'll make Mr. Helms very popular, and this law
will be the best-known document in Cuba."

Mr. Alarcon is to attend talks beginning Tuesday on the progress of an
immigration agreement signed with the United States in September that allows
20,000 Cubans to enter this country legally, in the hope of deterring a new
influx of boat people as the Cuban economy worsens.

"This law specifically and concretely affects everybody in a manner we never
imagined before," Mr. Alarcon said. "If this passes, you will have to face a
reaction from many quarters."

More than 22,000 Cubans remain in United States custody at the American military
base at Guantanamo, after President Clinton last year changed the policy that
allowed all Cubans to be granted asylum.

Mr. Alarcon denied that the public gatherings could provoke fears that would
lead to a new exodus of Cubans, condoned if not encouraged by the Government.

"There is no such threat," he said.  "But at the same time, we have always said
that the embargo is the main factor that encourages or creates in certain
sectors of our society a desire to emigrate."

He added: "This bill intends to make life more difficult for Cubans. The bill
doesn't intend to abandon the blockade, but to strengthen it. I cannot deny that
if the embargo the main factor provoking the desire to emigrate, then the
strengthening of the embargo should strengthen that factor."

Cuban officials are concerned that the Helms bill will, in its final form,
include a property-claim clause more sweeping than they have had to face before,
Mr. Alarcon said. He added that this could "fundamentally" alter relations for
years to come, and affect many more Cubans.

He said Cuba had become accustomed to dealing with roadblocks to better
relations with the United States, beginning with claims filed when Cuba
nationalized businesses and agricultural land after the 1959 revolution, and
continuing through crises brought on by Cuban-Soviet relations and Cuba's
involvement on the side of a Marxist army in the Angolan civil war.

Now, he said, a new generation of American citizens would be encouraged to
impose liens on the schools, homes and even day-care centers of a new generation
of Cubans, "the majority of them born after the nationalizations," who now own
or occupy the properties in question.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 28, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Life and Liberty

BYLINE: By Charles E. Schumer;   Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York,
introduced President Clinton's Omnibus Counterterrorism Act of 1995 in the
House.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 33;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In the aftermath of the Oklahoma City and World Trade Center bombings, Americans
ask whether the Government can do more to prevent terrorism while preserving our
civil liberties unabridged.

The answer is yes, it can. The changes needed to crack down on international and
domestic terrorism can be made without impinging on basic liberties. The main
instrument is President Clinton's Omnibus Counterterrorism Act of 1995. It
figured into the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearing on terrorism held
yesterday. The House Judiciary Committee will hold hearings on terrorism on
Wednesday.

The act would allow the Government to deport aliens who lay the groundwork for
domestic terrorism, as some arguably have been doing for five years. Just as the
Cayman Islands' laws have made the islands a haven for ill-gotten money, the
United States' broad freedoms and relatively open borders make it easy for
international terrorist groups to immigrate, organize, recruit, raise money and
buy explosives and arms here.

People on both sides of the political spectrum disagree on the need for, and
potential scope of, the bill, which will surely be expanded to deal more fully
with home-grown terrorism. Some on the left say that existing law is adequate
and that any change would erode liberty. Some on the right would cater to their
anti-immigrant agenda by using the bill to close our borders.

The bill really occupies middle ground. It should satisfy liberals and
conservatives. It can produce the bipartisanship necessary for passage.

The most hotly debated provision would create special deportation proceedings
for aliens who are suspected terrorists. It is a fair and balanced approach. The
alien would be given a lawyer. All of the evidence would be on the record,
except for sensitive classified material. When such information is used, an
independent Federal judge would review it, edit it and give the alien a summary
of it.

This form of judicial review has brought criticism from the American Civil
Liberties Union, which maintains that an individual has the right to know the
evidence being used against him. The A.C.L.U.'s opposition is overblown, because
this power would be used against aliens who do not -- and should not -- have the
same constitutional rights as citizens, and because deportation proceedings
would be civil, not criminal.

In Canada, which certainly is not ruled by an authoritarian regime, an alien can
be deported on the signatures of two cabinet ministers, with no independent
review or proceedings.

Domestic terrorism is comparatively easy to thwart, for there are no foreign
governments to put up roadblocks by sheltering and aiding terrorists and their
organizations.

Aside from broadening the reach of the Omnibus Counterterrorism Act, only modest
changes are needed in existing guidelines to help the F.B.I. Many in the F.B.I.
think that the rules are unduly restrictive because they forbid the F.B.I. to
investigate domestic groups unless there is concrete evidence of criminal
action. This, they say, puts them into a Catch-22 situation: They cannot monitor
groups unless criminal activity occurs, and they are blamed for not stopping
crimes before they happen. Others, however, claim that the the F.B.I. interprets
Department of Justice guidelines too restrictively.

The guidelines should be clarified so that the F.B.I. knows the extent of its
investigative authority. If that authority is truly insufficient, the threshold
for monitoring potential terrorist groups should be lowered. If they are
lowered, a Federal judge should review any request to monitor a domestic
organization. This would protect against abuses of the McCarthy era and the
1970's, when F.B.I. agents would investigate a group that did not "smell right."
This new approach is similar to the one used in Federal wiretapping cases.

In the wake of Oklahoma City, the nation can responsibly protect against
terrorism, without eroding basic liberties.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

CLINTON OPPOSES MOVE TO TOUGHEN EMBARGO ON CUBA

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 6;   Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4


The Clinton Administration, which has taken steps in recent days signaling a new
cooperation with Cuba, told Congress today that it opposed key parts of a
Republican-sponsored bill that seeks to do just the opposite -- further isolate
Fidel Castro.

A letter from a State Department official criticized the bill, which is intended
to strengthen the 33-year-old American trade embargo against Cuba, on the ground
that it would anger allies of the United States and force Washington to violate
several international agreements.

The Administration detailed its objections within days of announcing that it
would send all future Cuban boat people directly back to the Communist island
nation. Many Cuban-American groups harshly criticized the sudden shift in
immigration policy when it was announced on Tuesday, accusing the Administration
of seeking rapprochement with Mr. Castro and betraying Cubans seeking freedom.

The bill that would bolster the embargo is sponsored by Senator Jesse Helms, the
North Carolina Republican who heads the Foreign Relations Committee, and
Representative Dan Burton, the Indiana Republican who heads the House
Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs. Supporters of the bill argue that
putting additional pressure on Cuba now, after its loss of aid from the former
Soviet Union, would topple the Castro Government.

Among other things, the bill would carry out these provisions:

*Ban American imports of sugar from any foreign country that buys sugar or
molasses from Cuba.

*Deny visas to foreigners who use, manage or profit from property in Cuba that
was expropriated from Americans.

*Reduce American contributions to the World Bank and other international
financial institutions if they make loans to Cuba.

*Allow almost 6,000 American individuals and companies with claims of
expropriated property in Cuba to sue foreign companies in American courts if the
foreign companies are now profiting from those properties.

In opposing large parts of the bill, as in announcing the plan to repatriate
future Cuban boat people, the Administration has shown a new willingness to
flout the wishes of Cuban-American groups, especially the Cuban-American
National Foundation, a conservative group that is the most powerful voice in
that community.

"We recognize we may face criticism from certain domestic political quarters,
but the potential foreign policy troubles this bill will create outweigh those
concerns," said one senior Administration official.

Administration officials said they hoped to work closely with Congress to rework
the bill.

Marc Thiessen, a spokesman for Mr. Helms, said today, "The fact that the
Administration wrote a detailed six-page letter seeking changes indicates that
the bill is going to pass and end up on Bill Clinton's desk."

In its letter to the House International Relations Committee, which was sent
Friday and released today, the State Department said it was opposed to the
provision that would bar countries that import Cuban sugar or molasses from
selling sugar to the United States.

Allies like Canada and the European Union would view the provision as a
violation of international trade agreements, the letter said. If enforced, the
Administration warned, the provision could even prompt other countries to order
trade retaliation against the United States.

"These provisions would also undermine the longstanding U.S. policies on
secondary boycotts, as in the case of the Arab boycott of Israel, which the
United States had long and vigorously opposed," said the letter, which was
written by Wendy Sherman, the State Department's chief liaison with Congress.

The Administration also criticized the provision that would deny visas to
foreigners who use or profit from property that the Cuban Government
expropriated from an American.

The provision casts its net too wide, the letter said, because it could penalize
shareholders in mutual funds investing in companies that profit from such
confiscated property, or even the children of executives whose companies use
confiscated property.

Moreover, some Administration officials say the bill would hurt America's
relations with its allies more than it would hurt Cuba.

Jose Cardenas, Washington representative of the Cuban-American National
Foundation, said today that it would be difficult for Congress and the
Administration to forge a compromise.

"The intransigence on the Hill toward negotiating with the Administration on
this is very strong," he said. "And I don't see it abating for some time because
people feel so angry and betrayed by the decision to repatriate people to Cuba."

Some Cuban-American groups are also concerned that the White House is
considering the relaxation of some restrictions it imposed on Cuban travel last
August, when it sought to punish Havana for not doing more to stop the wave of
boat people who were fleeing the island nation.

The Administration's new strategy toward Cuba emerged from a six-month policy
review headed by senior officials, who concluded that new approaches were needed
because the long trade embargo had failed to bring democracy to Cuba. The
officials included Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff, Samuel Berger, the
deputy national security adviser, and Morton Halperin, a senior official on the
National Security Council.

Their views prevailed over the hard-line, mid-level Latin American specialists
at the State Department, who favored as little cooperation with Havana as
possible, officials said.

The Administration had high praise for a part of the bill that calls for
provision of food, medicine and other assistance to help any new Cuban
government that emerges that is intent on making the transition to democracy.

But the letter released today sharply criticized a provision that would cut
Washington's contribution to the World Bank and International Monetary Fund if
they lend money to the Castro Government. The letter also criticized the bill's
call for slashing about $200 million in economic aid to Russia if it maintained
an observation post in the island nation. The letter said it was reasonable for
Russia to maintain the post to verify Washington's compliance with arms control
agreements.

Representative Burton belittled the criticisms of the bill, saying the
Administration's Cuba policy was "directed by left-wing people who want to take
the pressure off of Fidel Castro."

He said the bill sought to create incentives to insure that foreign companies
"not do business with Castro or buy expropriated American property, thus
propping up his Government by giving him hard currency."

Mr. Burton expressed confidence that the bill would pass. The bill has nearly 50
co-sponsors in the House and 21 in the Senate, among them several Democrats,
including Senator Bob Graham of Florida and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of
Connecticut.

Canada, Britain, France and the European Union have all protested the bill,
saying the United States has no right to interfere in their trade with a third
country.

Canadian officials have warned that if Canada's $500 million in sugar exports to
the United States are barred because the nation imports Cuban sugar, then the
United States might face retaliation against a like amount of exports to Canada.

"The people supporting this bill are ready to put up a naval blockade around
Cuba," said Wayne Smith, a Cuba scholar who headed the United States Interests
Section in Havana in the late 1970's. "They keep on wanting to ratchet things
up. But the Administration just can't go as far as these people insist. At some
point it had to resist."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 4, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Pickled, Stewed or Tradition, A Snake's a Snake, Police Say

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 437 words


Police Officer Joseph Makinen thought he was just responding to another burglary
call in Jackson Heights, Queens, early yesterday when he approached the store
with the metal grate rolled halfway down and the door ajar.

Inside the small, dark store, he saw shelves full of jars and bottles. Floating
inside the jars and bottles were snakes. Officer Makinen could never stomach
snakes.

Then he heard the rattling behind the wall.

"There was a big wooden cage with no holes and Plexiglas on top, two inches open
with a fan directing air into the cage," he said. "And inside it was 50
rattlers, all on top of each other."

The Bronx Zoo recovered 62 Western diamondback rattlesnakes from the
International Collection Enterprise, a store that advertises itself as a debt
collecting agency but whose chief business, local residents say, is selling
snakes -- pickled, stewed or in soups.

The police arrested three Korean immigrants yesterday, charging them with
reckless endangerment and possession of wildlife without a permit. In a diverse
city with immigrants from so many lands, the seizure of the snakes showed again
how certain customs, legal and time-honored overseas, can conflict with local
laws.

John Behler, the herpetology curator at Bronx Zoo, said the rattlesnakes
apparently had been caught in the last 10 days and had been shipped from Texas
or Oklahoma.

Mr. Behler, who transported the snakes from Jackson Heights to the Bronx in two
55-gallon drums, said he also found 30 snakes in a freezer, about 10 jars with
pickled snakes and a dozen baby rattlers floating in pint vodka bottles. Several
snakes were found in a simmering crock pot.

Like most snake concoctions, these are supposed to invigorate masculinity. Vodka
with baby snakes -- akin to the worm in tequila or mescal -- sells for about
$100 a pint, Mr. Behler said. Men also believe pickled snakes increase sexual
stamina.

"In Korea, the snake is permissible to eat for health reasons," said Hyun Joon
Kim, a pastor at the Community Methodist Church in Jackson Heigts. "Those who
come to this country as immigrants think it's not illegal."

The police arrested at the store on 40-7 73d Street: Chung Kim, 27, Chang Kim,
27, and Jung Kim, 45.

A decade ago, Mr. Behler said, reptiles and animals were imported from Asia as
medicine or aphrodisiacs, but new tough trade laws curtailed the practice. As a
result, many Korean or Chinese immigrants have started using American species
instead. Besides the Western Diamondback (Crotalus atrox), others in the black
market include the North American black bear and the Diamondback Terrapin.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 6, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Middle-Class Queens, Blacks Pass Whites in Household Income

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1952 words


Driven by striking gains in the 1980's among working wives and immigrants, the
median income of black households in Queens has surpassed that of whites.

A fresh analysis of 1990 census results found that the economic progress by
blacks in Queens, New York City's quintessential middle-class borough, was built
largely on a traditional foundation of family solidarity. Married couples,
whether born here or abroad, typically made the greatest strides, while
households headed by individuals generally lagged.

The median income for all black households in Queens was $34,300, just above the
$34,000 for non-Hispanic whites. For married couples born in this country, the
median was $50,000 for black households, or slightly more than the $49,900
reported by white couples born here.

Among immigrant families, so common in Queens, black couples earned a median
household income of $48,800, or appreciably more than the $40,500 median
reported by whites born abroad.

Blacks had higher household incomes than whites in more than 130 cities and
counties in the United States. But unlike Queens, they were mostly localities
where the median income was below the national average, on or near military
bases or where blacks constitute either a small proportion or an overwhelming
share of the population.

Only nine of those communities have, like Queens, racially diverse populations
of more than 50,000 people. (Non-Hispanic blacks constituted just over 20
percent of Queens's 1990 population of 1,951,598.)

How did blacks surpass whites in median income? In black households, both
husband and wife were more likely to have jobs than in white households, and
they worked longer hours, as well. And sons and daughters in black households
were more likely to remain at home and help support the family, rather than
leave and live on their own.

"It's a function of family structure," Joseph Salvo, director of the city
Planning Department's Population Division, said of the differential between
blacks in Queens and less well-off blacks elsewhere. "You are, in effect
diluting the influence of female-headed households."

Married couples accounted for 4 in 10 of the households headed by American-born
blacks in Queens and about half of the households headed by black immigrants,
roughly the same proportion as among whites. The median income of American-born
blacks lagged behind the median for foreign-born blacks in virtually every type
of household other than married couples.

The census analysis, conducted for The New York Times by Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge
of Queens College, found that much of the prosperity among blacks in Queens was
enjoyed by Caribbean immigrants, many of whom came to the United States with the
savings and skills that quickly qualify as middle-class. Many joined relatives
who arrived here earlier.

The census analysis suggests that when American-born blacks have stable,
traditional families, they do a bit better than immigrants do. But because
American blacks are less likely to form such families, blacks born abroad
generally fared better than those born here and, for the most part, better than
white immigrants.

The latest analysis goes beyond an earlier finding by The Times, which, from
preliminary census results, suggested that the median income for black
households in Queens virtually matched that of white households. That analysis
did not elaborate on the jobs, ages, place of origin, family makeup and other
variables that accounted for the gains. Nor did it hint that the income of
blacks in some categories had surpassed that of non-Hispanic whites.

Queens as Haven Before the Suburbs

Queens remains pockmarked by poverty, but it has, historically, thrived as a
haven for aspiring middle-class refugees from other boroughs -- often as their
last stop in the city before moving to the suburbs -- and, more recently, for
newcomers from abroad. An infusion of Koreans, Chinese, Indians and other
immigrants has revitalized aging neighborhoods in Queens into prosperous
middle-class enclaves; so, to some degree, have people transplanted from South
America.

The number of non-Hispanic whites in Queens, wealthier ones included, declined
during the 1980's. But by distinguishing white Hispanic people from other
whites, the more recent analysis dispels the suspicion that the statistical
parity in incomes between blacks and whites was simply a consequence, in good
part, of poorer Hispanic immigrants depressing the median among whites
generally.

"It's pretty striking," said Richard P. Nathan, provost of the Rockefeller
Institute of Government at the State University of New York at Albany.

"This is the untold story of the cities," he said. "If you look at all the
blacks in metropolitan areas of the United States, 24 percent live in extreme
poverty areas, where 40 percent or more of the people are poor. But the flip
side is, 76 percent don't. And even the 24 percent who live in extreme poverty
areas are not all poor."

"It's the flip side of the underclass," Dr. Nathan said.

Black household income approached or exceeded the median reported by whites in a
range of smaller and mostly suburban places in the region. They include Mount
Vernon in Westchester County; Uniondale, Elmont and Westbury in Nassau County,
Brentwood in Suffolk County, and Linden and South Orange in New Jersey.

(The Census Bureau defines a household as all people living in an apartment or a
house, including families, people living alone, two or more families living
together and any unrelated individuals living with them. The median is the point
at which half the incomes are greater and half are less.)

Middle-Class Blacks: Expanding Number

Dr. Salvo of the city Planning Department said he was so stunned by Dr.
Beveridge's findings about Queens that he conducted his own analysis of 200,000
married couples in the borough. Dr. Salvo's findings were even more pronounced:
In the households of white married couples, median income was $47,500; among
comparable blacks, it was $49,300.

"Statisticians might argue that both figures really represent a range of several
thousand dollars," Dr. Salvo said, "but it is amazing that they're even close."

Among married-couple families, twice as many blacks as whites had three or more
workers; twice as many white as black married-couple families were headed by a
person older than 65. Still, Dr. Salvo said, even among couples between the ages
of 25 and 44, earnings were about the same regardless of race.

Focusing on two overwhelmingly black census tracts in Laurelton that are home to
about 4,000 people, Dr. Beveridge found that between 1980 and 1990, the
proportion of adults in the civilian work force climbed from two-thirds to
three-quarters. The proportion of college graduates among people 25 and older
rose from 30 percent to 52 percent, the share of people living below the poverty
level had plunged from 13 percent to 3 percent and the average family income had
more than doubled.

"No one could argue that this is not the picture of a middle-class community,"
Dr. Beveridge said.

Michael Owens, a 24-year-old doctoral student who works for the Rockefeller
Institute, typifies the emerging second-generation of the black middle class.

"If you were to start in Hollis and head south through Cambria Heights,
Laurelton and Rosedale there's a spine of affluence," said Mr. Owens, who grew
up in South Jamaica, Queens, and plans to return to the borough after
graduation.

His father was from Saint Kitts-Nevis in the Caribbean. His mother, a nurse, was
from Virginia, where she has retired. Still in Queens are an uncle, a retired
bus driver; and two aunts, one a teacher and the other an administrator with the
city Social Services Department.

For Immigrants, A Base of Skills

April Green and her husband, Anthony, live in a private house in St. Albans, not
far from the nail salon they own on Linden Boulevard. Ms. Green, 34, is a lawyer
and practices in an office across the street from the salon. Mr. Green, 38, is a
plate-maker for a printing company in Manhattan. Together, they earn more than
$75,000.

"Quite a few of the businesses on Linden and Merrick Boulevards are owned by
African-Americans or Caribbeans," Ms. Green said, describing herself as
emblematic of an expanding black middle class.

"My cousin is a vice president at Chase Manhattan and her mother is a school
librarian," Ms. Green said. "My cousin's husband is a Ph.D. in molecular
biology. I have a friend working on her Ph.D. and her husband is a real-estate
broker. A woman who worked in my salon has opened her own salon and her mother
is an accountant."

Dr. Barbara W. Emerson, dean of the Search for Education Elevation and Knowledge
program at Queens College, said, "Queens is where blacks move from Brooklyn and
from other parts of the city."

"Whereas whites who can afford to would move farther out on Long Island, blacks
with income to move and buy a house can afford Queens better," said Dr. Emerson,
a single parent, who is black and who lives with her son, Weusi, a college
senior, in St. Albans.

"When my son graduates from college, he will probably stay at home," she said.
"The houses here are single family, often containing extended families, and the
income for the household is high because several working adults are pooling
their resources."

"I have seen a change in terms of the number of immigrants, particularly from
the Caribbean, who came here with an economic base to build on," Dr. Emerson
said. "They're often skilled in areas where they can get good employment, like
nursing."

Still, Race Remains Barrier to Integration

For many blacks, finding satisfactory housing remains a challenge, she and
others said, because of the high cost and of enduring racial segregation.
Particularly among blacks, studies have found, race remains a greater barrier to
integration than class.

An earlier census analysis by Dr. Beveridge found that poor blacks and rich
blacks in New York City are segregated from whites at about the same level.
Among households with a family income of $100,000 or more, he found, 9 in 10
blacks would have to move to be integrated with non-Hispanic whites of
comparable income.

"Part of it is an artifact of segregation," Dr. Beveridge said. "They can move
to Mount Vernon, the northern Bronx, Laurelton, St. Albans and, increasingly, to
Canarsie, but they're not able to go to Levittown, Eastchester, places that are
good but not great places to move."

During the 1980's, the non-Hispanic white population of Queens declined by about
230,000; the black population rose by about 50,000. Median household income rose
for both groups, though -- by 31 percent for black households in Queens and by
19 percent for white households.

Compared to whites, black couples were more likely to consist of two wage
earners. Their income was more likely to be supplemented by their children's
earnings. Nine in 10 blacks said their income came from wages, compared to 3 in
4 whites, who were more likely to have retirement, Social Security and
investment income.

Black wives typically worked longer hours and, consequently, earned more than
their white counterparts. About the same proportions of black women and white
women held professional specialty, executive, administrative and management
jobs. Relatively few black men held these sorts of jobs.

"The success of the civil rights revolution has had its effect particularly in
the public sector," Dr. Nathan said, referring to the large proportion of blacks
who work for the government, for hospitals and in education -- the same gateway
to the economic mainstream that many other groups entered.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Quite a few of the businesses on Linden and Merrick Boulevards
are owned by African-Americans or Caribbeans," said April Green, who described
herself as emblematic of an expanding black middle class. She stood outside the
nail salon she owns on Linden Boulevard in St. Albans, Queens. (Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

Graphs: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST: Tracking Household Income in Queens" shows 1990
household income figures for whites and blacks in Queens. (pg. B7); Graph
showing houshold income figures for Queens in 1990 for blacks and whites. (pg.
A1)(Source: Dr. Andrew Beveridge, Sociology Dept., Queens College)

Map/Diagram: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Black Houshold Income" shows black income in the
five boroughs. (Source: Dr. Andrew Beveridge, Sociology Dept., Queens
College)(pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 7, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Ship to Screen 2,000 Haitians Each Week

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 6;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6


Anticipating a major pickup in the number of Haitian boat people, the Clinton
Administration expects to process about 2,000 Haitians a week when it begins
reviewing applicants for refugee status this month on a ship off Jamaica's
coast, United States officials said today.

That rate is far higher than the 130 Haitian boat people that the Coast Guard
has stopped each week so far this year. Administration officials foresee such a
large increase because they expect Haitians to be encouraged by President
Clinton's decision last month to grant individual interviews instead of forcibly
returning Haitians without hearings.

Those Haitians who are found to have a well-founded fear of persecution will be
moved to a site outside Jamaica, perhaps Guantanamo Bay, for medical
examinations, before they are brought to the United States, Administration
officials said. The Coast Guard will take back to Haiti those found not to have
a well-founded fear of persecution.

A 1,000-bed Navy hospital ship, the Comfort, is scheduled to leave Jacksonville
on Tuesday and arrive in Kingston Harbor in time to begin processing Haitians
around June 13.

Officials involved in planning the processing said the Coast Guard would pick up
boat people off Haiti and take them to Kingston Harbor. There, the Haitians
would be given a day or so to rest before they are interviewed by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In a decision that upsets many human rights groups as well as lawyers for
Haitians, the Administration says the Haitians will not be represented by
lawyers at their interviews.

Administration officials say American law does not provide a right to counsel
for refugee processing done outside the United States.

To help the Haitians, the Administration has agreed to let officials from the
United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees on board the Comfort to explain to
the Haitians how the interviews would be conducted and to answer their
questions.

Fearing that the lives of those rejected for refugee status could be in danger
after they are returned to Haiti, an official from the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees said today that these people should be sent to safe
havens until Haiti's military leaders are ousted.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 7, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

9 Youths Shot at Party Near Los Angeles

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: SAN MARINO, Calif., June 6


Frank Chen's parents were asleep upstairs in their million-dollar home and the
last few teen-age partygoers at his "end of the year jam" were cleaning up
quietly early Sunday morning when gunfire raked the swimming pool area and
someone screamed, "Everybody run!"

Bullets crashed through the glass patio doors and ripped through the drawn
curtains where half a dozen young people were watching television at about 1
A.M. Only one managed to rise from the couch before all were gunned down, Chief
Frank Wills said today.

Two young partygoers were killed and seven were wounded in the gunfire that
exploded in the heart of this affluent Los Angeles suburb that is sometimes
called the Asian Beverly Hills. Students and their parents, many of them from
Taiwan, said they were left wondering if any place in America is safe.

Move to Upscale Chinatowns

In recent years, large numbers of affluent Chinese have immigrated to the Los
Angeles area, primarily from Taiwan and Hong Kong, clustering in upscale
Chinatowns where they raise both the property values and the quality of the
schools. At the same time, the region is home to a rapid influx of poorer Asian
immigrants and refugees who suffer the same problems with crime and violence as
other immigrant groups.

As reconstructed by Chief Wills, the Sunday morning violence appeared to be
related to conflicts among Asian gangs based outside San Marino, possibly
involving the disk jockey, a young Filipino who had been hired for the party.
The attackers were a young man and a young woman, both of Asian descent, who
arrived with three carloads of companions.

Most of the partygoers were Asian-American, too, but Chief Wills said: "This was
not a group of people doing bad. The place was littered with cans, but these
were soda pop -- Pepsi, Coke." The Chens had done everything right, he said,
banning alcohol and drugs and notifying the police of the party in advance.

Chief Wills said that to his knowledge there are no gangs in San Marino, where
about one-third of the population and 60 percent of the high school students are
Asian. The last homicide in this city of 13,000 people, situated 10 miles
northeast of downtown Los Angeles, was in 1990.

At an assembly today at San Marino High School, the principal, Don Banderas,
tried to remind the students that their peaceful community is part of an
increasingly violent world and that they must be vigilant. "You have to use
common sense," he said.

In a region where random shootings are becoming almost routine, the alarm among
the well-dressed students in this sheltered community was poignant.

Dr. Banderas said his students are sometimes naive about the dangers that
surround them. "Doggone it, "you just don't take for granted some of the things
that I think these kids do."

Metal Detector for Guests

Asked how he and his friends spent their time outside school, one of the
students at the assembly, Anthony Lee, a 16-year-old sophomore who was eating a
tuna fish sandwich and a stalk of celery, said, "We study a lot."

Mr. Chen, the host, who is a student at the high school, had circulated fliers
advertising his party, drawing more than 100 guests during the evening. The disk
jockey, accustomed to working in tougher neighborhoods, brought with him a
hand-held metal detector which was used for a while, Chief Wills said.

At one point about 30 tough-looking young strangers arrived and were turned
away, and Chief Wills said Mr. Chen became concerned and said, "We'd better shut
it down."

"That's the kind of responsibility we're talking about here," the Chief said,
praising both the host and his parents.

Chief Wills said the assailants who arrived later appeared not to be related to
the first group but to have some connection with the disk jockey.

On the lawn outside, he said, an associate of the disk jockey told the new
arrivals that the party was over. A young man then seized an assault rifle from
a car and a young woman seized a semiautomatic handgun and began firing. The
disk jockey's friend ran to the house shouting, "Everybody run!"

'Eight of Us All in a Row'

Some young people were struck where they stood or sat; some were hit as they
tried to flee.

"I thought I was going to die; it was just rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat," one wounded
partygoer told The Los Angeles Times, asking that he not be identified by named.
"They didn't say anything. I just heard my friends yell: 'Duck! Duck!' There
were eight of us all in a row, and we all got shot."

When paramedics arrived, he said, they found bodies sprawled across a white rug
near the television set.

The Los Angeles County coroner's office identified the dead as David Hang, 15, a
freshman at the high school, and Dennis Buan, 18, of nearby South Pasadena. One
shooting victim, Oliver Chu, 18, remained in serious condition today. The others
who were wounded, ranging in age from 17 to 21, were in stable condition.

Quiet After the Shootings

Party balloons still hung limply from a tree in the front yard of the Chens'
home this morning. A newspaper lay on the front walkway near some rose bushes.

Telephone calls to the home went unanswered. Chief Wills said the party's host
and his parents were too distraught to talk.

Eugene Chen, the president of the Chinese Club of San Marino, who is a real
estate mortgage broker born in China, said the incident seemed to be a
frightening sign of the times, and of the future.

"We are now living almost in the 21st century, and it's a violent society," said
Mr. Chen, whose daughter will be a freshman at the high school next fall.
"Unfortunately, I think we have to realize that this kind of incident is
something that could happen anywhere at any time, to any family."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Political Battle Lines Drawn in California Races for Governor and Senator

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 7


Voting without much enthusiasm and coming up with no surprises, Californians
nominated candidates today for this fall's elections for governor and the United
States Senate, contests with national political implications.

For governor, Republicans chose the incumbent, Pete Wilson, and Democrats chose
Treasurer Kathleen Brown.

For Senator, Democrats chose the incumbent, Dianne Feinstein, and Republicans
chose Representative Michael Huffington of Santa Barbara.

All were easy winners.

Polls indicate that both fall races will probably be closely contested, with the
flagging California economy the main issue, followed by crime, taxes and illegal
immigration.

And if the primaries were good indicators, both races will be expensive, with
the Huffington-Feinstein contest possibly setting a spending record for
Congressional elections.

National Implications

From a national standpoint, both fall contests are of interest for what they
might say about Democratic and Republican Presidential prospects in 1996 in the
country's most populous and politically powerful state. The Feinstein-Huffington
race also will help determine whether Democrats retain control of the Senate and
whether the small contingent of women in that body shrinks.

Almost from the start of the primary campaigning, there was no serious doubt
about the outcome of today's voting, a factor that state election officials said
appeared to have reduced voter turnout to below 40 percent, an unusually low
level. The favored candidates spent most of their time campaigning against their
presumed fall opponents and ignoring their primary opponents.

In the Republican primary for governor, the struggling California economy had
deeply depressed Governor Wilson's job approval ratings. But by promising to be
tough on crime and illegal immigration and by speeding aid to the Los Angeles
area after the January earthquake, he overcame that serious political minus and
handily overwhelmed his only major opponent, Ron Unz, the wealthy owner of a
Silicon Valley computer company.

Mr. Unz, a 32-year-old hardline conservative, spent a $1 million of his fortune
on a blitz of television ads that were highly critical of the Governor, a
60-year-old moderate conservative. While they did not carry the day for Mr. Unz,
they may eventually have the unintended effect of softening up Mr. Wilson a bit
for the coming bout with Ms. Brown.

With 10 percent of the state's precincts counted and a solid counting trend
established, the Governor was leading Mr. Unz 66 percent to 30 percent.

"We've completed the first step," Mr. Wilson said tonight. "We're going to
continue to making the kind of change that is going to make California all that
it can be."


Shift by Brown

In the Democratic primary for governor, Ms. Brown, a moderate liberal, easily
overcame challenges by the State Insurance Commissioner, John Garamendi, and
State Senator Tom Hayden, best know as one of the noisiest reformers of the
1960's but lately, at the age of 54, a soft, reasoned voice for change.

Mr. Brown, daughter of former Gov. Edmund G. (Pat) Brown and sister of former
Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr., had problems early on in her primary campaign,
sometimes stumbling over questions about issues and at other times delivering
speeches that seemed unfocused. But midway through the campaign, she reorganized
her staff and her pitch -- she began to promise to create a million jobs in the
state -- and thereafter she was never in political danger.

With 10 percent of the state's precincts counted, Ms. Brown had 49 percent of
the votes, compared with 34 percent for Mr. Garamendi and 11 percent for Mr.
Hayden.

"Not bad for a woman, a Democrat and a Brown," Ms. Brown said. Pre-primary polls
in which voters were asked about a possible Brown-Wilson fall matchup showed
Governor Wilson pulling slightly ahead with Ms. Brown after trailing her by 15
points or so throughout most of the year.

In today's Senate primaries, Ms. Feinstein, a 60-year-old moderate liberal,
faced no major opponent in the Democratic contest. She first went to Washington
two years ago but faces re-election this year rather than in 1998 because she
was sent to serve out the unexpired term of Mr. Wilson, who returned early to
California to become Governor.

Ms. Feinstein was not available for comment; her spokesmen said she was in
Washington, where the Senate had just returned from the Memorial Day recess.

In the Republican primary, Mr. Huffington easily out ran his major opponents,
former Representative William E. Dannemeyer, a 64-year-old hard-right
conservative from Orange County.

With 11 percent of the state's precincts reporting, Mr. Huffington had 55
percent of the vote, compared with 28 percent for Mr. Dannemeyer.

"This is the Dianne Feinstein retirement committee," Mr. Huffington told
cheering supporters tonight. "Feinstein says government is her life. Maybe it's
time for her to get a life." Mr. Huffington's primary campaign was notable in
that he poured $6.5 million of his $75 million oil fortune into a television
blitz aimed almost entirely at attacking Ms. Feinstein. Seldom has so much been
spent so early and so quickly.

But the spending paid off, making Mr. Huffington's name a household word with
voters outside his home district, most of whom previously knew little or nothing
about him.

Ms. Feinstein began to counter with her own ad campaign a few days ago.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 9, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

11 Stowaways Use Old Plan In Asylum Bid

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, June 8


Eleven Romanian stowaways followed each step of the plan that some of their
compatriots used in April: They sealed themselves inside the same kind of metal
container, crossed the Atlantic aboard the same cargo ship and broke out midway
through the voyage with the same kind of tools.

And, like the earlier stowaways, they met the same fate when the ship arrived in
Boston today: They were taken into custody by agents of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The shackled stowaways -- nine men and two women, most of them in their 20's or
30's -- looked exhausted after their cramped, weeklong journey aboard the
Innovation, a 43,000-ton freighter. But one unshaven man in jeans smiled
broadly, waved and yelled, "Hello!" Immigration agents then led him and the
other stowaways to a chartered bus.

Executives at Sea-Land Service Inc., the company that owns the Innovation, were
chagrined to learn that they had shuttled another group of Romanian stowaways
across the Atantic. "We are not conducting a ferry service," said Christopher L.
Koch, a senior vice president.

On April 14, 20 Romanians used the same scheme, and the same ship, to enter the
United States illegally.

When the Innovation sailed last week from Le Havre, France, the stowaways were
hiding in a sealed metal container that was 40 feet long, 8 feet wide and 8 feet
high, Mr. Koch said, adding: "They cut a hole out of the container and crawled
out at some point in the voyage. They came in with tools. It's a very
sophisticated operation."

Timothy Whelan, deputy district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said 10 of the stowaways were seeking political asylum. "They'll be
transported overland to Newark, N.J., where they will be processed," Mr. Whelan
said.

Under Federal law, transportation companies are responsible for detaining
foreign stowaways until their legal claims can be processed.

The stowaways who arrived in April were first kept in shackles in a New Jersey
hotel. Sea-Land Service spent tens of thousands of dollars each week in hotel
and security bills, and was fined $9,000 when three of the Romanians escaped.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tired but happy, a stowaway raised his fist as he and 10 others
were led away in shackles form the freighter Innovation in Boston yesterday.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 12, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN;
Latest Wave of Immigrants Is Splitting Chinatown

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 14;  Page 6;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 659 words


For more than 100 years, Chinatown has absorbed the different waves of Chinese
immigrants, from the Taishanese earlier this century to the ethnic Chinese from
Vietnam in the 1980's. But now, there are growing strains between the
established Cantonese community and the latest group of immigrants, the
Fujianese, who have poured in from mainland China in the last four years.

Many businessmen and longtime residents are expressing resentment of the new
Fujianese, saying they are overwhelming Chinatown, causing an increase in crime
and a major unemployment problem. Non-Fujianese workers complain that the sheer
number of these immigrants, many of whom have been smuggled in, creates unfair
competition by flooding the market and driving down wages. There is also concern
over image.

"It's an embarrassment to us," said a Cantonese businessman, who insisted on
anonymity. "When people come to Chinatown and see this mess, they think all
Chinese are bad. Why should everyone take the blame for one group?"

But the Fujianese say the problems created by their arrival are being
exaggerated, pointing out that earlier waves of immigrants faced the same
predicament. They also say the established immigrants are overly concerned about
their image being tarnished because of the publicity surrounding the grounding
last year of the Golden Venture, a ship carrying 300 illegal Fujianese
immigrants, and the prosecution of the Fuk Ching, a notorious Fujianese gang.

"Every immigrant group faces hardships when they first arrive, even the
Pilgrims," said Steven Wong, a journalist of Fujianese descent. "Why make the
Fujianese the scapegoat? These people are the backbone of the economy. That's
why prices in Chinatown are so cheap. They have to work under harsh conditions
because they don't speak English and the mainstream world would not give them
jobs."

The tension stems partly from political divisions. The more established
Cantonese immigrants, many of whom are loyal to the Taiwanese Government, are
suspicious that the immigrants from Fujian, a province on the mainland, are
sympathetic to the Communist Government.

Whatever the reason for the strain, people familiar with Chinatown say, it may
be adding to the difficulties of assimilation. Because of their numbers, their
inability to speak the Cantonese dialect and the illegal status that often makes
employment difficult, many Fujianese have been left desperately poor and huddled
in crowded apartments in the perimeter of Chinatown, between Eldridge and
Jefferson Streets and as far north as Houston Street. The Fujianese claim that
the Cantonese businessmen won't give them jobs, even as they they use the
existence of the illegal immigrants to drive down wages. Some have resorted to
extortion and robberies.

The tension has kept the institutions of Chinatown -- the family, the village
and business associations -- from reaching out beyond their own groups to help
the new immigrants, something that would be unusual but would be especially
helpful under current conditions. Adding to the problem is that the Fujianese
immigrants are often too ashamed to seek help. Both groups say the American
Government has been inconsistent, encouraging the Fujianese to come, through
President Bush's 1990 Presidential order, then failing to provide any help.

Many Cantonese complain that established Fujianese, who began entering the
country in small numbers in the 1960's, are not helping out their own. In
interviews, three wealthy Fujianese said that the sheer number of immigrants
made it impossible to make a difference. But one, a prominent Fujianese
businessman, said people also feared that by helping the new wave they would
antagonize their Cantonese business associates as well as Fujianese businessmen
who have been harassed by some new immigrants.

"I want to show my support, but that would alienate my friends who have been
harassed by them," he said.   JANE H. LII

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants lining up outside an employment agency in Chinatown,
where long-time residents say the newcomers are overwhelming the neighborhood.
(Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Green Card Lottery Would Foil Einstein

SECTION: Section A;  Page 24;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 309 words


To the Editor:

Politicians and others of good intentions are giving out the message that there
is no need for any alien applying for the Diversity Immigrant Visa Lottery, the
new "green card" lottery, to pay any money to enter or to employ the services of
a competent immigration lawyer.

In one sense, but only one, is the advice sound: One should be able to enter the
lottery on one's own by following the simple instructions. However, having your
application selected is only the start of a bureaucratic process filled with
pitfalls.

A few examples will suffice. Suppose the following enter the lottery and are
amomg the 55,000 lucky winners : (1) a Haitian with a sixth-grade education and
experience as an unskilled urban worker; (2) a French chef, a high school
dropout; (3) a similarly educated busboy in the same restaurant as the chef; (4)
a Jamaican medical doctor.

Who gets the coveted green card? Answer: Only the French chef.

The others are disqualified for the following reasons: The Haitian lacks the
necessary high school diploma and experience in a job requiring at least two
years of training. Likewise, the French busboy. And the Jamaican doctor? He is
out altogether as being a native of one of the 12 countries in the world not
eligible for the lottery, under a bizarre statutory formula that even Einstein
would have trouble explaining.

A competent immigration lawyer might, on the other hand, be able to salvage the
cases of the Haitian and the French busboy, and even of the Jamaican doctor,
who, while not eligible for the lottery, might well qualify through one of a
myriad of other programs that are available under the complicated Immigration
and Nationalty Act.

PETER HIRSCH
New York, June 4, 1994
The writer was chairman of the New York chapter of the American Immigration
Lawyers' Association.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 17, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ruling Backs Homosexuals On Asylum

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16


Attorney General Janet Reno today issued an order that would allow homosexuals
from other countries to seek political asylum in the United States if they could
prove that they were victims of government persecution solely because of their
sexual preference.

The decision affects only a few pending immigration cases. Justice Department
officials said they did not know whether it would lead to an increase in the
number of gay men and lesbians from abroad who would apply for refugee status on
the ground that they would be persecuted if they returned home.

In effect, Ms. Reno's action substantially broadened the significance of a
decision by an immigration review panel four years ago in a case involving Fidel
Armando Toboso-Alfonso, a Cuban who sought political asylum in 1986 on the
ground that he had long been persecuted because of his homosexuality. The board
ruled that Mr. Toboso-Alfonso could remain in the United States.

In acting today, the Attorney General left that decision undisturbed, but gave
it greater weight by directing that the Toboso-Alfonso ruling be used to guide
immigration and asylum review officials considering similar claims in the
future.

Praise From Congressman

Mr. Toboso-Alfonso maintained that for 10 years he was ordered to report to a
local police station in Cuba, where he was subjected to a medical examination
and sometimes confined for several days at a time without being charged with a
crime.

Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, praised Ms. Reno's
decision and said it would permit homosexuals to show that if other countries
persecuted them as a definable social group they would be potentially eligible
for political asylum here.

"To be clear, this move by the Administration doesn't by itself let one person
in," said Mr. Frank, who is a homosexual. "What it does is allow gays and
lesbians to argue that they can be considered a member of particular social
group which is targeted by their government for persecution."

Today's decision seemed to add another turn in the Clinton Administration's
seemingly uneven approach to gay rights issues. Earlier this week, for example,
the Justice Department appealed a ruling by a Federal judge in Washington who
had directed the Government to reinstate a decorated National Guard nurse who
had disclosed her homosexuality to military officials during a security check.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 17, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian Refugee Interviews Begin Aboard U.S. Navy Ship

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica, June 16


The first shipboard processing of Haitians' applications for asylum under the
Administration's new policy began today aboard a Navy hospital ship moored here.

At 9 A.M. 35 Haitians picked up from leaky wooden sailboats were put on board
the white-painted Comfort, the red crosses on its hull gleaming in the tropical
sun.

In keeping with the plan to handle the requests for asylum on ships or on land
outside the United States, the 1,000-bed ship carried an array of interpreters
and hastily trained immigration officials ready to weigh the stories of the
Haitians and decide whether they would be sent back or granted refugee status
and allowed to enter the United States or other countries.

More than 1,800 Haitians have been returned without hearings since the policy
was announced last month.

Rights Advocates Watching

Human rights advocates, who had fought the policy of returning the Haitians
picked up at sea, were watching the new procedures with grave concern, waiting
to see if they would simply prove to be a more elaborate mechanism for sending
the Haitians back.

Of particular concern were how much time the sun-parched refugees would have to
rest and rehydrate after being picked up from the tossing seas, and what access
they would have to interpreters and counselors.

By keeping the interviewing off American soil, the Administration is in effect
denying the Haitians access to a number of legal options they would be
guaranteed as soon as they set foot in the United States.

"Only time will tell whether this is a sincere effort by the Administration,"
said Arthur Helton, director of migration programs for the Open Society
Institute in New York. "The Haitian boat people are in a virtual legal
netherworld and one in which lawlessness can go unchecked. They are at the mercy
of the sensitivity and beneficence of those who staff this operation. The
procedural safeguards are meager."

In addition, the new procedures call for refugees to meet a standard, in the
eyes of immigration officials, of a "well-founded fear" of persecution should
they be sent home. This is a tougher standard than the "credible fear" that had
been used when refugees were being interned at the United States Naval Station
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

'Discrimination' Seen

Lucas Guttentag, an immigration expert at the American Civil Liberties Union in
New York, said, "The Administration should not continue to discriminate against
Haitian refugees by applying a higher standard for Haitians than for nationals
of the former Soviet Union and designated Southeast Asian countries."

Kofi Asomani, special envoy to Haiti for the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees, said tonight: "This is an exceptional situation. It has a number
of logistical and other difficulties, but it is something that is workable."

After visiting the hospital ship this afternoon, he said, "I came away feeling
it is possible."

But when pressed on whether the procedure would be fair in protecting the rights
of the refugees, Mr. Asomani replied: "I don't think we can answer that it is
fair. Those who have a claim will have a chance to tell their stories. It's as
close to what we would say would be a fair procedure as possible."

The refugees were picked up in three different groups by the United States Coast
Guard cutters Escape, Durable and Dependable.

Interviewing Begins

The interviewing of the refugees aboard the ship began around 2 P.M., said Ron
Tonalis, a Justice Department spokesman attached to the inter-agency
organization running the refugee operation here.

Shortly after boarding the ships, each of the 34 adults and one child were
issued electronically coded plastic identification bracelets, similar to those
hospital patients wear. In military terminology, they are called Dmpits, for
Deployed Mass Population Identification Tracking System.

They were also given an explanation of the refugee procedures by representatives
of the United Nations refugee organization, who will remain aboard the ship as
observers.

The questioning, Mr. Tonalis said, would be carried out by about 60 immigration
inspectors who have been given a week of special training in San Antonio. The
refugees were to have access, he said, to a group of about 86 Creole-speaking
translators who are contract employees of the State Department, working for the
International Office of Migration.

The immigration inspectors, he said, would have access to a computerized system
listing incidents that are known to have occurred in Haiti that might help an
asylum-seeker make a case. For example, if a Haitian cites the death of a
realtive at the hands of the military government, the computer could confirm the
record of the killing.

Final Say by Six Officers

The initial recommendations of the inspectors on whether individuals are to be
granted refugee status would then be reviewed by one of six "quality assurance"
officers who would have the final say.

Those who are deemed legitimate refugees are to be brought to the Guantanamo Bay
for medical tests and eventual assignment to sponsors. Those who test positive
for exposure to H.I.V. or any of several other diseases could be disqualified,
Mr. Tonalis said, although this could be appealed.

Those who failto gain refugee status are to be put aboard a Coast Guard cutter
and transported back to the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince.

The essential criterion, Mr. Tonalis said is the "well-founded fear" of
persecution based on five categories: race, nationality, religion, membership in
a social group, or holding a political opinion.

Mr. Tonalis declined to give any examples of what might or might not be ruled
valid.

In the past Administration officials have said they believed that only about
five percent of the Haitians trying to flee were eligible political refugees, an
estimate that has infuriated human rights groups.

Twists in Clinton Policy

The shipboard questioning aboard the Comfort and at a processing center being
set up on the Turks and Caicos Islands are the latest twists in President
Clinton's Haitian policy.

During his campaign, Mr. Clinton vigorously condemned the Bush Administration's
policy of returning Haitians found at sea as "immoral" and "cruel" and called
for asylum for those fleeing the military Government that ousted the elected
President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

But once elected and faced with a potential flood of unwelcome Haitians, the
President reverted to sending Haitians back, even though they were presumed to
face additional hostility for having tried to escape.

But particularly after attention shifted from South Africa this spring, Mr.
Clinton found himself under mounting pressure from human rights organizations,
including a hunger strike by Randall Robinson, president of TransAfrica Forum, a
research and lobbying group.

In addition, Mr. Clinton has named William Gray 3d, president of the United
Negro College Fund, as his special envoy for Haiti and has stepped up the
embargo against its military rulers in an effort to unseat them. The United
States has also and instituted bans on financial transaction and commercial air
traffic between Haiti and the United States to put pressure on Haiti's elite,
who generally support the military government.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A United States Marine officer and his shipmates passing the
hospital ship Comfort, docked at Port Royal in Kingston, Jamaica, where
shipboard processing of Haitians' asylum applications began yesterday.
(Associated Press)

Map of the Carribean shows the location of Kingston, Jamaica.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 18, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

First Rulings For Haitians: Yes to 6 of 35

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

DATELINE: ABOARD THE COMFORT, Kingston Harbor, Jamaica, June 17


This huge white hospital ship, the U.S.S. Comfort, which has been turned into a
floating immigration bureaucracy, meted out its first judgments today as the
instrument of the latest shift in President Clinton's Haiti policy.

Now, when fleeing Haitians are plucked from their rickety wooden sailboats by
one of a dozen United States Coast Guard cutters on patrol in the Caribbean,
they are brought to a shipboard world of computers, interviews, forms and files.
That leads to the difficult decision by an Immigration and Naturalization
Service officer on whether each individual will be allowed into the United
States.

This afternoon, 29 Haitians -- including two pregnant women and a baby -- from
the first group of 35 taken from three boats by the Coast Guard on Wednesday
slumped silently on the Comfort's upper decks.

They were to be sent back to Haiti.

Six Were Accepted

Six young men, found to be qualified for refugee status, strode buoyantly to an
Air Force C-130 at Norman Manley airport at 9 A.M. today, each swinging a small
plastic bag of belongings. They had arrived in a white tour bus bearing the word
"Smile."

The difference lay in the credibility immigration officials placed in the
reasons the Haitians gave for claiming the "well founded fear of persecution"
should they return to Haiti and its brutal military dictatorship.

Haitians have fled their homeland in fear since a military coup in September
1991 unseated the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the country's first
democratically elected President. Since then, he has remained in exile and the
United States and other countries have attempted to oust the military rulers by
applying diplomatic and economic pressure.

The decision on whether a Haitian is sent back or is granted refugee status is
based on an interview with the Immigration inspectors, a process that finally
rests on individual judgment and is somewhat amorphous or, as Kathleen Thompson,
director of the I.N.S. Refugee Division, put it: "squishy."

"There are intrinsic difficulties," she said. "There can be human rights
violations that are truly horrific, but don't fall under the five categories."

A Focus on Politics

The categories are a fear of persecution based on race, on nationality, on
religion, on membership in a social organization or on a political opinion,
although Ms. Thompson said that for Haitians, political opinion was the most
likely claim.

"We take into account the whole circumstances of an individual case," she said.
"We try to evaluate each claim in its entire context and credibility.
Geographical area, for example, can be important because we know certain areas
are hotbeds of resistance activity or have repression, and this could affect
credibility."

Still, she added, "a person can have embellished his claim and still be a
refugee."

When running for President, Mr. Clinton was sharply critical of what he called
the Bush Administration's "immoral" policy of returning all Haitians picked up
at sea. But once in office, responding largely to political pressures against
the influx of black Haitian refugees, he reversed himself and kept sending
Haitians back.

Civil rights groups and immigration advocates have denounced the Administration
policy as "racist." Responding to the mounting pressure, the Administration set
up the shipboard interviewing process, which has mobilized a task force of
slightly over 1,000 military and civilian personnel, and is working on setting
up a processing center on the Turks and Caicos Islands.

A United Nations Role

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which has been critical of
the policy of returning refugees, has 11 lawyers aboard the Comfort to monitor
the processing. The United Nations representatives also deliver a 20-minute
orientation lecture to the Haitians.

"There are a lot of hard-working people on that boat," Barbara Francis, a
spokeswoman for the refugees commission, said after conferring with the
shipboard observers this afternoon. "But the system will really be tested when
the pressure of numbers comes along."

Haitians intercepted at sea are brought onto the ship, a converted supertanker,
from a ramp into the starboard hull. Almost immediately, each Haitian is fitted
with a plastic identification bracelet, similar to those given to hospital
patients, but these are equipped with an electronic chip inscribed with their
identity and background information.

Cases of water are stacked ready for the Haitians, who are likely to be
dehydrated from their rides on small boats under the hot sun, and workers who
speak Creole are on hand to provide reassurance to people who have grown wary of
uniforms and authority.

Avoiding Intimidation

"We are very concerned about having the refugees feel comfortable and not
intimidated," Lieut. Pete Mitchell of the United States Marines explained to
journalists brought aboard the ship for a tour this afternoon.

About 200 marines are on the ship as a security detail as well as U.S. Navy
doctors and nurses and military personnel from other branches.

Deep inside the ship, in a compartment filled with computers and makeshift
interview booths, the immigration inspectors review the files assembled by
interpreters for each incoming applicant and then conduct the critical final
interview. Some of the computers have records of violent episodes in Haiti,
which are to be updated each week, to help confirm the charges made by the
Haitians who fled their country.

Taking Their Time

"We had the luxury of time," said the chief of the shipboard immigration
inspectors, Arthur Nieto, saying the interviews for this group each lasted about
an hour and forty-five minutes.

"We try to get as much information as we can," Mr. Nieto said.

"We would like them to be at ease. We are always reinforcing, telling them, 'Is
there anything else you would like to say?' "

The journalists brought aboard the ship were not allowed to speak to the
Haitians who had been rejected. Nor would immigration officials give examples of
what might or might not be a successful case, saying they did not want to
provide a how-to for future applicants.

For those approved for refugee status -- the fortunate six today -- the final
stop on the ship is for a medical exam, and then interpreters let them know they
have made it. Then they are flown to Guantanamo Bay Navy Base for further
processing.

"They were actually very excited," said Commander David Barnette, the head of
the medical section. "They were high-fiving."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States granted refugee status to six Haitians
yesterday, and turned down 29 others, after hearings aboard the Navy hospital
ship Comfort, docked off Jamaica. Four men who were accepted boarded a military
plane in Kingston bound for the Guantanamo Bay Navy Base, the next step in their
journey. (Agence France-Presse)

Map of Jamaica showing location of Kingston.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Give More Than They Take

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 16;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words


To the Editor:

"Stop Benefits for Aliens? It Wouldn't Be That Easy" (front page, June 8) calls
attention to the considerable difference in availability of public assistance to
different types of immigrants. It is certainly true that there is a popular
misconception that all immigrants, regardless of status, are entitled to the
same welfare benefits as native-born citizens.

It is important to note that in California poverty among immigrants of all
varieties increased more than 19 percent in 1979-89, while the state's overall
poverty rate has declined approximately 1 percent. Although refu
gees use much of the assistance available to them on entry into the United
States, the reality contradicts the myth that poor immigrants, especially the
undocumented, rely heavily on public assistance.

A recent study commissioned by our organization, the Tomas Rivera Center, a
national institute for policy studies, offers objective proof that immigrant
households falling below the poverty threshold tend to use welfare less than
natives. Moreover, according to the census data used for that research, welfare
use among Central and South American households living in poverty has plummeted
50 percent over the last decade.

As you suggest, the majority of immigrants in California come across the border
to work and often receive fewer public benefits than they pay for in taxes.
Today's immigrants show a commitment to a strong work ethic and an
entrepreneurial spirit, much like the immigrants of yesteryear. The few public
benefits immigrants receive insure that this spirit is nurtured, rather than
stifled.

HARRY P. PACHON
MORGAN P. APPEL
Claremont, Calif., June 10, 1994

The writers are, respectively, president and senior research associate of the
Tomas Rivera Center.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Aspiring Immigrants Misled On Chances in Visa Lottery

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1900 words


A man wearing headphones passed out pink fliers last week in front of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service headquarters in lower Manhattan, mumbling
"Green card, green card" in accented English. When a passer-by expressed
interest, he escorted her across Broadway and into a seventh floor office with a
brass nameplate that said, "Ola Mata-Mazel, Diplomat."

Inside the scruffy office, Ms. Mata-Mazel promised help for anyone interested in
getting a green card through a State Department visa lottery that began June 1
and ends June 30. For $100, she said, she would make sure an applicant had the
best possible chance of winning. But until the fee was paid, she said, she would
not reveal "the secret."

"I cannot give away my secrets," she later explained by telephone. "I have to
pay the rent."

Ms. Mata-Mazel is one among many immigration consultants, lawyers and
fly-by-night operators selling their services to those seeking a chance at legal
residency through the special lottery. But the lottery is simple to enter, and
winners are chosen at random. No expert can increase an applicant's odds of
being selected by computer for a chance at one of 55,000 green cards. There are
no secrets.

Still, every immigration program spawns an opportunistic service industry, and
this one is no different. This lottery is opened to illegal immigrants and
aspiring immigrants still abroad. Winners, if they met eligibility requirements,
get a visa to enter the country as a legal immigrant, then receive a green card,
or legal permanent residency, after arriving.

In immigrant havens across the country and in the neighborhoods of consular
offices abroad, consultants and lawyers are charging from $10 to $800 to perform
a straightforward task: write an immigrant's name, birthday and place of birth
on a plain sheet of paper, then enclose it in an envelope with a return address.

"It's truly disgusting what they're doing, essentially charging people to do
something that was designed to be done by a lay person," said Alfred E. Cerullo
3d, the Consumer Affairs Commissioner of New York City. "You have boiler room
operations and phone banks and lawyers that are preying on people's
vulnerability and anxiety and trust at a time when their lives are at issue."

It is not illegal to charge people for unnecessary services. About all the
authorities can do is fine people who make fraudulent claims.

In Los Angeles, David L. Amkraut, a lawyer who calls himself "one of the largest
lottery practitioners in the country," promises clients a special edge if they
pay him $50 to $75. In Pompano Beach, Fla., the American Immigration Council
collects $95 and tells applicants they have "a really good chance this year."

In New York City, a pink handbill distributed on the streets solicits would-be
legal immigrants to call one of four telephone numbers. Applicants are then
directed to send a $100 money order to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service Assistance Center at 28 Vesey Street, Suite 229. The "Assistance Center"
is unrelated to the Federal immigration agency; the "Suite" is a postal box.

Congress established the visa lottery as part of the Immigration Act of 1990 to
create greater diversity among immigrants. For the first three years, the State
Department accepted applications for the lottery from 36 countries, mostly in
Europe, that were considered underrepresented in the immigrant population in the
prior 25 years. Forty percent of the visas were set aside for the Irish.

Pool Is Expanded

Starting this year, the pool of applicants for the annual lottery was expanded
to include everyone except those from the 11 countries that sent the most
immigrants to the United States in the previous year. In order to get a green
card, the winners must have a high school diploma or at least two years of work
experience in a field that requires two years of training.

By last week, the State Department had received three million applications at
its visa center on the former Pease Air Force Base in Portsmouth, N.H. As they
arrive, the letters are sorted by world region, the names entered in a data base
and the letters held in bags at a giant warehouse. The warehouse, a stripped
commissary, is surrounded by guards.

There is no form and no fee to apply. Counselors at Federal and local Government
telephone lines are available to explain the details of the process. Some
immigration lawyers say that even the simple instructions can be daunting,
especially for those who do not speak English. Still, the American Immigration
Lawyers Association recommends that its members help applicants without charge,
with an eye toward developing them as future clients.

And Hal Lieberman, the chief counsel for a New York State legal disciplinary
committee, said, "An honest lawyer would say to a person, 'Look, I can do the
application for you for $85, but you don't need me.' "

Some Have Difficulty

Many illegal immigrants here and aspiring immigrants abroad simply cannot fathom
that their chances will not improve by paying a supposed expert, authorities
say. Some do not know how to take part, or how to perform the most basic tasks
related to the application.

Emilio Soto, a recent immigrant from Ecuador, did not know where to buy a stamp
or mail a letter.

On a recent morning, Mr. Soto, who lives in Queens and works as a dishwasher at
a Korean restaurant, stood before a hand-lettered sign in the window of Pronto
Fingerprinting on Broadway. The sign, in Spanish, promised lottery information
inside.

"My neighbor told me that the United States is giving away green cards, which,
you know, is like giving away gold," Mr. Soto said. "But I had no idea how to
apply. I heard it was through the lottery, so I bought some lottery tickets. But
my neighbor said they were just tickets to win money."

At Pronto Fingerprinting, he bought a makeshift visa lottery form and an
addressed envelope for $5. For a $30 fee, he could have had the clerk fill out
the form, but he did not.

"I don't have that kind of cash," he said.

Wary of operators exploiting the lottery, the Consumer Affairs Department of New
York City is distributing a consumer guide, "Protecting Yourself From Immigrant
Visa Lottery Scams," through the city's Immigration Hotline at (718) 899-4000,
and through community groups and City Council members' offices. The Department
is also monitoring 20 ethnic weeklies for misleading advertising; two lawyers
have been fined. And the vigilance has apparently made operators more careful
about flagrantly false promises than in the last three years, said Margie
McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition.

The Consumer Affairs Department can impose a $350 fine on people who
misrepresent, in advertisements or in person, the random nature of the lottery.
The authorities cannot stop anyone from collecting money to complete peoples'
applications.

And so immigration lawyers and people who call themselves immigration experts
have used fliers, signs in storefront windows, advertisements in ethnic
newspapers and direct mail solicitations to lure clients.

Mr. Amkraut, the lawyer in Los Angeles, advertises in ethnic newspapers here and
newspapers abroad. He maintains a toll-free number. And he has thousands of
lottery clients, he said. He has even reserved a bank of hotel rooms in
Portsmouth, N.H., so that he and his assistants can hand deliver applications
for "procrastinators" on June 30. And he guarantees a better chance of winning.

"Without going into the details of our tricks, I have studied the law very
closely and there is some flexibility in it," Mr. Amkraut said. "We have been
able to have a higher winning percentage, 13 1/2 percent."

Authorities say that is impossible.

Looking for Clients

Few immigrant lawyers make promises as blatant as Mr. Amkraut's. Instead, they
use the program to expand their client base.

Dennis Gayle, a lawyer in Brooklyn, was fined $350 by the Consumer Affairs
Department for misleading advertising in The Carib News that said, "Green Cards
Issued Immediately, if Selected." Actually, after being selected in the lottery,
winners must then complete the normal application process for a permanent
resident visa. So it could take a year for them to get their green cards. Mr.
Gayle corrected his ads.

Mr. Gayle, however, does not promise any inside track to his clients. Like other
immigration lawyers, he said he decided to help people with their applications
after hearing that a large percentage of previous applicants had been
disqualified. (About 19 percent were disqualified last year, most for sending
more than one application, some for not including their return address, said
Nita Budig, a State Department spokeswoman.)

Mr. Gayle charges $35 to $50 and includes a consultation on an applicant's other
options for pursuing a green card, he said.

"It's a total disservice to the work of immigration lawyers when people are told
they don't need lawyers and lawyers are ripping them off," Mr. Gayle said. "I
also resent people overcharging, but $35 is a reasonable fee for the service
provided."



A GUIDE TO THE LOTTERY

WHAT IT IS

Congress established the visa lottery as part of the Immigration Act of 1990 to
create greater diversity among immigrants. It is open to illegal immigrants and
aspiring immigrants still abroad. Winners, if they met eligibility requirements,
get a visa to enter the country as a legal immigrant, then a green card, or
legal permanent residency, after arriving.

WHO IS ELIGIBLE

Anyone in this country or abroad, except natives of Britain, Canada, China, the
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, India, Jamaica, Mexico, the Philippines, South
Korea and Vietnam.

Natives of Hong Kong and Northern Ireland are eligible.

Applicants must have at least a high school education -- not a
graduate-equivalency diploma -- or two years of recent work experience in a
field that requires at least two years of training or experience.

DEADLINE

Applications must arrive by June 30.

HOW TO APPLY

Applicants can submit only one application.

There is no form. A plain sheet of paper should be used, and include, in
English: The applicant's full name, with last name underlined. Birth date. Place
of birth. Mailing address.

The same information should be included, if applicable, for a spouse and
children.

Applications should be sent in a regular letter or business envelope by regular
mail.

A return address should be on the envelope, beginning with the applicant's
native country, followed by name, address and country of residence.

WHERE TO APPLY

Envelopes should be sent to DV-1 Program, National Visa Center, Portsmouth,
N.H., with the Zip code depending on the region of applicant's native country.

Asia: 00210

South America: 00211

Europe: 00212

Africa: 00213

Oceania: 00214

North America: 00215

INFORMATION

There is a State Department hotline (202-663-1600) and a New York Immigration
Hotline (718-899-4000; outside New York, 800-232-0212).

 Because of an editing error, the article omitted her response. Ms. Mata-Mazel
said in an interview that she called herself a diplomat because of her
affiliation with a Moscow-based foundation. She said her lottery "secrets" were
products of careful research into Government procedures governing the form and
submission of lottery entries.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 1994, Wednesday

CORRECTION:

(June 21, 1994, Tuesday) A front-page article yesterday about consultants who
advise immigrants hoping to win a special visa lottery described the services of
Ola Mata-Mazel, whose office nameplate describes her as a diplomat. Because the
lottery winners will be selected at random, the article raised questions about
whether services like hers were necessary and challenged her contention of
having "secrets" that would improve an immigrant's chances of selection.

A picture caption on Monday about the immigrant lottery for visas misidentified
the location of the application storage site shown. It was Portsmouth, N.H., not
Boston.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In immigrant havens across the country, consultants and lawyers
are charging immigrants to write their name, birthday and place of birth on a
piece of paper to send in for the lottery for visas. In a visa center in Boston,
Rick Frost, left, and Will Odell sorted some of the applications. (Evan Richman
for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 684 words



LABOR WINS ONE ON LONG ISLAND

The Long Island Rail Road was running again after negotiators for the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, under relentless pressure from Gov. Mario
M. Cuomo, abandoned their central demand for changes in employees' work rules
and ended a two-day strike. The outcome angered the railroad's negotiators, who
viewed the Governor as undermining their position in long-stalemated contract
talks. But the turnabout thrilled leaders of the 2,300-member United
Transportation Union, who called the agreement a victory for organized labor.
A1.


NEW YORK CITY

GREEN-CARD MONTE

In a scruffy office near the Immigration and Naturalization Service headquarters
in lower Manhattan, a woman calling herself "Ola Mata-Mazel, Diplomat," promises
to help anyone interested in getting a green card through a State Department
visa lottery. For $100, she says, she makes sure an applicant has the best
chance of winning. But she will not reveal "the secret" until the fee is paid.
She is one among many immigration consultants, lawyers and fly-by-night
operators selling their services to hopeful immigrants. But the lottery is
simple to enter, and winners are chosen at random. There are no "secrets,"
officials say, but many victims. A1.

SCHOOL MONEY FOR NEW YORK'S BUDGET

It is an idea lawmakers say they like: state money for city schools should be
used only for schools, not to close budget gaps. But a bill to do just that may
be headed for a quiet death -- and an important victory for Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani. If passed, the law would mean up to $70 million less this year in
state assistance that the city had counted on to fill its estimated $2.3-billion
shortfall. B3.

DRIVER HITS CHILDREN IN BRONX

Three children were injured yesterday morning, a 5-year-old boy critically, when
a car driven by an unlicensed motorist careered out of control, mounted a Bronx
sidewalk and struck them while they were playing, the police said. Witnesses
said the 5-year-old was playing with a 2-year-old boy and his 3-year-old sister
on Arthur Avenue between 175th and 176th Streets in Belmont, a strip that
attracts speeders near the Cross-Bronx Expressway. B3.

DARK DAYS FOR DONNA KARAN

After years of being dressed by Ralph and Calvin, Perry and Bill, the women of
America embraced Donna Karan, who constructed a $364-million empire in less than
a decade. With her pear-shaped figure, lopsided ponytail and harried demeanor,
she was Everywoman. But lately the Donna Karan Company's rising star seems on
the wane. A1.

REGION

FOR CUOMO, A CRUCIAL DEAL

In brokering the deal that ended the Long Island Rail Road strike after two
days, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo managed to appease two constituencies vital to his
re-election -- Long Islanders and organized labor. He did so, to some extent, by
undercutting the bargaining position of the man he appointed as chairman of the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority. B4.

A TOUGH TIME FOR STANGL

Peter E. Stangl, the M.T.A. chairman, has spent his career rescuing aging
public-transit systems from neglect and decay. He is known for making the best
of a bad situation. But that reputation has been sorely tested in recent weeks,
as Mr. Stangl has been twice embarrassed publicly and forced to bow to the
wishes of New York's two most powerful politicians. B4.

CREDIBILITY GAP ON TAXES

Democratic Party leaders in New Jersey, alarmed by the growing popularity of
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's income-tax cuts, admit they have lost their
campaign to convince the public that the Governor's program will lead to
dramatically higher local property taxes. B5.

PRESSURING FOR GAY RIGHTS

Seeking to focus political pressure on a handful of Republican state senators
from Long Island, two gay-rights groups have begun a $75,000 advertising
campaign promoting legislation that would extend civil-rights protection to
homosexuals. The groups say they have 28 votes in the Republican-controlled
State Senate supporting the bill, three short of a majority to pass the measure.
B5.

Chronicle  B2

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 21, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Coast Guard Stops Boat Carrying Chinese

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


Federal authorities intercepted a Philadelphia-based fishing boat attempting to
smuggle 126 undocumented Chinese migrants to the United States, the Coast Guard
said today.

Personnel from the Coast Guard cutter Reliance, accompanied by agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, boarded the vessel on Saturday about 350
miles east of Virginia, a statement said.

"When it was boarded, 126 individuals appearing to be undocumented Chinese
migrants were discovered," the Coast Guard said. It identified the fishing
vessel as the Captain Denny, with a home port of Philadelphia.

Eighteen of the 126, described as "enforcers," were transferred from the
Reliance to another Coast Guard cutter, the Aquidneck, along with the Captain
Denny's six crew members, the Coast Guard said.

The Reliance remains at sea with the remaining 108 undocumented Chinese migrants
on board, the Coast Guard said, referring questions about their status to the
State Department.

Phyllis Young, a department spokeswoman, said she had no information tonight
about the status of the undocumented Chinese.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 29 words


A picture caption on Monday about the immigrant lottery for visas misidentified
the location of the application storage site shown. It was Portsmouth, N.H., not
Boston.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 23, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Anticipating Influx of Refugees, Miami Plans Schools for Aliens

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 22


Concerned that political troubles in the Caribbean might cause a major influx of
refugees, Miami's school board today approved a contingency plan that would put
the children of aliens into makeshift special schools rather than integrate them
immediately into the district's already overcrowded schools.

The plan, which would involve students attending classes in places like shopping
centers and movie theaters, has met with resistance from advocates for children
who worry that segregation would provide unequal educational opportunities.
Others worry that any plan aiding immigrants will lure more to Florida.

Dade County school board officials said that they based the plan partly on an
assimilation program in San Francisco and that they planned to have the program
evaluated by the United States Education Department's office of civil rights to
insure that it did not violate the rights of students to have equal public
educations. The plan allows for students in the orientation program to apply for
waivers that would transfer them to regular schools.

The board vote was not unanimous. One member, Rosa Castro Feinberg, said schools
did more than just educate. "They don't just produce school learning and smart
kids; they produce Americans," she said. "It is precisely that experience we
will be denying under this plan."

The plan was presented by the superintendent of schools, Octavio J. Visiedo, who
came to Miami from Cuba in 1961 when he was 9 years old and entered the public
school system. "Sometimes they get lost in the regular setting," Mr. Visiedo
said of students from abroad.

The plan would be triggered when the daily new enrollment of students becomes
100 more than normal.

During the 1980 Mariel boatlift, when about 125,000 Cubans came to the United
States, the Dade schools opened two centers for a short time to absorb about
15,000 new students. School officials, with their eyes on trouble in Haiti and a
worsening economic crisis in Cuba, fear that a new influx could be much larger.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 24, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Cutbacks Peril Miami's Citizenship Events

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 23


Immigrants who come here in search of wealth have encountered another sign that
the streets are not paved with gold: the Government has run out of money for the
swearing-in ceremonies at which new Americans take the oath of citizenship.

The Miami office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service can no longer
afford the elaborate events in which some 8,000 people become citizens each
month at a downtown performing arts center, said Lemar Wooley, an agency
spokesman here.

The problem, he said, is that not enough people have been applying for
immigration or working papers, which generate money for the I.N.S. "We had a
shortfall on the projected revenue from fees nationwide," he said, "and they cut
back on budgets."

Miami's enthusiasm for swearing-in ceremonies is also a factor. The immigration
service has been renting the James L. Knight Center twice a month, at a cost of
$4,000 a day.

"One of the things that happens in Miami is that we have a lot of family that
show up," Mr. Wooley said, making it necessary to hold two separate ceremonies,
one in the morning and the other in the afternoon, with about 2,000 people
taking the oath at each ceremony.

Miami is the only city facing the cutback, said Duke Austin, an I.N.S. spokesman
in Washington.

He said the loss of revenue, which left the immigration service with a $24
million shortage, began in 1987, when the United States granted amnesty to
nearly three million aliens.

"As they were moving through the system they were generating funds," he said.
But now most of them have their immigration papers, and are no longer paying
customers of the I.N.S.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 26, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Describe Border-Crossing Plight

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

SECTION: Section 13WC;  Page 6;  Column 3;  Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1077 words

DATELINE: PURCHASE


EVERY immigrant feels his soul broken when he takes leave of his family and
departs his beloved homeland," writes Luis Alfonso Hernandez in "Border Stories:
Cuentos de la Frontera," a book published recently by the Neuberger Museum of
Art and the Center for Editions at Purchase College here.

Mr. Hernandez adds that the immigrant "leaves a great emptiness; he undertakes
the road with profound nostalgia and pain within his being, but at the same time
with an enormous illusion of returning triumphantly and finding all his family
in a state of well-being, healthy, and above all, with a better economic
condition."

The nine authors of "Border Stories" -- Mexican, Guatemalan, Peruvian, Chinese
and Russian emigres now living in Westchester County -- provide an intimate look
at a subject of intense political interest: the entry into the United States of
countless immigrants seeking a better life. The book, a slim paper-bound volume
of 47 pages selling for $5 at the museum, presents the raw emotional data of
such crossings, most of which took place at the border between the United States
and Mexico.

The writers are unlikely literary candidates; while several were educated in
their homelands, others are struggling now to attain literacy in both English
and their native tongue. Their heartfelt, sometimes shocking stories -- of
thievery, prostitution and pain -- share a note of hope: that eventually the
desperate adventure will pay off and they will find happiness in America.

Stories on Display

The book features texts in English and Spanish and was inspired by the museum's
exhibition, "La Frontera/ The Border: Art About the Mexico-United States Border
Experience." The multimedia show, which originated in San Diego, closes today.

Cornelia Butler, the museum's curator of contemporary art and an editor of
"Border Stories" (Patricia Greenhill, the museum's marketing and communications
director, was the other), said the stories were first gathered as part of an
effort to involve the community in museum activities; all 85 stories submitted
by adult schools, cultural centers and social service agencies have been
displayed at the museum concurrently with "La Frontera."

The idea for compiling some of the stories into a book is attributed to Clifton
K. Meador, a design teacher at Purchase College and director of the Center for
Editions, which is housed in the school's Visual Arts building. As he printed
the book's two-color text -- red for Spanish, purple for English -- earlier this
month, Mr. Meador called the project "a great logical connection for us to make"
with the museum, which has collaborated only rarely with the center. "Border
Stories" was designed by Ivy Bautista, a recent graduate of Purchase College.

The book, fuzzy in some of its chronologies, draws an indistinct line between
immigrants who entered legally and those who didn't, and the reader is left to
piece together the clues. "We really didn't ask them" about their legal status,
said Robin A. Bikkal, a lawyer specializing in immigration law in White Plains
and chairwoman of the museum's Hispanic advisory committee. The committee's 20
members helped select the stories.

Hand-Decorated Sombreros

Two of the authors read their stories aloud at a family festival recently at the
Neuberger. Art workshops, pinata games, Spanish guitar music and Mexican food
attracted a near-record crowd of 500, including children toting sombreros, which
they had decorated themselves.

Among them was Amabel Lopez, the 5-year-old daughter of Daniel Lopez Castillo
and Aura Sosa, a married Guatemalan couple who live in Port Chester. Amabel, who
was born in the United States, listened with her 14-year-old sister, Cindy
Lopez, as both parents read their narratives aloud in Spanish. The English
translations were read by Miryam Rojas, a museum intern.

Before reading, Mr. Castillo said in an interview that he immigrated 11 years
ago after Guatemalan guerrillas put guns to his head during fighting in 1982. "I
was working for a bakery and had to deliver bread," he said. "They stopped me
several times and said: 'If we see you again, we will have to kill you. We leave
it to you.' "

In his story, written at La Casa del Pueblo in Port Chester -- a nonprofit
educational and cultural center where five "Border Stories" authors are studying
Spanish and English -- Mr. Castillo tells of being detained by American
immigration officials, who accused him of smuggling and tore up his luggage. On
a second trip, after he failed to get his visa renewed in Guatemala, Mr.
Castillo said he "decided to come across Mexico."

"I had thousands of problems with the Mexican police, who asked for money
without knowing if one has it or not," he read. "I slept in trains and buses and
did not eat for two days." Finally, he crossed the border in a crowded van, "35
to 40 people, one on top of the other."

Ms. Sosa, who joined her husband here in 1984, told of crossing the border with
her two small children and a group of other people. "We began walking in the
deep of darkness, all together," she read. "When we saw a helicopter, we lay on
the ground. We were afraid, cold, nervous and tired. When it was all over, the
people who had brought us here had fled."

Another writer, Salomon Borrayes, describes such border guides -- called coyotes
in Mexico -- as ruthless thieves who spent the immigrants' money on liquor and
forced the women in his group into prostitution. "The coyotes lock up those who
do not want to participate in their sex games," he writes. "If a woman is honest
and will not lend them her body, she is abandoned -- or even killed."

Other writers tell of their frustration at not understanding English, their
worry about loved ones left behind, their shock at finding poor housing and no
acceptable work here at first. A Chinese woman of 80, identified in the book
only as N. F., wrote about going back to school when she was in her 70's so she
could speak English to her grandchildren.

Several writers speak metaphorically about their condition as outsiders, who are
longing to knit together the frayed borders of their personalities. "My border
is myself," wrote Vilma King, who left a secure job in Peru to join her father
in the United States. "Nobody gets it, it is very hard for me. But that does not
stop me from going on. Nobody understands that in my home country, I am
somebody, and I also want to be somebody here."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: During a family festival at the Neuberger Museum, Aura Sosa told
of crossing to the United States with her two children. (Roberta Hershenson for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

HAITIANS TAKING TO SEA IN DROVES, ALARMING THE U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27


The tide of Haitian boat people surged today to its highest level in more than a
year as the Coast Guard picked up more than 1,000 people on the high seas who
were seeking to seize the opportunity the Clinton Administration has given them
to apply for refugee status.

The flood is swamping the bureaucracy that the Administration set up to
accommodate Haitians who hope to be granted such status.

Today's actions bring the number of Haitians intercepted since Friday to more
than 1,800. That means more Haitians in their flimsy boats and rafts have been
picked up in the last four days than in the first four months of this year.

The surge is alarming American officials, who fear that the 1,000-bed Navy
hospital ship they are using to process Haitian boat people off Kingston,
Jamaica, will be overwhelmed. They also fear that the larger number of Haitians
granted refugee status will create political and economic strains in Florida and
other states at a time when immigrants are becoming a major campaign issue.

"The numbers are reaching a level that they have to be a concern," said Duke
Austin, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "If they
continue to increase, it's going to strain our ability to handle them."

One official said he expected that the Administration would soon be forced to
use the Guantanamo Bay naval base in Cuba to process Haitians. But
Administration officials said their ability to handle the flood of Haitians
would improve when they open an interviewing center in the Turks and Caicos
Islands in mid-July.

Administration officials are uncertain about why the number of Haitian boat
people has exploded. The most important factor, they say, is that word has
filtered back to Haiti that the United States is granting refugee status to a
far higher percentage of Haitians than before.

Since the United States began processing Haitian boat people off Kingston two
weeks ago, almost one-third have been granted refugee status. That compares with
an acceptance rate of one in 20 for Haitians who sought refugee status in the
past year.

Why the acceptance rate has risen is unclear. But before President Clinton
announced a change in refugee policy on May 8 in response to pressures from
blacks and liberals, his Administration was forcibly repatriating Haitians
without granting them a hearing.

'Pretty Good Odds'

"Right now if you're in Haiti looking at what you got there and you see you have
a 33 percent chance of getting in, you realize those are pretty good odds, so
you take a chance," an Administration official said.

Another official said the Haitians had also taken advantage of a calm sea and
excellent weather.

Administration officials have long acknowledged that their fear of a wave of
Haitian refugees is one of the factors driving their Haiti policy, especially
their efforts to oust Haiti's military leaders, who seized power in September
1991.

This week's flood of boat people is expected to increase pressure on the
Administration to act decisively to restore Haiti's exiled President, the Rev.
Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Several officials have said a flood of boat people could
increase the chances of military intervention and accelerate the timetable for
such intervention.

Coast Guard officials said that after picking up 260 Haitians on Sunday and more
than 1,000 today, they had more than 1,300 Haitians on board cutters headed for
Kingston, where the Navy hospital ship Comfort is anchored. Before today's
actions, the Administration had taken 1,148 Haitians picked up at sea to the
Comfort.

Interviews with 477 Haitians have been completed, with 130 of them receiving
refugee status. State Department officials said 347 had been denied refugee
status, and 267 had been repatriated to Haiti.

American officials noted today that apparently in response to the new processing
procedures, Haitians seem to be departing in smaller, less seaworthy boats -- a
signal that they are not trying to make the journey all the way to Florida, but
expect to be intercepted close to the Haitian coast.

"These are tiny little boats that never had a chance of getting to Florida,"
said Stanley Schrager, spokesman at the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince.

After the Coast Guard stops the boats, those on board are taken to the Comfort,
where they are interviewed to determine whether they warrant refugee status.
Those granted refugee status are taken to Guantanamo Bay for medical tests;
those rejected are returned to Haiti.

Michael McCurry, the State Department spokesman, urged Haitians today not to
flee in flimsy rafts and risk drowning. He said they should instead apply for
refugee status at processing centers in Haiti, even though fewer than 10 percent
of the Haitians applying there have been granted refugee status.

In its latest step to increase pressure on Haiti's military rulers, the
Administration is to announce this week that it will stop granting visas to
virtually all Haitians and will cancel outstanding visas, officials said today.
Because most Haitians cannot afford to travel, the decision to deny visas is
directed primarily at wealthy Haitians and is intended to push them to abandon
their support of Haiti's military rulers.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amid tightened economic sanctions against Haiti and a higher
rate of acceptance of refugee claims, the United States has reported a sharp
rise in the number of Haitians trying to flee their country by boat. In
Port-au-Prince yesterday, residents mobbed a food handout at a local church.
(Agence France-Presse) (pg. A6)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Magnet;
The Lower East Side Changes Its Face

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1565 words


The rabbi, a portrait of gentle authority with his long silk overcoat and
silvery beard, sits in a study of burled-wood bookshelves filled with large
volumes on rabbinical law and gestures backward, indicating that there is not
just one telephone in his office, but two.

Ephraim Oshry, an Orthodox rabbi born in Kovno, Lithuania, founder of religious
schools in Rome and Montreal, author of the five-volume "Responsa From the
Holocaust," a compendium of rabbinical counsel, fields questions about religious
law and ethics from his home on the second floor of a co-op building on East
Broadway, the epicenter of what was once the Jewish Lower East Side.

Two telephones are necessary because the questions come not so much from the
neighborhood, but in large numbers from farther afield, reflecting the fact that
most of the Jews from the Lower East Side no longer live near their spiritual
leader.

Demographic Change

In this sense, Rabbi Oshry represents a remnant in a neighborhood that has for
years been undergoing what the sociologists and urban planners abstractly call
demographic change. Now the area, the onetime symbol of East European
immigration, is again playing its historic role as the point of entry for new
immigrants, this time from Asia.

To preserve the district's historic character, there are energetic efforts being
made to memorialize the Jewish immigration of the late 19th and early 20th
centuries, and there are efforts, based on the district's special commercial
flavor, to draw more visitors. Merchants have formed committees to try to lure
suburban shoppers away from the malls and back to the discount heaven that is
Orchard Street; Jewish shopowners even put up Christmas lights last season.

In 1892, some 75 percent of New York's Jews lived in the area, bounded roughly
by Houston Street on the north, the Bowery on the west and the East River on the
southeast. By 1916, 23 percent lived there, and now, local Jewish organizations
say, the number is barely 10,000, or .25 percent. This does not mean that the
signs of the previous immigration have disappeared. They are still there, even
if a common sort of visual juxtaposition is the one on Hester Street, where
Chinatown Floor Covering, with its signs in English and Chinese, stands just two
doors from the H & M Skullcap Company.

"It's too early to do an elegy for the Jewish Lower East Side," said Amy
Waterman, the director of a restoration project at the Eldridge Street
Synagogue. "There's a lot going on down here."

Ms. Waterman was showing a visitor the synagogue, built in 1887, where the
much-reduced congregation has been using a room downstairs from the main
sanctuary. On June 18, after a decade of stop-and-start restoration work, the
main sanctuary was used for the first time since the early 1950's when Israel
Mirsky, whose family lives on the Bowery, celebrated his bar mitzvah.

The Pull of Humble Streets

The Eldridge Street Synagogue is one of several attempts to remember the past.
There is also the Tenement Museum on Orchard Street, in a building restored to
look as it did in the decades when hundreds of thousands of Jews arrived on
American shores.

On Sundays and weekday evenings, people still flock to Ratner's, the kosher
dairy restaurant on Delancey Street, though, according to Fred Harmatz, the
manager and grandson of the founder, the customers come from elsewhere, in much
the same way as seekers of advice call Rabbi Oshry from Brooklyn or Long Island.
It is as though geographic tradition -- the powerful association of Jewishness
with the humble streets, the brick, the fire escapes, the shops -- draws people
to the old neighborhood even when their lives have gone elsewhere.

To be sure, as Chinatown has expanded eastward and as the Jews have left or
grown old and died, the district has taken on a museum quality, as if it were
not so much a living neighborhood as a kind of theme park where the theme is
immigration.

At 183 East Broadway, what was once the Forward Building, where The Daily
Yiddish Forward was once published (and where the Yiddish word meaning "forward"
can still be made out etched into the stone of the tower), is now a Chinese
church. Next to it, where another Yiddish newspaper, The Morning Journal, was
published, is the West Lake Noodle Company. Just up East Broadway on the corner
of Rutgers Street is a Chinese restaurant called Wing Shoon, where roast
chickens, ducks and hanks of pork festoon the windows. It used to be the Garden
Cafeteria, a kosher vegetarian restaurant that was a hangout for writers.

"The day the Garden Cafeteria closed, Isaac Bashevis Singer came down," said
Rina Pianko, a co-director of Project Ezra, a community organization on East
Broadway that serves the elderly. "It was a very sad day."

A Bit of Yiddishkeit

And yet, farther along on East Broadway, and interspersed here and there amid
the Chinese shops, a bit of Yiddishkeit remains. Or, as Ms. Pianko put it: "It
could be a little shtetl sometimes. You go into the kosher bakery and people are
speaking Yiddish. It feels like a time warp."

At 235 East Broadway is the United Jewish Council, the main Orthodox social
service organization, and above that is the office of the Union of Orthodox
Rabbis.

Sitting in the somewhat disheveled office the other day, Rabbi Hersh M.
Ginsberg, the director of the organization, said that the building was going to
be sold to a Chinese investor, but that the plans were canceled when other
Jewish organizations on East Broadway complained.

"They were afraid that if we left, everybody else would close down, too," said
the rabbi, who was formerly the principal of the Rabbi Jacob Joseph School,
around the corner.  Once, 1,100 children attended the school, but now it is
closed for a lack of students.

Rabbi Ginsberg excused himself to officiate at a Beth din, a rabbinical court
and an institution that illustrates the survival of an older way of Lower East
Side life. The particular case, he said, involved a man who had been paid checks
worth $28,000 in 1985 but who for some reason never cashed them. Seven years
later, he went back to his debtor and asked for new checks, but the debtor
refused, saying that he did not remember owing the first man any money.

"The books say specifically that if somebody brings an old check, you have to be
very careful," Rabbi Ginsberg said, "because there are lots of opportunities for
swindle."

Panel of Three

After the Beth din, Rabbi Ginsberg went on to a divorce proceeding. The
divorcing couple sat in an inner room of the office of the Union of Orthodox
Rabbis, a room with brown walls, a brown linoleum floor, brown furniture and an
amber light drifting in through dusty windows. The couple faced a panel of three
rabbis who asked them, in Hebrew (though Rabbi Ginsberg said this ritual was
often in English or Yiddish, depending on the language of the couple) whether
they wished to divorce, and when both answered affirmatively, the religious
divorce was granted, in the presence of two witnesses.

The husband was handed a briefcase with paper and writing implements in it. He
raised it aloft to indicate that it was now his, because Jewish law requires
that the divorce documents be written out with materials owned by the husband,
and then he handed it to a scribe, who wrote out the decree with a quill pen and
bottled ink in the same ancient script in which the Torah is written. It could
have been East Broadway in 1905.

Experts on the Lower East Side say that there are four groups of Jewish
residents still in the district. There are the elderly who, somehow, did not
leave with the great uptown emigration; there are the Hasidim who go to the
small synagogues on East Broadway; there are middle-class people living mostly
in co-ops built by labor unions, and there are merchants, the owners of shops
who now live elsewhere and cater to customers who also live elsewhere.

Many of the shops are on Essex Street just across from Seward Park, and they
specialize either in religious articles -- skullcaps, prayer shawls, books,
kiddush cups for services, tefillin for prayers, mezzuzahs for doorposts -- or
electronics goods, sold to Israelis and Europeans looking for bargains to take
home. Many of the shopowners, no longer young, give the impression of being the
last of a type.

There was, for example, the proprietor of a store on Essex Street where
religious articles are sold. At first she said she did not want to talk to a
visitor. Then she said the Essex Street stores had survived because they were
well known enough for people from outlying areas to want to keep coming to them.
Then she sighed and explained that she was discouraged because her husband had
died and even though that happened a few years ago, she still missed the old
days when they ran the store together.

Other elderly Jews make up much of the remaining population, and the other day,
several men were gathered at the Education Alliance on East Broadway for their
weekly discussion of current affairs. Most of the men had lived in the Lower
East Side all their lives, but some moved away and then, pulled back into the
orbit of the familiar, returned.

"I was away for 31 years," said Charles Klausner, 81. "But I lost my wife. I was
lonely. The days were all right, but the nights were hard. Here I know
everybody."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Lower East Side of Manhattan, the one-time symbol of East
European immigration, is again playing its historic role as the point of entry
for new immigrants, this time from Asia. An Asian family passed an Orthodox Jew
on Essex Street. Rabbi Ephraim Oshry still fields questions about religious law
and ethics from his home on East Broadway, the epicenter of what was once the
Jewish Lower East Side. Neighborhood advertisements reflect the old and the new.
(Photographs by Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

Graph: "NEIGHBERHOOD SNAPSHOT: The Changing Lower East Side" shows race and
ethnicity statistics for Mahnattan's Lower East Side. (Source: Dr. Andrew A.
Beveridge, Sociology Department, Queens College, from the Census)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Visa Lottery's Tortuous and Unneeded

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 416 words


To the Editor:

"Aspiring Immigrants Misled on Chances in Visa Lottery" (front page, June 20)
does not address the real issues of the visa lottery that the State Department
has been holding all this month.

It is erroneous to think that to participate in the visa lottery one only needs
to "perform the straightforward task of writing one's name, birthday and place
of birth on a plain sheet of paper."

Immigration laws are quite complicated, and one mistake can lead to serious
consequences.

For example:

(1) Place of birth: A husband may use his wife's place of birth to gain a better
chance in the lottery. Different continents have different quotas. Europeans
have a much better chance than Asians to win because Europe was allocated 24,549
visas, whereas Asia was allocated only 6,837 visas. Turkey, contrary to general
belief, is considered to be a European country. Africa was allocated 20,200
visas.

(2) Can a person file only one application? Yes, but there are ways in which one
can increase one's chances to win. A 16-year-old can file an independent
application (if certain conditions are met) and can also be included as a
dependent of each parent.

(3) Can there be other possible consequences to participation in the lottery?
Consider the fact that when applying for a nonimmigrant visa, Form OF-156,
question number 32(c), reads: "have you or anyone acting for you ever indicated
to a U.S. consular or immigration employee a desire to immigrate to the U.S.?"

(4) Many clients ask questions like: Can the immigration service use the lottery
information against me? Should I give my lawyer's address rather than mine? This
is not simply writing basic information on a piece of paper.

The real issue is whether or not this kind of lottery is needed. I can think of
much better and fairer uses for these 55,000 visas.

For instance, we could encourage illegal aliens to pay United States taxes by
rewarding those who have paid taxes for several years with a special visa
lottery. Their taxes could offset the cost of the benefits illegal aliens
receive.

Another visa lottery could be for illegal aliens who have created jobs for
others. We randomly distribute green cards to people from foreign countries who
most probably will need jobs upon arrival in the United States, while others who
create jobs cannot get one. Where is the logic in this?

MICHAEL FEINER
Chairman, N.Y. Chapter, American
Immigration Lawyers Association
New York, June 21, 1994

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Fleeing Haiti: For the Poor, Choices Are Limited

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: LEOGANE, Haiti, June 29


Three years ago, five armed soldiers came knocking at Jean-Fritz Salame's door,
looking for his father. But Mr. Salame's father, Louitenante, a low-level
official in the political party of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, escaped
through a back window.

The next night the soldiers returned looking for the son. But like his father,
Mr. Salame slipped away.

"It's been a nightmare for me," said Mr. Salame, 17, who said his only chance
for survival is a boat trip. "If I don't get out I will get killed."

For Wilson Jean, 26, escape by boat is a matter of economic survival. Mr. Jean,
who is unemployed, has a wife and six children.

"I am going to go and take my chances," Mr. Jean said, discounting the fact that
even if is picked up by the United States Coast Guard, he will be returned to
Haiti regardless of his economic straits unless he can persuade immigration
officers that he has been a victim of political persecution.

These men symbolize the pressures that have led thousands to flee since the
September 1991 coup that ousted Father Aristide as President. And if thousands
more take to sea, as few here doubt, it will bring yet another crisis for the
Clinton Administration, which has struggled to find a workable Haiti policy.

Last year hundreds of boats were built here by Haitians waiting for the
propitious moment. Now, with the Administration's more generous refugee policy,
a punishing international embargo on Haiti and an increase in army-led terror,
Haitians are making good on their promises.

All along the coast, fishing boats are being prepared. Most owners have no
intention of getting to Florida. Their rickety vessels are barely able to make
it 15 miles offshore, where a dozen Coast Guard cutters are on patrol. The
refugees are taken to a United States Navy hospital ship anchored at Kingston,
Jamaica, for asylum interviews.

On Tuesday, 755 Haitian boat people were picked up, pushing the total past 2,000
in two days.

Odds Seem to Improve

This wave began shortly after President Clinton announced on May 8 that he was
rescinding the policy of summarily returning Haitians without granting them
interviews to determine whether they should be given refugee status. The exodus
gathered steam after word that a third of those interviewed received asylum, a
sharp increase from the earlier 5 percent rate among the boat people.

Also contributing to the flow is a further decline of the economy since a
near-total ban on commercial flights and a ban on financial transactions with
the United States.

While Haitians take to the seas, United States officials are urging those with
political problems to seek asylum at processing centers in Haiti. Since February
1992, United States officials in Haiti have received 58,000 applications and
interviewed 17,000 people, of whom 4,000 were given refugee status. But with the
ban on flights, about 200 Haitians granted asylum have been stranded in Haiti.

Moreover, many Haitians are loath to stand in line outside the processing
centers while soldiers drive by. Others say the process is too lengthy.

Luck Is a Big Factor

For others, who readily admit they are fleeing misery rather than persecution,
the slightest chance of finding a compassionate interviewer who will allow them
into the United States is worth taking a flimsy boat. They have watched too many
friends who fled for economic reasons gain entry.

"Everyone has his own luck," Mr. Jean said. "If I get to go to the United
States, I could find a job and feed my children."

In Leogane, 20 miles south of Port-au-Prince, almost everyone said they would be
taking a boat.

At a glance, Leogane seems quiet. The entrance to town, one of the many ports of
departure for the boat people, is lined with two rows of palm trees. The road is
unpaved and dusty and the pastoral town is peppered with mud huts, pastel
gingerbread homes and cement houses. The people sell charcoal and the catch of
the day.

But beneath that tranquility lies a more sinister place. Standing on the
black-sand shores of Leogane, where several boats are being built and others
stand ready for a voyage, residents describe a pattern of abuse by local
military leaders.

They say that indiscriminate shootings have become part of everyday life, and
that a group of even five people gathering publicly will be immediately
dispersed by soldiers. Uttering the name of Father Aristide is considered the
highest treason.

"Too many people have died," said Sauver Ouest, 52, who added that he would take
a boat as soon as he could. "Clinton can send Aristide to deliver us. If he
wants to free us he can, because Haiti is a little country."

Jean-Claude Foreste, 41, echoed these sentiments. Until the coup, his job was to
affix pictures of President Aristide in offices and on poles.

Shortly after the coup, soldiers came looking for him. He fled La Gonave, an
island off Leogane, and came here with his 10 children. Mr. Foreste said he had
applied for asylum in Port-au-Prince but had not heard from anyone since the
application, two years ago.

"The moment I find a boat leaving, I will take one," he said. "What I want the
most is peace and security. I want to be somewhere until things change in my
country. I want to take my children with me."

But some people, like Jerome Estaril, 45, said they would not take a boat
because they know that they will be sent back. "I can't leave," he said. "I will
only go if I am sure I will get to stay. I am only hungry and the United States
does not want me."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Coast Guard cutter Hamilton stopped a boat laden with
refugees on Saturday between Haiti and Cuba. (Pool photo by Agence
France-Presse)

Map of Haiti showing locationof Leogane. (pg. A3)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Law Overturned on Paying Cost of Jailing Stowaways

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, June 29


A Federal appeals court has struck down an Immigration and Naturalization
Service policy that required owners of ships and airplanes to pay the cost of
detaining stowaways who apply for political asylum until their proceedings are
finished.

The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia ruled on Tuesday that
the immigration service had violated Federal guidelines in establishing the
policy, which is intended to assure that transportation companies are vigilant
against stowaways.

While the decision rested on a technicality and applies only to the states under
the court's jurisdiction, it was apparently the first blow against rules that
human-rights advocates have long attacked for forcing owners of ships and
airplanes into the expensive and unwanted role of jailing stowaways.

Repeated Appeals

In one recent case, 20 or so stowaways from Romania who arrived in Boston by
hiding themselves in huge metal cargo containers loaded onto a 43,000-ton
freighter in France were held for several weeks by a shipping company in hotels
in Newark, shackled together by leg irons.

After repeated appeals by the company, Sea-Land Service, the I.N.S. arranged for
them to be transferred to a county jail in Pennsylvania, where they are being
detained until their proceedings are finished. Sea-Land is paying for the cost
of the jail space.

Duke Austin, a senior spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in Washington, said tonight that the agency's lawyers had just received the
appeals court's ruling and had not yet made recommendations on how to respond.
The immigration service has faced similar rulings in the past and has reacted by
putting the regulations in question back through the approval process, which
could take months.

Mr. Austin said it was not clear whether the immigration service would appeal
the case to the Supreme Court or if the Federal Government would have to take
into custody stowaways now being held by private companies. Industry experts say
a few thousand stowaways try to enter the country every year.

"What the interim effect of the decision will be can't be said," Mr. Austin
said. "We haven't resolved that. We don't feel comfortable in evaluating it at
this point."

New Regulations

But Joseph F. DeMay Jr., the lawyer for the shipowner in the case, the Dia
Navigation Company, said stowaways in the court's jurisdiction -- New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware and the Virgin Islands -- would now be the Federal
Government's responsibility until the I.N.S. puts into effect new regulations
according to the procedures that it failed to follow.

Mr. DeMay said Dia and other shipping companies could also sue the Federal
Government for the costs of detaining stowaways in those jurisdictions for the
last six years, the statute of limitations in these cases. And he said he
expected shipping companies might file similar lawsuits in other states.

"The fact that it is only binding in these states doesn't mean that the ruling
does not have a persuasive effect in other states," he added.  "Outside of these
states, the courts are not required to follow the ruling. However, the opinion
usually carries some persuasive authority."

The decision came on an appeal by Dia, a Cyprus-based corporation that
inadvertently brought four Romanian stowaways into United States waters in
February 1992 aboard a freighter called the European Senator.

After the ship arrived in Newark, one of the busiest ports in the country, the
stowaways requested asylum. Because Dia was not allowed to turn them over to the
Federal Government, it decided to keep them under 24-hour watch at the Holiday
Inn on Staten Island. The immigration service fines companies several thousand
dollars for each stowaway who escapes custody.

A Hunger Strike

One of the stowaways went on a hunger strike and threatened to commit suicide.
The company had to hire a Romanian interpreter to help prepare I.N.S. forms and
to assist at asylum hearings.

Eventually two stowaways were granted asylum and two were deported and flown
back to Romania at Dia's expense. The company said it spent $127,590 on
detention-related expenses over 54 days.

Dia sued the immigration service in Federal court here in Newark. Responding to
a request by the Government, the court dismissed the suit. But the appeals court
reversed that order, holding that the policy constituted a rule that should have
been laid down following regulations set by the Federal Administrative Procedure
Act.

"In the face of what is at best statutory ambiguity," the court said, "I.N.S.
has adopted rules holding carriers liable for unlimited costs of detention and
imposing custody with no guidelines or subject only to the standards as
determined by an I.N.S. officer on the scene."

Possible Lawsuits

Under the act, Federal agencies must publish their policies in the Federal
Register and then evaluate the comments they receive on them before the policies
can become permanent. Even after the policies become final, people or companies
can file lawsuits against them.

Though the court's ruling rested on apparently narrow ground, human-rights
advocates said it might pressure the immigration service into re-evaluating its
stowaway policies. At the least, they said, the agency should take stowaways
into custody and bill the private companies for the cost.

"I am quite pleased by the decision," said Stephanie Marks, coordinator of the
asylum program for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. "I would hope now
that the I.N.S. would see the error of this policy of requiring shipping
companies to act as jailers."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 2, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

137 Cubans Land in Florida; Largest Boatload Since 1980

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 1


The largest single boatload of Cuban refugees to land in Florida since the
Mariel boatlift in 1980 docked here today, joining a wave of Cubans fleeing
their homeland that is the greatest since the 1980 influx, when 125,000 landed
in Florida.

The 137 men, women and children who made the 90-mile journey from Cuba in a
75-foot steel-hulled freighter pushed this year's total to 3,854; of that total,
1,173 arrived in June. With the year now at the halfway mark, the number of
Cuban refugees arriving by raft or boat has surpassed the total of 3,656 who
fled here in all of 1993, immigration officials say.

"It's by far the busiest month and year since the Mariel boatlift of 1980," said
Petty Officer Rob Wyman, a Coast Guard spokesman here.

The vessel was monitored by the Coast Guard for several days as it made its way
near the Bahamas, Mr. Wyman said, and was escorted to shore by a Coast Guard
patrol boat when it arrived off Miami Beach.

More Haitians, Too

Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service interviewed the Cubans and
turned them over to Church World Services, an organization that helps refugees
settle in the United States.

Along with the new influx of Cubans, the Coast Guard halted 1,667 Haitians in
June, the highest monthly total since 1992, when President George Bush ordered
the return of all Haitians found at sea.

Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the immigration agency, said the refugees were
leaving their homelands for different reasons.

The main reason for the influx of Cubans, Mr. Bergeron said, is a deteriorating
economy at home. In addition, he said, the weather this year has been more
favorable than usual for crossing the Straits of Florida in inner-tube rafts or
small boats.

As for the Haitians, he said, many have fled partly because of President
Clinton's announcement in May that those found at sea would be interviewed for
possible political asylum, creating a heightened "anticipation of the
opportunity of gaining some sort of relief."

Fear of Oppression

Although both Cuba and Haiti are undergoing economic difficulties, some of the
refugees say they have fled because they fear political oppression or violence.

Rolando Mora, a 30-year-old music instructor from a town near Havana, arrived in
Key West this morning after a Coast Guard cutter rescued him and two friends
from a raft made from gas cans and wooden planks. Mr. Mora said he had been
jailed in Cuba for a year for speaking against the Government of Fidel Castro.

"I wrote a song about the Commandant," Mr. Mora said, referring to Mr. Castro.
"It explains everything that is happening" in Cuba, he added, saying the the
last verse ends with a vow to leave Cuba on a raft.

Since the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the subsequent loss of Soviet
subsidies, Mr. Castro has resorted to tight rationing measures. In Haiti, where
military officers have ruled since September 1991 after ousting the nation's
democratically elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, sanctions
imposed by the United States have squeezed the Haitian economy.

Concerned about the possibility of another large influx of refugees, the Coast
Guard has stepped up its patrols off Florida. Last weekend, Coast Guard
officials said, 786 Haitians in 25 boats were intercepted.

Starting June 15, the Coast Guard has been taking any Haitians found at sea to a
Navy medical ship off Jamaica, where they are interviewed to determine if they
should be given a hearing for asylum. Those who are not granted hearings are
returned to Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1994, Monday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about 137 Cuban refugees
landing in Florida misstated the number of Haitians who were halted by the Coast
Guard in June. It was 5,603, not 1,667.



                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 3, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A New U.S. Import in El Salvador: Street Gangs

BYLINE: By MIKE O'CONNOR,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, June 30


As trucks loaded with the day's unsold fruit pulled away from San Salvador's
central market on a recent evening, a group of young people began to gather in
the parking lot. Their tattoos, baggy pants and shirts several sizes too big
marked them as different from other young people living in the surrounding
slums.

But it was the way they walked, a slouching, belligerent gait learned as members
of street gangs in the United States, that made them unmistakable and drew
stares of fear and admiration from other youths.

While Salvadorans try to remake a society left in shreds by civil war, they are
finding that some of the children of families who fled to the United States are
coming back and spreading a kind of violence once unknown here.

As a result of a crackdown begun by U.S. immigration authorities 18 months ago,
young Salvadorans who joined street gangs while living in tough immigrant
neighborhoods in the United States are being picked up and deported. On
returning to El Salvador, some recreate their gangs, which are now terrorizing
even parts of the country that escaped the civil war.

'Learned to Be Criminals'

"These are our children," said Rufina Granados, 56 years old, packing up her
mangoes and looking furtively at the group in the parking lot. "They left to
escape the war here, but in the United States they learned to be criminals. Now
the young people who stayed here think joining these gangs is good."

In the United States, many young immigrants banded together because they felt
alone in a new society. Now, deported to a homeland they had nearly forgotten,
they once again feel isolated, and join other deportees to form gangs.

One of the men who gathered at the market was Ernesto Carbajal, 23, who was
deported after serving time in a California prison for attempted murder and drug
sales.

"The first day I got back, the only person I had here was my grandmother, but I
couldn't find her house," he said. "I just started walking the streets, and I
spotted other guys who I could tell were like me. Now we got our gang, and we do
what we are used to doing."

In the 11 months since he arrived, matters have changed quickly. Now there is a
substantial network of deportees, and new ones often arrive with contacts
already established.

Imported California Rivalry

The dozen men in their late teens and early 20's who accompanied Mr. Carbajal
began to discuss a threat to their widening turf from a gang with which they had
developed a murderous rivalry in California. Now members of that gang who have
been deported are showing up at the market.

"That's going to stop tonight," said a youth nicknamed Caspar. "They ain't
showing us no respect. They're trying to see if we're strong, or what." He spoke
in bursts of English and Spanish laced with slang from the immigrant slums of
Los Angeles, where he grew up, and the even poorer slums of San Salvador, where
he lives now.

To show their strength, Caspar said, they must shoot the next rival sighted. The
others agreed.

El Salvador's civil war, in which more civilians than soldiers were killed, and
the underdeveloped justice system provide a framework in which violence comes
easily and is often left unpunished. The war left 70,000 dead and a society
fractured. Several hundred thousand Salvadorans fled to the United States.

Officials now estimate that the number of gang members in El Salvador has grown
to several thousand, most of whom have never been to the United States but
joined gangs started by deportees.

And by maintaining contacts with their colleagues in the United States, some
Salvadoran gang members claim to have quickly expanded into international crime.


A Stolen -Car Ring

Alvaro Espinoza, who is proud enough of his gang to have its name -- 18th Street
-- tattooed across his forehead, said the most successful venture so far was
fencing cars stolen in the United States and driven down through Mexico and
Guatemala. He also spoke with optimism of an expanding business in buying black
market assault rifles and hand grenades left over from the war, then selling
them in California.

Senior Salvadoran police officers, as well as gang members in Los Angeles,
corroborated Mr. Espinoza's account of the gang's businesses.

Deported gang members also claim to have formed alliances with crime syndicates
here controlled by former or current officials of the military and the police.

Signs of gangs are evident in the graffiti used to mark territory in urban slums
and rural hamlets.

Even Villagers Are Robbed

In the village of San Felipe in central El Salvador, which graffiti in English
now proclaims as gang turf, Julio Diaz, 62, considered the impact of the gang on
his community: "It has become worse than the war."

Mr. Diaz said villagers are assaulted and robbed with impunity. Much more
ominous, he said, is the attraction gangs have for other village youths.

"They think anything that comes from the United States has to be good," he said.
"My wife says before long we'll have more kids here in gangs than in school."

In the village of San Bartolo, as in others, a gang has emerged to oppose the
deportees. Demonstrating what experts in the United States say in the typical
pattern of how gangs spread, teen-age boys and girls say they have joined
together as a defense against a gang formed around two men deported from
Houston.

None of the youths have been to the United States, but in naming their "defense"
gang they reached north for an appropriate image. They decided on 42d Street,
after seeing a movie that portrayed the street as running through an especially
rough part of New York.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Young Salvadorans who joined gangs in the United States and have
been deported back home are forming new gangs in El Salvador. Three gang members
in the town of San Bartolo showed off their tattoos. (Donna DeCesare for The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 7, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Haiti Adds Rape To Asylum Claims

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 282 words


To the Editor:

Your June 26 report on the difficulty Haitian rape victims face in proving their
asylum claims, as detailed in the case of an activist who fled after having been
assaulted by four police agents, highlights the inadequacy of our present asylum
system in dealing with the claims of women.

Women and children constitute 80 percent of the world's refugees. In many
countries, women are subjected to gender-specific types of persecution,
including rape, genital mutilation, bride burning, infanticide and forced
abortion or sterilization.

You point out the difficulty asylum applicants face in proving rape. While it is
possible to qualify for asylum based on testimony alone, rape victims must
overcome the effects of psychological trauma and cultural prohibitions against
discussing such topics with male asylum officers or in the presence of male
family members. Such cultural and psychological obstacles may unfairly discredit
an applicant's testimony.

This year, the Women Refugees Project of Harvard Law School's Cambridge and
Somerville Legal Services drafted guidelines for the adjudication of women's
asylum claims. The guidelines, endorsed by 36 organizations and individuals
(including my association) were presented to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service; that agency will shortly issue its own guidelines based on the Harvard
model.

We may hope the new guidelines will make it possible for women such as those you
describe to escape the tyranny of sexual brutality in Haiti and elsewhere.

JEFFREY S. CHASE
Washington, June 29, 1994

The writer is chairman of the American Immigration Lawyers Association's Asylum
Reform Task Force.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 8, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Latvia's Barrier to Partnership

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words


Latvians cheered President Clinton in Riga on Wednesday when he pledged
partnership with the Baltic republics to keep them forever free. But there was
stony silence when he appealed to them not to "deny to others the justice and
equality you fought so hard for and earned for yourselves, for freedom without
tolerance is freedom unfulfilled."

The others he referred to are ethnic Russians, left behind by a receding empire,
who are the objects of Latvian intolerance. Latvia, understandably resentful
about its past, is right to want all Russian troops out. But it is wrong to
avenge the past by discriminating against Russian residents.

In a land of just over two million people, Latvia has 700,000 Russian-speaking
residents. Some are military retirees who have settled there. Others are
Latvian-born descendants of workers sent to Russify the country decades ago.
Under proposed legislation, some 300,000 of them will have to apply for
citizenship, but quotas will allow just a trickle to be naturalized. As resident
aliens they face discrimination in jobs, education and housing.

There are reasons for this. Latvia did not just suffer loss of independence in
50 years of Soviet rule. Many of its people were exiled to Siberia and
elsewhere. It struggled to keep its language and culture vital under pressure of
Russification.

America's experience with immigration bears little comparison to Latvia's. And
even here, when immigrants were officially welcomed, they have faced
discrimination and bigotry. But Americans also know the dreadful price of ethnic
exclusivity, which, when allowed to flourish, has been a divisive and
destructive force in their own society. They can plead with Latvia to rise above
its painful recent history and be tolerant of ethnic differences.

Americans also distrust leaders who exploit hatred of "the other" -- those of a
different ethnicity -- to gain power. Especially in Eastern Europe, where no
country is ethnically homogeneous, efforts to exclude the other will only give
pretexts to neighboring nationalists to protect their kin across the border --
or even lead to new Bosnias.

Regardless of past wrongs, for Latvia to deny its Russians rights is to invite
trouble while impeding close partnership with the United States.


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 9, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

407 Haitians Are Returned In Just 1

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, July 8


The United States Coast Guard cutter Vindicator took 407 Haitians home today,
the largest group since the Administration began processing refugee applications
at sea, but Haitians kept arriving faster than ships could pick them up.

To keep up with the flow -- since Monday, more than 10,000 have poured out of
Haiti -- American officials said today that thay they plan to add staff and
speed up operations so that next week they can send back 1,000 asylum-seekers a
day.

When the program began three weeks ago, the first few days brought only a
handful of fleeing Haitians, but the number being interdicted at sea each day
has risen to more than 1,500.


Even the Banks Are Empty

The Haitian Red Cross, which is involved in repatriation, said today that it was
having difficulties finding money to give to the returning Haitians because the
country's banks, which are starved for cash, cannot honor the agency's checks.
But United States Embassy officials advanced the Red Cross enough money to hand
$20 to returning Haitians.

Before the new program, fleeing Haitians intercepted at sea were routinely
returned to their country without being interviewed by immigration officials.
 Once the offshore processing began, the number of boat people swelled, and to
keep up, officials say they will increase the number of applications processed
to 1,000 a day next week.

"It's a little tight scheduling, but it can be done," said Stanley Schrager, a
spokesman for the United States Embassy at Port-au-Prince.

No Waves From Panama

There was no sign that the decision from Panama not to allow Haitians to stay
there temporarily will stem the flow of refugees that have taken to the seas in
craft ranging from small rafts and 40-foot vessels.

Scores of Haitian peasants interviewed have said that only the return of the
exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, would prevent them from
leaving their country. Father Aristide was ousted during a military coup in
September 1991.

Today, American officials recorded new radio messages intended to discourage
Haitians from fleeing their country. The minute-long announcements in Creole
will be broadcast throughout the country. The messages tell Haitians of the
dangers of taking a boat, emphasize that the streets of the United States are
not paved with gold and that the best way to apply for asylum is in one of three
centers within Haiti.

The Haitian military-backed government of Emil Jonassaint has done little to
stop the exodus despite a recent declaration that it would enforce a 1980 law
prohibiting such departures. Instead, the Government issued a communique earlier
this week, accusing the United States of picking up legitimate fishermen as
refugees.

Some repatriated Haitians are arrested by military officials after being dropped
off but most are released within 72 hours, and few if any are prosecuted.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Coast Guard cutter took 407 Haitians home yesterday, the
largest group since they began processing refugees. In Port-au-Prince, Haitian
refugees got off a Red Cross van after their return. (Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 10, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: ASTORIA;
For Bosnians, Melting Pot Is a Myth

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 8;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 676 words


To most patrons, Steinway Cafe Billiards is a place to shoot some pool and
guzzle a few beers afterward. But for one group of young men and women, it has
much greater significance.

The pool hall on Steinway Street has become a gathering place for about 20 young
Bosnian refugees who have been relocated in Queens by international agencies.
Here, they speak Serbo-Croatian, which they now call "Bosnian," drink coffee,
listen to Bosnian music on tape cassettes, gossip and giggle. When they have
money, they even shoot pool.

"Things have been difficult," said Nadim Ridjanovic. "We don't really fit in
here."

In Sarajevo, it was chic and simple "to act American, to be cool" -- listening
to Bruce Springsteen and wearing sunglasses and jeans. But up close, they say,
America is hard to fathom.

Their new neighborhoods, primarily in Astoria, Ridgewood and Flushing, are a
hodge-podge of cultures. Salsa music blares on streets that are crowded with
Chinese, Indian and Greek restaurants and Italian bakeries.

The youths see themselves as outcasts in this melting pot and among the older
Bosnian immigrants and refugees, who resent them for not staying and fighting
for their country. With little help from the organizations that helped bring
them over and from Muslim organizations here, they are struggling to make ends
meet.

To Mr. Ridjanovic and his friends, the melting pot is a myth -- at least in
their case. They say ethnic prejudices run deep. Greeks in Astoria are
pro-Serbian, the young men say, something that disturbs many of them who said
they were tortured by Serbian soldiers during the war. Historically, Serbian and
Greek Orthodox Christians shared a common hatred for the Ottoman Empire, making
them de facto allies.

In a delicatessen near his home, Mr. Ridjanovic says, he hears its Greek owner
wishing for a Serbian victory in the war. But Mr. Ridjanovic did get some
satisfaction out of seeing Greece's defeat in the World Cup.

The young immigrants also are careful to keep their distance from clubs and bars
that are known to be Croatian and Serbian turf. "We don't want to start a fight
in this country," Mr. Ridjanovic said.

Many of the immigrants came from comfortable families and are well- educated.
But because of language difficulties and different educational standards in
America, they now have to accept unemployment or low-paying menial jobs.

Amir Deljanin, 19, was studying to be a computer technician in Sarajevo. He now
works in a warehouse in Flushing.

Others have been victimized by unscrupulous employers. Mr. Ridjanovic said he
spent nearly $300 responding to advertisements that promised jobs with big
returns for a small investment up front. After spending $200 on photographs, he
barely broke even, working two days as an extra on a movie set. He also spent
money buying ice picks and other tools for a short-lived career as a
door-to-door meat salesman. He now calls this country "the United Scams of
America."

But the Ridjanovic family, like many Bosnian families, resisted applying for
welfare.

"We don't need handouts!" declared Mr. Ridjanovic's father, Dr. Midhat
Ridjanovic, a former professor of linguistics at the University of Sarajevo. "We
need jobs that would pay us money. We're willing to work."

There is little emotional support for these youths from older Bosnians. On a
recent Sunday, a group of middle-aged men sitting in a semicircle at the Bosnian
Islamic Cultural Center stopped talking about the conflict back home when Mr.
Ridjanovic appeared on the scene.

"Why are you here?" one man asked. "Why aren't you fighting for our country?"

Mr. Radjanovic quickly walked away.

Later, in the pool hall, he asked rhetorically, "Why can't he go and fight? He's
still young."

Several young men chimed in, "They want us to die for them."

In the background, a tape of Dino Merlin, a Bosnian rock singer, blended with
the cracking of the pool balls. "I always dream about going back to Bosnia," he
sang. "Someone is waiting for me, somebody who loves me."JANE H. LII

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nadim Ridjanovic, one of the young Bosnian refugees who gather
at a pool hall on Steinway Street. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 17, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Archive Yields Rich Details of Era When Chinese Were Barred

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 25;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words


Out of a mountain of files stored in Federal Government buildings for the last
century, a thorny but seldom discussed period in American immigration history
has slowly come to light in the last two years.

The period was 1882 to 1943, when the Chinese Exclusion Acts barred all but four
categories of Chinese immigrants from entering the United States. The policy,
which grew out of fear and protectionism, normally gets only the briefest
mention in American history courses. Teachers, students, merchants and
short-term visitors were welcome; laborers, in particular, were not.

But within the 12,000 files, now stored at the National Archives' Northeast
Region division on Varick Street in lower Manhattan, there are thousands of
details -- in telegrams, certificates, postcards, photographs and transcripts --
of the ordeals Chinese people faced and the cat-and-mouse game that evolved as
they tried to enter the United States, mostly through New York.

'High-Stakes Game'

"It was a very high-stakes game, because it was very costly to come in from
China," said Betty Lee Sung, a professor of history at City College and the
author of several books about the Chinese experience in the United States.

Ms. Sung has led the project that brought new attention to the immigrant files
decades after they were closed. Financed in part by the National Endowment for
the Humanities, researchers are transferring much of the information from the
files to a computer database known as Chinese Immigration Records. When
completed this year, the database will be the first to focus on this immigrant
group and will be available to scholars for statistical analysis and other
projects and to families seeking to document their own histories.

The files offer a glimpse into "paper families," created when a man legally in
the United States agreed to sell his family documents and testimony so that an
unrelated child could be sponsored for entry. To show that some applicants were
merchants, ornate books were prepared, declaring the bearer to be a shareholder
in a Chinatown company. So intense was the fear of being found out that many
"paper sons" kept their false names all their lives; sometimes their survivors
engraved their original names on their tombstones after they died.

Interrogating Immigrants

In one file there is a sepia-tinted photograph of a 13-year-old boy, dressed in
a peasant's blouse fastened at the shoulder. Behind the photo is the typed
transcript of the interrogation he had to sit through, with questions from
American immigration officials like "Did your mother have bound feet?" Two
people identified as his father and sister sat through similar interviews;
discrepancies in their answers could have meant a return to China for the boy.
Every possible identifying mark is listed: a scar from a boil on his temple,
more on his hands, a tiny mole near one ear.

In another file, a man is asked: "Who occupied the house on the fifth lot of
your row in your native village?" A deposition gives his height and age and
states that he "can be further identified by having no queue." Questions about
water buffalo -- how many a village had, and their sex breakdown -- were common,
and discrepancies received an inspector's crisp pencil checkmark beside the
question.

"I'm not sure many people could survive this kind of interrogation," said Robert
Morris, director of the National Archives for the Northeast Region.

Two retired sons of Chinatown, Kaimon Chin and Robert Lee, have been working as
researchers on the project for the last year. They have come across people they
knew in childhood and have come to regard the people who managed to make it into
the country with a respectful awe.

"We sort of understood the whole thing, but we never realized what type of
hardships and discrimination there was," Mr. Chin said.

Simply enduring the interrogations, which included testimony from witnesses
(white witnesses were required for merchants) was a real test. "They were guilty
until they proved otherwise," Mr. Lee said.

'Paper' Families

To make sure they proved otherwise, immigrants and their families -- "paper" and
otherwise -- prepared crib sheets months ahead of their arrivals. "They would
have to study," Mr. Chin said, "and know things like: My house is the third
house in the fourth row, the ancestral hall is in the third row facing left, and
there are this many water buffalo in the village: this many males, this many
females."

Mr. Lee, a former banker whose father was a restaurant worker, discovered his
uncle's records in the file; the uncle was interrogated on his way out of the
country as he took Mr. Lee's grandfather's bones to China for burial. Mr. Chin
had a cousin who came in as the "paper son" of a man whose surname was Tom.
Until he served in the Navy during World War II, after which he was eligible for
naturalization, Mr. Chin's cousin kept the name. Then he formally became a Chin
again.

"It's really important for the general public to know and also to understand the
full story of what happened to Chinese immigrants coming to America," said Sue
Lee, a spokeswoman for the Chinatown History Museum, which is not involved in
the project. "It's not something you can really find out about from your history
books in school or in college."

Calling 32 Mott Street Home

Mr. Lee and Mr. Chin were responsible for determining the names, places of
origin and other fundamental details about each file for entry into the
database.

But they are also getting a rare overview of the process and the people who went
through it. They laugh when they see someone who gave 32 Mott Street as an
address to the immigration officials. "There must be 5,000 people who were
living in that building," Mr. Chin said. But such "coincidences" often went
undetected by inspectors, who had no central information source that would
reveal such patterns.

Because only Chinese applicants went through such extensive interrogation, the
files provide rich historical detail about the places they said they came from.
The files, when analyzed, are also expected to give detailed information about
Chinese immigration patterns during that period.

"We just had a group of archivists here from mainland China," Mr. Morris said.
"They were fascinated. They weren't aware that these existed." Similar projects
have been proposed in Seattle and San Francisco, he said.

Ms. Sung, who said her own family entered the country through Seattle, got the
project going in 1990 after she heard about the files, then stored in Bayonne,
N.J. She began with a grant from the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation in Taiwan and
finished the work with another grant from the National Endowment for the
Humanities.

'It was a very sad chapter in Chinese-American history," she says, "because it
shows the type of persecution that went on. Some people were kept in detention
for a year or two, and grilled and grilled and grilled." Some became depressed
and committed suicide. Most of them persisted, and became part of the nation's
history.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Lee, left, and Kaimon Chin at the National Archives'
Northeast Region division on Varick Street in lower Manhattan, where they are
helping to create a Chinese Immigration Records computer database from the
12,000 files stored there. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 19, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Israelis and Jordanians Meet, In Public and With Optimism

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

DATELINE: EIN AVRONA, Israel, July 18


In an air-conditioned tent straddling their countries' desert border, peace
negotiators for Israel and Jordan met publicly today for the first time in their
own region and spoke with new optimism about ending the technical state of war
that has existed between them for 46 years.

Both sides said their talks had gone well, but added that they would need time
to produce a peace treaty, which has eluded the two countries even though they
have long cooperated to keep their frontier quiet. Disagreements remain over a
range of issues, including border lines, water rights and the fate of hundreds
of thousands of Palestinian refugees.

But no one here, in a desert valley nine miles north of the Gulf of Aqaba, had
expected instant results. Symbolism was the substance today, the central point
being that the old enemies had begun talking to each other on their own turf
after three years of inconclusive meetings in conference rooms in Washington.

For Israel, the change of venue was a triumph, signaling another step toward
full acceptance by its Arab neighbors. And the meeting today was only the first
of several events scheduled during the next week to make a point that Israel and
Jordan are on a fast track, although how fast remains to be seen.

On Wednesday, in another first, the Israeli Foreign Minister will openly cross
the border to meet his American and Jordanian counterparts at a hotel on
Jordan's side of the Dead Sea. Then next Monday, King Hussein of Jordan is
scheduled to meet publicly at the White House with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin
of Israel, yet another precedent.

The King and the Prime Minister are known to have talked secretly in the past,
part of a series of clandestine encounters that the Jordanian monarch has had
with Israeli leaders for three decades.

By going public now, lured in that direction by prospects of American military
aid and debt write-offs, King Hussein hints at a new self-assurance. His aim, he
has said in recent days, is to protect his national interests, but he also seems
intent on asserting a measure of independence from powerful Syria and on
outflanking the Palestinians in claims to authority over Muslim holy places in
Jerusalem.

The perennial big question is whether he will be so bold as to make Jordan the
second Arab country, after Egypt, to sign a peace treaty with Israel, or wait
until Syria, Lebanon and the Palestinians are also ready. For now, the official
Jordanian line is that no separate treaties will be signed.

But that does not rule out important progress, and both Jordanians and Israelis
tried to impart a sense of historic change to today's negotiating session in the
tent, even if it qualified on many levels as nothing more than a photogenic
extension of Washington talks carried out with slender results since 1991.

Against a backdrop of jagged mountains, Ein Avrona is a nature preserve on the
Israeli side of the cease-fire line established after the war that followed
Israel's founding in 1948. It is also a testament to the formal state of war
that still exists.

The long white-and-yellow tent that billowed under blasts of air-conditioning
was set right on the cease-fire line, Jordanian delegates sitting on their side
and the Israelis on theirs. Surrounding the tent was a double row of barbed-wire
fencing, and officials cautioned journalists against straying too far because of
nearby mine fields. Soldiers on both sides kept the public away from the site,
which was more than a mile off the main Israeli highway.

Still, despite such unwelcoming touches, the two delegations acknowledged that
they had brought their talks home, the significance of that fact reinforced by
the live broadcasts carried by both state television networks.

'Interdependence' Cited

"We hope that our location, which gives testimony to the imperatives of
geographic proximity and interdependence, will inspire us to arrive at tangible
results," said Fayez al-Tarawneh, Jordan's chief delegate and its Ambassador to
the United States.

Elyakim Rubinstein, head of the Israeli team and a former Cabinet Secretary,
said: "This meeting takes place in a tent. The tent is tentative, but peace
should, and will be, permanent."

For all the sense of novelty, the idea that the two sides are talking comes as
no shock, certainly not in Israel.

The rightist opposition, which denounces Mr. Rabin's peace initiatives with the
Arabs on virtually every other front, has welcomed recent moves with Jordan,
although it also accuses the Government of being too willing to make
concessions.

King Hussein's domestic position is more precarious. Both leftist and Islamic
fundamentalist opponents, significant forces in the Jordanian Parliament, have
attacked the negotiations with Israel, one Muslim leader saying today that "it
totally contradicts everything we have been brought up on."

The focus on the talks here, which continue on Tuesday, are border and water
issues, including their security implications.

Jordan contends that Israel illegally occupies 145 square miles of territory,
most in the Jordan rift valley that stretches from the Dead Sea to the Gulf of
Aqaba. "This is Jordanian territory," Mr. Tarawneh said.

But Israel says the border was never clearly drawn, going back to when Britain
sought to define it in 1922, when it had a League of Nations mandate putting it
in charge of what was then Palestine. At the time, the British separated the
part of Palestine west of the Jordan River -- encompassing what is now Israel
and its occupied territory -- from the eastern segment, then called Transjordan.

"No single person on earth knows exactly the location of the boundary," Mr.
Rubinstein said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The chief peace negotiators for Israel and Jordan greeted each
other yesterday as they prepared for a meeting at the border. Elyakim Rubinstein
of Israel, center left, shook hands with Fayez al-Tarawneh of Jordan.
(Reuters)(pg. A1)

Map of Israel showing location of Ein Avrona. (pg. A9)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 21, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Gives Somali Mother Refugee Status

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, July 20


In a landmark immigration ruling, Canada has granted refugee status to a Somali
woman who fled her country with her 10-year-old daughter because she feared that
the daughter would face ritual genital mutilation.

In one of the rare times that any Western nation has specifically cited the
threat of this ancient custom, widely practiced in Africa, as a reason for
granting asylum, a panel of Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board said the
daughter's "right to personal security would be grossly infringed" if she were
forced to return.

The mother, Khadra Hassan Farah, 30, who lives in Ottawa and intends to study
nursing this fall at the local Algonquin College, said in a telephone interview:
"I couldn't believe my ears. I was so happy."

A two-member panel of the board ruled on the case on May 10, but the written
decision was published only last week.

"The panel is satisfied that the authorities in Somalia will not protect the
claimant from the physical and emotional ravages of female genital mutilation,
given the evidence of its widespread practice in that country," the panel said.

Recalling the Horror

Ms. Farah, who underwent the ritual 20 years ago, said she could still recall
the horror. "I can still see the scene and feel the pain and trauma all over
again," she declared.

Her daughter, Hodan Farah, "does not really understand the situation," the
mother said. Had her appeal been rejected, she said she would have tried to put
Hodan up for adoption in Canada.

Female genital mutilation, often referred to as female circumcision, has long
been condemned by human rights advocates and health professionals in the West.
It entails cutting away some part of a girl's genitalia before the onset of
puberty. Some scholars say its purpose is to thwart sexual appetite, maintain a
girl's virginity and enhance her appeal as a marital partner.

The World Health Organization has estimated that as many as 114 million women
worldwide have endured the procedure.

In many Western countries it is against the law. Britain, Sweden and Switzerland
in recent years have passed specific legislation banning it. In the United
States such legislation has been introduced in Congress.

Canada, along with France, maintains that any bodily mutilation is already a
violation of its existing criminal laws, making new legislation unnecessary.

Criminal Case in France

In a case involving a woman from Mali, who was accused of mutilating her
three-month-old daughter, France last year became the first country to bring
criminal charges against someone who performs the procedure.

Nurjehan Mawani, a Kenyan-born lawyer who is chairwoman of the immigration
board, said she did not expect a flood of claims to result from the Canadian
decision.

"Refugee determination is always on a case-by-case basis," she pointed out. "I
expect we may see a few more cases, but certainly no floodgates. If you look at
the overall worldwide situation, only 5 percent of world refugees are able to
claim refugee status in the West, and of these the proportion of women is
abysmally small. Women do not have the same mobility as men."

David Matas, president of the Canadian Council of Refugees, said the decision
"will help to redress the gender bias and capture the female experience of
persecution." He added, "Until now the process has tended to use a largely
male-dominated definition, of somebody politically active, involved in
demonstrations and the like."

In 1991 France became the first country to establish that female genital
mutilation is a form of persecution and that the threat of it is sufficient
grounds to grant a woman refugee status.

Canadian Case a First

But no one has yet been granted such status in France for this reason. The
latest ruling is believed to make Canada the first country to grant such status
as part of its conventional refugee procedures.

In March of last year, Canada adopted guidelines that make it easier for women
to claim refugee status, which paved the way for the latest ruling. Yet the
guidelines have not resulted in any increase in claims. In fact, new refugee
claims fell last year to 22,000 from 30,000 the year before, Ms. Mawani, the
board chairwoman, said.

A case similar to the one just decided in Canada came up this year in the United
States. A Federal immigration judge ruled in March that a Nigerian woman living
illegally in Portland, Ore., would not be deported to her native country because
her two young daughters would probably face genital mutilation if they
accompanied her.

But the Portland judge's ruling was not as sweeping as that of the Canadian
panel. The judge, Kendall Warren, did not grant a request for asylum, which
would have broken new ground, but merely annulled an expulsion order.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Arrests 3 in Immigration Marriage Fraud

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 914 words


Theirs was a prenuptial agreement that left no room for romance. Elaine Wilson,
the authorities said, wanted only one thing from the marriage: her betrothed's
money. And he wanted only one thing in return: to arrest her.

On June 30 they drove together to One Municipal Plaza in lower Manhattan and
obtained a marriage license. Yesterday the wedding plans collapsed when
colleagues of the prospective groom -- an undercover agent of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service -- arrested Ms. Wilson, 30, and two others on charges
of participating in a marriage fraud ring aimed at illegal immigrants.

The green-card matchmaking service charged illegal immigrants $5,000 to obtain
legal residency through fake marriages with United States citizens, the
authorities said. It operated through a company called Third World Personnel
Services at 1600 Broadway near Times Square, they said.

Files seized yesterday indicate that Third World Personnel Services may have
arranged about 500 fraudulent marriages, grossing about $2.5 million, officials
said. That would make it one of the biggest marriage fraud operations the
immigration agency has exposed in years.

"We see information on a regular basis that there is an industry in brokering
fraudulent marriages," said Daniel Molerio, the assistant district director for
investigations in the New York immigration office. "But it's a low priority
prosecutorially, because, like other white-collar fraud, it has to compete with
other kinds of cases for precious resources."

In New York, about 1,200 spouses of United States citizens petition the
immigration service monthly to obtain legal residency through their marriages.
Immigration examiners interview every couple to determine the validity of the
marriages, separating the husband and wife to ask specific questions about the
picayune details of their daily lives.

"It reminds me of the old program 'The Newlywed Game,' " said Ron Rogers, an
I.N.S. spokesman in Washington. "People rehearse for the interviews, but they
usually just memorize things like how many brothers and sisters. Our examiners
ask, 'When you went to bed last night, what did she wear, pajamas or nightgown?
O.K., nightgown, what did the nightgown look like?' O.K., pink, well how long,
how short?"

Of the 1,200 couples interviewed in a given month in New York, about 260 are
called back for a second interview. About 200 -- or 16 percent of the total --
are denied green cards because the marriages appear to be fake, Mr. Rogers said.
In those cases, the citizens are not usually prosecuted; the immigrant spouses
are sometimes placed into deportation proceedings.

Conditional Green Cards

In 1986, when immigration officials estimated that 30 percent of all green-card
marriages were fake, Congress established the Immigration Marriage Fraud Act.
After that, immigrants marrying a United States citizen were granted only a
conditional green card for two years, at which point they must prove that the
marriage is still bona fide.

The last marriage broker prosecuted two years ago in New York was a lawyer who
arranged about 20 immigrant marriages. Only a handful of people are arrested on
charges of marriage fraud every year, and Ms. Wilson; Angel Solomon, 51, and his
wife, Patricia Solomon, 27, joined that group yesterday.

Investigators said the Solomons ran Third World Personnel Services and paid Ms.
Wilson $1,000 to participate in the fake marriage. Immigration agents were also
searching yesterday for three others they said were connected with the case.

It was unclear yesterday whether Federal officials would try to track down the
immigrants who participated and strip them of their green cards.

Immigration officials first learned of Third World Personnel Services last
summer through the television show "A Current Affair" and news reports on WOR-TV
Channel 9. Those reporters stumbled on the marriage service when they were
investigating the company's vocational training program, Mr. Molerio said.

Fined by New York State

The Solomons previously owned Qualified Executive Training, an employment agency
that promised but never delivered jobs to people who went through its
vocational-training course, said Jeff Maclin, a spokesman for the New York State
Attorney General, G. Oliver Koppell. In November 1993, the Solomons were fined
$250,000 by New York State and ordered to pay $100,000 in restitution to their
clients. But by then they had gone out of business and resurfaced as Third World
Personnel.

An informer for the immigration service first visited Third World's office seven
months ago and reported that an employee searched the bags of all clients with a
hand-held metal detector, according to court papers. Another employee also
described arrangements for a $5,000 fake marriage.

The informer returned, counting out a $2,500 deposit in cash before Ms. Solomon,
who wrote a receipt for "computer training," the authorities said. Ms. Solomon
told the informer that her company would perform a background check on the
spouse and file papers with the immigration service, officials said. The
informer was set up with a man who identified himself as Julius Henry, and they
took out a marriage license in February.

An undercover agent subsequently visited the office posing as an illegal
immigrant. He paid $2,400 in cash as a down payment for a marriage. On June 29,
the authorities said, Mr. Solomon called to tell him the company had found him a
bride.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 492 words



BACKING OFF ON PRIVATIZING SCHOOLS

The Board of Education in Hartford is preparing to hire a profit-making company
to manage the city's 32 schools, but fierce opposition from teachers and
questions about the financial arrangements have caused the school board to
reject the company's bid to take full control. A1.

Education Alternatives, a Minneapolis company, was operating at a loss. Then it
took over nine Baltimore public schools. B6.

IMMIGRATION INQUIRY FINDS FRAUD

Elaine Wilson's wedding plans collapsed when colleagues of the prospective groom
-- an undercover agent of the Immigration and Naturalization Service -- arrested
Ms. Wilson and two others on charges of participating in a marriage fraud ring
aimed at illegal immigrants. A1.

NEW YORK CITY

KINGS COUNTY HOSPITAL IN DISARRAY

The head of the Health and Hospitals Corporation said he would appoint a new
executive director to oversee Kings County Hospital Center because it is in
danger of losing its medical accreditation. B3.

INQUIRY INTO TALKS ON CON ED VIOLATIONS

The Speaker of the City Council said a task force would investigate the
circumstances surrounding Con Edison's negotiations with the state to settle
environmental charges. B3.

ASSISTED SUICIDE LAW CHALLENGED

Two men in the terminal stages of AIDS, a woman dying of cancer and three
physicians who care for such patients filed suit seeking to strike down New
York's prohibition against assisted suicide. B3.

A group of retired police officers said they would establish a hot line to
report corruption. B3.

A Columbia University official is nominated to head the Child Welfare
Administration. B7.

REGION

SHIP TRAVELERS BEGIN TO RETURN

Some suntanned, some steaming, passengers from the ill-fated cruise ship Horizon
arrived in New York City, their vacations scuttled by an outbreak of
Legionnaires' disease. B4.

The first symptoms hit John Silivanch as he worked in his backyard. B4.

COLLEGE STRUGGLES TO STAY OPEN

Debt-burdened, its enrollment shrinking, its accreditation slated to be revoked,
its faculty unpaid for a month, Upsala College will nevertheless remain open for
at least another semester while it looks for a way out of its crisis. B6.

CONFESSION DESCRIBES SHOOTINGS

Using the clinical language of medicine, a 22-year-old premedical student
charged with murder in a carjacking told investigators that he shot his two
victims in a moment of panic. B4.

7 SICKENED BY TAINTED MEAT

In what health officials fear may be the first of many cases, six children and
one elderly person have become ill in New Jersey from eating tainted hamburger
that might have come from the same source. B4.

LEADING THE SCHOOL FINANCE CHALLENGE

Marilyn Morheuser still believes in the rallying cries of the 1960's. Why else
would she have gone before the State Supreme Court to argue again that New
Jersey has failed to do right by its impoverished students? B9.

Chronicle B8

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Manhattan Mortgages" shows average interest rates for 30-year
fixed-rate and 1-year adjustable-rate loans for Manhattan co-ops and
condominiums (Source: Manhattan Mortgage Company)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 27, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Expands Rwanda Airlift But Bottlenecks There Persist

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, July 26


The United States military airlift operation here is now able to fly about 700
tons daily of food, medicine, and vitally needed equipment to purify and
distribute water to cholera-stricken Rwandan refugees in camps in Zaire, Air
Force officers said today.

But as the 70-ton C-5 cargo planes continued loading portable water purification
plants on the runway of Rhein-Main Air Base this afternoon, Col. Edward F.
McPhillips said the main bottleneck continued to be limited unloading space on
the airstrip of the main refugee camp outside Goma, Zaire.

"That's why they were doing the air drops," Colonel McPhillips, commander of the
435th Airlift wing here, explained, referring to an attempt to drop 17 tons of
food by parachute to refugees outside Goma on Sunday.

Food Drops Halted

United Nations officials in Zaire ordered the drops suspended after complaining
that they had not landed where they were supposed to and that picking up the
scattered supplies consumed too much time to make more airdrops worthwhile.

About 1,300 Army troops will provide security for the American operation, which
is intended to get food, potable water and medicine to the refugees and combat a
cholera outbreak that has killed thousands of refugees since the weekend. In
all, several thousand Americans are expected to become involved, most of them
from units based in Europe.

With the Goma airport able to accommodate only one plane every 90 minutes or so,
United States officials have set up a redistribution hub at Entebbe, Uganda,
where five C-130 turboprop planes can relay the relief cargo closer to
concentrations of refugees, landing on unpaved strips.

"The infrastructure is now in place down there, and not only the United States
but other countries are bringing in supplies," said Col. Don Siegel, who said he
had supervised the loading of six C-5's and a dozen C-141 planes, which carry 20
to 25 tons of cargo apiece, this morning. One more C-5 flight left this evening,
he said.

The Frankfurt operation has also carried out thousands of supply flights to the
airport at Sarajevo, in Bosnia, and parachuted flour, cooking oil, and
dehydrated meals to besieged Muslim areas there all last winter.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 28, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

3 Palestinian Immigrants Admit Racketeering

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, July 27


Three Palestinian immigrants accused of plotting to kill American Jews and bomb
the Israeli Embassy in Washington on behalf of the Abu Nidal terrorist group
have pleaded guilty to racketeering.

The defendants, Tawfiq Musa, 45, of Racine, Wis., and two brothers, Saif Nijmeh,
35, of St. Louis, and Luie Nijmeh, 30, of Dayton, Ohio, pleaded guilty to one
count each of racketeering on Tuesday. They face up to 20 years in prison at
their sentencing on Oct. 21.

The three admitted involvement in a criminal enterprise that included smuggling
money and information, buying weapons, recruiting members, illegally obtaining
passports, obstructing investigations and helping to plan terrorist acts, said
the United States Attorney here, Edward L. Dowd Jr.

A fourth suspect, Zein Isa, 63, is already on death row in Missouri and is to be
tried on Sept. 19 on Federal murder-conspiracy charges in the stabbing death of
his 16-year-old daughter. Prosecutors said the girl was killed to prevent her
from disclosing the conspiracy.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation tape-recorded Mr. Isa shouting "Die! Die
quickly! Die, my daughter, die!" in Arabic as he stabbed the girl while her
mother held her down.

Experts on terrorism and the Mideast have called the men too careless and too
brazen to be members of Abu Nidal, a highly disciplined band of killers created
in 1973 by militants who broke away from the Palestine Liberation Organization.

The Abu Nidal group is blamed for hundreds of deaths and injuries, including the
1985 attacks at the Rome and Vienna airports and the bombing of a synagogue in
Turkey in 1986.

Killing of Daughter

The four men here faced life in prison if convicted of all charges in the
six-count 1993 indictment, which says they plotted to kill Jews, blow up the
Israeli Embassy in Washington and kill anyone who could expose them, including
Mr. Isa's daughter, Palestina.

Prosecutors said that the death of Palestina Isa in 1989 in her family's
apartment in St. Louis was the only slaying the group carried out. F.B.I. agents
who had bugged the apartment to see if Mr. Isa was involved with the Palestine
Liberation Organization tape-recorded the slaying.

The girl's mother, Maria Isa, 50, was also convicted of murder, but the Missouri
Supreme Court overturned her death sentence last year on the ground that the
jury had been given flawed instructions. She is awaiting a rehearing.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 31, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

On Sunday;
First Banana: A Welcome To a New Land

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 33;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 771 words


FOR some reason, when the tired, the poor and the wretched look back after an
immigrant's lifetime in America, they often linger on the long-ago memory of
seeing and eating their first banana.

The shipboard misery of migration is always detailed to interviewers, of course,
and the glowing greenness of the Statue of Liberty's welcome is never forgotten.
But, too, a reliably recurring episode in many sagas remains "my first banana":
How it came to be wondered at and finally possessed, then puzzled over until shy
observance of veteran Americans revealed the need to peel it before that first
taste of sweet substance set memory's measure of the New World's exotica.

"The banana seems to become a metaphor for what was new and how they approached
it," says Janet Levine, an oral historian on Ellis Island, the fabled place
where the immigration heyday peaked 70 years ago. She is busy searching out
those innocents who were bedazzled by bananas and more back then. She records
their best hour's worth of remembrances as they near the end of earthly
migration.

"Even today, I can eat 10 or 12 bananas because it's nothing to me," says one
old man after happening on the memory with Ms. Levine. She scrupulously never
asks leading questions about bananas but cherishes their frequent surfacing from
the past, gleaming naive-yellow as a daub from Grandma Moses' scenes from
memory. The man recalls the muscular uncles who preceded him to America dandling
him with delight after he cleared Ellis Island and suddenly producing an entire
stalk of the curved unknown.

"Eat them, son! They're the American fig," he was instructed, and the uncles
roared with laughter when he took one unpeeled toward his lips. "Take off the
skin." The uncles were measuring their own sophistication in the new land, maybe
envying the boy's innocence. "Better eat all of them by tomorrow," one wise-guy
uncle instructed the lad, whose stomach took that and much more across the
decades.

Ms. Levine, gifted at questioning and listening, has heard so much of so many
lives -- the island's collection is 1,200 interviews and counting -- that she is
unsurprised by tales of families' having unraveled as much as prospered here, or
even by a rare vivid recollection of homicide. An old woman reaches back into
her girlhood and tells of sisters suffocated by her mother in the old country
because male offspring were preferred. "How can a mother be so mean?" the aged
daughter asks down the ages as her voice joins the tape archive.

Families still crowd wonderingly and line up on Ellis Island, enacting parody
before this national monument's cornucopia of cafeteria snack foods -- Greek
salads, Italian pizzas, American hot dogs and other global manna. No banana
splits in sight, a missed bet as humanity feeds from past into present.

Upstairs, Ms. Levine prepares a field trip to the mainland, a scattering of
fading old-timers she's tracked to city apartments and Long Island nursing
homes. She estimates a 50-50 chance of taping something strong and crisp. "I've
got a stowaway from Italy," she says, looking forward to his looking back.

Ms. Levine was a prison psychologist who became fascinated with the creative
possibilities of interviewing and switched careers to oral history. As much as
content, she savors the sounds of memory, the feast of terseness, for example,
offered by Scandinavian immigrants in Maine. Her New World dream is to search
back in the old countries and find untold stories that have no premium in
American history, the failures after Ellis Island, "those who came, saw and left
without being successful in their own eyes."

She works with Paul Sigrist in amassing the collection, which was started 20
years ago by Margo Nash, a thoughtful park ranger at the Statue of Liberty who
found visitors sparked to recollection. There's a downside: "Sometimes I feel
like I'm taking their stories, using them, and it's not a good feeling," Ms.
Levine admits.

But she is rounding off the lives of old people who recount bitter prejudice as
their grounding on the island and beyond. "Now they're being esteemed," she
agrees in recording them for time beyond them.

Whatever the travails of listening, Janet Levine always has her banana tape to
pop into play as a break from migrant memories. Forty-five minutes of pure
recollections of first banana encounters. Post-steerage magic realism spinning
waywardly into history. An old woman recalling the girl she was venturing
forward in this strange place:

"Ma, can I have a nickel?"

"What for?"

"I want to buy that long thing over there."

"What is it?"

"I dunno."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 2, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

OUR TOWNS;
Laborers, Unwanted But Willing

BYLINE: By Evelyn Nieves

SECTION: Section B;   Page 5;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: PALISADES PARK, N.J.


THREE weeks have passed without a day's work and it is hurting. Rent was due
yesterday. Many of the men are skipping meals. There is certainly nothing to
send home, where wives and parents and children are counting on regular money
orders to survive.

"It is grave," Pedro Azurdia said. "Almost desperate."

But Mr. Azurdia wants to stay in Palisades Park, even if Palisades Park doesn't
want him.

He is one of about 60 to 75 Central Americans, most from Guatemala, who came to
Palisades Park to work as day laborers. Every morning, starting about 7, they
gather on bus stops and corners along Broad Avenue, the borough's main drag,
waiting for contractors to pick them up.

This has become a common scene in several towns in Bergen County, and elsewhere,
as immigrants with or without legal status have discovered a means of work in
the suburbs. But it is not the kind of scene that this tidy little blue-collar
town has been able to accept.

For at least a year, Palisades Park has been trying to stop it. Last year, the
workers were arrested for loitering -- until the courts ruled the practice
unconstitutional. The borough also adopted an ordinance prohibiting more than
two adults from occupying a room, a response to the way that many laborers live,
crammed into one- and two-bedroom apartments.

Finally, a few weeks ago, the police began taking action against the
contractors, ticketing them for cracked mirrors on their trucks, carrying
passengers in open-bed trucks, not wearing seat belts. It seems to have worked.
The contractors are gone.

BUT the workers have stayed. The men wait for hours, glumly slumped against
buildings, desperately hoping that someone willing to brave the summons-wielders
will pick them up.

And Palisades Park may have created something it never expected -- an organized
force of day laborers, made up of the poorest immigrants, many of whom don't
speak English and some, who are Mayans, who don't even speak Spanish.

The men are talking of forming an organization, electing leaders, organizing
petitions for their cause.

Two weeks ago, the workers rallied at police headquarters, carrying placards
that read "We want to work in peace" and "We're all humans."

Mr. Azurdia said workers say they cannot believe this is happening to them here.
Many say they came not only to find work but to escape Guatemala, where they
watched the military overrun villages and torture dissenters.

"This was supposed to be a free country," he said.

Town officials, sensitive to the way their actions look, say they are responding
to complaints from residents and business owners that the workers block
sidewalks and intimidate passers-by. And the Mayor, William Maresca, has said
the Guatemalans are not like the Koreans, who came before them in this town of
sons and daughters of Italian and Irish immigrants. The Koreans, the Mayor said,
came to stay. The Guatemalans did not.

But Mr. Azurdia, who came from Guatemala three years ago, said he would bring
his family here if he could find steady work.

HE was on his way. As an experienced carpenter skilled in plumbing and
electrical work, Mr. Azurdia, a 40-year-old father of four, was in demand. And
he was establishing a relationship with one contractor. Most of the workers hope
that one permanent job will materialize from long, hard days of working here and
there.

But after receiving a few tickets, Mr. Azurdia's patron stopped coming. Now, Mr.
Azurdia has nothing. He hasn't seen his family since he left Guatemala. He
speaks to them every two or three months, but lately he hasn't called. He wants
to avoid lying about work.

He says he will not leave. "Isn't that what they want? For us to leave, go home,
get out of the country?"

Douglas Fuentes, one of the few laborers who speaks English -- he fled to Texas
from El Salvador 14 years ago when he was 14 years old -- said he had heard many
remarks about the laborers that he cannot repeat in polite company.

"Police ask about green cards. That's not their concern. They can just call
immigration. They talk about how we live. What's it to them if grown men share a
room? Isn't this supposed to be a private matter?"

With the help of Denis Johnston, director of the immigrant-rights program of the
American Friends Service Committee, and other church workers, the laborers said
they want to talk to officials to resolve the situation. Perhaps, Mr. Azurdia
said, they could rent a building where contractors could find them.

"Or," he said, "we could have a peasant revolt."

He was kidding. But the men are talking about waging a hunger strike in front of
police headquarters. Soon, Mr. Azurdia said, the move won't be much of a
stretch.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 7, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: RICHMOND HILL;
Sikh Immigrant Community Experiencing Growing Pains

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section 13;   Page 8;   Column 3;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 415 words


With its golden dome and cupola, the Gurdwara Sikh Temple is a jarring sight
among the modest brick houses of Richmond Hill. But the Gurdwara has been a
generally benign neighbor, except perhaps for traffic and noise on days of
worship.

That changed late last month, when an argument over a temple election escalated
and 700 Sikhs brimmed over into the streets, scuffling with one another and with
the police. Fifteen people, including five police officers, were injured. One
man was charged with carrying an unlicensed gun and four others with disorderly
conduct.

The disturbance flashed a spotlight on one of the city's most rapidly growing
immigrant groups. The Sikhs are struggling as much with their ballooning numbers
as with adjustment to life in a new land.

"Their problem isn't with the surrounding community," said Capt. Lawrence E.
Nyland of the 102d Precinct "It's within themselves."

Sikhs come from northwestern India and speak Punjabi. Their monotheistic
religion was founded in the 1500's and blends aspects of Hinduism and Islam.
Political violence involving a Sikh separatist movement in India increased
immigration to the United States in the 1980's.

No one knows exactly how many Sikhs live in New York. Leaders at the Gurdwara,
and at two smaller temples in Flushing, estimated that there are 10,000 to
50,000 Sikhs in the city.

The Gurdwara has more than 3,800 members, making it perhaps the largest Sikh
congregation in North America. Having outgrown its worship sanctuary and also
hoping to establish a school to pass on its traditions to its children, the
temple has bought two adjacent houses for a major expansion.

S. Mohinder Singh, 46 years old, the temple president for the last year, said he
expected membership to reach 5,800 by next year.

Inside the temple last Sunday, men removed their shoes and wrapped orange cloths
around their heads. They kneeled on the red carpet before a blue shrine
containing their holy book and bowed down. Women sat before the shrine listening
to hymns.

The recent dispute arose after Mr. Singh tried to postpone elections and an
opposition group announced it had elected new officers. There were some
ideological differences, temple members say, but mostly just disagreement over
who should be in charge.

Though there has been no further violence, the police have maintained a presence
lately outside the Gurdwara. The dispute will be heard in State Supreme Court
later this month.   DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 7, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Castro's Threat to Unleash Refugees Brings a Warning by U.S.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 17;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6


In a stern warning to President Fidel Castro of Cuba, the Clinton Administration
says it will not permit a repeat of the 1980 Mariel boat lift, in which Cuba
dropped emigration restrictions and 120,000 Cubans fled to the United States.

The warning was issued by the State Department on Friday night after
Administration officials became alarmed by Mr. Castro's threat to unleash a
flood of refugees. The State Department also urged Cubans not to go along with
President Castro's "ploy."

Mr. Castro's threat came after protesters clashed with the police in Havana in
an unusual display of political unrest. The clash followed a series of boat
hijackings by people trying to flee Cuba, and Mr. Castro said that unless the
United States stopped encouraging Cubans to flee by sea "we will stop blocking
the departure of those who want to leave the country."

In its statement, the State Department tried to discourage an exodus while
avoiding the impression that the United States was reluctant to accept fleeing
Cubans.

"The United States has stated repeatedly that we will not permit Fidel Castro to
dictate our immigration policy or to create a replay of the Mariel boat lift, a
cynical move on the part of Castro in 1980," the State Department said. "We urge
the Cuban Government to carefully consider all the implications of such
incitement. We urge the citizens of Cuba and their relatives in the United
States to remain calm and not to participate in this ploy of the Cuban
Government."

At the White House today, Samuel Berger, the deputy national security adviser,
led a meeting of senior officials to try to determine what to do if Mr. Castro
ignores the State Department warning and follows through on his threat.

Administration officials said that the situation in Cuba this morning appeared
to be calm and that there were no serious disturbances along Havana's waterfront
or reports that unusual numbers of Cubans were trying to flee.

The threat by Mr. Castro puts Washington in a potentially difficult situation.
Allowing people to leave could provide a safety valve for discontent at home,
which has been rising as the Cuban economy continues to deteriorate. It could
also put additional pressure on Washington, which has been struggling in recent
months to cope with Haitian refugees.

Unlike Haitians, Cuban refugees are readily admitted by the United States, a
policy that reflects Washington's longstanding practice of taking in refugees
from Communist countries and also the political power of Cuban-Americans.


But the Clinton Administration does not want to encourage a new refugee influx
or encourage Cuban-born Americans to send flotillas to sea to try to pick up
their relatives if Mr. Castro does lift emigration restrictions.

The 1980 Mariel boat lift has especially vivid connotations for President
Clinton, who struggled to deal with the influx of refugees as Governor of
Arkansas. The 120,000 Cubans who left included many criminals released from
prisons.

The Federal Government sent 20,000 of the refugees to Fort Chaffee in Arkansas.
As the Cubans awaited processing by immigration authorities, a riot erupted at
the 72-acre military installation in June 1980.

The clash on Friday, which involved protesters, the police and pro-Government
groups, followed the hijacking of three ferries from Havana within 10 days.
Thousands gathered at the ferry dock there after rumors spread that another
ferry had been hijacked. According to the Mexican news agency Notimex, violence
erupted when police officers enforced security measures to stop people from
stealing boats to flee.

The state-run Cuban news media said today that a ferry hijacked on Thursday had
been returned to Havana after running out of fuel and that the hijackers had
been detained.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 9, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Mistreatment Of Stowaways Investigated By Officials

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 586 words


Immigration officials said yesterday that they were examining allegations that
six young stowaways from the Dominican Republic were beaten and subjected to
forced labor last week after being discovered aboard an Estonian freighter bound
for New York.

But an American agent for the Estonian Government, which owns the 420-foot
freighter, the Narva, denied the allegations and said that the stowaways -- the
third group this year on the same ship -- had been found ragged, gaunt and
hungry on a 1,800-mile voyage from Santo Domingo and that the captain, after
reporting their discovery to the authorities in Estonia, had followed
instructions to treat them humanely.

The charges were made by the stowaways on Sunday after three of the six jumped
into the Atlantic from the ship's anchorage outside New York Harbor and began
swimming toward the Rockaways, five miles away. They were picked up by Coast
Guard and United States Park Police vessels and a helicopter, and with the
others from the ship were placed in custody by immigration authorities.

No Supporting Details

The stowaways, all men 17 to 24 years old who do not speak English, gave no
details to support their allegations. Examined by Coast Guard medical officers,
they were found not seriously injured. One had bruised ribs, but it was unclear
if the injury had been sustained in the 40-foot leap from the deck or earlier.

Regardless of the outcome of the inquiry, Chip Bogdanski, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that the six men had made no valid
claim to asylum in the United States and that, as stowaways, they had no right
to stay in this country or even to a hearing before an immigration judge, and
would probably be sent home, perhaps within a few days.

To remain, illegal aliens must show a well-founded fear of persecution in their
homeland because of their race or religious or political beliefs. The men told
rescue crews who picked them up on Sunday that they had been trying to escape
poverty at home -- not a valid reason for asylum in the United States.

The Narva, which has an Estonian crew and is named for a city and river in that
former Soviet republic on the Baltic Sea, remained at anchor near Ambrose Light,
the beacon seven miles south of the Rockaways marking the main channel into New
York Harbor. No charges were filed against its owner, its master or its 22 crew
members.

Agent Denies Charges

An official of Worldwide Cargo, of 1350 Avenue of the Americas, representing the
Estonian Government, insisted that the stowaways' allegations were untrue. He
said that the captain and crew were experienced in handling stowaways, and that
the ship was carrying no cargo and had little work on the passage, even for the
crew.

"When the stowaways were discovered, they were already in bad shape," said the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "They certainly were not beaten
up. They were wearing rags. They hadn't been eating. They were weak. The owners
were informed, and the master said they would be well taken care of until they
could be returned to the Dominican Republic."

The official said that in mid-June, when 19 Dominican stowaways were found
aboard the Narva, and in another stowaway episode earlier this year, the master
had reversed course and returned the stowaways to Santo Domingo before going on
to New York. He said the latest incident illustrated a growing stowaway problem
aboard ships plying waters from the Caribbean to the South China Sea.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 11, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Cubans, and Cuba Policy, Lost at Sea

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words


American officials joined in the deserved condemnation when 32 Cubans who were
attempting to escape their homeland drowned on July 13 after their ancient
tugboat was bashed by a Cuban patrol boat. In Havana, this was followed by the
hijacking of three passenger ferries by other Cubans attempting to flee, and by
sporadic riots in which demonstrators shouted "Down with Fidel!"

Last weekend a furious Fidel Castro tried to reverse course, declaring he would
stop putting obstacles "in the way of people who want to leave the country." It
was easy to inveigh against Mr. Castro's restrictive immigration policy as long
as he conveniently kept his unhappy citizens at home. Now he may be calling
Washington's bluff, though at this point his intentions are far from clear. But
his words prompted an instant denunciation by the

State Department spokesman David Johnson, who called Mr. Castro's announcement a
"ploy," a "cynical move" and "a replay of the Mariel boatlift."

In 1980, in an earlier bout over the same issue, Mr. Castro encouraged an exodus
from Mariel harbor that dumped 125,000 Cuban refugees, including murderers and
rapists, on Florida. Since then Mariel has been shorthand for the spiteful use
of desperate people as political pawns. Mariel did Cuba no good, created a
judicial and penal nightmare in the U.S. when some Mariel refugees were held in
Federal jails, and set back by a decade hopes for more civil relations between
Havana and Washington.

The U.S. is trapped in a self-made dilemma. Having demonized Mr. Castro for
refusing to let Cubans emigrate, Washington now hopes he is only bluffing about
opening the gates, causing another unmanageable tidal wave of new immigrants.

Successive Presidents, beginning with Dwight Eisenhower, have imposed punitive
and unilateral economic sanctions against Cuba. But with the end of the cold
war, Mr. Castro ceased to be a threat to U.S. security. The Soviet collapse
exposed the folly of Cuba's lopsided dependence on sweetheart barter deals with
the Communist bloc. Cuba's economy has crumbled. Yet the U.S. response to these
new circumstances was the enactment in 1992, with candidate Bill Clinton's
blessing, of stiffer trade sanctions, which even ban trade with Cuba by foreign
subsidiaries of U.S. companies.

These sanctions, the so-called Cuban Democracy Act, have indeed made life more
wretched for ordinary Cubans, who now have economic as well as political reasons
for fleeing their repressive poorhouse. And each Cuban who makes it to Florida
automatically qualifies for permanent residence under special cold-war
legislation -- a status denied Haitian refugees who also suffer from tyranny and
poverty. Even hard-line anti-Castro Cuban exiles, who clamored for the Cuban
Democracy Act, now plead with their poor cousins back home to remain calm and
stay put, rather than risk an angry political backlash in Florida.

America's Cuban policy has been frozen in the past, kept there by Presidents
pandering to the most fanatical faction of the exile community in Florida. The
humane and sensible way for the U.S. to avert a new Mariel is to ease sanctions,
lift un-American curbs on travel to Cuba and permit more Cubans to immigrate
legally, in return for a measure of political liberalization for the islanders.
If a deal along these lines were offered to Fidel Castro, and if he scorned it,
he would run the risk of opposition more serious than sporadic riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 11, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Lets Cubans From Hijacking Stay, Detaining One

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 10


The United States granted entry today to 25 Cubans who fled their island on a
stolen Cuban boat, but a 26th refugee was detained pending further
investigation.

In what has erupted into an angry dispute, Cuban officials insisted on Tuesday
that all 26 should be returned, asserting that a Cuban navy lieutenant was
killed when the boat was hijacked on Monday.

Coast Guard officials said tonight that they could not say if anyone had been
killed in the hijacking.

At a news conference tonight at the Transit Home for Cuban Refugees near Key
West, Fla., the exiles said that the boat had been hijacked by the 26th refugee,
Leonel Macias Gonzalez, 19, a mechanic in the Cuban military. Speaking in
Spanish, Irenia Mesa, 15, who said she was the hijacker's girlfriend, gave this
account:

Mr. Macias was aboard the boat with an officer and two other young soldiers when
he tried to push the officer overboard. The officer fired two shots at Mr.
Macias, who was not hit and who fired two shot in return. The officer, who may
have been hit, fell into the water and swam away. The two other soldiers jumped
overboard, wishing Mr. Macias luck before they swam away.

Mr. Macias picked up 23 Cuban refugees, including Ms. Mesa, at a nearby beach.
The two other refugees, who had been on a raft for two days, were rescued at
sea.

One1 Cuban Detained

Lemar Wooley, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Miami, said tonight that Mr. Macias was being detained pending an investigation.

The 26 Cubans arrived in Key West shortly after noon today, 20 hours after a
Coast Guard cutter reached their 30-foot boat on Tuesday, 60 miles southwest of
the city. The cutter took the 26 Cubans aboard, concerned that the leaky,
decrepit Cuban vessel would founder.

It was the fourth Cuban vessel to be hijacked within two weeks, a development
that has angered the Cuban government, which insists that Washington's accepting
the defectors encourages more such criminal acts. Aggravating tensions between
the two countries, rioting broke out in Havana on Friday when many Cubans,
hearing rumors that a ferry had been hijacked, rushed to the harbor to flee,
only to find that there was no vessel to transport them.

Over the past decade, the United States has not returned exiles who hijacked
Cuban boats, even when they used force, viewing the defectors as people who have
justifiably used extreme measures to escape deplorable conditions and
persecution.

Threatening Another Exodus

President Fidel Castro of Cuba warned last week that if the United States did
not stop encouraging Cubans to flee by sea, Havana would "stop blocking the
departure of those who want to leave the country."

His words worried United States officials, who feared a replay of the 1980
Mariel boatlift, when 125,000 Cubans, encouraged by Mr. Castro, fled to Florida.
Many of those Cubans were transported in boats that Cuban-Americans took to Cuba
to pick up their friends and relatives.

State Department officials said today that Mr. Castro had since assured
Washington that he would not orchestrate another exodus. In interviews today,
several officials said that if Mr. Castro did arrange a large-scale boatlift,
the United States would consider massive interceptions. Under these plans, boats
carrying Cubans to Florida would be turned back while boats heading from Florida
to Cuba to fetch those hoping to flee would also be stopped.

In what some Cuban-Americans viewed as an effort to placate Mr. Castro, the
State Department appeared to adopt a sterner attitude today toward Cuban boat
hijackers.

Prosecution Considered

"Reported use of sometimes lethal violence by those taking over vessels to flee
the island is a disturbing trend," said David Johnson, a State Department
spokesman. "The use of violence in such acts places everyone at risk."

Anna Cobian, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said her agency was studying
whether criminal prosecution would be warranted for any of the 26 Cuban exiles.

The Cubans were taken to an I.N.S.  holding center for interviews by the
immigration service and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Later they were
taken to the Transit Home for Cuban Refugees, which is run by Cuban exiles.

One United States official said that if Cubans among the 26 are found to have
committed violent crimes during the hijacking, they might not be accepted into
the United States, but sent to a third country.

Any defector with a serious criminal record would be returned to Cuba, the State
Department said.

5,000 Refugees This Year

Just as some American officials backed off their initial version of events, the
Cuban Interests Section in Washington also appeared to back off today about
Havana's version of events.

Rafael Dausa, the director of political affairs at the interest section,
declined in an interview to confirm that a navy officer was killed. He said, "We
are engaged in a very detailed investigation of the facts."

According to the Coast Guard, their vessels have picked up 539 fleeing Cubans so
far this month and 5,270 since Jan. 1. This year's total is the highest since
the 1980 Mariel boatlift.

The Cubans on the hijacked boat were picked up at 4:15 P.M. Tuesday afternoon by
the cutter Monhegan. Because that vessel was already carrying 60 Cubans picked
up at sea, the 26 were transferred to the cutter Courageous, which remained
outside United States waters, until officials in Washington gave it permission
to proceed to Key West.

Jeff Hall, a Coast Guard spokesman, said 116 other Cubans were picked up today
in 11 vessels. In addition, a Cuban pilot stole a crop-dusting plane today and
flew along with 13 family members to the Florida Keys.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Twenty-six Cubans arrived in Key West, Fla., yesterday after
being picked up by a Coast Guard cutter on Tuesday. To flee their homeland, they
had stolen a vessel owned by the Cuban Government, which is demanding their
return because it said a Navy officer was killed in the hijacking. (Phillipe
Diederich for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 12, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Vows to Thwart Exodus From Cuba

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 11


In a swiftly escalating immigration dispute between the United States and Cuba,
Federal authorities announced tonight that a speedboat carrying 20 Cubans was
detained in the Florida Keys today, and Attorney General Janet Reno said the
Government would take strong legal steps to stop a mass exodus from Cuba.

In a highly unusual evening news conference today, Ms. Reno said any United
States-flagged vessels that appeared to be bound for Cuba to pick up immigrants
might be stopped, boarded and seized by the Coast Guard. She warned that anyone
trying to bring Cubans to the United States may be prosecuted.

"The solution to emigration pressures from Cuba is rapid, fundamental and
far-reaching political change and economic reform," Ms. Reno said. "Uncontrolled
exodus from Cuba does nothing to address Cuba's internal problems and places
large numbers of persons at risk on the high seas."

Her remarks revealed the anxiety within the Clinton Administration over the
possibility of another 1980 Mariel boatlift, when a rag-tag flotilla of American
boats streamed from Florida to Cuba to ferry a cargo of 125,000 Cuban immigrants
back to the United States.

The action follows harsh Cuban complaints after four hijackings of vessels in
Cuba in the last two weeks by people who made the 90-mile run to Florida. Fidel
Castro, the Cuban leader, has said he might make lower barriers to immigration
if the seizures continued.

Tensions have been climbing since the hijacking of a Government boat on Monday.
Cuban officials are demanding the return of 26 Cubans on board. Instead,
American officials released all but one of the boat's passengers.

The boat stopped today by United States Customs agents, was boarded at a beach
resort in Key Largo, south of Miami. It was the first vessel known to have
crossed the Florida straits to bring Cubans into the country, law enforcement
officials said tonight, adding that the high-profile announcement of the
detention of the craft and its crew of three was intended as a signal that
authorities would not tolerate another boatlift.

The three crew members were turned over to immigration officials and were
charged with illegally transporting aliens to the United States. The 20
passengers were held at a immigrant center in South Florida for processing under
a program that, after a year, permits Cubans to seek permanent residency in the
United States.

The Coast Guard is ready to rush more ships to the Caribbean in response to any
mass migration from Cuba, the State Department said today.

At the time, Castro said that if Washington did not take swift steps to change
its immigration policy, Cuba would make it easier for people to leave the
country, and allow their relatives to come from the United States to pick them
up.

Justice Department officials said today that each hijacking had been
investigated but that no action had ever been taken after such seizures.  Cuban
officials say this encourages more such criminal acts.

State Department officials have said Mr. Castro has assured them that he would
not set off another wave of emigration. In what some Cuban-Americans regard as
an effort to soothe Mr. Castro, the State Department appeared to signal a
tougher attitude toward hijackers. One State Department spokesman has said the
hijackings are disturbing trend that places everyone involved in danger.

The Coast Guard has reported that immigration from Cuba has been increasing. The
agency said it picked up 539 fleeing Cubans this month and 5,270 since the
beginning of the year. That compares with 3,656 Cubans picked up last year and
makes this year the highest level of entries since the Mariel boatlift.

                             --------------------


Castro on U.S. Television

By The Associated Press

Speaking from Havana on a Cuban television broadcast that was carried live on
CNN in the United States, Mr. Castro accused the United States tonight of
covering up Monday's hijacking and reiterated the accusation that a Cuban
military officer had been killed. He said body of Cuban Lieut. Roberto Aguilar
Reyes was found on Wednesday.

Mr. Castro also said the United States Government was responsible for the number
of Cubans fleeing because of its embargo and its acceptance of Cubans fleeing in
rafts and boats, contrary to Cuban law.

"They insist that we be the guardians of the U.S. border," he said. "They've
created this situation of violence and hijackings."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 14, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN;
Chinatown Agencies Fined Over Job-Seekers' Fees

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 6;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 393 words


Lee Zhou Sheng, also known as Lee Jackson or Jackson Lee, says it was his humble
beginnings as a Chinatown dishwasher 25 years ago that gave him the idea to open
an employment agency. Now, he says, he is just a struggling businessman who
cannot afford to retire at the age of 64.

"I'm just trying to help people out," he said.

But according to the Consumer Affairs Department and many immigrant Chinatown
workers, Mr. Lee and others have added anguish to their desperate situations,
violating the law by delaying, and not paying, refunds of application deposits
when a job is not found or doesn't work out. The deposits, $90 to $200, can
break an immigrant living on the financial edge.

"For years, he took advantage of desperate people," said Steven Pan, a
restaurant worker.

In the last two weeks the city's Consumer Affairs Department cited 12 Chinatown
agencies, alleging violations of refund policies and operating without a
license. Eight were owned by Mr. Lee. The department began its investigation as
a result of details called to its attention by The New York Times.

At a news conference Tuesday, the Commissioner of Consumer Affairs, Fred
Cerullo, called the investigation "a breakthrough." The department, he said, had
been "historically thwarted in bringing such proceedings because of language
barriers and the reluctance of aggrieved consumers -- many of whom are
undocumented Asian nationals -- to come forward to complain."

Last week, Mr. Lee paid a $2,950 fine and agreed to close three agencies.

A former employee of Mr. Lee's told the Consumer Affairs Department that the
pressure to find jobs for applicants is enormous, the department said. She said
each counselor must find a minimum of 1,000 jobs a month and is given a
commission of 1 percent of their referral fees only after exceeding the quota.
If the quota is not met, counselors are verbally abused, the former employee
said. She said counselors are paid $600 to $800 a month in salary.

Mr. Lee denied there was a quota and said employees are paid strictly on
commission, 90 percent of what they bring in.

Mr. Lee defended holding deposits and charging a fee if a job did not result
after an interview.

"If you are in the agency's shoes, what are you going to do?" he asked. "You
made a lot of phone calls that cost you money and time."   JANE H. LII

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fred Cerullo, the Commissioner of Consumer Affairs, right
center, speaking at a news conference. (Chester HigginsJr. /The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 17, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Plays Game With Cuban Immigrants

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words


To the Editor:

The report of Cubans hijacking a ferry to come to the United States, and
possibly sparking a new Mariel boat lift, highlights the hypocrisy of United
States immigration policy toward Cuba (news article, Aug. 7). Under President
Reagan, the United States agreed to take as many as 20,000 Cuban immigrants a
year, but in reality only a few thousand visas are granted annually.

On the other hand, unlike United States policy toward other Caribbean or Latin
neighbors (as the sad saga of Haitian refugees illustrates), all Cubans who make
their way to the United States are allowed to stay. This means that instead of
getting a visa at the United States interest section in Havana and boarding a
plane to Miami in a safe, dignified fashion, Cubans who want to come here must
risk their lives or risk the lives of others by hijacking a boat or plane.

If they reach Florida shores, they are hailed as heroes. If they die at sea,
they are mourned as casualties of Fidel Castro's cruel dictatorship.

Cuba has maintained that would-be United States immigrants can only leave the
country if they have been granted a United States visa, and that those trying to
leave illegally would be stopped. Whenever the Cubans stop illegal emigrants,
however, Washington delights in shouting: "See, people are so desperate to leave
that they will risk their lives on rafts. And what does Castro do? He won't even
let them leave!"

And what happens when Fidel Castro threatens to stop doing the dirty work for
the United States and let everyone leave who wants to? He is a devil who wants
to wage an immigration war against the United States.

Yet according to Treasury Department regulations, Americans who travel to Cuba,
unless they are journalists, professional researchers or Cuban-Americans
visiting relatives, are threatened with 10-year jail sentences and fines of
$250,000.

A group called the Freedom to Travel Campaign has had its bank account frozen
since June for organizing an educational trip to Cuba.

We should grant Cubans the 20,000 visas a year the agreement we signed permits,
and allow United States citizens the right to travel to Cuba.

Indeed, why not lift the whole embargo? Helping improve Cuba's economy and
insuring a peaceful post-Castro transition is our best immigration policy.

MEDEA BENJAMIN
Director, Global Exchange
San Francisco, Aug. 8, 1994

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 18, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Florida Nearing Emergency As Cuban Exodus Increases

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 17


Nearly 500 Cuban refugees were picked up off the Florida coast today, nudging
state officials closer to declaring an immigration emergency that would include
the mobilization of the National Guard and state workers to shelter, medically
screen and transport large groups of people to relocation centers.

The Coast Guard said late tonight that 537 Cubans had arrived in Florida today,
compared with 339 on Tuesday, 282 on Monday and 170 on Sunday. The daily numbers
have steadily risen since the beginning of the year and are now the highest
since the 1980 Mariel boatlift, which brought 125,200 Cubans to the United
States in five months.

More than 6,400 Cuban refugees, mostly small groups on makeshift crafts, have
made it to the United States since January, compared with 3,656 for all of 1993.
Among those passing through the Transit Home for Cuban Refugees on Stock Island
today was a 91-year-old woman who left Cuba with 16 others in a raft three days
earlier.

A senior State Department official today attributed the exodus to a policy shift
by President Fidel Castro of Cuba.

Policy Change on Rafters

"The reason this increase is happening is Castro has changed his policy on
rafters," the official said. "He's still stopping big boats, but not rafters.
He's stopping boats that are assets of value to Cuba. But he's not stopping
people from leaving in rafts. This is a policy decision he took a week and a
half ago."

But the official said the current influx was not Mariel II or a slow-motion
Mariel.

"The principal characteristic of Mariel was a bunch of people took boats from
Florida and picked up people in Cuba," the official said. "There is no sign at
all of that happening."

Rafael Dausa, director of political affairs at the Cuban Interest Section in
Washington, denied that there had been a change in policy by Havana but warned
that unless the United States took measures to stop the refugee flow itself, "we
will be in the position of not putting any obstacles" to the departures.

Among the measures he wants the United States to take, Mr. Dausa said, are
lifting the economic embargo on Cuba and stopping radio broadcasts from Miami to
Cuba.

Both Federal and state officials said on Tuesday that they could still manage
without putting into action emergency plans that include blocking vessels and
mobilizing thousands of National Guard and state law-enforcement officers to
transport large numbers of refugees to processing centers.

Governor Prods White House

Gov. Lawton Chiles called for "an expanded presence" of the Border Patrol and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service in South Florida and a "comprehensive
test" of the Federal plan to deal with a possible major influx.

Tonight, at a news conference in Key West, the Governor said the situation was
"critically approachinhg an emergency," and added: "I'm insisting that the
Federal Government prepare to invoke its emergency plan."

Mr. Chiles also said that he had been in touch with the White House and that he
might make his request official on Thursday.

Ana Cobian, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said that more personnel
from both agencies had already been deployed, and that it was adequate for the
current needs. She declined to describe the extent of the increase in personnel.

State officials were poised to activate an emergency plan that would dispatch
thousands of National Guardsmen and law-enforcement officers to pick up Cuban
refugees and take them to temporary reception centers, and then to Homestead Air
Force Base south of here for relocation out of state. The plan is meant to
support a Federal response for the first 72 hours of the emergency.

'No Magic Number' Needed

But the officials said there was no particular number of refugees to be reached
before putting the plan into effect.

"There's no magic number; it varies from county to county," said Eric Tolbert,
bureau chief of the Division of Emergency Management in the Florida Department
of Community Affairs.

In Dade County, where most Cuban refugees have historically settled, officials
were more worried about long-term effects. On Tuesday they asked Attorney
General Janet Reno for emergency immigration money for housing, health care and
public safety from a $35 million Federal fund that is expected to increase soon
to $75 million.

State officials, who have also asked for Federal aid, put the cost to Florida at
$1 billion.

As they arrive in increasing numbers, the refugees say they risked dehydration
and sharks to escape repression and misery in Cuba. Many said they were prompted
to flee by a Government crackdown on the black market, which they say they had
relied on for food.

Today the Coast Guard brought in a body on a raft found off Miami. Lieut. Comdr.
Jim Howe, a Coast Guard spokesman in Miami, said a pleasure boat spotted the
raft that was carrying one dead man and a male companion who survived the trip
but was later hospitalized.

Scrambling for Supplies

Refugees said today that despite the risks, many in Cuba were scrambling for
supplies to make the 90-mile trip across the Florida Straits to Key West.

A group of 28 Cubans from Villa Clara province said each person in the group of
four families and a few friends played a role in making a 22-foot boat in three
weeks: one man stole aluminum irrigation pipes from the sugar cane field where
he worked to fashion the boat's hull, another bought or traded gathered spare
parts and rebuilt the boat's engine from a 1956 Ford.

Most refugees stay with relatives, said workers with the United States Catholic
Conference, which helps resettle them. Those who are alone are put into motels
until they get their working papers in order. Most are relocated out of state to
job markets that offer work in hotels, restaurants and construction.

Today some of the new arrivals who had been moved into motels in Miami spent the
time contacting out-of-state relatives by telephone, watching television or
simply sitting out near the street.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The flow of Cuban refugees brought Federal and state officials
closer to an immigration emergency yesterday after nearly 500 Cubans were picked
up off the Florida coast. At the Coast Guard station in Miami Beach, a guardsman
lifted a child from the cutter Manitou, which picked up a total of 47 refugees
yesterday. (Associated Press)

Map of FLorida showing location of Key West.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 19, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE STATE RESPONSE;
Florida Gets the Decisiveness It Sought

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 18


For days, Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida had pressed the Clinton Administration
to do something decisive about the wave of Cuban refugees flowing to the state's
southernmost shores. Tonight the Governor got his wish.

The announcement by United States Attorney General Janet Reno that the
Government would begin detaining the arriving Cubans for an indefinite period
was greeted warmly by Mr. Chiles, who said in an interview on CNN, "It's a day
that I'm delighted is here."

Ms. Reno's announcement came at the end of a day in which Mr. Chiles, a Democrat
who faces a tough race for re-election in November, stepped up the pressure on
the Clinton Administration by declaring an immigration emergency in the state
and asking the Administration to do the same.

Under the Governor's declaration, the state opened a command post in a telephone
company building in downtown Key West to coordinate the efforts of Federal,
state and local agencies. It deployed extra state law-enforcement officers to
South Florida. And it also made plans to activate as many as 1,000 National
Guard troops and, for the refugees' shelter, to use the Key West Naval Air
Station as well as an outdoor area of the Monroe County jail on Stock Island,
adjacent to Key West.

In addition, the state began looking for a temporary staging center to process
and medically screen the stream of people -- more than 2,000 so far this month
-- arriving from Cuba on boats and rafts.

Prodding Washington

Those efforts by the state were envisioned only as support for a Federal
operation. Mr. Chiles's declaration of an emergency was meant to prod the
Government into a sense of crisis that would lead to the creation of Federal
processing centers and to a naval blockade to deter more boats from coming.

"We're going to step out on our own and tell them to come join us," the Governor
said of Federal officials in issuing his declaration today.

Later in the day the Administration, saying the migration was under control,
declined to declare an emergency of its own, turning down Florida's request for
millions of dollars in crisis aid.

But within hours the Administration had engaged in a striking about-face. Ms.
Reno's announcement tonight said nothing about more money for Florida but made
clear that the policy of indefinite detention would begin immediately.

Contrast to Mariel

In issuing his declaration of emergency earlier in the day, Mr. Chiles said the
state's efforts might be enough, for the next few days, to deal with the vast
migration of Cubans even without Federal help.

Those efforts by the state were in stark contrast to its response to the Mariel
boatlift of 1980, in which 125,200 Cuban refugees arrived over a period of five
months and caught Florida unprepared. Back then, Dade County -- Miami and its
environs -- was forced to set up a processing center in a park and turn the
Orange Bowl into a tent city.

That earlier influx cost the state an estimated $150 million in unreimbursed
expenses for increased social services, although some economists later said the
refugees had given a boost to South Florida's economy by taking jobs as
laborers, dishwashers and repairmen, mostly for Hispanic businesses.

"Back then we had nothing," Tony Ojeda, assistant Dade County manager, said of
the migration from the Cuban port of Mariel 14 years ago. "I got a call in our
offices one day saying there are Cubans coming in a bus. Now we have the
experience of what happened, and the Governor has taken action to contain the
process and assist local authorities."

Cursory Processing to End

To this point, the new Cuban refugees have received only cursory Federal
processing before being released into the country, in keeping with a
three-decade-old open-door policy toward Cubans who flee the Havana Government.

Before Ms. Reno's announcement tonight, Joaquin G. Avino, the Dade County
Manager, had asked her to open a special Federal center to process the new Cuban
arrivals and to hold them until they find a relative or other sponsor able to
support them financially for at least a year.

And Mr. Chiles's office, expressing certainty that events would ultimately force
the Government to create such holding centers, said he would exercise his
executive authority as Governor of the state to prevent any refugees from
leaving the centers until they were screened for health problems and criminal
records.

Immigration has long been a source of friction between Federal officials and Mr.
Chiles, who was a United States Senator during the Mariel boatlift. At the time,
he expressed dissatisfaction with what he regarded as President Jimmy Carter's
late response to the crisis.

Now the Governor, who wants Washington to assume responsibility for immigrants
to his state, has sued the Government to try to recover more than $800 million a
year in costs associated with illegal immigration.

The arrival of refugees on South Florida's shores continued without respite
today. As of 9 o'clock tonight, the Coast Guard said, the total for the day was
527, virtually equal to the 537 who arrived on Wednesday.

On the busiest day of the Mariel boatlift, aides to the Governor said, about 850
arrived. Still, as Mr. Chiles himself noted, the current flow "is not a
trickle."


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As hundreds of Cuban refugees continued to pour into South
Florida, several more, on the shores of the city of Cojimar, about 10 miles east
of Havana, prepared to depart in a tiny boat yesterday. (Canadian Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 19, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE OVERVIEW;
U.S., IN NEW POLICY, INTENDS TO DETAIN CUBAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1584 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18


With hundreds of Cubans continuing to flee each day in rafts and rubber
dinghies, the Clinton Administration announced tonight, in a sharp change of
policy, that it would detain Cubans for an indefinite period after they arrived
in the United States.

The move, effective immediately, is a major departure from an open-door policy
toward Cubans, who, for three decades, have usually been granted free entry into
the United States after a brief interview by immigration authorities.

Attorney General Janet Reno announced the new policy at an unusual late-night
news conference, saying the move was intended to slow the fast-growing flow of
refugees from Cuba to the United States, which Ms. Reno ascribed to deep
dissatisfaction with the Government of Fidel Castro.

The announcement came just hours after President Clinton rebuffed a plea from
the Governor of Florida to declare a state of emergency there in response to the
wave of Cuban refugees.

The abrupt nature of Ms. Reno's announcement appeared to be intended to comfort
the many Florida residents who say that President Clinton was too quick to
reject the plea from Gov. Lawton Chiles for millions of dollars in Federal aid
to deal with the more than 2,000 Cubans who have reached Florida this month.

In her four-minute appearance at 10:40 P.M. at the White House, Ms. Reno said
the new detention policy would be undertaken to insure that the Administration
was doing what it could "to discourage people from risking their lives."

"It is an unsafe trip," she added. "We are trying to discourage people from
coming from Cuba."

Governor Chiles said he was pleased by the Administration's switch in policy.
"This keeps Castro from being able to call the shots," he said in an interview
on CNN.

Governor Chiles added, "It's a day that I'm delighted is here."

President Clinton has scheduled a news conference for 1:30 P.M. on Friday, and
the Cuba decision is expected to be formally announced then.

Governor Chiles said: "I'm looking forward to the President's announcement
tomorrow. I'm trusting, because I had a conversation with him today, that this
is going to be a further good, firm statement."

Mr. Chiles added, "We are not going to allow Castro to dictate our immigration
policy."

Earlier in the day, Administration officials said they were searching for a
policy that would stop Cubans from fleeing in flimsy vessels, an exodus that
officials said had caused dozens of Cubans to drown this month.

Under the new policy, the Cubans will be held indefinitely in Federal
installations, including units run by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. That is a sharp change from the previous policy, under which many Cuban
refugees were turned over to relatives within hours after the Coast Guard picked
them up in at sea and brought them ashore in Florida.

The policy announced tonight was less drastic than another proposal that
Administration officials said they had been considering: turning back some of
the Cuban refugees instead of continuing the longstanding policy of granting
virtually all Cubans entry. Another option that was considered was to transfer
Cuban refugees to third countries or safe havens -- a policy similar to the one
adopted to handle the flood of Haitian immigrants this summer.

Administration officials acknowledged that both those options would be likely to
anger many Cuban-Americans, and they hoped that those people, worried about the
drownings of their countrymen, would be more sympathetic to a policy of
detentions.

For the Administration, one advantage of the new policy is that it can easily be
reversed if Cuban-Americans attack it. Administration officials said tonight
that they had adopted the new policy only after consulting with Cuban-American
groups.

In resisting the plea of Governor Chiles to declare a state of emergency in
Florida, President Clinton finds himself torn between domestic politics and
foreign policy imperatives.

On one hand, the President wants to help Governor Chiles, a fellow Southern
Democrat who faces a tough re-election race this November, possibly against
former President George Bush's son Jeb.

In a midterm election year when the Democrats fear major reversals, especially
in the larger, more influential states, one of the last things the
Administration wants is to lose the Governor's Mansion in Florida, the fourth
most populous state, which has 25 electoral votes.

With an eye on November, Mr. Chiles is insisting that the Administration declare
a state of emergency, partly to show Florida voters that he has clout in
Washington. He is also asking for $75 million in emergency Federal financing to
counter Republican charges that he is spending too much on social services for
immigrants and others.

But diplomatic concerns are giving President Clinton a strong tug in the other
direction. Administration officials said today that they were reluctant to
declare a full-scale emergency because it would send a signal to Cubans that the
door was open wide for them to flee in their boats and rafts. At the same time,
declaring an emergency would tell Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, that he had
succeeded in unnerving the Administration.

Emergency Meeting

After an emergency high-level White House meeting on the Cuba situation today,
Administration officials said they were considering numerous contingency plans.
These included increasing the number of Coast Guard vessels off Cuba and
enabling more Cubans to gain refugee status by applying in Havana, rather than
by taking to rafts. The Coast Guard now has a dozen cutters and 31 small boats
patrolling the Florida Straits.

Pentagon officials said Navy personnel were trucking tents from Gulfport, Miss.,
to Homestead Air Force Base in Florida in case the wave of Cubans surged
suddenly.

Administration officials say wretched economic conditions in Cuba are the
underlying factor behind the exodus, but they add that the immediate reason for
it is that Mr. Castro has stopped prohibiting Cubans from fleeing in rafts,
inner tubes and small boats.

According to Administration policymakers, Mr. Castro has permitted the recent
wave of refugees in the hope that it would vex the Administration and pressure
it to ease its trade embargo against Cuba. That would enable Cubans and Mr.
Castro to breathe more easily at a time when the Cuban leader faces the most
domestic dissent in years.

Senior American officials said today they had ruled out relaxing the embargo,
which Mr. Castro asserts is destroying Cuba's economy and causing the wave of
refugees.

In a news conference today in Key West, where the Coast Guard has taken most of
the Cuban refugees, Governor Chiles declared an emergency situation within his
state. He said the Florida National Guard, marine patrol and other branches of
government would be used to respond to the influx of Cubans.

"These large numbers create an emergency situation for services and assistance,"
Governor Chiles said. "Already, this emergency creates a burden on local and
state resources."

At a news conference, Ms. Reno treated Mr. Chiles's depiction of the situation
as an exaggeration, saying the Administration was handling the problem "in an
orderly way and without disruption." She said the Immigration and Naturalization
Service was adding more than a dozen workers in Florida to handle the Cuban
refugees.

"We do not believe that this current influx has been a burden yet on the
community," she said. To buttress this point, she noted that 75 percent of the
Cuban refugees who have arrived this year had been settled with relatives in
Florida and 15 percent with relatives in other states, primarily New York and
New Jersey. The other 10 percent, she said, have also been placed outside of
Florida.

But Administration officials said they were analyzing the situation day to day
and would not rule out putting an emergency plan into effect.

"'We're watching it very closely, but to date we've been able to manage the
situation and we expect we'll continue to be able to," said Dee Dee Myers, the
White House Press Secretary.

Would Bar Mariel Repeat

Administration officials vow not to allow a replay of the Mariel exodus, in
which an estimated 90 percent of the refugees were carried by boats belonging to
Cuban-Americans from Florida.

The Coast Guard has been ordered to increase patrols to stop and seize boats
heading to Cuba from Florida to pick up refugees.

"We are not going to permit another massive exodus," said Ms. Myers. "We will
not allow Fidel Castro to dictate our immigration policy."

One senior State Department official said he doubted that the flow of Cubans
would grow to the same proportions as the wave of Haitians did last June. Since
Cuba does not have free enterprise, he said, it is harder for Cubans to build
medium-sized boats to carry lots of refugees. That is why Haitian refugees often
fled 50 or 100 to a boat, while the Cubans flee 5 or 10 to a raft.

Attorney General Reno seized on the new exodus to indict Mr. Castro. "To divert
the Cuban people from seeking democratic change, the government of Cuba has
resorted to the unconscionable tactic of letting people risk their lives by
leaving in flimsy vessels through the treacherous waters of the Florida
Straits," she said.

"An uncontrolled exodus from Cuba will do nothing to address Cuba's internal
problems. The solution to Cuba's problems is rapid, fundamental and far-reaching
political and economic reform."


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "THE TALLY: Refugees From Cuba" tracks the number of Cuban
refugees arriving in the United States each year since 1977. (Sources:
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Associated Press, U.S. Coast Guard);
"DAY BY DAY: Fleeing From Cuba" tracks daily number of refugees arriving from
Cuba from August 11 through August 18. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization
Service; U.S. Coast Guard) (pg. A14)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 19, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Expect Congress to Protect Your Privacy;
National Work Permit

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 192 words


To the Editor:

Do you realize that "A National Registry for Work" (editorial, Aug. 8) advocates
that United States citizens be required to have a government permit to work?
Only the most totalitarian regimes such as Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union
aggregated such power to themselves.

The potential for abuse is greater than all the government scandals of the last
50 years. The power to extend a permit is also the power to deny a permit. The
mere threat is sufficient to stifle the political dissent necessary in a
democracy.

As we are supposed to be denying access to the United States job market to
illegal aliens, not placing government controls on citizens, I would suggest a
solution that does not fold, spindle and mutilate the Constitution.

Let's establish a computerized telephone verification system for green cards.
For citizens who are members of ethnic groups that are the "usual suspects" for
illegal immigration, identification such as naturalization papers, passports or
voter registration cards should be adequate for any employer not courting a
discrimination suit.

LANE LEIFER
Roslyn, L.I., Aug. 13, 1994

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 19, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Expect Congress to Protect Your Privacy

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words


To the Editor:

In "A National Registry for Work" (editorial, Aug. 8) you express unqualified
support for the new Federal proposal to establish a computerized registry that
would include all citizens, linked to their Social Security numbers, as well as
all immigrants authorized to work in the United States so that employers would
be able to determine every job applicant's identity.

You dismiss the American Civil Liberties Union's fear that this proposal, if
enacted, could bring us perilously close to having an internal passport system.
You point out that our Social Security numbers are already widely used as a
national identification system and that in any case, the legislation
establishing such a national registry of citizens could include safeguards
against improper uses such as political surveillance.

But legislative safeguards are not sufficient. What Congress enacts it can
easily repeal when the political winds change. That is how the Social Security
number, which was originally protected by legislation against uses not related
to administration of the Social Security system, became transformed over the
years into a sort of universal identifier. It is now so widely used that it can
potentially provide access to highly personal and politically charged
information.

Think of how many personal transactions require us to provide our Social
Security number, and ask yourself whether you want the Government or your
employer to have access to all those transactions and their details.

Safeguards are certainly needed, but they have to be immunized against
legislative repeal. The way to do that is to protect our privacy rights by a
constitutional amendment that would prohibit any future Congress from repealing
the safeguards. That is why all fundamental rights -- free speech, religious
freedom, due process of law and equal protection of the laws -- are
constitutionally guaranteed. The Bill of Rights was invented by our ancestors
precisely to protect against legislative infidelity to basic freedoms.

Those who support a national registry of citizens only if our rights are
adequately protected against its improper use ought to insist that such
protections be constitutionally guaranteed. Statutory protection is not enough.

IRA GLASSER
Executive Director
American Civil Liberties Union
New York, Aug. 12, 1994

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 19, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Free Speech, Except --

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 27;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 727 words


Freedom for political speech has broader support in this country than ever
before, I believe. Past repression of unpopular speakers seems anomalous today.
One thing on which most conservatives and liberals now agree is respect for the
First Amendment.

But not the U.S. Department of Justice. Not, at least, if one goes by an
astonishing brief the Department has just filed. In the teeth of precedent and
logic, it argues that immigrants in this country have only as much freedom of
speech as the Government considers reasonable -- and can be deported if they
cross that vague line.

The brief was filed in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in a seven-year-old
deportation case against two Palestinians. It is the latest turn in a proceeding
that is a model of how our Government should not behave.

Eight men and women of Palestinian origin, living in California, were arrested
in 1987, held in shackles and described as "terrorists." The Immigration and
Naturalization Service charged them with advocating "world Communism" -- but
later dropped that charge.

The real problem of the eight was that they had raised money for the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a radical group. The P.F.L.P. has carried
out terrorism, but it also conducts peaceful political and relief activities.
Judge William Webster, then Director of the F.B.I., told Congress in 1987 that
the eight had "not been found to have engaged themselves in terroristic
activities."

Contributing money for peaceful purposes to a group that also engages in
violence is plainly protected by the First Amendment. Many Americans gave money
to the Nicaraguan contras, and they could certainly not be prosecuted.

Nevertheless the Immigration Service moved to deport Khader Hamide and Michel
Shehadeh, who were lawfully in this country as permanent residents, under a 1990
law allowing deportation of those who support an organization "in conducting a
terrorist activity." Many experts in immigration law protested that that
language did not cover what these two men had done, but the I.N.S. persisted.

The I.N.S. sought to deport the six others for technical violations. It said,
for example, that one who had a student visa failed to take enough credits one
year. But an I.N.S. lawyer said the use of such grounds was just "tactical"; the
real reason to expel them was their association with the P.F.L.P.

The Palestinians asked a Federal court to block the deportation proceedings as
selective, political enforcement of the law. Federal Judge Stephen V. Wilson, a
Reagan appointee, granted that request for the six. He refused it in the case
against Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh because their deportation proceeding had
already begun, though he said the Government appeared to base its charges
against them on constitutionally protected activities.

The two sides appealed Judge Wilson's decisions. In its briefs, the Justice
Department says that the First Amendment does apply to immigrants -- but has to
be read in a way that is "deferential to the Executive." In other words, the
Government can decide to select people for deportation because it does not like
their beliefs or associations.

To that end the Department argues that immigrants lawfully in the United States
have no more rights than outsiders trying to get in. But over many years the
Supreme Court has drawn a sharp line between the two, saying that aliens seeking
entry have no rights while, once here, every person is entitled to due process
of law, free speech and other constitutional protections. For the United States
Government to deny that established law seems to me scandalous.

Under the Government's tortured view of the terrorism clause in immigration law,
it can deport any immigrant who contributed to Nelson Mandela's speaking tour
here, to the contras or to other groups that have engaged in guerrilla activity
as well as politics. That adds up to thousands of people. But the only cases
brought in the four years of this law are against these Palestinians.

It is especially disappointing that Bill Clinton's Justice Department has
decided to push these deportations. There is not even a colorable political
reason. The Red-hunting age is happily past, and Israel has just allowed members
of the P.F.L.P. to enter Gaza. It is time -- long past time -- to drop these
embarrassing cases.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 20, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE POLICY;
Castro's Refugee Weapon Has Been Wielded Before

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 19


The sudden flight of Cubans this week may have caught the United States by
surprise and forced the Clinton Administration to reverse immigration policy,
but experts say the influx was heralded in public threats by President Fidel
Castro two weeks ago as his economic and political difficulties deepened.

No sooner had Mr. Castro quelled the rioting that broke out on the Havana
waterfront on Aug. 5, involving thousands of people who chanted "Down with
Fidel!" and clashed with police and security forces, then he declared that the
Clinton Administration had launched a "comprehensive offensive" and "subversive
plan" against him and he threatened to allow all Cubans unhappy with conditions
on the island to leave for the United States.

We have no special need to keep a boat from leaving," Mr. Castro said during a
rambling television news conference just hours after he was forced to personally
intervene in the disturbances on the waterfront and call out rapid response
brigades to disperse rioters. "This is a U.S. problem more than it is ours."

Mr. Castro has adopted this strategy before, notably in the 1980 Mariel crisis,
which began with eruptions of domestic discontent in Cuba. Mr. Castro responded
by encouraging disgruntled Cubans to get out, and 125,000 took to boats for
Florida. The exodus may have embarrassed Mr. Castro, but not only did he rid
himself of thousands of people who detested him, but he also achieved a
political victory over Jimmy Carter when the American President was forced to
call a halt to the influx.

But by acting quickly to cut off the refugee flow this time, Washington has
called Mr. Castro's bluff, and his ability to maneuver appears more limited.
"I'm not saying he is running scared," one State Department official said today,
"but he's trying to divert attention from the kinds of problems he's got there
and from the fact that the solutions he is offering appear ever more bankrupt to
the average Cuban."

At a news conference in Quito, Ecuador, after Mr. Clinton's announcement, Cuban
Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina described it as a positive step but said that
the two Governments should conduct "profound and serious" discussions about
their relations.

Riots Signaled Crisis

One startling indication that Mr. Castro's problems are more serious than in
past crises was the nature and extent of the rioting that broke out on Aug. 5
after authorities seized a ferryboat that had been hijacked in Havana Bay. The
disturbances took place on Havana's main seafront boulevard in broad daylight
and drew the enthusiastic support of several thousand people, many of them young
and unemployed.

The rioting, and the exodus that has followed it, come after years of economic
decline and growing dissatisfaction among Cubans with Mr. Castro's inability to
halt it. Since the breakup of the Soviet Union and the disappearance of the
artificial subsidies that kept the Cuban economy up and running, the Cuban
economy has contracted by an estimated 40 percent, and the standard of living
has fallen even more drastically.

"Fidel doesn't have a lot of options right now," Lisandro Perez, director of the
Cuba Research Institute at Florida International University here, said today.
"Emigration is about the only card he's got, and if it's the only card he's got,
he wants to play it in a way that can get him other things."

Those other things include an easing or lifting of the American embargo against
Cuba that has been in effect for three decades. Mr. Castro has long argued that
Cubans take to the seas not because of political repression, but because of the
economic difficulties inflicted by the United States' refusal to trade with
Cuba.

Opportunity and Danger

The change of policy toward Cuban refugees that President Clinton announced
today offers Mr. Castro both opportunities and dangers. Cuban television has
been crowing in recent days that "U.S. President William Clinton is now forced
to review his policy on Cuba," and Mr. Castro is likely to argue that
Washington's sudden turnabout is a victory that he obtained.

"If the United States fails to adopt immediate and efficient measures to stop
the encouragement of illegal departures from the country, we will be duty-bound
to instruct our Coast Guard not to intercept any boat leaving Cuba," he said. In
fact, boats have been leaving Cuba unimpeded in recent days, and the Clinton
Administration has now been forced to close an open door.

"The message to people in Cuba is that you either have to go out there and die
on the streets or accept Castro and accommodate yourself to his regime," said
Frank Calzon, who analyzes events in Cuba for the human rights group Freedom
House. "To the extent that the United States is perceived as weak and being
manipulated by Castro, he comes out ahead and the opposition is less willing to
take risks."

But with the emigration safety valve now closed, Mr. Castro must also deal with
thousands of hungry, bored and unhappy Cubans who would otherwise be in Miami.
As events of recent years have shown, he has little to offer them except more
repression and privation.

Many American officials have assumed that with the escape valve shut, those who
remain behind will begin actively to oppose Mr. Castro and that there will be
new eruptions of discontent. The opposition to Mr. Castro is not well organized,
however, and disturbances like those earlier this month have occurred before and
been quickly suppressed before they could spread.

Mr. Castro's willingness to resort to a strategy that, by provoking the United
States, has the potential to backfire on him is a clear sign that he recognizes
he is in a situation unlike any other he has faced.

"No one knows what might happen tomorrow," he said after the riot. "This
situation is imponderable."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After years of economic decline and growing dissatisfaction,
Cubans have been leaving the island nation by any means possible. In Cojimar, a
boy watched some men yesterday as they prepared a raft for their voyage.
(Reuters)

Map: Under President Clinton's new Cuba policy, the Coast Guard plucked hundreds
of Cuban refugees from the Straits of Florida yesterday and began taking them to
detention camps at the Guantanamo Bay base. (The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 20, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Excerpts From News Conference Announcing Policy on Refugees

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 3809 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19


Following are excerpts from President Clinton's news conference, including his
opening statement and the questions and answers that followed, as transcribed by
the Federal Information Systems Corporation, a private transcription service:


Good afternoon. In recent weeks, the Castro regime has encouraged Cubans to take
to the sea in unsafe vessels to escape their nation's internal problems. In so
doing, it has risked the lives of thousands of Cubans and several have already
died in their efforts to leave. This action is a cold-blooded attempt to
maintain the Castro grip on Cuba and to divert attention from his failed
Communist policies. He is trying to export to the United States the political
and economic crisis he has created in Cuba, in defiance of the democratic tide
flowing throughout this region.


Let me be clear: the Cuban Government will not succeed in any attempt to dictate
American immigration policy. The United States will do everything within its
power to insure that Cuban lives are saved and that the current outflow of
refugees is stopped. Today I have ordered that illegal refugees from Cuba will
not be allowed to enter the United States. Refugees rescued at sea will be taken
to our naval base at Guantanamo while we explore the possibility of other safe
havens within the region.

To enforce this policy, I have directed the Coast Guard to continue its expanded
effort to stop any boat illegally attempting to bring Cubans to the United
States. The United States will detain, investigate and, if necessary, prosecute
Americans who take to the sea to pick up Cubans. Vessels used in such activities
will be seized.

I want to compliment the Coast Guard and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service for their efforts, and I want to thank Florida's officials, including
Governor Chiles and the Florida Congressional delegation, for their help in
protecting and saving the lives of Cubans who seek to escape the regime.

Crime Bill Compromise

Now I'd like to speak just for a moment about the crime bill. In the last week,
I have fought hard to put this crime bill back on track. After extensive talks
with members of both parties, I have indicated my support for strengthening the
provisions that require sexual predators to report to the police and make sure
their communities are notified of their presence.

And I support cutting overall spending in the bill by 10 percent. These cuts
will insure that every dollar authorized in the bill will actually be paid for
-- not with new taxes and not by diverting dollars from other needed programs,
but, as I have always insisted, with the savings we will gain from reducing the
size of the Federal Government by over a quarter of a million people over the
next six years, to its lowest size in over 30 years, since President Kennedy was
here. And all these historic savings will go back to the American people to make
their streets and their homes, their schools safer.

I have insisted that we keep the most profoundly important elements of the crime
bill -- to keep it tough by putting 100,000 police officers on the street,
building more prisons, putting violent criminals away for good, by making "three
strikes, you're out" the law of the land, and by other stronger provisions on
sentencing.

And we're going to keep it smart with the sensible crime prevention programs
that steer our kids away from drugs and gangs and give them things to say yes
to. The crime bill must ban handguns for juveniles and take deadly assault
weapons off our streets. Even though we've come under intense pressure from
forces that will apparently say anything to take the assault weapons out of the
bill, I have refused to do so.

Let's keep in mind what this crime bill is all about. It's about removing fear
from our streets, our schools and our homes. Innocent Americans should not have
to fear being preyed upon, as so many do today. Innocent children should not
have to fear losing their childhoods, as so many do today. We owe it to the
American people that do the work and pay the bills in this country to make sure
that people who commit crime get caught, that those who are guilty get convicted
and that those who are convicted serve their time. We also owe it to them to do
whatever we can to prevent crime in the first place. That's what the police and
the prevention programs are all about.

That's why it is so important and why I have worked so hard to make sure that we
do not turn this crime issue into yet another Washington partisan issue. This is
a grass-roots, mainstream, nonpartisan issue, and so it should remain. It must
be an American crime bill. We have worked hard on it, and I call upon Congress
to pass it without delay.

U.S. Policy Toward Cuba

Q. Mr. President, on behalf of all the press corps, we want to wish you a happy
birthday.

A. Thank you.

Q. And now ----

A. Well, you could all do a lot to make it happy -- that is not a guilt trip;
feel no pressure. Thank you.

Q. Mr. President, in the last 35 years, we've had an embargo against Cuba. . . .
What is the problem with taking a few small, albeit brave steps to negotiate a
possible movement toward democracy with Cuba? We've dealt with many Communist
countries through the last 35 years, and we're dealing with them now.

A. There aren't many left. I support the embargo and I support the Cuban
Democracy Act, which was passed in 1992. And I do not believe we should change
our policy there. The fundamental problem is democracy is sweeping the world;
democracy and freedom are sweeping our hemisphere. In the Caribbean alone and in
Central and South America, in all of this region, there are only two countries
now not democratically governed with open societies and open economies.

The real problem is the stubborn refusal of the Castro regime to have an open
democracy and an open economy, and I think the policies we are following will
hasten the day when that occurs. . . .

Q. Mr. President, recognizing that you're slowing down the process, do people
fleeing Cuba still get automatic entry to the United States as political
refugees if they're not criminals or ill?

A. No. The people leaving Cuba will not be permitted to come to the United
States. They will be sent to safe havens. . . . The people who reach here will
be apprehended and will be treated like others. They will be -- their cases will
be reviewed, and those who qualify can stay, and those who don't will not be
permitted to. They will be now treated like others who come here. . . .

Q. Mr. President, under the law it has always been clear that Cuban refugees had
a certain priority on staying here, and the policy, of course, was then that
anybody who got here got to stay. What restraints are you operating under in
terms of the law in changing this policy? Are you likely, sir, to be sued over
this?

A. No. . . . The Cuban Adjustment Act will continue to be the law of the land,
but we are doing our best within that -- we will detain the Cubans who come here
now. They will not simply be released into the population at large. And we will
review all their cases in light of the applicable law, including the Cuban
Adjustment Act. . . .

Q. Can you give us some more details? Are these people going to be taken to
Guantanamo? What kind of strain might this place on our naval forces, the Coast
Guard? Already we're being told that drug interdiction is being cut back. And
can you respond to criticism already from Bob Dole and Newt Gingrich? In
particular, Mr. Gingrich said that your new policy is appalling, it's an example
of mixed morality, and that he thinks it is illegal under the act.

A. Well, first let me answer the factual questions. The refugees, those who are
fleeing, will be taken first to Guantanamo, where we will seek safe havens for
them. That is plainly not illegal under international law, nor do we believe it
is illegal under the Cuban Adjustment Act.

Secondly, as to whether it is immoral, I just would say it is my belief that the
American people, and that the Cuban-American people, and the people of Florida,
but the people of the entire United States, do not want to see another Mariel
boat lift. They do not want to see Cuba dictate our immigration policy. They do
not want to see Mr. Castro able to export his political and economic problems to
the United States.

Now that is what is plainly being set up. We have gone through that once. We had
120,000 people sent to this country as a deliberate attempt -- not because they
themselves initially wanted to flee -- they were encouraged to flee; they were
pushed out. We had jails open, we had mental hospitals open, all in an attempt
to export all the problems of Cuba to the United States. We tried it that way
once. It was wrong then and it's wrong now, and I'm not going to let it happen
again. . . .

Reviving the Crime Bill

Q. President Clinton, previously you said that the crime bill was something that
you supported, that you wanted to sign as it was. Now you're saying you can take
10 percent out of it. Why shouldn't the American people believe that there's
still a lot of fat that should come out of it?

A. First of all, any time you start -- I've never seen a bill that started new
programs that you couldn't cut some and maintain its fundamental integrity. I
said that crime bill was a strong and good bill as it was, and it was a strong
and good bill. But one of the things that happened in conference that I think
has been largely overlooked is that, in an attempt to get as much money as
possible for police officers and law enforcement and for prisons and for border
patrol, funds were appropriated or were authorized in the crime bill that came
out of conference in an amount greater than we could provide in the trust fund.

Keep in mind the great beauty of this crime bill is it's the first major program
in American history that's being financed entirely by reducing the size of the
Federal bureaucracy and taking all the savings from the Federal Government and
putting it in a trust fund to help grass-roots Americans get better control over
their own lives. The practical impact of what we are doing by cutting 10 percent
of this will be to be able to put everything that's left into the trust fund. So
in terms of real dollars, I believe there will be more money actually
appropriated and spent for tough law enforcement and for police officers.

And I believe that all the fundamental important things in the prevention
strategy will be maintained at a very high level and dramatically higher than
now. The principles of the bill are intact. It's the biggest increase in police
in the history of the country. It's the toughest increase in punishment in the
history of the country. It's the biggest increase in prevention programs in the
history of the country. . . .

I'm not a member of the Congress. They have to work out all the details. If
they'd produced this bill out of the conference, I would have happily supported
this as I did the other one.

Q. Were you just giving in to politics then by accepting the original here?

A. Now, that's one of those questions designed to spoil your birthday. Because
it's something else designed to confuse the American people about what really
goes on up here. The President is not a member of the Congress. The Congress
made a decision that they had a bill that they all wanted. They accommodated the
interests as best they could. It met all my fundamental criteria -- assault
weapons ban, ban on handgun ownership by kids, tougher penalties, longer
imprisonment, more prevention. So does this bill. . . .

Reaction of Cuban-Americans

Q. Mr. President, you say that you are not going to allow Fidel Castro to
dictate U.S. immigration policy, but hasn't he just done that by forcing you to
reverse three decades of a policy? And secondly, what do you say to
Cuban-Americans, especially in Florida, who feel betrayed by this change in
policy?

A. Well, I believe that most Cuban-Americans want us to be very firm. The
Cuban-Americans that I know, without regard to their party, supported the Cuban
Democracy Act, and they remember how awful it was for the United States when the
Mariel boat lift occurred. They remembered what it did in this country and how
-- the feelings that it generated in this country. And I do not believe they
want another Mariel boat lift, and I do not believe we can afford to do that.

And so my own view is that most Cuban-Americans will support what we're trying
to do and wish us to be firm. . . .

Q. By telling Cubans to basically to stay home and at least temporarily to
stomach conditions there, does that make it incumbent on you to be more active
in seeking to oust Castro?

A. Well, what we are telling Cubans is that we have a provision for their coming
to the United States through in-country processing, and at least as of this
date, we have no evidence that the Castro Government has done anything to
discourage Cubans from coming to the in-country processing, applying for the
visas if they're eligible to come here, and getting them. . . .

'Keep Working' on Health Bill

Q. Mr. President, one of your fellow Democrats in the Senate, Sam Nunn of
Georgia, said yesterday that it would be months, if not years, before a health
care reform bill is produced, and the Congressional Budget Office said that a
possible moderate compromise didn't cost out. There's a growing feeling in
Washington that this health care crusade is hopelessly bogged down in Congress
at this point. What is your view of the situation?

A. That they should keep working at it. That if we don't move now, there's a
chance that it won't happen at all. You know, the congressional timetable is
often different from the American timetable. I mean, it took seven years to pass
the Brady bill and seven years to pass family leave, but for 60 years, people
have acknowledged that not covering all Americans and having no system for
dealing with the explosive costs and the inequalities in the health care system
were a problem.

They have reached a significant crisis stage here, with five million more
Americans losing their health insurance in the last five years alone, with the
costs exploding in the last 12 years, and I believe that the time has come to
deal with this.

Now, Senator Nunn simply observed what I think is clearly a fact, which is that
in the Senate there is unlimited debate and you can have unlimited amendments.
But a lot of these issues do need to be worked through. I think that the
comments Senator Kennedy and Senator Mitchell made today about the fact that
this bipartisan group was at least attempting to work with them and, in the
process of so attempting, finding out how hard it is -- it's easy to stand on
the sideline and lob brickbats at these efforts, and quite another thing to
produce your own effort. But their comment made me believe that there is still a
chance that people will work together and resolve this. . . .

Ban on Assault Weapons

Q. Mr. President, back to the crime bill. If the approach you're offering, the
changes you're offering now, does not produce enough votes to pass the bill,
will you under any circumstances agree to sever the assault weapon ban for a
separate vote in the House and Senate?

A. I won't agree to that because I think it's a mistake. And let me say -- I
don't want to overly comment on it, but let me try to describe what the problem
is. The bill has already passed the House, but in the Senate, as you know, we
could have 55, 56, 57, 59 votes for that bill in the Senate and it could still
be filibustered, and we should not permit that to happen. . . .

An Ambitious Agenda

Q. Mr. President, I hate to ask you one of those questions that might spoil a
birthday again, but in light of the problems that you have been having up on
Capitol Hill, many people are wondering if changing your communications
strategy, shuffling your staff might not be really addressing the problem, that
perhaps -- I was wondering if you've thought about this -- that as a President
elected with 43 percent, you may be trying to do too much, too fast, and
Democrats on Capitol Hill may be trying to take too much of a partisan advantage
of having control of the entire Government and perhaps exceeding your mandate?

A. Well, first, I don't want the Democrats to take partisan advantage. I just
want us to get what's necessary for the country done. I do not believe the
country believes that we should sit still up here. And for all your talk about
trouble, let me remind you that every objective survey says that in 1993, this
Administration got more support from Congress than any Administration since
World War II except President Eisenhower in 1953, when he had a less ambitious
agenda, and President Johnson in 1965, when he had a bigger mandate and more
support from the Congress. So I think we're doing quite well with the Congress
if you look at it in any kind of historic pattern.

Now, I realize the fights and the conflicts and the delays endure more than the
achievements, but we reversed Reaganomics. We passed an economic program that
was part of a strategy that has given us three years of deficit reduction for
the first time since Truman, over four million jobs. We have the most advances
in trade than we've had in a generation in the last year and a half. This
economic program is working. We broke seven years of gridlock with the Brady
bill. We passed Nafta, which was deader than a doornail when I became President.
We revived it and passed it. . . .

But I believe what I have to do is to keep trying to change things. Any time you
try to provoke as much change as I have, you are going to have resistance, and
you will be criticized. Is it more difficult that I had 43 percent of the vote?
Perhaps it is. But I think you can make another argument, which was that 62
percent of the American people voted for fundamental change. . . .

If anything, I would say that I've been most disappointed, looking back, not so
much in my inability to get things done -- because once people look at the list,
it's a very long and impressive list -- but I haven't been as successful in
changing the way it works; that is, in trying to get the Democrats and
Republicans to reach across to each other in good faith and work through these
things. That's why I think this crime bill could be an important thing. It would
be a way of people in both parties saying we're putting you first, for a change
-- not ourselves. . . .

No Criticism for the Fed

Q. Mr. President, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates again this week.
Some Democrats are saying that it could cause an economic slowdown. How many
more rate increases will you take before you also criticize the Fed?

A. Well, when the Federal Reserve raised rates this week, the chairman, Mr.
Greenspan, said that he thought that this would be sufficient for a time. The
truth is that our economic strategy has produced more rapid growth than they
thought it would and that we thought it would. We are even doing better than we
thought we would. We've got over four million jobs already in the last year and
a half, and we've got rapid growth in the economy, dramatic new investments in
the private sector, so they are worried about inflation.

I -- when it is apparent to me that the drag on the economy will be more about
slowing the economy down than stopping inflation, I will do what I can to
influence that policy. But I think my policy of letting them do their job and
having me do mine has worked out rather well. . . .

Mexico and the Middle East

Q. Mr. President, happy birthday. Next Sunday, Mexico is going to have
presidential elections. Can you give us your assessment? What do you think? What
do you expect? And what is going to be the impact in the relations of Mexico and
the United States? Do you expect continuity?

A. I expect the elections to be free, open and fair, and I expect them to
produce a result which will be accepted by the people of Mexico. And I expect
the United States to continue its deepening friendship with Mexico. I think that
our relationships are growing. I think in spite of the political changes and the
economic difficulties of Mexico in the last two years, we have had great
success. I think Nafta clearly was a great success if you look at the economic
benefits to the United States and what has happened. So I'm looking forward very
optimistically to the future with Mexico.

Q. Mr. President, on the Middle East, sir, progress continues between Israel and
the Palestinians but there's still violence. I wondered, sir, if you have an
assessment on that. Is there any update on the Syrian front? Have you heard
recently from President Assad? And also, has any progress been made in
countering worldwide terrorism?

A. You asked me a lot of questions, there. Let me answer -- try to answer them
all. I believe we are still on a path of steady progress in the hope of
achieving an agreement that resolves the differences between Israel and Syria.
Serious problems remain, but I would say significant advances are being made.

With regard to the Palestinian agreement, I think everyone always knew there
would be some operational difficulties because the P.L.O. had -- to be fair to
them -- never been in charge of a country. That is, they had never had to
operate a government and to deal with all the mundane and maybe sometimes even
boring day-to-day problems that, unless they're properly managed, you can't keep
a society together. I think we're making some headway there. I don't want to
minimize the difficulties, but I do not expect them to be so great as to derail
what we're doing.

Clinton's Wish List

Q. What stirs within you as you celebrate another birthday? And if you could
have three wishes fulfilled today, what would those three wishes be?

A. Well, I woke up this morning just grateful to be here. That's what I'm
feeling. I'm grateful to be alive, grateful to have my health, grateful to have
my family, grateful to have the chance to serve. And you know, I like the tough
fight, so this is an exhilarating period for me. I like the big challenges. I
think we're all put on this earth to try to make a difference.

If I had three wishes, I would wish for the crime bill to pass -- one. I would
wish that I would make more progress on the way we do things around here as well
as on the substance, because if we can open our minds and hearts to each other
and play a little less politics, we can solve the health care problem, too, and
other things. And I would wish that I won't have to give up my whole vacation --
because I still have dreams of breaking 80 on the golf course before I'm 50. . .
.

Thank you very much.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 20, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: IN CUBA;
On Beach Near Havana, Many Still Try to Flee

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 11;  Column 6;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Aug. 19


Dozens of Cubans were still setting off by raft from a beach east of Havana
today, even as President Clinton ordered that Cubans picked up at sea by the
Coast Guard not be allowed to enter the United States.

Foreign reporters saw six rafts, made from inner tubes and wood, set off in the
space of about 40 minutes from Cojimar beach, 10 miles east of the capital.
People among the small crowds milling around on one section of the beach said
many more rafts had left during the morning. Each raft carries about four to six
people.

Cojimar has been a key spot in recent days for the increased flow of Cubans
leaving the Communist-ruled Caribbean island by raft.

In its morning news program today, Cuba's state-run radio reported the
announcement late Thursday by the United States Attorney General, Janet Reno,
that Cubans arriving in the United States without visas would from now on be
detained.

Exodus Into Flordia

But Granma, the Communist Party newspaper, reported that Ms. Reno had said
Washington was not currently contemplating a policy change on immigration. The
article, noting that Florida had seen unprecedented numbers of Cubans arriving
this week, said the United States was paying the price for a "hostile"
immigration policy.

On the beach at Cojimar, few people were aware of the American shift. But when
told about Ms. Reno's comments, several people said it would still be worth
going off on a raft even if they risked detention.

"Nothing's going to stop people from going," commented one man, who said he was
there to watch the spectacle of so many people leaving.

There was no official reaction yet in Havana to the Clinton Administration
announcement, which amounted to a major change of the United States' 30-year-old
policy of accepting all Cuban refugees.

Complaints by Cuba

Under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, Cubans who left the island without
papers -- generally in rafts or flimsy boats -- were automatically allowed to
stay in the United States. Havana has long complained that this stimulated
illegal exits, since Washington at the same time restricted the number of visas
it granted.

The number of people leaving Cuba, which is facing a severe economic crisis, has
shot up in the last few days to the highest levels since the Mariel boatlift of
1980, when 125,000 left in an exodus that flooded Florida's social services.

The rise appears to be a result of the Cuban authorities' turning a blind eye to
people trying to leave, so long as they set off in their own vessels. President
Fidel Castro, reacting to a spate of hijackings of state-owned vessels, warned
two weeks ago that Cuba would no longer put obstacles in the way of Cubans
trying to leave the island by boat, or of their relatives in Florida coming to
pick them up, if Washington did not change its immigration policy.

Almost 3,500 people have been picked by the United States Coast Guard so far in
August, prompting Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida to declare a state of emergency
on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 21, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE VOICES;
Cubans, Stay Home, Many Floridians Say

BYLINE: New York Times Regional Newspapers

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 29;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla., Aug. 20


For Al and Gladys Ros, President Clinton is making the right move in trying to
limit a new exodus of refugees from Cuba.

Mr. and Mrs. Ros, who fled Cuba in 1961, two years after Fidel Castro came to
power, question the motives of those who are taking to boats now. "We left
because of ideals," said Mrs. Ros, 67, of Plantation Key. "We didn't want to
live in a Communist country. But now they are leaving because they are hungry.
If Fidel gives them food, they would stay."

It would be a mistake for the United States to encourage another mass migration
of Cubans, said Mr. Ros, 67. He added that keeping discontented Cubans at home
would keep more pressure on Mr. Castro.

Although their reasoning was different, more than 30 Floridians interviewed
here, nearly 500 miles north of Miami, expressed support for Mr. Clinton's plans
to pluck Cuban refugees from rafts and transfer them to detention camps in
Guantanamo Bay.

Marian Miller, 70, said she wanted a stronger immigration policy. "We've had
such a time with them down in Miami that I really think something ought to be
done," she said. "I don't like the completely open-door policy."

She said exceptions should be made only in cases where immediate family members
were being reunited. "Our taxes are going up unless we have really big help from
the Federal Government," Ms. Miller said.

Bill Leskanic, 38, a Tallahassee ambulance driver, said the refugees should stay
in Cuba. "They need to straighten out their country," he said.

Fred Campana, 55, of Marco Island, said: "I don't think we should have to pay
for them. I think they should straighten up their country and get rid of
Castro."

Mr. Campana's wife, Chris, 56, added, "He wants Castro shot and a new government
put in."

Rodney Gray, a 51-year-old mechanic from Medart, a small community south of
Tallahassee, was one of the few residents who said he generally supported the
resettling of Cubans in the state. "There's only so much you can take," he said,
"but this country was founded on people coming over."

Bobby Scott, a 54-year-old retiree from Chattahoochee, said: "We've got about
all that we can take care of as it is. I think they ought to have some way to
slow them down. I'll tell you we've been doing this for years and years and
years. It looks like you've got to draw a line sometime."

At a senior citizens center in Naples, a community on Florida's lower Gulf
Coast, anti-immigrant sentiments ran high.

"We can't get into Cuba, but they can get into America," said Catherine Tomasic,
77, who moved to Florida from Pittsburgh two years ago. "It's not fair. And then
they end up on welfare. And who pays for it? The taxpayers."

Dolly Scott, 71, suggested that immigration should be suspended until living
standards for poorer Americans are elevated. "There are people here who need
help, and we're giving it to them," she said, referring to Cuban and Haitian
refugees.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 21, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

In a Colombian Port City, the Only Hope Lies in Leaving

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: BUENAVENTURA, Colombia


Guillermo B., a tall, thin man in his mid-20's, has tried to leave this
poverty-ridden port city five times. With little schooling and a disabled mother
to support, his ambition is to go to the United States, find work and return
with a fortune.

His first attempt to leave came last year. One night, he bribed a port guard
with a counterfeit $100 bill and hid himself in a container that was to go on a
cargo ship bound for Florida. As the vessel crossed the Panama Canal, two
sailors discovered him and alerted immigration officials in Miami. A month
later, the ship returned Guillermo, who asked that his full name not be used, to
this Pacific port 200 miles southwest of Bogota.

Since then, the police have caught him every time he has tried to smuggle
himself out of the country as a stowaway. Yet for him, as for hundreds of other
young men here, the cargo ships that enter and depart one of Latin America's
busiest Pacific ports are the only means to escape poverty.

Although the bustling port here has thrived under Colombia's economic
liberalization and free trade policies, the city's 350,000 mostly black
inhabitants have been denied the benefits from the billions of dollars in
commerce that pass through each year.

What remains after the ships depart are images of wealth and abundance from
abroad. "I wanted to go because people told me that life in the United States
was good," said Carlos Murillo, a 34-year-old photographer who tried to leave as
a stowaway three times. "I was told that the poor there lived like the rich
here."

In the crowded city center, shoeshiners, contraband vendors and cafe owners
announce their services to the swarms of seemingly idle people standing about on
street corners. Business and industry are nowhere to be found. About 70 percent
of the people here are unemployed. The few who find occasional work as port
hands earn less than the minimum wage of $110 a month and receive no benefits.
Most Buenaventurans share a life of poverty. They also express a common desire:
They want to leave.

Guillermo dreams of becoming a "norteno," one of the tiny minority of stowaways
who have managed to reach the United States unnoticed and, once there, have
struck gold. As illegal aliens with sparse education, many nortenos, or
northerners, have found fortune by resorting to drug dealing, and a few make a
meager living doing menial work.

With plenty of cash and presents for their families, nortenos return to
Buenaventura to lavish their wealth. They drive imported cars, wear gold chains,
listen to rap music and pepper their Spanish with American slang. Clad in
colorful shirts and imported shoes, they contrast conspicuously with the rest of
the population.

As nortenos return to build new homes in the areas where they grew up, they have
turned Buenaventura into a city of contrasts. In Bellavista neighborhood,
unsturdy wooden shacks that harbor many failed stowaways and threaten to sink
when it floods are huddled alongside opulent homes exhibiting flower-laden
gardens, spiral staircases and doors that open by remote control.

Yet far from eliciting resentment among the destitute majority here, nortenos
serve to strengthen the resolve of those who hope to escape to a brighter
future. A local journalist recalled how his best friend had returned a rich man.
"I want to be like that," he said. "At the first chance I get, I will leave
too."

The areas surrounding the port are filled with throngs of would-be stowaways
like Guillermo, waiting for the chance to slip on board a passing ship. For
many, it is not the first attempt. A port official here estimated that six or
seven people try to leave as stowaways every day.

As more cargo vessels take advantage of the port's recent privatization and
added efficiency, the number of stowaways increases. Yet as they begin their
journey, the majority face death, apprehension or the prospect of deportation.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 21, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT;
Expertise on Refugees Amplifies Reno's Voice

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 28;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20


On Thursday morning, Attorney General Janet Reno told reporters at the Justice
Department that refugees leaving Cuba posed no emergency and could easily be
absorbed into the population.

That night, at a hastily called White House news conference, she announced that
everything had changed. Any Cubans found in international waters would be sent
on Coast Guard vessels to a tent city at the American Navy base at Guantanamo
Bay. By the next morning, she was warning any Cuban trying to leave the country,
"The odds of ending up in Guantanamo are going to be very, very great and the
odds of ending up in the United States are going to be very, very small."

The change of policy, suspending nearly three decades of easy immigration for
Cubans fleeing their homeland, was unusual enough. Still more unusual was that
it was the nation's chief law enforcement officer who was announcing a basic
change in policy.

Aides in both the White House and the Justice Department say Ms. Reno has seized
the lead within the Administration on the matter, along with the National
Security Adviser, Anthony Lake, because she is the only member of the Cabinet
with direct experience with Cuban refugees. Her main drawback when she was
chosen -- a career spent not in the Federal Government, but as a local
prosecutor in Miami -- has suddenly become an asset.

On Friday morning, White House aides grumbled at the scrambling Ms. Reno had
done to announce the major change in policy. Later that evening, however, some
were acknowledging that her reason -- the desire to make late broadcasts that
would reach Cuba that evening -- was the kind of practical detail that would
seem obvious to a Florida politician but not to the foreign and military
advisers trying to sort out a complex issue.

Administration officials say the quick switch on the policy came when Ms. Reno
and others realized that their efforts to limit the crisis by playing it down
were simply not working and that a drastically different tack was called for.

"Nothing moves on this without Janet," said a senior official at the White
House. "She brings to this an understanding of the issue and of the scope of
response that may be necessary."

Back Into the Spotlight

Not since Ms. Reno's commanding performance after the Federal Bureau of
Investigation's disastrous assault on the Branch Davidian compound in April 1993
has she found herself so visibly in the limelight.

In the 16 months since Waco, Ms. Reno's star at the Justice Department has
fallen. Career lawyers have complained that behind the public image of a
take-charge Attorney General is a remote figure who has difficulty mastering the
essential role of the Attorney General, the Government's top traffic cop at the
busy intersection of law and politics.

In January, she lost Philip B. Heymann, her Deputy Attorney General, in a
personality squabble. Weeks later, Webster L. Hubbell, a lawyer who operated as
the main conduit of information between the Justice Department and the White
House, quit the third-ranking job at the department.

Since then, she has settled into a crime-fighting role, lobbying and making
speeches for Mr. Clinton's crime bill and presiding over a Justice Department
where Mr. Heymann's successor, Jamie S. Gorelick, is regarded by many lawyers as
a fast-rising official who seems to wield nearly as much as influence as Ms.
Reno.

Ms. Reno's views on Cuban immigration trace back to 1980, when she watched the
Mariel boatlift from her vantage point as the county prosecutor, an elected
official who had to cope with the repercussions in Miami's criminal justice
system and take the political consequences in a city where Cuban-Americans are a
powerful voting bloc.

Fourteen years later, aides at the Justice Department said, her familiarity with
the issue helped her perceive early that the renewed inflow of Cuban refugees
could easily escalate into the same kind of social, legal and political problem.


Spotting the Warning Signs

Earlier this month, when Fidel Castro threatened to drop the obstacles in the
way of Cubans trying to leave the island by boat, Ms. Reno canceled a weekend
trip to New Orleans to attend an American Bar Association convention and dug
into the issue. On Aug. 6 she sent four people to Miami to assess the
Government's capability to respond to a crisis.

Ms. Reno kept the issue on the Justice Department's agenda, aides said, prodding
subordinates to prepare plans for dealing with a crisis and spending hours on
the telephone with Cuban-American leaders and state officials.

On Aug. 11, it was Ms. Reno who made a highly unusual evening announcement of
the Administration's first policy move: the detention of a speedboat that had
arrived in the Florida Keys with a cargo of Cubans. Ms. Reno announced that
other craft might be seized.

But Ms. Reno's announcement did not deter hundreds of Cubans from taking to the
sea in makeshift rafts. They discovered that Coast Guard vessels off the Cuban
coast in international waters would rescue people, who would be quickly granted
legal entry into the United States.

By midday Thursday, one Justice Department aide said, American officials
realized that their policy was encouraging the Cuban exodus instead of
discouraging it and that they had to act fast.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 23, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE EXPATRIATES;
Response to Clinton's Policy Proves As Varies as Waves of Cuban Exodus

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1633 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 22


Not long into Fidel Castro's revolution, two armed men from the new Government
came to Efrain Veiga Sr.'s lumber yard in Havana and asked him to hand over the
keys. His business confiscated, Mr. Veiga soon sent his 9-year-old son to an
aunt in the United States, and a year later, in 1962, he and his wife followed.

"The one who should have left was Fidel," the 73-year-old Mr. Veiga said. "But
what were we supposed to do? Work for the Communist Government? I can say I
never worked for them."

Roman Perez, 27, also decided to leave Cuba, but instead of taking an airline
flight like the Veigas did 32 years before him, the mechanic recently boarded a
raft that barely made it through nearly two weeks of drifting in the Florida
Straits. The first of his family to ever leave Cuba, Mr. Perez knows no one here
and hopes only for a job that will insure a living.

"Everything is so expensive" Mr. Perez said of a Cuba beset by misery. "At least
there is a future here."

Changed South Florida

Mr. Veiga and Mr. Perez represent both ends of the Cuban migration cycles over
the last three decades: the largely educated, middle- and upper-class group that
fled Communism and offered support to later waves of immigrants, and the poorer
children of the revolution with fewer resources and family ties in the United
States.

In the years in between the arrival of the two men came Cubans who set up
businesses, made South Florida bicultural and elected two current members of
Congress, many state legislators and many local officials. And as those people
prospered, their focus continued to be always Cuba.

That preoccupation reached new heights over the weekend when President Clinton
yanked Cubans' status as favored refugees, ordered that new arrivals be detained
at the American military base at Guantanamo and imposed restrictions on travel
and financial aid to Cuba.

But reaction to the change in policy has been as mixed as Miami's Cuban
community, a community that has continually been remade by successive mass
exoduses.

Now, many of those who were welcomed with open arms, like Mr. Veiga, do not
oppose shutting the door on newcomers like Mr. Perez.

Waiting at the Center

Nowhere was the exile spectrum more dramatically in evidence than in the group
of several hundred Cubans pressed against the chain-link gate of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's Krome Detention Center.

Those waiting to see whether a loved one was among the more than 500 recent
arrivals included people who had come on "freedom flights" of the 1960's and
initially moved in with relatives in the Northeast before coming south;
"Marielitos" who arrived in the huge 1980 boatlift; rafters who trickled in over
the last four years, political prisoners, and deserters and family members who
have come throughout Mr. Castro's 35-year-old rule.

Outside the gate, the new refugees were largely regarded either as victims of
misplaced United States policy or necessary sacrificial lambs to the cause of
democracy.

Now a Businessman

Leonel Lopez, 55, who derided Mr. Clinton's actions as a mistake, was looking
for a 25-year-old son he was told left last Thursday in a boat. A former naval
engineer in Cuba, Mr. Lopez himself arrived four years ago, moving in with an
aunt in Miami after abandoning his ship in Canada.

The black under his fingernails and stains over his blue shirt attested to how
well he felt he had done here. He opened his own car-repair business three
months ago after saving $14,000 working as a restaurant administrator.

"I'm his father," he said of his son, one of four he left behind and hoped
eventually to claim. "I can support him. If Clinton takes him to Guantanamo, how
much is it going to cost the United States?"

But many other Cubans say political considerations outweigh the sacrifice of
those who are now turned away, a view rooted in an uncompromising hostility
toward Mr. Castro. They include Armando Mendez, a maintenance superintendent at
a private Miami area school who came here as a child and remembers Cuba vaguely.

More etched in his mind are his father's tears when his mother died and he could
not attend the funeral in Cuba, or the uncle who languished in a Cuban prison
for 22 years after he was found with a firearm in his house and who died shortly
after he came on the Mariel boatlift to join relatives here.

Tougher Measures Sought



But Mr. Mendez, 33, who said most

of his family on his father's side had remained in Cuba, and his 33-year-old
wife, Maria, whose father was among those who helped organize the failed Bay of
Pigs invasion, said the shunning of the new refugees was acceptable only with
tougher measures from the White House to bring down Mr. Castro. They want a
blockade of Cuban ports, even the use of force. If the American Government
cannot do it, they said, let Cuban exiles like them try it.

"If they are going to take down Castro, they should do it all the way," Mr.
Mendez said. "If not, let the Cuban American community be able to launch an
attack from here."

Mr. Veiga, the former Havana lumberman, is not thinking about fighting or even
returning someday to Cuba, where two sisters and a brother still live. "I can't
start over," he said.

Why Not Sooner?

But he also said that he believed the end of Mr. Castro was near and that he
supported President Clinton's stance. He regards the newcomers suspiciously,
wondering why they waited so long to leave.

"They have spent 30 years applauding Fidel," he said. "Many of them could have
come earlier and didn't."

Mr. Veiga worked as a butcher in this country before retiring, and he put his
only son, Efrain Veiga Jr., now 43, through college. The younger Mr. Veiga has
become a successful restaurateur in Coral Gables, owning Yuca, one of the top
Latin American restaurants in the Miami area. His father supervises the kitchen.

The father said he left Cuba thinking he would return in two years and never
imagined been away this long.

"I did not come thinking I would stay," he said. "I thought the government would
fall out for being so bad."

Mr. Perez, who spent two weeks adrift in the straits, said he got tired of
waiting for the same thing. A Government mechanic in Cuba, he said he had to
clean and pick vegetables on farms to subsist.

The decision to flee, he said, came because "I could not take it anymore."

Divorced, he left a 3-year-old daughter, his parents and a sister. Now Mr.
Perez, among the last people to squeeze in before Mr. Clinton's policy change,
waits his turn to make it in a two-bed, poorly lit motel room he shares with
three other refugees in the Little Havana section of Miami.

Cubans have achieved success in exile, doing better than other Hispanic
immigrant groups in both affluence and education. In Dade County, where they are
concentrated and make up about 30 percent of the population, they are
responsible for one of the highest concentrations of Hispanic-owned businesses
in the United States.

Cuban-Born, Anti-Castro

Most are Cuban-born, Republican and staunchly anti-Castro, although groups with
a more conciliatory stance have formed to push for a dialogue between the two
countries. And there are now second and third generations of Cuban-Americans
with less interest in or emotional attachment to Cuba and with more at stake in
the United States.

Since 1959, when Mr. Castro took power, Cubans came in large numbers throughout
the 1960's and early 1970's, welcomed as refugees from Communism. In 1980, an
influx of 125,200 Cubans tarnished the exile community's image when Mr. Castro
opened up the port of Mariel to allow the departure of convicted criminals and
mental patients along with others who wanted to leave.

"All Cubans suddenly became refugees again because of the reaction of the Anglo
community to these immigrants," said Msgr. Bryan Walsh, director since 1955 of
Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Miami, who has helped the different
groups.

Initially, crime rose, schools and housing overflowed, and these memories also
make many Cuban-Americans fear the latest influx. But many refugees from Mariel
thrived, working in the service industry and providing labor to Cuban-owned
businesses.

But Monsignor Walsh said there were obvious differences among the migrant
groups, like the habit of newer arrivals, he said, to habitually address each
other in Spanish as "comrade."

Mr. Veiga Jr. added another difference he had seen among recently arrived Cubans
he employed. "They come with very little incentive," he said. "There's no umph.
In Cuba, it's a matter of surviving. You live day to day, without any
direction."

Worries About Relocation

Some of the new refugees now complain that they risked death only to be coldly
received by fellow Cubans.

Celedonio Cabreras, 49, who arrived in a boat with 13 others on Aug. 6, said he
had tried to find a sponsor among compatriots from Pinar del Rio in southwestern
Cuba. Mr. Cabreras, a truck driver who said he left his wife and four adult
children because he was suspected of spying for anti-Castro groups, worries
about being relocated to a state where Spanish is not spoken and where he will
have a harder time finding work.

"I found some," he said, "but they say they have financial problems.  They
changed."

Mr. Perez said the news about the detentions hurt.

"I disagree with it," he said. "To send all of those who are fleeing from Fidel
to Guantanamo is very painful. What can they do there for the country or for
themselves?"

Last Sunday, Mr. Perez went to church for the first time with another refugee
and his family. He said the priest asked the congregation for a prayer for him
and the others leaving Cuba.

"It was something new to me," he said, "but it moved me."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Efrain Veiga Jr. and his father, in their restaurant in Coral
Gables, Fla., on Sunday. Mr. Veiga Sr. said that when he first came to the
United States in 1962, he did not think Fidel Castro would be in power long.
(Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); Adan Alvarez, 33, and Roman Perez, 27, in a
hotel room in the Little Havana section of Miami last week. The two men, fleeing
Cuba, spent about two weeks at sea on rafts before arriving in Key West, Fla.
(Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: IN HAVANA;
Silent Castro Puzzling U.S. Aides

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 15;   Column 6;   National Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 23


After encouraging an immigration crisis with the United States by permitting
disgruntled Cubans to take to the high seas, Fidel Castro has suddenly and
unexpectedly fallen silent, raising concerns about what additional moves he
might be planning.

Normally not a man at a loss for words, the Cuban leader has made no significant
public statements since President Clinton announced on Saturday that
Cuban-Americans will no longer be allowed to visit or send remittances to
relatives on the island and that anti-Castro broadcasts to Cuba will be
increased.

The few pronouncements out of Havana in recent days have come from lower-ranking
officials and do not directly address the Clinton Administration measures.

Mr. Castro's uncharacteristic reticence has both American officials and other
Cuba analysts baffled. They say that he probably did not expect the Clinton
Administration to respond with harsh punitive measures to his threat to unleash
another uncontrolled exodus of Cuban refugees on Florida, and is pondering what
to do next.

Response Is Studied

"The Cubans tend to respond relatively rapidly to things," one State Department
official said today. "On the other hand, the fact that they have not said much
of anything may be an indication that they are reflecting on how they should
respond."

Wayne Smith, a former head of the United States Interests Section in Havana,
said, "I think they have realized that the United States is not going to discuss
anything with them." Mr. Smith, who visited Cuba last week, said the Cuban
Government appeared to be considering economic reforms that could lessen food
shortages on the island, but had not reached a decision.

Speaking of the possibility of an economic reform package that would allow
farmers to sell some of their crops on the open market, Mr. Smith said he had
been told that "Fidel is dead set against it, but Raul and the military are
pressing for it." He was referring to Mr. Castro's younger brother Raul, who is
Minister of Defense.

The only senior Cuban official to have commented in any detail on the Clinton
Administration's new policy is Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina, who is on an
official visit to six South and Central American countries aimed at lessening
Cuba's diplomatic isolation. Arriving in Santiago, Chile, late on Monday, Mr.
Robaina described relations between the United States and Cuba as "extremely
tense" and said they would "heat up" as a result of the decision to send Cuban
refugees to Guantanamo Bay naval base.

Guantanamo Issue Assailed

"Without Cuban emigrants, this base continues to be worthy of condemnation," he
said. "With Cuban emigrants, I think that, to sum things up, it can make this
tense relationship even more dangerous."

Those comments have been echoed in Cuba's Government-controlled press. In a
broadcast from Havana monitored here today, Radio Rebelde warned that Cuban
refugees at Guantanamo "could be used for acts of provocation or as cannon
fodder" in the event of hostilities between the United States and Cuba.

At his news conference in Chile, Mr. Robaina also scoffed at a statement by Leon
Panetta, White House Chief of Staff, that the United States was considering the
possibility of imposing a blockade on Cuba. "Threats don't frighten us, because
Cuba has been living with threats for 34 years," he said.

At the same time, however, Mr. Robaina repeated Cuba's longstanding desire to
sit down with American officials to discuss a whole gamut of differences. "The
problem is not purely one of migration, it is much more than that," he said.

Mr. Castro's sudden silence contrasts sharply with his actions earlier this
month, when he denounced the United States in a series of speeches and news
conferences. On Aug. 5, after rioters in downtown Havana clashed with police and
chanted "Down with Fidel!" Mr. Castro was speaking on Cuban television when he
was handed a note that he said contained a threat from the head of the United
States Interest Section in Havana "that a serious situation would develop" if
the Cuban leader did not abandon his aggressive talk.

"Well, I am not only speaking, but also confirming this point," Mr. Castro then
said. He added, referring to the American policy of treating Cuban boat people
as political refugees: "Anyone can see that the country cannot allow these
things to happen and just sit back with folded arms."

That speech and others that Mr. Castro delivered later make it clear that he
blames the United States for the current crisis. In particular, the Cuban leader
has argued that the only thing that distinguishes the flow of people out of Cuba
from that in other Latin American countries is Washington's three-decade-old
policy of isolating Cuba economically.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Rights of Aliens

SECTION: Section A;   Page 20;   Column 5;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 345 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis, in criticizing a Clinton Justice Department brief opposed to the
free speech rights of resident aliens, tries to bolster his case by
distinguishing resident aliens from aliens seeking entry, who "have no rights"
(column, Aug. 19).

The misinterpretation underlying this common vision of aliens rights
jurisprudence should be highlighted as the United States undertakes detention of
larger numbers of Cubans and Haitians seeking entry. Are these aliens, picked up
at sea or stopped at the airport and then either imprisoned or paroled in the
United States, really without any rights at all because they are seeking entry?

In two infamous cases in the early 1950's, aliens seeking entry at our borders
were, according to the Supreme Court, subject to indefinite detention without
constitutional recourse. Dictums in those two cases are the sources of the "no
rights for aliens seeking entry" sentiment that still frequently guides
reasoning by both policy makers and, unfortunately, immigration advocates.

Those immigration advocates choose to defend the rights of resident aliens by
arguing that another class of aliens is even lower on the ladder. They should
rather point out that the Constitution imposes certain fundamental restrictions
on government, regardless of the immigration status of the individuals.

Recently Federal courts have limited the two "entry doctrine" cases of the
1950's to the narrow principle that aliens seeking entry at the border have no
constitutional recourse connected with their petitions for entry, but otherwise
such aliens are entitled to constitutional protection.

Thus, the Cuban and Haitian refugees that Attorney General Janet Reno has
ordered detained while seeking entry have no right under the Constitution to be
legally admitted, but the Constitution does require the Clinton Administration
to respect their rights, among others, to freedom from inhumane treatment,
freedom of religion and free speech.

ETHAN KLINGSBERG
New York, Aug. 20, 1994

The writer is a lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Professor Challenges Ellis Island Health Exhibit

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

SECTION: Section B;   Page 5;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 747 words


One Sunday last month, Dr. Victor Herbert went to Ellis Island in search of his
namesake, his father's famous first cousin, the composer of period-piece
operettas like "Naughty Marietta." That Victor Herbert arrived at Ellis Island
in the days when it was the immigrant's gateway to a new country and a new life.

Dr. Herbert did not find his relative's name among the thousands on the Wall of
Honor. But he found something else that set off a volley of letters, faxes and
Freedom of Information requests.

What Dr. Herbert stumbled into was a room in an exhibit on immigrant health
traditions. On display were covers of books about alternative medical
treatments, including "Alternative Medicine: The Definitive Guide" (Future
Medicine Publishing, 1993), a $59.95 reference work the size of a telephone book
that covers everything from acupuncture and pet care to hay-fever prevention.

A Retired Green Beret

Dr. Herbert, who is a professor at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the
director of the Nutrition Research Center at the Veterans Affairs Medical
Center, describes himself as a "quackbuster." Dr. Herbert, a 67-year-old retired
Green Beret, regularly takes aim at doctors and authors who prescribe or promote
what he considers fraudulent treatments. He sent a two-page "Dear
Superintendent" letter to the top National Park Service official at Ellis
Island, M. Ann Belkov.

What happened next made the publisher, Burton Goldberg, cry, "First Amendment."
Ms. Belkov tried a nonmedical alternative that Mr. Goldberg had not expected:
she ordered the room with the book covers closed to the public. Then she ordered
"Alternative Medicine: The Definitive Guide" taken off the shelf at the museum
gift shop.

The publisher's lawyer, Lance S. Rosen of Seattle, seems less troubled by Ms.
Belkov's first decision than by the second. He said there was a "First Amendment
implication" when a National Park Service official like Ms. Belkov told a
bookstore operator what could and could not be sold, "especially," Mr. Rosen
said, "when the Government's objection appears to be based on what I interpret
to be hysterical rantings."

'A Quack Book'

In case anyone thinks the intensely passionate arguments are confined to one
side here, when Dr. Herbert was asked about the controversy over "Alternative
Medicine" yesterday, he declared flatly: "There's no controversy. It's a quack
book. I'm a scientist. I only state facts, I don't give opinions."

He also has a law degree, which may or may not be why a conversation is layered
with legal as well as medical jargon. He maintains that because the book is sold
in stores, it is "fraudulent advertising" and "is not protected by the First
Amendment." He also contends that it violates Federal food and drug regulations
because describing alternative remedies in a book is the same as putting labels
on bogus compounds, something he says has led to Government raids of health-food
stores.

"I hope he's a better doctor than he is a lawyer," said Laurence H. Tribe, a
professor of law at Harvard and one of the nation's best-known constitutional
experts.

Yale Kamisar, a professor of law at the University of Michigan, said that
deciding to block off the section of the exhibit where the book's cover was
displayed seemed to be "a rather dramatic response because one doctor said
something."

Behind the Decision

For her part, Ms. Belkov said that it wasn't that simple.

"One letter does not intimidate," she said, noting that she had been out of the
country when the exhibit was being prepared. When she read the letter, she
recalled, "I said to our team here, 'Let's go look at this.' When we did, I
said, 'Why in the world do we have these book covers from 1985 on? They don't
relate to the rest of the exhibit. I don't like it.' And also, it wasn't very
attractive."

She said she decided to pull the book because the exhibit was supposed to
confine itself to Ellis Island's heyday, roughly 60 years that ended in the
mid-1950's. "Alternative Medicine," she said, "did not correspond to the overall
time period covered by this specific exhibit."

She said it was "unfortunate" that it took a letter from Dr. Herbert to make her
go on an inspection of the exhibition. But trample the First Amendment? "Not at
all," she said. "That didn't even occur to me."

As for stopping sales of "Alternative Medicine" in the bookstore, she said, "It
just didn't make sense to have the book and no exhibit."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE OVERVIEW;
CASTRO RULES OUT ANY MOVE TO HALT FLOW OF REFUGEES

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 6;   Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1384 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 24


Challenging President Clinton's decision to send Cuban refugees to Guantanamo
naval base as an "absurd response" to the mounting immigration crisis between
the United States and Cuba, Fidel Castro said tonight that he would make no
effort to halt the flow of people leaving his country.

Speaking on state television, the Cuban President said the United States was to
blame for the exodus that began earlier this month and is growing by the day.
New policy measures announced by Mr. Clinton in recent days only "make the
problem more complicated," Mr. Castro said.

"They cannot blame us for that situation," Mr. Castro said. "They created a
mentality in a lot of people" in Cuba that "they had the right to travel to the
United States illegally."

American efforts to provoke what Mr. Castro described as massive illegal
immigration gave Cuba "no alternative" but to loosen its rules on leaving the
country and instruct its Coast Guard to allow malcontents to take to the seas.
He characterized Cuban policy as eminently humane, and contrasted it with the
American decision to send Cuban refugees to Guantanamo, which he called a
"concentration camp."

The Cuban leader also portrayed Mr. Clinton as a prisoner of Cuban exile groups
here, which he called "a fascist mafia of the extreme right." Mr. Clinton, he
said, had been "pressured by ultra-rightists" to take steps intended to destroy
the Cuban revolution, only to see his efforts backfire.

Wearing the familiar olive green uniform of the commander in chief of the Cuban
military, Mr. Castro spoke for more than 90 minutes, offering his interpretation
of hijackings in Cuba and actions by Washington that he said initiated the
crisis. His remarks were broadcast live in the United States, in a simultaneous
English translation on CNN and in Spanish by the Telemundo network.

The speech was Mr. Castro's first public comment on the crisis since Mr. Clinton
announced last Friday that Cuban refugees would no longer be allowed to enter
the United States, and followed up a day later with a package of harsh new
measures intended to further isolate Cuba. For the most part, Mr. Castro
reiterated statements he made in similar appearances on Cuban television earlier
this month, indicating that he is not interested in striking a conciliatory tone
in an effort to resolve the crisis.

Mr. Castro also referred to a statement last weekend by Leon Panetta, the White
House Chief of Staff, that the Clinton Administration is considering a blockade
of Cuba. He warned against such an action, saying it would be "an act of war."

As he has done innumerable times in the past, Mr. Castro fixed the blame for
most of Cuba's problems on the economic embargo the United States has enforced
against his country since the early 1960's. "These measures compel the massive
exodus," he said.

Earlier today, two senior Cuban officials also said that Washington was mainly
to blame for the exodus, and said Cuba would try to end the flow of refugees
only if the United States agreed to broad talks on a full range of bilateral
matters.

Speaking at a news conference in New York this morning, Cuba's chief delegate to
the United Nations, Fernando Remirez de Estenoz Barciela, said that, though his
Government regards the exodus as primarily an American problem, Cuba is willing
to discuss ways to halt the flow of refugees that has filled the Straits of
Florida for the last two weeks.

But he added that the United States must in turn demonstrate its willingness to
address the questions Cuba believes are the "true causes" of the migration,
including Washington's three-decade ban on trade with Cuba.

"Migration itself could be one of the topics," Mr. Remirez said. But he said
"the issues of lifting the blockade, the Guantanamo naval base" and "subversive
radio and TV transmissions against Cuba would have to be part and parcel of a
comprehensive negotiation process."

Washington Rejects Talks

American officials had no immediate reaction to Mr. Castro's speech late
tonight, but earlier today the Administration promptly rejected the Cuban
diplomat's suggestion of bilateral talks, dismissing it as an attempt by Mr.
Castro to divert attention from his own internal problems. And the
Administration reiterated its resolve to house fleeing Cubans at expanded camps
at Guantanamo Bay and elsewhere rather than allow them into the United States.

The Cuban population at Guantanamo, estimated at 2,000 before today, was certain
to grow drastically, with 7,000 Cubans on their way there in Coast Guard boats
this morning and another 2,791 fetched from the sea by 10 P.M.

Presaging Mr. Castro's remarks this evening, the Cuban Foreign Minister, Roberto
Robaina, said at a news conference in Santiago, Chile, today that in the absence
of broad negotiations, the Cuban leader is prepared to continue with his current
policy of turning a blind eye to the hundreds of rafts and boats that are now
leaving Cuba daily.

Under the new rules announced by President Clinton on Saturday, Cuban-Americans
would no longer be allowed to visit or send money to relatives in Cuba. In
addition, anti-Castro broadcasts to the island will be increased, a step that
Mr. Castro bitterly criticized tonight, calling it a provocation.

Fancy Chairs or Plain Seats

Addressing reporters at the end of an official visit to Chile, Mr. Robaina said
his Government was prepared to meet with American representatives at any time,
at any place and on any level. "We are willing to talk with the United States
with one condition, which is that there be no conditions," he said.

But both Mr. Robaina and Mr. Remirez indicated that the Cuban Government is not
willing to discuss bringing an end to Mr. Castro's 35 years in power, which the
United States argues is the only way to solve Cuba's political and economic
crisis. "Any negotiations will have to include accepting us as we are, with full
respect for the Cuban people," Mr. Remirez said.

"Cuba does not have to return to democracy, because Cuba is in a democracy," Mr.
Robaina argued. "The question of when Fidel decides to go to elections or not is
a problem of a personal decision of Fidel.

Reject Third-Party Role

The Cuban diplomats also rejected suggestions that either the United Nations or
a third country might act as a broker between the two nations, which have not
maintained diplomatic relations in more than 30 years.  "Any negotiation ought
to be direct," he said.

In dismissing the Cuban offer, American officials called it an attempt by Mr.
Castro to win some breathing space from his deepening domestic problems. At a
news conference in Washington, the Under Secretary of State for Political
Affairs, Peter Tarnoff, said the real issue was Mr. Castro's aversion to
democracy and his economic policies.

"We see nothing to be gained from the kind of talks" the Cuban diplomats
proposed, Mr. Tarnoff said. "It should be clear after 35 years to Fidel Castro
and his Government that the way he is managing the affairs of the island is a
failure."

By arguing that the real cause of the immigration crisis is the American
economic embargo, Mr. Castro was repeating a long-standing Cuban position. In a
speech delivered just as the refugee exodus was beginning earlier this month, he
argued that Cuba could no longer afford to be "the guardian of the North
Americans' coasts" if Washington continued to strangle the faltering Cuban
economy.

When President Clinton took office 19 months ago, Mr. Castro made overtures,
hoping to capitalize on the change in Washington. But in recent months he has
expressed exasperation at the Administration's willingness to deal with other
old enemies while continuing to ignore Cuba.

"The United States talks with Vietnam and looks for solutions to the problems of
Vietnam, and even talks with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea," Mr.
Castro said, referring to North Korea, in a speech earlier this month. "But it
will not talk with Cuba."

In fact, since Mr. Clinton took office, there have been some low-level contacts
between the United States and Cuba on technical issues, including immigration.
But Mr. Castro has made it clear that he expected more progress with the
Democrats in power and was growing impatient with that slow pace.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Cuban Foreign Minister, Roberto Robaina, said at a news
conference yesterday in Santiago, Chile, that the Cuban leader, Fidel Castro,
was prepared to continue turning a blind eye to the hundreds of rafts and boats
that are now leaving Cuba daily. (Reuters) (pg. A19)

Graphs: "TALLY: Fleeing FromCuba" shows number of refugees arriving each day,
weekly totals and weekly totals for the entire 1980 Mariel boatlift. (Sources:
Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S. Coast Guard, Council for
Inter-American Security) (pg. A19)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 26, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba: Time to Talk

SECTION: Section A;  Page 28;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 582 words


Well, why not open broad negotiations with the Castro regime?

The Clinton Administration was quick to rebuff Fidel Castro's proposal of
multi-issue talks yesterday. Washington anticipated a propaganda session where
Havana would offer to keep its unhappy citizens from leaving only if the U.S.
promised to ease its economic embargo, halt anti-Castro radio broadcasts and
maybe throw in the return of the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base to Cuba as well.

The Administration says immigration is the only issue it will talk about.
Washington should respond more creatively, insisting that any discussion of
issues between the two countries must also include democracy and human rights.

Fidel Castro has had his dictatorial way with Cuba for the past 35 years,
brooking no dissent, turning neighbors into spies and driving many of his own
people to risk their lives to get away. He blames the U.S. for troubles of his
own making and would sooner see Cuba's economy collapse than make concessions to
foreign demands.

If that kind of behavior disqualified a regime from negotiations, Washington
would never have been able to reach out to Mao's China or Kim Il Sung's North
Korea. Neither could it have talked with Syria about Mideast peace terms,
Bosnian Serbs about cease-fires or Haiti's generals about the return of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

In diplomacy, it is often more important for governments to talk to their
enemies than to their friends. That is how Israel reached agreement with the
Palestine Liberation Organization. But for most of the past three and a half
decades, Washington has never seriously considered talking to Havana.

It ought to consider such talks now. The Castro regime's present weakness makes
this an especially promising moment to negotiate, if Washington plays its hand
effectively.

Once a genuine menace as a Soviet outpost, Cuba has power to influence American
politics that has outlasted the cold war. Hundreds of thousands of Cuban emigres
are now U.S. voters and their most vocal leaders have made any dialogue with
Cuba a domestic political taboo. The Administration is understandably reluctant
to challenge that taboo. It does not need any new political problems. Yet its
attempt to improvise unilateral responses to the refugee challenge is already
damaging its own credibility and jeopardizing broader American interests.

For what good cause is the Administration preventing Cuban-Americans from
helping their families stretch meager budgets with dollar payments? Has it not
yet learned the importance of setting, and holding to, its foreign policy
priorities?

The Cuban-American hard-liners from whom the Administration is taking its cues
want to escalate internal tensions in Cuba rapidly in order to force an
explosion, and perhaps a U.S. intervention, that would bring the Castro regime
down in flames. The Administration itself is not prepared to go that far, nor is
it clear that such an Armageddon scenario would serve Cuban democracy or
America's best interests. Many Cuban-Americans also shy away from a
confrontation that could turn their own relatives into sacrificial victims.

By agreeing to wide-ranging talks with Cuba now, and insisting on the broadest
possible agenda, the U.S. may find it has some bargaining power to help Cubans
struggling for democratic change. The alternative is to punish Cubans and
embarrass the United States. That would not hurt Mr. Castro nearly so much as it
would damage Mr. Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 26, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: IN WASHINGTON;
U.S. Rejects Castro's Proposal for Talks

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25


A day after President Fidel Castro of Cuba proposed broad talks as a step toward
ending the refugee crisis, the Clinton Administration rejected his overture,
insisting that such talks would prove fruitless because Mr. Castro appears
resolutely opposed to the reforms sought by Washington.

Even as many members of Congress urged President Clinton to agree to a
high-level dialogue on the trade embargo, political reform and other points of
contention, Administration officials insisted that such talks were unnecessary
on the ground that Mr. Castro persists in blocking the changes he knows are
needed to satisfy his people.

Mr. Clinton said late today that the only talks with Cuba that he favored were
continuations of discussions on immigration issues. The United States has held
low-level talks, usually twice a year, with Cuba on immigration matters since
1984 as a way of controlling the flow of Cubans and settling immigration
disputes.

Mr. Clinton told reporters that the American people should not panic over the
huge exodus of Cuban refugees, which has totaled more than 10,000 since last
Friday. On that day, Mr. Clinton sought to slow the flow by ending a 28-year-old
policy of admitting nearly all Cuban refugees.

"I would urge the American people to be firm and be calm about what is going on
here now," he said. "We must not let any nation, even a nation as close to us as
Cuba, even with so many American citizens of Cuban descent, control the
immigration policy of the United States and violate the borders of the United
States."

Fewer Picked Up Thursday

The Coast Guard said 1,620 Cubans were picked up today in the Straits of Florida
as of 10 P.M. Several officials said this might signal that the exodus was
slowing because a total of 3,096 were picked up on Wednesday. An official said
one reason for the drop-off was that bad weather might be temporarily slowing
departures from Cuba.

At a White House news briefing, Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff presented
the Administration's position in rebuffing Havana's calls for comprehensive
talks with Cuba.

"Our position is that we are not going to enter into a dialogue with Castro or
the Cuban Government over the pace and nature of change in Cuba," he said. "That
is something that he is hearing every day, increasingly, from the Cuban people,
and the people who are coming out are telling it more publicly than they did
before. That's where the dialogue should take place."

Later in the day, Mr. Clinton said that Mr. Castro "needs to be in consultation
with his own folks" and that "the people of Cuba want democracy and free
markets."

Cost to Taxpayers

For the first time, Pentagon officials estimated today what a continuing impasse
would mean to the American taxpayer. They said it would cost $100 million to
expand the capacity of the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base to hold 45,000 refugees,
and $20 million a month to feed and shelter them.

In a two-and-a-half hour appearance on Cuban television Wednesday night, Mr.
Castro suggested that he might stop the exodus of refugees if the Administration
agreed to direct talks on a range of issues, including Washington's 31-year-old
trade embargo against Cuba.

"Solutions that are real, realistic and just would benefit the United States as
well as us," said Mr. Castro, who took power in 1959.

The Cuban leader acknowledged that he had changed his policy on emigration two
weeks ago, saying he told his Coast Guard to allow Cubans to leave freely on
rafts.

Mr. Castro said the main factors fueling the exodus were the punitive trade
embargo and Washington's failure to allow in more Cubans who apply for visas in
Havana. He said these policies "compel illegal immigration," and he accused
Washington of "creating a concentration camp" at Guantanamo Bay.

Mr. Tarnoff, who has become the Administration's coordinator on Cuba, had a
harsh reaction to Mr. Castro's speech, saying: "Once again, there was an attempt
by the Cuban leader to lay the responsibility for the crisis in Cuba at the foot
of the United States. We simply reject that premise, and that is the reason that
we do not believe it is useful to have a dialogue with Castro."

In rejecting a dialogue with Mr. Castro, the Administration is following the
policy advocated by the Cuban-American National Foundation, the nation's most
powerful Cuban-American organization, which favors a worldwide economic embargo
of Cuba, rather than a dialogue.

Comments From Senators

Even as many Cuban-Americans applauded the Administration's refusal to enter
into broad talks with Havana, several members of Congress urged the President to
pursue such talks.

Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Senate
Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, said: "Some open negotiations with
Castro makes sense. It's anachronistic not to do it."

Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, one of the Republican Party's senior
spokesmen on foreign policy, urged Mr. Clinton not to rule out using military
force in dealing with Cuba.

"We have to indicate a great power cannot be trifled with," he said on Fox
Morning News. "And in the event that Fidel Castro and others are prepared,
really, to test the United States, we're prepared to strike back.  And I would
not rule out military force."

Administration officials said the Treasury Department would release new
regulations on Friday further restricting travel and commerce with Cuba. One
official said that under the new regulations, the Administration will, to a far
greater degree than before, require Americans to obtain licenses to travel to
Cuba or send money there.

To put more pressure on Mr. Castro, Mr. Clinton announced plans on Saturday to
ban the flow of some $500 million that Cuban-Americans send each year to friends
and relatives in Cuba. Under the new regulations, such remittances will be
allowed only for emergencies and only after a license is received, an official
said.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daisy Hernandez, seeking news of a niece from Cuba, outside the
I.N.S. Krome processing center in Miami. (Akemi Miyama for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 26, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: AT THE WHITE HOUSE;
Castro vs. Clinton

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25


To a limited but important degree, Fidel Castro has done what President Clinton
vowed to keep him from doing.

Mr. Castro's actions -- chiefly his decision to permit an unlimited number of
disgruntled Cubans to set sail into the perilous Florida Straits on rickety
rafts -- have prompted Mr. Clinton to change United States immigration policy,
and to change it into something difficult to sustain.

If the refugees keep coming by the thousands, the detention centers at
Guantanamo Bay will eventually fill to bursting, even after such costly measures
as the building of more camps, an idea that was announced on Tuesday, and the
evacuation of some civilian workers to make more space available, a measure
announced today. And there is no sign of a diminution in the flow, despite all
the fervent American warnings; indeed, many Cubans seem more eager than ever to
flee, fearing that this may be their last chance.

Officials here admit they have no full answers. So why not grasp the straw
proffered by the Cubans? Why not talk about at least some of the issues between
the countries, including the refugees?

Mr. Clinton said during a Rose Garden exchange with reporters this afternoon
that he was restudying the regulations governing legal immigration by Cubans,
and indicated that he would be willing to discuss such questions with Havana.

But on the larger issues -- the refugees and the long freeze between the two
countries -- he answered brusquely. The 30-year-old policy of isolating Cuba
would stand, he said, "and Mr. Castro knows the conditions for changing that
policy."

In fact, Mr. Clinton has said that the United States should never agree to
negotiate when it is under foreign attack, and he has argued that what he sees
as an effort to destabilize south Florida socially and economically constitutes
an attack. Like many another President before him, he has spoken recently of his
determination not to buckle under pressure from abroad.

Opening broad-scale talks would be "political suicide," a White House official
said this afternoon, but that is by no means a unanimous opinion, even among
Democrats.

No doubt such a move would be unpopular with some conservatives, for whom Mr.
Castro remains a demonic presence, even though the end of the cold war has
rendered him strategically all but insignificant. But conservatives are not
likely to be Clinton supporters in any case.

The President's apprehensions, his associates say, are focused on the big
Cuban-American colony in Florida, a state whose rapid growth -- it is now the
fourth largest -- has increased its weight in national politics.

According to several Florida politicians, Mr. Clinton's decision to prevent the
refugees from entering the United States angered many Cuban-American leaders,
who were not consulted. He then imposed new punitive measures against Havana and
met last Friday evening with a group that included Jorge Mas Canosa, chairman of
the Cuban American National Foundation. The politicians said Mr. Mas sought and
gained a pledge that the United States would undertake no talks with Cuba.

Big Factor in Miami Area

Cuban-Americans constitute about a quarter, or perhaps as much as a third, of
the electorate in Dade County, which is the state's most populous, but account
for less than 10 percent of the state total.

In this fall's elections, disillusionment with Mr. Clinton and his party could
badly hurt the re-election hopes of Gov. Lawton Chiles, who is already
hard-pressed and who in November may have to battle former President George
Bush's Spanish-speaking son Jeb. Mr. Bush's wife, Columba, is Mexican-American.
At a time when the Democrats are facing trouble in the gubernatorial races in
other big states, like New York, California, Texas and Pennsylvania, they are
especially eager to hold on to Florida, with its 25 electoral votes.

Other than that, Mr. Clinton stands to lose little in Florida this fall. Senator
Connie Mack, a Republican, is considered a shoo-in, and the two majority
Hispanic districts in the state are already represented by Republicans. Most
Cuban-Americans have been emotionally Republican.

The Democrats have fared poorly in Florida in recent Presidential elections,
winning 39, 35 and 39 percent in the voting in 1980, 1984 and 1988,
respectively. But in 1992, with three candidates in the race, Mr. Clinton's 39
percent fell only two percentage points short of victory, and he harbors hopes
for 1996. The state Democratic Party says that its polls show Mr. Clinton to be
the most popular Democrat among Cuban-Americans since President Jimmy Carter.

There is a larger diplomatic dimension to Mr. Clinton's reluctance than
generally acknowledged. Representative Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey, a
Democratic specialist on Latin America who backs the President, says the United
States "could not accept an invitation to negotiate without granting validity to
Castro's tactics in sending people out to die."

"Why should we get involved with a guy who has nothing to deliver to us?" asked
a senior State Department official.

But of course, any talks between the United States and Cuba could be limited,
and need not entail the lifting of the 30-year American economic embargo with
Cuba. At first, experts say, they could be confined to matters like telephone
and other communications links between the two countries, drug trafficking and
nuclear energy as well as refugee issues.

The Administration is doing all it can to establish normal relations with the
few nations that still embrace Communism as well as those that were stranded by
its collapse in Moscow. Mr. Clinton chose not to go to the mat with China over
human rights.  He has agreed to open a mission in Hanoi and announced his
intention of opening diplomatic relations with North Korea.

Yet he rejects talks with Havana.  Members of Congress and others find that hard
to understand.

'Foolish,' Dodd Says

Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat, argued this week that it
was "mindless and foolish" to talk to dictators around the world yet refuse to
talk to Cuba "because of parochial politics." On Friday, a Task Force on Cuba
put together by Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington research group, will call
for talks not only on short-term questions but on the whole relationship.

Returning the refugees to Cuba does not seem a live option. For one thing, it is
not at all clear that Mr. Castro would accept them; besides, that would defy the
profound American belief in comforting the oppressed. Nor is a naval blockade in
the cards, given the trade between Cuba and important American allies.

The President, who was stung politically in 1980 when Mariel boat people held in
Arkansas rioted during his governorship, talks often to his aides about that
incident, making it clear that above all he is determined to keep the latest
throngs of refugees from entering the United States.

So unless Mr. Clinton negotiates, he must hope that one of two things happens
soon: Either there is an uprising against Mr. Castro, hastened by the political
and economic pressures he is applying, or Mr. Castro decides, for some reason,
to halt the flow of refugees. But again, it is the Cuban who occupies the
catbird seat.

In Eastern Europe five years ago, Communist dictators tried to keep people from
fleeing to the West. It did not work, and their regimes disintegrated. Having
watched what happened, Mr. Castro is unlikely to make the same mistake. While he
might miscalculate, he is likely to keep the valve of emigration open to let off
the steam of popular discontent.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 27, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE U.S. CAMP;
Texans Fear New Tent City for Cubans

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 4;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Tex., Aug. 26


Five years ago, a small city of tents was built here to house 3,500 Nicaraguans,
Salvadorans and others fleeing political turmoil in Central America.

Memories of the overcrowding and the cold, wet weather that winter have worried
state officials and immigration lawyers here who say the arrival of 51 Cuban
refugees here on Thursday from Florida could be the beginning of a repeat of the
experience.

The possibility of a new tent city blossoming here is quickly becoming a
potentially volatile issue in state politics, even with assurances today that no
large numbers of Cubans are immediately expected. Gov. Ann W. Richards has
already written the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
saying, "Any plans to hold detainees in tents without adequate infrastructure,
security, health or other fundamental services would be unacceptable."

No More Planes

The Port Isabel Service Processing Center, as it is officially known, sits on
326 remote acres amid miles of bare, scrubby fields broken only by occasional
palms and clumps of cactus, 25 miles north of Brownsville, Tex. The Cubans, 20
men, 20 women, and 11 children, are being housed in beige-colored, barracks-like
buildings spread out over the sun-blasted grounds, the men separated from the
women and children. Some 527 detainees from 45 countries are already here.

On Thursday, the group of Cubans brought in by plane joined a group of 40
arrested on Sunday after crossing the border from Mexico at Laredo, Tex. But
officials at the immigration detention center, a naval air station that closed
in 1961, said today that no more flights were immediately expected.

"We do not expect any planes tonight, and maybe not over the weekend," the
immigration service's district director, Mike Trominski, said at a news
conference this afternoon.  But the officials said that the center's buildings
could accommodate 500 more and that many more could be housed in tents on
adjoining land if necessary.

A spokeswoman for Governor Richards said today that Attorney General Janet Reno
"assured the Governor there would be no overpopulation of the facility, that the
I.N.S. would not deploy tents and the I.N.S. would not go over the 1,300
capacity that the center can hold."

But officials at the detention center here refused to rule out the possibility
that tents might be put up. "I don't believe anything's been ruled out," Mr.
Trominski said this afternoon. "Ya'll can take a look at our 320 acres out here
where a lot of tents can go up if necessary."

'Really Awful'

Linda Yanez, an immigration lawyer who filed a lawsuit over conditions here more
than 10 years ago, remembers near-chaos at Port Isabel five years ago.
"Conditions at that time were really awful," said Ms. Yanez, who is now a state
appeals court judge.

"At the time they didn't have enough personnel," she said. "It was really cold
and wet. They didn't know who was there. It literally was a madhouse. They
couldn't keep up with the files. We'd go and couldn't find people if a family
member wanted to find them."

Seasonal Difficulties

With temperatures often in the upper 90's, living in tents would be extremely
uncomfortable, lawyers here say.

Mr. Trominski asserted today that if there was a large sudden increase in the
number of detainees, officials here could handle it. "I don't anticipate having
a crisis at this facility," he said. But he offered no details on why the
present situation might differ from five years ago. "That was a learning
experience," he said. "It was handled well considering the emergency and the
number. Now, we are part of a nationwide thing. I think we can handle it."

Officials here would not allow reporters to interview the Cubans or tour the
center. Mr. Trominski said the people's spirits were "very, very good." He said
many were smiling as they came off the plane on Thursday.

The Cubans face an indefinite stay here. Under normal circumstances, they would
have hearings on their requests for admission in a week or two, but officials
were unsure when such hearings might now be held.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "TALLY: Fleeing Cuba" shows Cuban refugees picked up by the
Coast Guard each day from Aug. 1, the total picked up in the last three weeks
compared with the ffirst three weeks of the 1980 Mariel boatlift and cuban
refugees housed at Guantanamo base from Aug. 22 to Aug. 26. (Sources:
Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S. Coast Guard)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 28, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS;
Amid the Houses, Bodegas Grow in Queens

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 7;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 792 words


In the city's quieter neighborhoods, entrepreneurship often spills over into
residential streets. Amid row houses and single-family homes, a bodega or
auto-repair shop appears suddenly, peeking out of an illegally converted garage.

The unauthorized conversion of houses into businesses is a particular problem in
neighborhoods with high concentrations of recent immigrants from countries where
setting up shop at home is common practice.

And among them Corona, stands out. Thought by many to be the home of the
fictional Archie Bunker, and a symbol of white parochialism in the 1970's,
Corona accounts for almost half of the establishments closed in Queens in the
last 18 months. And Queens accounts for almost 75 percent of the investigations
in the city.

The problem has grown acute in the last five years, said Mary Sarro, district
manager of Community Board 3, which covers East Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and
northern Corona, areas that have seen a great influx of Hispanic and Asian
immigrants in the last decade.

While immigrant entrepreneurs have revitalized the neighborhood, the trend has
also meant zoning violations. Houses are altered, additions wedged between
buildings, oddly transforming streetscapes and changing the lives of residents
who have to coexist with a furniture manufacturer or beauty parlor.

"It's a free country, but they don't realize you can't do whatever you want,"
said Ms. Sarro, who estimates that there are about a dozen such places operating
in her district, most of them in northern Corona.

On 98th Street, near 37th Avenue, five garages are squeezed between an apartment
building and a row house. On an otherwise quiet residential street the other
day, a deafening sound came out of a welding shop housed in two of the garages.

In the other three, Carlos Torres worked on a Chevrolet Celebrity and Volkswagen
Jetta out of a makeshift auto-repair shop. With little space inside, the cars'
rears jutted out onto the sidewalk. Mr. Torres charges $25 to fix a car's shocks
or brakes, far less than the going rate.

Until last year, he said, he worked at a nearby shop that paid him only $300 a
week, so he and his brother Richard rented the garage to set up their own
business. Mr. Torres, 36, said he knew it was illegal, but he did not have the
money for a legitimate auto-repair shop in a commercial zone. Back home in
Ecuador, he said, he would have faced no such problems. "You can buy a house and
open a shop in the backyard," he said. "There's no problem. At the end of the
year, you pay little tax. That's why I love my country.

"I love this country, too," he quickly added. "But there you can relax more."

The City Council passed a new law 18 months ago to make it easier to padlock
such businesses. Before that, officials said, many people opened illegal
businesses in residences with the intention of staying for two or three years:
the time it took the city to close them.

A bodega on 93d Street and 31st Avenue was closed last week, only four months
after residents complained. Like many other illegal bodegas, this one was a
squat concrete structure, 20 feet by 20 feet. Maria Valerio, who lives on the
first floor of the adjoining row house, said her husband, Manuel Gomez, built it
two years ago in the space reserved for parking and had been operating it since
then.

Andre Wimberly, 31, who lives across from the bodega, said some residents had
complained because teen-agers milled around the store, drinking beer and
urinating outside. "But it wasn't that bad," he said. "I could just cross the
street and get a soda."   NORIMITSU ONISHI


There Is a Law

The padlock law passed by the City Council in March 1993 makes it possible to
shutter businesses operating out of residences if they are found to be a public
nuisance. That is easier to do than proving them to be hazards to the community,
the prior requirement.

Since then, department inspectors have investigated 357 complaints in the city;
257 were from Queens. In most cases, said Vahe Tiryakian, a Buildings Department
spokesman, the complaints prove unwarranted. Fourteen businesses have closed or
been closed after being notified; 16 more closed before the city obtained
permission to padlock them. Of the 30, 21 were in Queens, more than half in
Corona and Jackson Heights.

Under the new regulation, a judge in the Office of Administrative Trials and
Hearings, after weighing evidence from all parties, submits a recommendation to
the Buildings Commissioner, who may order the building closed. The process now
averages six months, though it can take up to 10.

"Because we are in effect taking away someone's property, it has to be done
seriously and carefully," Mr. Tiryakian said.   N.O.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Illegal businesses, like the bodega, far left, on 107th Street
near 34th Avenue, and the auto-repair shop, left, on 98th Street near 37th
Avenue, are sprouting in Queens. (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 28, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: IN MIAMI;
Cuban Exiles Turn Funeral Into Protest

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 27


About 20,000 people marched in the Little Havana section here today to bury a
Cuban refugee who died at sea and to demand tougher sanctions against the Cuban
Government, which they blamed for forcing thousands of Cubans to risk their
lives fleeing in tiny boats and rafts.

The angry crowd turned out for the funeral of 34-year-old Rafael Gamez
Rodriguez, whose body was brought to shore on Aug. 17 by his brother, Pedro,
another refugee, on a raft made of inner tubes.

The 19-block funeral procession to Graceland Memorial Parks Cemetery was
primarily an indictment of the Clinton Administration, with signs and marchers
calling President Clinton a traitor for contemplating talks with Fidel Castro
and detaining refugees at the United States Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay in
Cuba. The Administration said later today that it would hold limited talks with
Cuba on immigration matters.

After the Administration's announcement, some Cuban-Americans denounced Mr.
Clinton for what one of them, Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Republican of
Florida, called "bailing Castro out."

"We oppose all talks with Cuba because they serve to legitimize Castro's refusal
to hold elections," he said. "They can offer no possibility of achieving
anything positive."

Sea Rescues Continuing

While the burial of Mr. Gamez Rodriguez took place under sporadic showers in
Miami, the search for and rescue of others continued in the Straits of Florida.
The Coast Guard said 130 more refugees had been picked up in the straits by 6
P.M. as a tropical wave moved west across the Caribbean and rough seas made
rescues more difficult.

The National Weather Service here said the wind had subsided by this afternoon
as the tropical wave approached the Yucatan Peninsula. But showers and
thunderstorms expected to last a day or two continued posing a danger to
rafters.

Cutters patrolling between Key West and Cuba's 12-mile territorial limit
reported eight-foot waves and winds of up to 20 knots. No bodies had been
sighted, but Radio Marti broadcasts to Cuba described conditions at sea every
hour to discourage people from risking the crossing.

The bad weather seemed to have discouraged many Cubans but did not limit rescue
operations, Coast Guard officials said. They said 35 Coast Guard and Navy ships,
including 29 cutters, covered the straits while a "barrier patrol" of 50 small
boats guarded the coasts in the Keys.

But the weather posed extra dangers for refugees and rescuers. Friday night, a
Coast Guard helicopter dropped a rescuer and a basket to three men whose raft
was taking on water, rather than wait for a cutter to pick them up. The men were
lifted to safety about 7 P.M. and put on a cutter for transfer to a Navy ship
that would take them to Guantanamo.

"It's dangerous on a perfect day, but it is deadly with the weather we're
having," said Lieut. Comdr. Jim McPherson, a Coast Guard spokesman in Key West.
"The worst-shape rafts are not going to make 12 miles. We don't know how many
people have died but we're certain there have been deaths, based on the weather
conditions and the state of people we're rescuing."

Brothers to the Rescue, a volunteer group that searches for rafts in the
straits, said its pilots had spotted more than 200 refugees stranded on two Cay
Sal Bank islands in the Bahamas in a five-hour period today.

A Coast Guard official said the authorities in the Bahamas had agreed to take
the refugees.

Coast Guard officials said that the wind had blown many rafters back to Cuba.
Some of those rescued today had traveled only 15 miles off the Cuban coast in
four days, they said.

Many of the rafters rescued today were in shock and suffered from hypothermia
because of constant wetness, Commander McPherson said.

More Search Ships on Way

By Monday, it was expected that 11 more ships would join the search operation.
Also expected were 1,200 tons of supplies for rescue vessels.

The demonstration in Miami, one of the largest staged by Cuban exiles here in
recent years, was organized in part by Unidad Cubana, or Cuban Unity, an
umbrella group for anti-Castro organizations. The Miami police estimated there
were 25,000 people in all, including spectators.

The procession and funeral service was also held symbolically for 41 Cubans who
drowned July 13 when their stolen tugboat sank near Havana. Witnesses said Cuban
Government boats rammed the boat to stop it from going to Florida. Mr. Castro,
however, has said that the boat was not seaworthy and the Government boats
actually saved lives.

Although some Cuban-Americans here support talks with Havana, their voices were
not heard among the demonstrators today. They hanged Mr. Castro in effigy and
demanded an even harder line from a White House that on Friday tightened travel
restrictions and money transfers to Cuba. They called for a naval blockade of
Cuba, and some argued that the United States should rescind a law that forbids
individuals to launch an invasion from American shores.

"They'll put us in jail if we try to fight, " said Alberto Santiesteban, who
said he was a member of the paramilitary exile group Alpha 66. "But now is a
good time."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of people joined a funeral procession in the Little
Havana section of Miami yesterday for a Cuban who died at sea while trying to
flee his country. Marchers also carried several dozen coffins, which were draped
with Cuban flags, in honor of others who died trying to leave the island. (Keith
Meyers/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 28, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA;
CLINTON WILL OPEN TALKS WITH CUBA ON REFUGEE CRISIS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 6;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27


The Clinton Administration announced today that it would open limited talks with
Cuba on immigration matters in the hope of defusing the refugee crisis.

Along with bad weather, which again today apparently lowered the number of
Cubans taking to boats or rafts to flee, the agreement to hold talks gave the
Administration its first reason to hope that the flood of refugees, which began
early this month, might be brought under control.

"The talks will deal with issues related to the promotion of legal, orderly and
safe migration," said Michael McCurry, the State Department spokesman. The talks
are tentatively scheduled for Wednesday or Thursday in New York.

The agreement is also the first sign of conciliation on either side, although
Administration officials insisted that they were holding to President Clinton's
position that immigration would be the only topic on the table.

The Administration requested the talks on immigration a week ago in the hope of
persuading the Cuban leader, Fidel Castro, to stop the flow of thousands of
Cubans on dangerously flimsy rafts and boats.

Mr. Castro responded last week by insisting on high-level talks on a wide range
of issues, including Washington's three-decade-old trade embargo against Cuba.

Several Administration officials said today that they would not be surprised if
Cuba's negotiators sought to raise subjects other than immigration at the talks.

But Mr. McCurry said: "Our intent is to confine these talks to immigration
issues. As we indicated in the past, we see no need for a dialogue on broad
issues because we see no evidence from Fidel Castro that he understands the need
for change."

In Edgartown, Mass., a senior White House official traveling with President
Clinton during his vacation said: "We're not willing to talk to him about
lifting the trade embargo. We see no reason to proceed with higher-level talks."

Under the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992, the trade embargo is to be lifted only
when Mr. Castro takes substantial steps toward democracy.

According to State Department officials, the Administration will use the talks
to urge Mr. Castro, first, to stop Cubans from risking their lives by leaving in
vessels that were not seaworthy and, second, to discourage Cubans from seeking
to enter other countries illegally.

Another topic on the agenda will be Washington's plans to expand the
opportunities for Cubans to emigrate legally by applying in Havana. In addition,
the Administration will seek to persuade Mr. Castro to take back more than 1,500
criminals who came to the United States during the Mariel boatlift in 1980.

The Coast Guard reported the exodus of Cubans had dropped off again today
because of rough seas and bad weather. But Administration officials trumpeted
some other news indicating their message was getting through to the Cubans that
the boat people would not be admitted into the United States: 225 Cubans being
held at the Guantanamo Bay naval base have asked to be sent back to Cuba.

The United States contacted the Cuban Government on Friday night about these 225
Cubans, Administration officials said, noting the two sides are seeking to work
out whether and how this group will be returned.

Administration officials say they hope these requests to return to Cuba will
persuade Cubans that the raft trips are not worth the risk because boat people
will end up in an unpleasant tent city at Guantanamo Bay.

Since Aug. 19, the Coast Guard has intercepted more than 12,000 Cubans in the
Straits of Florida as they sought to come to the United States. On that date,
President Clinton reversed longstanding policy and ordered that the boat people
be barred from the United States and instead be taken to Guantanamo Bay. Mr.
Clinton is seeking to stop a huge exodus like the Mariel boatlift, when 125,000
Cubans flooded into the United States.

Fearful of angering Mr. Castro, Administration officials strained not to portray
the talks as an American victory in which Mr. Castro was forced to accept
less-ambitious, lower-level talks than he had sought.

Instead, Administration officials described the talks as merely a resumption of
an on-again, off-again series of Cuban-American talks on immigration that were
begun in 1984.

Those talks have been held once or twice a year and were last held in December
in Santiago, Cuba. In these talks, the United States has usually been
represented by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American
Affairs or by the head of the Cuba desk.

In Havana, a spokesman for Cuba's Foreign Ministry said Washington's willingness
to talk about migration issues was the one point of agreement in the hostile
relations between the two countries.

Describing relations between the United States and Cuba as "particularly tense,"
the spokesman, Miguel Alfonso, repeated the Cuban Government's position that
even though Havana did not think that talks on migration issues would resolve
the tensions between the two countries, it did not object to the talks.

The Coast Guard said 130 Cubans had been rescued as of 6 P.M. today. That
represents a sharp drop from earlier this week. On Friday, 585 Cubans were
rescued; on Thursday, 1,670, and on Wednesday, 3,096.

On Friday, Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, asserted that stormy
weather was not the only factor behind the sudden drop. The President's tough
new policy of barring Cuban refugees was also at work, he said.

But one State Department official today disputed that assessment, saying: "Our
sense is people can't get off the beaches because of the way the winds and waves
are going. I don't think we're declaring victory."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 28, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 809 words



International   3-16

U.S. TO OPEN TALKS WITH CUBA
The Clinton Administration said it would hold limited talks next week with Cuba
on immigration matters, the first sign of conciliation and of hope that the
outpouring of refugees could be brought under control.  1
RESENTMENT IN CUBA
The recent riots in Cuba and the new exodus indicate that Cuba has once again
become a society of two strata and that those who do not have American dollars
are increasingly resentful of their lot.  1
Those who reach American shores have rights the others do not.  12
An angry demonstration in Miami protested Cuban policy.  12
MEXICO PROTEST UNRESOLVED
Although Mexico's President says he is satisfied that protests did not disrupt
the presidential election, the issues have not been resolved and rebel leaders
vowed to persist.  14
A DIFFERENT VIEW OF HAITI
Many of Haiti's light-skinned elite are wealthy, and their views are very
different from those of the poor people who elected Jean-Bertrand Aristide
President.  14
COMING TOGETHER IN RWANDA
In a Rwandan village where more than 1,000 Tutsi were killed in an attack on a
church by Hutu militias, people from both tribes are coming together to begin
town life anew.  3
RETHINKING DEFENSE IN JAPAN
Japan is rethinking its defense strategy, which has long relied on a core of
American military bases, and even some in the party that governed Japan for
years are questioning the cost of the arrangement.  16

People are skeptical of Gambia coup leaders' promise of democracy.  4
Militants warned of violence at a population conference in Cairo.  6
Foreign victims' families will be compensated for an Iraq crash.  8
British royals have a new aggressive relationship with the press. 9
The race for the presidential election has begun in France.  10
Canada has been accused of syping on the press and other groups.  16

National   18-30

HEALTH CARE CONTRADICTIONS
After a year of arguing that incremental changes will only worsen health care,
Clinton officials are scrambling to prove themselves wrong.  1
IN SEARCH OF NEW ELECTION ISSUES
With Congressional leaders abandoning their push for universal health care
before November, Democrats are now retreating from a strategy of making it an
election issue.  23
TOBACCO AT DEAD END?
The tobacco fields in Pitt County, N.C., among the country's most productive,
are no longer paying farmers' bills because of a glut brought on by foreign
competition.  1
WORRIES OF THEIR OWN
Despite a week of public agonies over the dismissal of the N.A.A.C.P. director,
the local branches of the civil rights group are just too busy to pay much
attention.  24
SOME REST FOR THE WEARY
After grappling with Cuba, the crime bill, health care and Whitewater, President
Clinton and his family have started their vacation on Martha's Vineyard.  18
SCHOOL PRAYER DEBATE REIGNITED
An Atlanta teacher's refusal to observe a new state law requiring a period of
"quiet reflection" is a reminder that the debate over school prayer is not dead.
18
THE PRESERVING OF HISTORY
The National Air and Space Museum plans to display the Enola Gay, the plane that
dropped the bomb on Hiroshima, next year, but veterans groups say the display
will be too forgiving of the Japanese.  25
FED OFFICIAL DISSENTS
Alan S. Blinder, the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, suggested keeping
interest rates low to hold down unemployment.  26

An injunction against the building of a large telescope remained.  20
The ban on assault rifles got vocal reaction in a Virginia gun shop.  21
A study said a diet drug did not increase risk of brain damage.  28

Metro   31-36, 46

A CROSSING OF PATHS
Desmond Robinson and Peter Del-Debbio come from different corners of the city's
sprawling law-enforcement community. They might never have met, had it not been
for a chilling misunderstanding.  1
MADISON SQUARE GARDEN SOLD
Cablevision Systems and ITT emerged as the winners in the bidding for the
Madison Square Garden sports and entertainment properties, according to
executives of the rival bidder, Liberty Media.  1
POLITICS AND INCUMBENCY
It was billed by Governor Cuomo's office as a ground-breaking ceremony for a
state-financed housing project. But it felt like an old-fashioned political
rally, and that's one of the advantages of incumbency.  31
BLUE CROSS'S TROUBLES LINGER
Even though Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield has begun to repair its troubled
finances, state and health care industry officials say the insurer is still on a
dangerous slide.  31
A TRANSIT NAME CHANGE
Would New York City's transit system by any other name still be the same
confusing tangle of rail and bus lines in the eyes of riders? The Metropolitan
Transit Authority thinks not.  31
Obituaries 37

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 28, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE WORLD: Best of Enemies;
Castro, the Man With Few Cards, Always Winds Up the Dealer

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1595 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


HIS country may be crumbling around him, its economy reduced to ruins and its
people so disgusted with their situation that some have marched in the streets
of Havana this month, openly demanding his ouster. But for all his problems at
home, Fidel Castro still retains a remarkable ability to bedevil the United
States and to transfer the burden of his own domestic failings to the adversary
he has fought with such gusto and relish for more than 35 years.

In what has become a rite of passage for every American President since
Eisenhower, Bill Clinton is now learning that lesson the hard way. The internal
crisis that began less than a month ago with boat hijackings and a riot in
Havana has quickly been transformed into a crisis of American foreign and
immigration policy, with the United States now forced to provide temporary
refuge at places like the Guantanamo Bay naval base for the more than 16,000
disenchanted Cubans intercepted as they headed for Florida aboard rickety rafts.
As was the case during the 1980 exodus from the port of Mariel, Mr. Castro,
playing a weak hand with consummate skill, is now dictating the course and tempo
of events while Washington, with far more resources at its disposal, struggles
to respond.

"Everything that he is doing today is consistent with what he has always done,
which is to be creative with his limited options," said Tad Szulc, who wrote the
biography "Fidel: A Critical Portrait" with the Cuban leader's cooperation. "He
has been doing this for a living for 35 years, and realizes he has only one card
to play, the weapon of the refugees. He needs the breathing space and knows that
the only way to get it is to force the Americans into a dialogue."

If anything, Mr. Castro seems energized by his clash with a young, untested
President, whose foreign policy staff includes many of the same officials who
were also involved in Mariel. In eclipse since the collapse of the Soviet bloc
five years ago, his image tarnished by reports of Cubans going hungry and the
collapse of the health and education programs that were the proudest
achievements of the Cuban Revolution, the Maximum Leader is back on the front
lines and in the international limelight again, leading the efforts to quell
internal discontent and cut the yanquis down to size.

Mr. Castro comes well-equipped to the latest confrontation with his "closest of
enemies," as Wayne Smith, former head of the United States Interests Section in
Havana, describes the United States-Cuba relationship. He is known to be an avid
viewer of CNN on the satellite dish that was Ted Turner's gift to him a decade
ago, and, Mr. Szulc said, not only sees that Mr. Clinton has his hands full with
domestic legislation and with Bosnia, Korea and Haiti, but knows how to use that
knowledge to his own benefit. He is also well aware that the United States,
given its values and domestic political pressures, cannot afford to send back
the "anti-social elements" he is encouraging to leave, even though Mr. Clinton
has reversed the longstanding policy of automatically granting asylum to fleeing
Cubans.

"Fidel is a shrewd student of United States society, institutions and
government," Jose Luis Llovio Menendez, an ex-Cuban official, wrote in
"Insider," an account of his 17 years in the revolutionary elite. He said Mr.
Castro "understands the limitations on a President's power to act in many
critical circumstances. This knowledge informs his every strategic maneuver."

As Mr. Castro's oldest associates tell it, that has always been the case. "He
knew from the beginning that to be a great man he had to confront a great
power," Carlos Franqui, one of Mr. Castro's earliest comrades in arms, said in
an interview. In a letter written in June 1958 while still in the Sierra Maestra
fighting the Batista dictatorship, Mr. Castro said of the United States that
"when this war is over, a much longer and larger war will begin for me: the war
I'm going to wage against them. I realize that this will be my destiny."

More often than not, of course, Mr. Castro has found the United States only too
happy to oblige that ambition. Ludicrous assassination schemes, the botched Bay
of Pigs invasion and diplomatic campaigns aimed at isolating him internationally
all added to his revolutionary luster, remaining propaganda fodder for Havana
long after the United States pledged, as part of the solution to the Cuban
missile crisis of 1962, not to use force to overthrow Mr. Castro.

Occasionally, however, Washington has shown itself able to defuse challenges Mr.
Castro has manufactured. In September 1965, for example, in an immigration
crisis handled so deftly that it has been largely forgotten, Mr. Castro
announced that any malcontents were welcome to leave from the port of Camarioca.
Over the next month, more than 5,000 Cubans took to sea in small vessels of
every type, straining the ability of the Coast Guard to intercept and assist
them.

The Johnson Administration, preoccupied with Vietnam and fearing a tragedy in
the Straits of Florida, quickly proposed an open-ended refugee airlift if Mr.
Castro would call a halt to the exodus. He accepted the offer, and the ensuing
"freedom flights" lasted into the 1970's, bringing more than 200,000 Cubans to
the United States with virtually no fanfare or any real political cost for
either side.

"That is the model Cuba likes for migration, and Castro said as much" last week
in a rambling speech on Cuban TV, said Lisandro Perez, director of the Cuba
Research Institute at Florida International University. "He wants an escape
valve that is orderly and drawn out and not very splashy." This time, Mr.
Castro's call for high-level negotiations was rejected, though the
Administration said yesterday it would like to quickly resume mid-level talks on
migration with the aim of stemming the flow of refugees.

In fact, though Mr. Castro likes to portray American policy toward his
revolution as one of unrelenting hostility, the record indicates otherwise. All
nine presidents since the days of Eisenhower have sought to take the approach
recommended by then-Vice President Richard Nixon as he emerged from his
Washington office with his arm around the Cuban leader after they met there in
April 1959: "We're going to work with this man."

Mr. Nixon himself would later negotiate an anti-air-hijacking agreement with Mr.
Castro. And under President Ford, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said he saw
no reason for "perpetual antagonism between Cuba and the U.S." In 1975, the
United States even voted with the majority at the Organization of American
States to end sanctions against Cuba, and under Jimmy Carter, an even broader
initiative was launched.

The Same Pattern

But Mr. Castro unilaterally abrogated the anti-hijacking agreement after blaming
the United States for the bombing of a Cuban airliner. The Ford initiative
collapsed when Cuban troops were sent to fight in Angola's civil war. As for the
Carter Administration's efforts to reduce tensions between the two countries,
they were answered with Mariel.

Despite those bitter experiences, however, Ronald Reagan was able to put aside
his aversion to Communism and reach accords with Mr. Castro on migration and the
withdrawal of Cuban troops from Africa. "Each and every one of these Presidents
came to the conclusion that an important aspect of his Castro crisis required
negotiations," said Jorge I. Dominguez, a Cuba expert at Harvard's Center for
International Affairs.

With Mr. Clinton, the Cuban leader's behavior thus far has followed much the
same pattern. "Every time an American President takes office, Castro starts by
throwing bouquets," said Mr. Franqui, who fought in the Sierra Maestra with Mr.
Castro and wrote "Family Portrait With Fidel" after breaking with him. "But at a
certain moment, he always provokes a problem."

In the current crisis, Mr. Castro has repeatedly said his ultimate objective is
the lifting of the economic embargo that the United States has maintained on
trade with Cuba for more than 30 years. But the embargo has also worked to his
benefit, not only because he can blame it for Cuba's economic ills but also
because it is easily circumvented, and an American offer to discuss ending the
embargo in return for political reforms might well put Mr. Castro in a difficult
spot.

"I have always believed he is more afraid of openness than isolation," Dr. Perez
said. Lifting the embargo "would allow him greater options for trade, yes, but
he doesn't have any money to buy anything. It wouldn't really multiply the
possibilities of trade, but it would bring in a flood of ideas and dollars,
which are dangerous, and deprive him of a political tool."

Or as Mr. Nixon put it in a book published just before his death this spring,
"the plain fact . . . is that after 35 years of Castro's rule, the hard line
against him has failed to get rid of him." With the Communist bloc gone, "our
best service to the Cuban people now would be to build pressure from within by
actively stimulating Cuba's contacts with the free world," Mr. Nixon concluded.

No matter what the outcome of his umpteenth clash with Washington, Mr. Castro
plans to stick around. In Colombia three weeks ago, he compared himself to the
Great Liberator of the Americas, Simon Bolivar, and vowed to keep on frustrating
"those who want to see me away from all this."

"Revolutionaries never abandon the battlefield," he explained. "Revolutionaries
do not go into retirement as long as their services and efforts are required."


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dwight D. Eisenhower -- Castro is beginning to "look like a
madman," he said in January 1960. His C.I.A. began plans to unseat the Cuban
leader. (George Tames/The New York Times); John F. Kennedy -- He paced all night
in anguish after the Bay of Pigs invasion, then obsessively pursued covert
operations against Castro; Lyndon B. Johnson -- He left Castro mostly alone,
keeping the deal that ended the missile crisis, and negotiated flights out for
200,000 Cubans. (The New York Times); Richard M. Nixon -- He kept up a
low-profile dialogue with Castro, but had to cope with Soviet efforts to
establish a nuclear submarine base in Cuba. (United Press International); Gerald
R. Ford --
Early in his presidency, tensions with Cuba eased -- until Castro dispatched
50,000 troops to Angola in 1975 and 1976; Jimmy Carter -- He wanted to "resolve
the Cuba question," but had to contend with the Soviet brigade in Cuba in 1979
and the Mariel boatlift in 1980. (The New York Times); Ronald Reagan -- He
focused on fighting Cuban influence in Central America and Grenada, but also
reached two major agreements with Castro. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times);
George Bush -- He provided unilateral assurances that the U.S. would not attack
Cuba. Castro's agitation in Central America continued; Bill Clinton -- Castro,
who wants him to end the embargo, arranged an exodus to get his attention.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Essay;
Cuban Overture

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Will the principle that guides Clinton Administration domestic policy also be
applied to foreign affairs?

The bedrock principle, as it has evolved from Bunker Hill to the White House
bunker, is this: Don't run until you see the whites of their eyes.

Using this key, readers of prognosticatory harangues in this space were able to
discern beforehand the passage of the Republican-deporked crime bill, as well as
the President's sudden willingness to let Congress go home to mull over
ever-less-toxic health legislation.

Now let us apply it to the mini-crisis precipitated by Fidel Castro. Like
Marshal Foch at the Marne, with his center giving way and his flanks collapsing,
the nemesis of modern American Presidents has dispatched from his teeming shores
the refuse Communism made wretched.

Castro used this technique of immigration aggression and dissident-dumping on
Jimmy Carter successfully 14 years ago. In 1994, however, the U.S. President
properly chose to defend our border.

The determined Clinton reaction set hard-liner hearts to racing. He interdicted
the pitiable raft armada at sea; he reversed a policy that automatically granted
Cuban economic refugees the asylum of the politically persecuted; he turned
Guantanamo into a Cuban colony under American protection; he tightened the
embargo of three decades by cutting off the flow of hard currency sent in by
relatives in the U.S.

That's a vigorous response to aggression, at once harsh and humane and
expensive, the foreign-policy equivalent of a 1,400-page comprehensive health
plan. Now comes the reaction to his swift reaction.

Democratic accommodationists, led by Chris Dodd in the Senate and Lee Hamilton
in the House, argue that Clinton is playing to Castro's hands by martyring him.
They would go along with the dictator's demands for normalization of relations.

Republican hawks like Senator Richard Lugar, forgetting that the Reagan
arms-race stressing of the Soviet system helped bring down Communism in Russia,
also want to do business with Castro. They see Cuban Communism's demise in a
wave of trade and tourism and cultural exchange, although that approach hasn't
quite worked in China.

Everybody worries about riots in the holding pens, led by Castro's implanted
provocateurs, which would cast Americans in the role of Israelis abusing
Palestinians in camps.

Mr. Clinton, observing the charge of the detenteniks begin, does not yet see the
whites of their eyes. Instead, he feels the heat from the Cuban-American
community, led by stalwart anti-Castroists, and worries about losing the State
of Florida to a Republican tide if he caves in too quickly.

That is why we see "mid-level" talks beginning, limited "strictly" to the topic
of immigration. In time, these will escalate to upper-level exchanges at the
U.N. or Guantanamo, or semi-private intercessions under a cigar smoke screen
(Jimmy Carter's bags are packed), on what our diplomats will call "a wider range
of bilateral concerns."

Before allowing Castro to extort an end to the embargo in return for taking back
his refugees, however, Mr. Clinton needs to show some muscle elsewhere (the
equivalent of his firm stand against assault weapons in the crime bill).

This suggests the October Non-Surprise, the multinational, multicultural,
multimedia invasion of Haiti, with air cover by CNN, with the Congressional
Black Caucus in the second wave to take the surrender, and with a nice boost in
the polls for Mr. Clinton before Election Day.

Then, with the eyes of his Congressional and editorial critics getting close
enough to show their whites, Mr. Clinton will declare Mr. Castro to be a new
democrat, whose promises of "market socialism" mean the end of Communism in our
hemisphere. End of embargo, end of refugee problem, and a revived dictatorship
in Cuba for Castro, who logically expects to outlast Mr. Clinton in office.

As an unreconstructed interventionist and human rightsnik, I root for our
military ouster of the Haitian junta and a continued squeeze on Castro until
Cuban patriots do their duty.

But if the Clinton foreign policy is bottomed on the same principle that
undergirds his domestic politics, then we can soon expect to be singing "Sand in
my shoes, sand of Havana . . ."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Hostility to Castro Won't Solve Cuba Problem;
Everybody's Business

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words


To the Editor:

Pamela S. Falk's recommendations (Op-Ed, Aug. 25) for admission of Cuban raft
people and negotiations with Fidel Castro show two dangerous assumptions that
have confounded United States management of immigration in recent decades.

One is that the feelings of the Cuban community in Florida must be decisive in
United States relations with Mr. Castro. Some 255 million Americans have a stake
in a rational relationship with Cuba, but fewer than 3 million have a veto over
it.

The other assumption is that United States concern for orderly immigration is a
"domestic" interest somehow subordinate to foreign policy imperatives. Ms. Falk
shows little awareness of the domestic fiscal and social costs of an immigration
policy of admission on demand.

Her proposal that the Federal Government pick up the resettlement costs of the
states ignores that Washington is already fending off demands from major
immigration states to reimburse the settlement costs of previous Federal
failures to manage immigration.

DAVID SIMCOX
Louisville, Ky., Aug. 25, 1994

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Hostility to Castro Won't Solve Cuba Problem

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 278 words


To the Editor:

While I fully agree with Anna Husarska's primary plea that we not "set Cuba
adrift" (Op-Ed, Aug. 23), I must take vigorous exception to both her logic and
the underlying animus in her position.

Ms. Husarska says that "to expect Fidel Castro to give up power because of
pressure from Washington is to not know the tough man from Havana," and she
urges greater embargo pressure from allies who are known to be amused rather
than sympathetic with the tough posture of the United States. This is both
unrealistic and illogical.

Her appeals for further ostracism of the Cuban Government (and people) are
equally counterproductive.

Most of us oppose despots whether their extremism is a product of leftist or
rightist myopia, with their self-interested fears and insecurities. But the
sometimes boorish Fidel Castro (remember the chicken bones flung from the Hotel
Theresa in Harlem to demonstrate his anti-American scorn) remains to many Cubans
and Americans preferable to a neo-Batistan alternative.

President Clinton would be well advised to combine his new firm and more
balanced stance on Cuban immigration with a more conciliatory attitude toward
the present and temporary Cuban head of state. In the long run we have nothing
to gain by hostility and fear in respect to an enfeebled Communist regime; we
should deal from our more natural and more defensible strengths of tolerance and
compassion, for a people if not their leader.

It might be noted, incidentally, that Mr. Castro has given his country
universal, very democratic health care -- even though on an impoverished scale.

WALTER HEWITT
Southampton, N.J., Aug. 26, 1994

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Never Mind the Mess

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words


Less than two weeks after the Clinton Administration vowed it would never let
Fidel Castro dictate a change in U.S. immigration policy, Washington is ready to
offer Mr. Castro the policy change he seeks. In talks beginning tomorrow in New
York, the Administration will propose a sharp expansion in legal immigration
from Cuba if the Castro regime agrees to halt the mass exodus of raft people it
began permitting earlier this month.

The shift is embarrassing for an Administration already famous for its serial
flip-flops in foreign affairs. But the proposal makes sense for both Governments
and could prevent desperate Cubans from risking their lives at sea. It is a case
of a messy process lurching toward a worthy goal.

Since 1990 Cuba, like all other countries, has been allotted a quota of 27,845
immigrant visas to the U.S. But fewer than a tenth that number have been granted
because eligibility is governed by a complicated system of preferences allocated
on a worldwide basis. Apart from immediate family members of U.S. citizens, most
of these preference categories are oversubscribed, some with 10-year waiting
lists. Havana has long argued that by issuing so few legal visas while (until
two weeks ago) granting admission to boat people under the Cuban Adjustment Act,
Washington was encouraging the mass departures it now complains about.

Without conceding that point, the Administration is now looking for ways it
could move eligible Cubans to the front of the queue without reducing the slots
available for those who have been waiting for years from other countries. In
return, Havana would be expected to clamp down on departures by boat or raft.
That would be a good deal for Havana. It would open a controlled safety valve
for discontented Cubans and represent a grudging admission by the U.S. that the
Castro regime must be dealt with on practical matters for the foreseeable
future.

It would also be a good deal for an Administration terrified of a repeat of the
Mariel boatlift of 1980, which included criminals direct from Cuban jails. Mr.
Clinton believes that Mariel's repercussions contributed to his own re-election
defeat for Governor, and Jimmy Carter's for President. In contrast, an expansion
of carefully screened legal departures could be a political plus, so long as
Havana pledges not to harass visa-seekers.

Surely such an arrangement could have been reached months or even years ago,
without the appearance of bowing to Mr. Castro's manipulations and without the
policy lurches of the past two weeks. The Administration got off on the wrong
track because its first reactions reflected only domestic politics and later
because it paid too much heed to hard-line Cuban-American leaders not fully
representative of their own community.

Now, with foreign-policy makers finally focused on Cuba, a more considered
policy seems to be emerging. Some officials even suggest that if the talks on
immigration issues prove productive, the dialogue might be widened. Such a
broadening of the agenda is something Washington was vehemently ruling out only
last week.

Ruling it back in is a good idea. One more reversal will scarcely be noticed.
Only by expanding these talks to the full range of Washington-Havana relations
can the Clinton Administration hope to draw any lasting credit from its woozy
handling of the Cuba issue.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: THE PEOPLE;
In Crisis Over Cuba, Moderates and Castro Supporters Cry Out to Be Heard

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1359 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 29


In meetings with the White House and in large demonstrations here, the message
heard from Cuban exiles has mostly been the same: no negotiations with Cuba, out
with Fidel Castro.

But heard less often are voices from other parts of the broad political spectrum
among the exiles, voices often overwhelmed by the political and economic power
wielded by conservative groups opposed to any dealings with Mr. Castro. They are
the voices of other representatives of the Cuban-American community who advocate
talks with the Cuban leader and oppose harsh measures like a naval blockade of
the island, saying they want to avoid further hardship for those in Cuba.

The spectrum includes moderate Democrats who seek a negotiated transfer of power
in Cuba, Cuban-Americans involved in humanitarian aid, and Castro sympathizers.

Moderate groups here say they are hopeful that mid-level meetings this week
between the United States and Cuba about the refugee crisis will lead to broader
discussions. They say tough measures like the economic embargo, which has been
in effect since the Kennedy Administration, have failed to bring about
democratic reforms in Cuba and that change can only come through negotiation.

'Bringing Democracy to Cuba'

"I hope that the talks go beyond immigration," said Alfredo Duran, a Miami
lawyer and former state chairman of the Democratic Party who last year helped
form a coalition of "moderate and progressive" business executives, academics
and other professionals, the Cuban Committee for Democracy.

"There's no question right now that the only way rafts are going to be stopped
is when Castro stops them, but that's not going to resolve the ultimate problem
of bringing democracy to Cuba," Mr. Duran said.

Most of the Cuban exiles share the goal of moving the Cuban Government toward
democracy. But while the conservatives lobby for punitive measures to remove Mr.
Castro from power, the moderates accept Mr. Castro for now. Trying to get rid of
him, they say, would only lead to civil war or an American invasion.

Some of the exile groups that take a softer stance, like the Cuban Committee for
Democracy, were formed within the last two years, partly because of the election
of the first Democratic President in 12 years and partly because Cuba's economic
troubles have put the country in a position to seek alternatives to Communism.
But so far, the Clinton Administration seems to have consulted mostly with
conservative Cuban leaders on ways to deal with the influx of refugees.

Warnings of Angry Reaction

Most prominent among these leaders is Jorge Mas Canosa, a wealthy businessman
who is chairman of the Cuban American National Foundation and one of four
representatives of Miami's Cuban community who met with President Clinton in
Washington two weeks ago. Foundation officials staunchly oppose discussions on
issues other than immigration, and have warned of an angry reaction among Cuban
exiles in Miami if more comes to pass.

Some experts now say that the exclusion of a wide range of views in meetings
between the White House and exile leaders is another indication of how hastily
the Clinton Administration's policy on Cuba was put together. After the
President met with the exile leaders, he cut off cash remittances to Cuba and
limited travel to the island by relatives in the United States.

"There's a large constituency that still does want to send money to their
families, who wants to travel to Cuba, and at the White House there wasn't
somebody there who said, 'I'm sorry, I disagree,' " said Lisandro Perez,
director of the Cuban Research Institute at Florida International University.
"These are usually newer immigrants who don't have the power or the money to be
in political circles."

Last week, White House officials broadened consultations and met in Miami with
about 70 people representing about a dozen civic groups as well as government
agencies to explain the new policies and gather local reaction. Among the Cubans
in the group, however, no one advocated a dialogue with Cuba, said Jeff Eller, a
White House spokesman who was in Miami for the talks. He said he did not know
why other groups were not included.

Crashing the Meeting

The omission so frustrated Eddie Levy and Xiomara Almaguer, who head another
group that advocates negotiations, the Cuban American Defense League, that they
decided to crash the all-day meeting at Miami Dade County College. Ms. Almaguer
said some of the Cuban participants walked out when she began to speak.

"Everybody there was from the far right," said Mr. Levy, who also heads Jewish
Solidarity, a group that sends food and medical supplies to Jews in Cuba. "If
they want to listen to Cubans, they have to listen to more than one sector of
the community."

Mr. Mas, of the Cuban American National Foundation, insisted that the President
solicited a broad range of exile views. The group that met with Mr. Clinton
included Maria Elena Torano, a Democrat who worked in the Carter Administration
and now heads a management consulting and environmental services company; Cesar
Odio, the Miami city manager, and Luis Lauredo, another Democrat and businessman
who is coordinating Florida's preparations for the upcoming Summit of the
Americas.

But Mr. Mas said there was no reason to involve those who advocate talks with
Mr. Castro.

"This type of people are an insignificant minority in Miami," he said. "They
reflect the opinion of the Cuban Government."

Petition Drive to Open Talks

The political spectrum in the exile community does include organizations that
support Havana. Last week a group of them began a petition drive in Miami and
other cities with large Cuban populations, demanding that the Clinton
Administration rescind its policy of detaining refugees and its ban on travel
and monetary aid, and open talks with the Cuban Government.

Andres Gomez, national coordinator for one of the groups, the Antonio Maceo
Brigade, said the United States had encouraged immigration from Cuba for the
last three decades and was morally responsible to continue accepting Cuban
refugees.

"I don't know whether that is its purpose, but the current policy is a policy of
war," he said. "There has never been any indication that the Cuban Government
makes concessions under pressure."

Nicolas Rios, the publisher of a monthly magazine on Cuban issues who visits
Cuba frequently to meet with Communist Party workers, said, "The intelligent
thing to do now is to give Mr. Castro an exit." He contends that by now the
Government in Havana will be willing to negotiate "everything."

Looking for Alternatives

Many of those advocating conciliation say they are just looking for alternatives
to 35 years of hostility between Cuba and the United States.  If the United
States is willing to normalize relations with Communist countries like North
Korea, he said, why not Cuba?

"The cold war is over," said Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, a former political prisoner
and president of Cambio Cubano, an exile group that advocates talks with Cuba
and lifting the economic embargo.

But Mr. Lauredo, one of the Democrats who met with Mr. Clinton, said the only
way Cuba can become a democracy is with Mr. Castro's departure.

"There have been several attempts at negotiations in the past by Latin American
leaders intervening with Castro to open up the system, and we've gotten
absolutely nowhere," Mr. Lauredo said. "I believe sanctions would put more
pressure on him."

As the United States deals with the influx of Cuban immigrants, some Cuban
exiles here concede that they are at a loss for answers. Raul Rodriguez, an
architect who is active in Cuban-American affairs, said Mr. Castro is "an
unreliable negotiator" who would not keep his word, but he was reluctant to call
for drastic action to bring down the Cuban leader.

"The only incentive for people to arise against Castro is to make it a fair
fight," he said. "Making them more impoverished than they already are won't make
them better soldiers to bring him down."

"Besides, what will be left after a civil war?" he asked. "The losers will be
the Cuban people."


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "TALLY: Fleeing Cuba" tracks number of Cuban refugees picked up
by the Coast Guard, each day, since the beginning of August. Also tracked are
the numbers of Cuban refugees housed at Guantanamo base, each day, since August
24. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Srvice, United States Coast Guard)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 1, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

For Cubans Trying to Leave Legally, 'Lamentations'

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Aug. 31


Just beyond the green-glass offices of the American mission here, a few hundred
yards from the seas dotted with the rafts of fleeing Cubans, scores of people
gather each morning on a small patch of gravel and cement known as the Park of
Lamentations.

Sitting in the shade of almond trees, they have become a steady reminder of how
difficult it is for Cubans to travel to the United States by legal means. They
are all waiting to see about visas, and under the current procedures, they may
keep on waiting for months or even years.

"I don't want to throw myself into the sea, but what else can you do?" said Jose
Miguel Gomez, a young man in the park who said he had been left behind as one of
his siblings after another had left the country in rafts. "You can sit here a
long time and nothing happens."

If successful, the negotiations that Cuban and American officials plan to begin
on Thursday in New York may not help the raft refugees but could deliver some of
"the Lamenting Ones." United States officials say they will offer to quicken the
flow of legal immigrants in return for renewed efforts by the Cuban Government
to stop those who, as it is said here, "throw themselves into the sea."

More Emigration Seen

Yet after days in which thousands of Cubans have braved sharks and storms in the
hope of a better future -- many of them knowing that their best fate might be
rescue by the United States Coast Guard and internment at the American naval
base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba -- many diplomats and other analysts have grown
skeptical that such a deal would relieve the growing pressure for emigration.

"If there is a migration deal that satisfies 20,000, there will be 200,000 who
want to go," a diplomat said. Speaking of Cuba's President, Fidel Castro, he
added, "He will not be able to stop people from leaving now without using force
and drawing blood, and I don't think he is going to do that."

Analysts perceive varying degrees of intensity in the desperation that is
driving the refugees from the island. But they generally agree that the economic
suffering and political discontent that have caused the exodus will not decline
significantly over the next several years, barring an unexpected reversal of
Government policies.

Legal and illegal immigration are also very different escape valves.

Most of the people taking to sea without visas are young men in their 20's and
30's, starkly pessimistic about their futures and often without family in the
United States.

Seen as 'Almost Undesirable'

Describing them as largely less employed and less educated than other members of
their generation, a Cuban official called them "almost undesirable" -- an
allusion to the several thousand criminals and psychiatric patients sent to the
United States among more than 125,000 Cubans in the Mariel boatlift in 1980.

Among some 19,700 Cubans awaiting action on immigrant visa requests, the average
age is closer to 50, United States immigration officials say. Relatively few of
them represent potential raft escapees or important threats to the governing
Communist Party. And when they pass through the system, American officials
suggest, there may not be that many more qualified applicants behind them.

Only three weeks ago, in an interview on Cuban television, Mr. Castro dismissed
talks on immigration as a pointless exercise that "would be a pastime taking up
months, years in order to accomplish absolutely nothing."

"It is not a question of getting 1,000 or 10,000 or so extra visas and
establishing communication between Coast Guards," he said. "None of these things
get to the bottom of the problem."

But since the Clinton Administration abruptly ended the longstanding policy of
accepting illegal Cuban immigrants, the Havana Government has seemed to focus
more on the claim that the United States has reneged on a 1984 agreement that
set an annual ceiling of 20,000 legal Cuban immigrants.

Misinterpretation Seen

American officials respond that Cuba misinterpreted the accord.

Rather than a commitment or quota for any specific number of immigrant visas,
they say, the figure -- which has since been raised to 27,845 -- was merely an
upper limit that put Cubans on equal footing with other preferred countries.

The answer to why the United States Interests Section has granted only 2,059
immigrant visas over the last 10 months and even fewer in some recent years
depends on who is asked.

Around of Park of Lamentations, which American diplomats prefer to call Liberty
Park, there seems to be little question that the United States immigration
authorities are making things tougher than necessary, perhaps to make them
tougher for the Cuban Government.

"Maybe 300 people go in there every day," Gloria Ventana, a retired clerical
worker, said, gesturing toward the United States mission. "The most they will
ever give out are two or three visas!"

The diplomats say part of the problem is simply that with only seven consular
officers, the mission is overwhelmed by a flow of paper that included more than
72,000 applications for non-immigrant visas in the fiscal year that ended in the
fall of 1993.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Weary of their long wait, Cubans seeking American visas sat
yesterday in the Park of Lamentations near the United States mission in Havana.
(The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 2, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. AND CUBA TALK AT U.N. ON SOLVING THE REFUGEE CRISIS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 1


United States and Cuban negotiators met for six hours today in their first
face-to-face talks in nine months amid indications that Cuba was seriously
weighing Clinton Administration proposals to resolve the crisis created by
thousands of refugees setting sail for Florida.

The talks, which Administration officials said went well, were held as another
hundreds of Cubans continued to be picked up by the United States Coast Guard in
the waters off Cuba. As of 10 P.M., 1,792 Cubans had been picked up, bringing
the total to more than 20,000 since early August.

The Administration officials said there was some hope that the two sides might
reach some kind of an agreement by the weekend.

This evening, the Cuban and American diplomats adjourned their session, which
was held at the United States mission to the United Nations. The talks will
resume on Friday at the Cuban mission.

Tempering the signs of possible progress, however, the public statements by
American and Cuban diplomats suggested that some major differences remained.

According to American and Cuban officials, the Cubans sought to use the talks to
call for elimination of Havana's biggest grievance with the United States, the
trade embargo, while the Americans insisted on talking about immigration matters
only.

President Clinton has repeatedly said that he would not discuss the embargo with
President Fidel Castro and would do nothing to lift it until the man who has led
Cuba since 1959 takes steps to restore democracy.

The two sides' differing goals made some members of the American delegation fear
that it could be hard to persuade Cuba to accept a deal that involved only
immigration matters.

Although the United States has long treated Mr. Castro as a mortal enemy, the
Clinton Administration agreed to the talks with Havana with the hope that the
Cuban leader could be persuaded to stop the exodus of refugees. The refugee
flood has created the worst crisis with Cuba since the 1980 Mariel boatlift of
125,000 Cubans.

The main subject of the talks was an Administration proposal that the United
States grant entry rights to more than 20,000 Cubans each year in return for
Cuba's calling a halt to the chaotic exodus.

The Administration's strategy has been to offer Mr. Castro something he has long
clamored for: a firm commitment from Washington to grant the entry rights. This
would give the Cuban leader a safety valve that would help him get rid of
thousands of discontented Cubans.

David Johnson, the spokesman for the American delegation, called today's talks
"serious" and "business-like." He said that the United States made an offer that
"can meet what we believe is a a mutual objective: channeling the desire to
immigrate into a legal, safe, orderly, predictable and dependable process and
stemming the uncontrolled outflow."

Since Mr. Castro said in early August that his Coast Guard would no longer
prevent Cubans from leaving, more than 20,000 people have fled the island in
rafts, boats and inner tubes. The latest wave of boat people came after 2,159
Cubans were picked up at sea on Wednesday -- one of the highest totals since the
outflow began four weeks ago.

The Administration has argued that the exodus of boat people has backfired on
Mr. Castro as the flight of so many Cubans has hurt his image at home and
abroad.

Cuba Raises Embargo Issue

But Ricardo Alarcon, the former Cuban foreign minister who is heading Cuba's
delegation, said the only serious way to resolve the exodus of Cubans was to
address the three-decade-old embargo, which Havana insists is fueling the
exodus.

"All they have to do is change that basic issue," Mr. Alarcon said on Cuba's
officials radio today.

Mr. Alarcon, who is the president of Cuba's National Assembly, accused the
American side of seeking to sour the atmosphere by suggesting that the Castro
Government had released about 100 prisoners in August and encouraged them to
join the exodus of boat people.

"That information is preposterous," he said on NBC's Today show. "It's a way to
create a very negative atmosphere, not only for the talks but also for those
Cubans that are seeking a new life in the States."

U.S. Policy Changed

The Clinton Administration sought the negotiations because its initial effort to
halt the flood of boat people failed. On Aug. 19, Mr. Clinton ended the
three-decade-old policy of admitting all Cubans, confident that Cubans would
prefer to stay at home rather than be detained indefinitely at the Guantanamo
Bay Naval Station. But since then more then more than 15,000 Cubans have set out
by sea, slowed only by stormy weather and daunting seas last weekend.

Another aim of the Administration's negotiators is to persuade Cuba to take back
more than 1,500 prisoners who arrived in the 1980 boatlift.

Under the Administration proposal, the United States would make a firm
commitment to grant entry rights to at least 20,000 Cubans a year -- and perhaps
as many as 27,845, the ceiling for the number of visas that can be granted to
citizens of any one country in a year.

Dispute Over Agreement

Mr. Castro has insisted that the Reagan Administration signed an agreement
commiting Washington to accept at least 20,000 Cubans a year, but several
Administrations have asserted that the agreement contains no such commitment.

During the last 12 months, about 2,700 Cubans have been granted visas.
Cuban-American leaders and Administration officials say that number was far
below the ceiling of 27,845 because only a limited number of Cubans meet the
main criterion for obtaining a visa, being an immediate family member of an
American citizen or a permanent resident alien.

In Cuba, refugees have said that there were several reasons why the number of
persons applying to leave legally has fallen so short of 20,000. They say that
the number of Americans in Havana has been too small to process all the
requests.

Administration officials say they would bring in more Cubans by immediately
accepting Cubans on a waiting list for visas, using a broader definition for
refugee status for Cubans, and granting entry to Cubans who do not qualify for
visas under current law, like cousins, aunts and uncles of Cuban-Americans.

In an apparent effort to gain a psychological advantage, Mr. Alarcon chided the
Clinton Administration by noting in television interviews today that Washington
was pressing Havana to stop people from emigrating, whereas for decades
Washington condemned Communist countries for barring free emigration.

Human Rights Watch, a leading human rights group, sent a letter to President
Clinton this week asserting that he is seeking to deny Cubans their fundamental
rights by urging Mr. Castro to stop them from leaving.

But Administration officials repeated today that they were eager to halt the
exodus out of concern that many people are drowning.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yet another raft set off yesterday from Nautico Beach, in
Havana. But first a young woman who was leaving embraced and kissed her mother.
(Canadian Press) (pg. A12)

Graph: "TALLY: Fleeing Cuba" tracks number of Cuban refugees picked up by the
Coast Guard each day since August 1. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization
Service, United States Coast Guard) (pg. A12)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 3, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. and Cuba Make Progress on Refugees

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 2


United States and Cuban negotiators made progress today in talks focusing on a
proposal by the Clinton Administration to vastly increase the number of Cubans
who would be granted entry through legal means if Havana agreed to halt the
chaotic flow of boat people, American officials said.

Meeting for eight hours on the second day of talks, the Administration gave the
Cubans a formal written offer that would commit the United States to admit at
least 20,000 Cubans a year through legal immigration, far more than the 2,700
who received visas over the past 12 months, the officials said.


The Administration's hope was that this offer, which meets a longstanding demand
of Fidel Castro, would induce him to halt the latest surge of Cubans, which
began last month.

One Administration official said the two sides appeared close to agreement, with
the Cubans carefully analyzing the American offer. But another official warned
that so many details still needed to be worked out that an accord could easily
fall through.

"We're not there yet," said one Administration official.

Tonight American and Cuban officials announced that the talks would be adjourned
until Sunday so the two sides could take stock and consult with their respective
capitals.

The number of Cubans picked up by the United States Coast Guard dropped today
from Thursday, but it remained high. The Coast Guard reported that 1,271 Cubans
had been picked up in the Straits of Florida by 10 P.M. today, compared with
1,921 on all of Thursday.

One official said the flow slowed because a backlog of Cubans waiting to flee
after last weekend's storm had dissipated.

David Johnson, a spokesman for the United States delegation, told journalists
huddled outside the Cuban mission to the United Nations, where the meeting was
held, that the session today was "a thorough, in-depth discussion of possible
solutions."

From the public comments of the two sides, it appeared that the Cubans'
insistence that the talks address not just immigration issues, but also ways to
ease Washington's economic sanctions against Cuba, could become a sticking
point.

Disputes Over Focus

On Thursday, Ricardo Alarcon, Cuba's chief negotiator, suggested on the ABC News
program Nightline that the two sides might reach a partial solution "that will
help each side get out of this situation."

The White House has pledged to limit its discussions with the Cubans to
immigration matters. Another factor reducing the Administration's bargaining
flexibility is Mr. Clinton's promise to Cuban-American groups that he would step
up sanctions against Havana.

Mr. Clinton took such actions -- stepping up anti-Castro broadcasts and banning
almost all remittances to Cuba -- after the powerful Cuban American National
Foundation complained that his decision to end the 28-year-old American practice
of allowing entry for all Cuban refugees punished the Cuban people without
punishing Mr. Castro.

Reaching the 20,000 Mark

United States officials said they formally proposed today three ways to admit
more than 20,000 Cubans a year -- visas, refugee programs and the Attorney
General's discretionary power to admit people for humanitarian or emergency
purposes.

To reach the 20,000 mark, American officials said they would probably grant
quick admission to the 19,700 Cubans on a list of more than 3 million people
worldwide waiting for visas. Then, they say they would relax the traditionally
strict standards for political refugee status so that more Cubans could qualify.

Another likely step will be for the Attorney General to admit a sizable group of
Cubans who do not, under the complex web of immigration preferences, qualify for
visas, including cousins, aunts, uncles and grandparents of Cuban-Americans.
Current immigration law allows in only members of immediate families: spouses,
children, parents and siblings.

Administration officials said today that the Cubans had assured them in the
talks that no dangerous criminals were being released and encouraged to flee by
boat.

Prisoners Released in Cuba

State Department officials have said in recent days that they had indications
that the Cuban Government had released an estimated 100 prisoners and urged them
to set to sea. On Thursday, Mr. Alarcon said on television that some criminals
may have taken to rafts during brief prison furloughs, but said it was
"preposterous" to suggest that Havana was encouraging criminals to leave.

Throughout the day, several dozen demonstrators shouted anti-Castro slogans and
carried anti-Communist placards across the street from the Cuban mission at 38th
Street and Lexington Avenue in Manhattan.

This morning scuffles broke out between some anti-Castro demonstrators and a few
protesters who were part of a group of more than 100 people demanding an end to
the embargo against Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Cuban and American negotiators met yesterday in the Cuban
Mission to the United Nations, at Lexington Avenue and 38th Street in Manhattan,
pro-Castro demonstrators outside chanted anti-American slogans. (Don Hogan
Charles/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba Calls U.S. Refugee Offer Inadequate

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 12;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words


Cuba's chief negotiator in the immigration talks with the United States said
yesterday that the Clinton Administration's offer to grant entry rights to at
least 20,000 Cubans a year was inadequate. He suggested that this amount would
be too small to stop Cubans from setting out in rafts for Florida.

The negotiator, Ricardo Alarcon, said in an interview that his Government would
like the United States to admit for a specific time, perhaps a year, all Cubans
who have expressed interest in moving to the United States.

One way to measure this, he said, was the number of Cubans -- 134,000 -- who
applied for travel visas to the United States last year.

According to Mr. Alarcon, letting in so many people would defuse the pent-up
pressures for illegal immigration by boat people.

Conflict Over Numbers

During talks in New York on Thursday and Friday, the Administration presented an
offer that would vastly expand the number of Cubans granted entry rights each
year -- to at least 20,000 -- if Fidel Castro promised to halt the flood of boat
people. Over the last 12 months, the United States granted visas to 2,700
Cubans, making Havana complain that this was far below the ceiling of 27,845
visas allowed under American law.

United States and Cuban officials said the Cuban delegation has not made a
formal response to the 20,000 figure, suggesting that the talks could continue
for several days.

In the interview yesterday at the Cuban Mission to the United Nations, Mr.
Alarcon acknowledged that he had not put forward a specific number of how many
Cubans Havana wants the United States to allow in each year.

The talks are schedule to resume today at the United States Mission to the
United Nations.

Mr. Alarcon declined to predict when the talks would end, reiterating that they
should address Washington's three-decade-old embargo against Cuba.

'I cannot be optimistic'

"I cannot be optimistic," he said. "To find a real solution you have to deal
with the causes of the emigration and that remains the economic embargo. The
other side has refused to talk about the embargo."

Nonetheless, Mr. Alarcon, a 55-year-old former Foreign Minister who is president
of Cuba's National Assembly, did not rule out an agreement that did not address
the embargo.

"I'd be prepared to accept something on immigration matters even if the economic
embargo stays in place -- if the other side shows flexibility on immigration
matters," he said.

Mr. Alarcon said Cuba was eager to see legal immigration increased because
Havana was convinced this would reduce the pressures behind the exodus, which he
said was a destabilizing force for Cuba. As of 9 P.M. yesterday, the Coast Guard
had picked up 850 more refugees in the waters between Cuba and Florida.

A Veiled Warning

Mr. Alarcon is widely considered to be one of Cuba's shrewdest politicians and
diplomats, and it is hard to tell whether the position he staked out today was a
steadfast bargaining position or posturing aimed at exacting more concessions
from Washington.

In what appeared to be a veiled warning, Mr. Alarcon said Washington should not
expect any slackening soon in the flow of refugees. He said that after three
decades of granting entry to all Cubans, President Clinton's decision to keep
boat people at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Station would not in a matter of one or
two weeks dissuade Cubans from heading to Florida by raft.

It was to be expected, he said, that many Cuban refugees remain convinced that
their relatives in Florida would pull strings to get them into the United
States.

Mr. Alarcon said Mr. Castro's decision to let Cubans emigrate freely was a
response to a series of boat hijackings. Those hijackings, he said, were fueled
by Washington's longtime policy of not prosecuting Cubans who head to Florida
after using violence to steal boats.

'It's not a matter of 'Castro' putting a halt to the exodus," he said, using his
hands to make quotation marks.  "It's a matter for both sides to accept their
responsibilities."

Strangling Cuba's Economy

Repeatedly during the hourlong interview, Mr. Alarcon returned to the embargo
and his assertions that it was strangling Cuba's economy and pressuring people
to flee.

He argued that it was unwise for Mr. Clinton to maintain the embargo because
Cuba is opening its economy to investors worldwide and United States businesses
are missing out.

"Cuba is not as big as China in terms of market or territory, but it is a
potential market of a few billion dollars that is right across the street," he
said.

Mr. Alarcon insisted that Cuba is embracing economic reforms, but he said that
the embargo, combined with the collapse of trade relations with the former
Soviet bloc, has created such hard times that it is undermining the Government's
ability to experiment.

"The main obstacle to the reform process is the United States embargo," he said.
"Those who want us to change are doing their utmost to make it impossible."

Mr. Alarcon seemed to enjoy tweaking the United States as he puffed on his
thick, six-inch cigar. He chided the Administration for its temerity in pressing
his Government to halt the exodus. That meant, he said, Washington was urging
Havana to violate his people's right to travel -- although he failed to mention
that Mr. Castro has for years stopped Cubans from setting to sea.

Mr. Alarcon scoffed at the belief, espoused by many Administration officials and
Cuban-American leaders, that Mr. Castro's Government is on its last legs. Such
an attitude, he said, was pushing President Clinton to foolishly embrace tougher
sanctions that increase the pain for the average Cuban, even as Mr. Castro
remains firmly in power.

"If I were an adviser to the North American Government, I'd remind them that
there are people in Florida who have forecast for 35 years the end of the Castro
regime," he said. Then, in an allusion to the Bay of Pigs invasion of 1961, he
added, "United States policy against Cuba has had some well-known failures
because of such inaccurate perceptions."

"We have severe difficulties, serious problems, but it would be dead wrong to
assume that the country is blowing apart," he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ricardo Alarcon. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Broadcasts Keep Cubans Posted in Crisis

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 10;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words


To the Editor:

You reported in an Aug. 29 news article: "On the rocky beaches of Cojimar, where
Cubans eager to put to sea were waiting for better weather, the news blared out
of Raquel Perez Ruiz's house, where she had her radio tuned to Radio Marti for
all to hear."

Since the onset of the Cuban crisis, Radio and Television Marti have redoubled
their efforts to provide the people of Cuba with accurate, balanced and
objective news.

All newscasts on both Radio and TV Marti feature the State Department advisory
urging Cuban would-be immigrants to apply through the established legal process,
which is initiated by relatives in the United States. Claims for refugee status
are accepted at the United States Interests Section in Havana and need not be
initiated by a relative or any other third party.

The advisory also warns that those reaching the naval base at Guantanamo Bay
will not be granted automatic entry into the United States.

On Radio Marti, warnings are broadcast throughout the day of the dangers of the
"corridor of death" in the Florida Straits. These include reports incorporating
the voices of "brothers to the rescue" pilots, who tell of the countless boats
and rafts, many of them empty, that they have spotted in recent days. Others
urge Cubans not to leave, warning that the probability of rescue has diminished.

Radio Marti has also initiated a series of informal interviews, titled "De
Cubano a Cubano," with Cuban-Americans in Miami pleading with loved ones on the
island not to leave.

On Aug. 24, Radio Marti increased the power of its AM transmissions from 50,000
watts to 100,000 watts. Broadcasting from the station's transmitters at Marathon
Key will continue at the higher power throughout daylight hours. Radio Marti is
now broadcasting 71 hours a day (a 115 percent increase), over 17 shortwave
frequencies.

On that same day, TV Marti increased its broadcast schedule by two hours,
transmitting from 3:30 A.M. to 8 A.M., until further notice. The Mexican wire
service Notimex reported that portions of TV Marti programming during the
expanded hours could be clearly heard east of Havana in Cojimar. Cuba has filed
an official complaint about TV Marti's expanded hours, which are legal and are
not interfering with Cuban broadcasting.

JOE O'CONNELL
Director of External Affairs
Voice of America
Washington, Aug. 29, 1994

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

U.S. Rejects Proposal by Havana to Admit 100,000 Cubans

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 774 words


The Cuban Government proposed yesterday that the United States grant entry to at
least 100,000 Cubans if Washington wanted Havana to clamp down on the flow of
boat people, Administration officials said.

The United States delegation quickly rejected that demand, made at bilateral
talks in New York, and began cautioning that an agreement on how to stop the
exodus might be impossible.

After the third day of talks, David T. Johnson, the spokesman for the United
States delegation, said substantial gaps remained.

'Differences Are Significant'

Sounding considerably more downbeat than after the first two days,
Administration officials said the Cubans presented a written counterproposal
today to an Administration offer to expand the number of Cubans admitted each
year to at least 20,000.

Mr. Johnson declined to give details about the Cuban proposal but commented,
"I'd just say the differences are significant."

In an interview on Saturday, Ricardo Alarcon, the head of the Cuban delegation,
said that if Washington would accept 100,000 Cubans, this would drain the
pent-up pressure for people to take to rafts and small boats to emigrate.

Channeling the flow into large-scale legal immigration, he said, would help both
the United States and Cuba, which has a population of almost 11 million people.

Both Sides Are Far Apart

But Michael M. Skol, the Deputy Secretary of State who heads the United States
delegation, said in an interview last night, "Their proposal was a long way from
covering our mutual needs."

Administration officials declined to say exactly how many Cubans Mr. Alarcon
said should be admitted, but one official said it was "a six-figure number." Nor
did the Cubans say over what period of time that number of Cubans should be
admitted.

Late yesterday, there was a sharp change of tone from that after the talks on
Thursday and Friday, when several Administration officials voiced optimism that
an agreement would be reached soon.

Last night Mr. Johnson said, "I would caution against any premature speculation
that an agreement is going to be reached."

Lengthy Talks Feared

Administration officials have said over the past week that they feared that the
Cubans might seek to drag out the talks in the belief that pressure would build
on Washington to make concessions as the flow of refugees continued.

The two sides met in the United States Mission to the United Nations at 2:15
P.M., but Mr. Johnson said the delegations spent much of the three hours before
they emerged caucusing without the other side. The two sides agreed to reconvene
this afternoon at the Cuban Mission.

Embargo Stressed

Administration officials also said the Cuban counterproposal called on the
United States to ease its 30-year trade embargo against Cuba, but Washington has
said repeatedly its delegates to the talks would not even discuss the embargo.
"There were lots and lots of things in their proposal that we couldn't accept,"
one United States official said.

Cuban diplomats declined to discuss yesterday's talks. But in the interview on
Saturday, Mr. Alarcon, a former Foreign Minister, said: "I cannot be optimistic.
To find a real solution you have to deal with the causes of the emigration, and
that remains the economic embargo."

Cuba has repeatedly argued that the embargo is linked to the exodus because it
makes Cubans poorer, thus encouraging them to emigrate.

Mr. Alarcon, whose is currently president of the National Assembly, said 134,000
Cubans had applied for visas to the United States last year.

One Administration official said last night that the the 134,000 figure "was not
far off" what the Cuban delegation had proposed.

Over the past few weeks, many Florida officials have urged President Clinton not
to allow a replay of the 1980 Mariel boatlift, when 125,000 Cubans came to the
United States. The Coast Guard has picked up more than 20,000 Cubans in the
Florida Straits since the latest surge of refugees began in early August.

Under the Administration's proposal, Washington would increase to 20,000 the
number of Cubans admitted yearly by broadening the definition of "refugee," by
immediately accepting 19,700 Cubans on a waiting list for visas and by using the
Attorney General's broad power to grant emergency visas. Immigration laws state
that only immediate family members of Americans can qualify for visas, but the
definition of "family" could be expanded, for example, to include cousins, aunts
and uncles.

Under current law, the United States can admit 27,845 Cubans a year, but in the
past year, only about 2,700 have won residents' visas.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 1994, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

A headline yesterday about talks between the United States and Cuba described a
Cuban proposal on immigration incorrectly in some editions. The proposal was for
the United States to accept 100,000 Cuban immigrants in total, not 100,000 per
year.


GRAPHIC: Graphs: "TALLEY: Fleeing Cuba" shows cuban refugees picked up by the
coast Guard each day from Aug. 1st to Sept. 4th and cuban refugees housed at
Guantanamo base each day from Aug. 24th to Sept. 4th. (Source: Immigration and
Natuaralization Service, U.S. Coast Guard)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 42 words


A headline yesterday about talks between the United States and Cuba described a
Cuban proposal on immigration incorrectly in some editions. The proposal was for
the United States to accept 100,000 Cuban immigrants in total, not 100,000 per
year.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Puzzle;
Crises in Cuba and Haiti Resurrect Debate About Newcomers and Employment in U.S.

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

SECTION: Section D;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1501 words


With Cubans piling up at Guantanamo and an invasion of Haiti seeming inevitable,
the United States is once again facing the prospect of a tide of huddled masses
-- only this time many Americans seem decidedly uneasy.

And while their feelings are a product of everything from racism to fears of
cultural change to the end of the cold war, economics surely plays a big part.

"Americans think immigrants are stealing their jobs and lowering their standard
of living," said William Alpert, an economist at the University of Connecticut
-- thoughts that have a special resonance in an era of widening gaps in income
between the skilled and unskilled.

Are the politicians and policy makers who see economic peril in continuing
immigration correct? Research in the area has been less than conclusive, a fact
that Orley Ashenfelter, an economist at Princeton University, says is feeding
passions on both sides. "Some try to exaggerate" findings of job and wage
losses, he says, while "some try the opposite."

The perceived economic threat of immigration, notes Claudia Goldin, an economic
historian at Harvard University, is no different today than it was in the
1890's, when Samuel Gompers of the American Federation of Labor was calling on
Congress to "shut the doors." Unskilled immigrants compete with unskilled
American-born, either reducing the wages of natives or putting them out of work.


Raising the Returns

By the same token, if unskilled native-born citizens are made worse off by
competition from immigrants, Americans with money are made better off. This is
most evident in the availability of low-wage workers to wash dishes, mow lawns
and tend babies.

Cheap, plentiful unskilled labor probably did (and still does) directly raise
the returns to capital, both physical and "human." Machines and white-collar
workers are presumably more valuable if it costs less to hire labor for the
repetitive tasks of the assembly line. But does the scale of immigration
currently being experienced in America portend such economic class conflict?

Ms. Goldin points out that the percentage of population growth attributable to
immigration in the last decade is close to the spectacularly high peaks during
the decades of the Great Immigration before World War I -- 33 percent in the
1980's, compared with 28 percent in the 1890's and 54 percent in the first
decade of this century.

But David Card of Princeton surprised many fellow economists with his benign
analysis of the most notable influx of immigrants in modern times, the 1980
Mariel boatlift, in which 125,000 largely unskilled Cubans flooded southern
Florida in a matter of weeks.

Using other Sun Belt cities as a benchmark, he found that the Marielitos had no
discernible impact on wages or unemployment. The local economy, he concluded,
expanded rapidly enough to absorb the new immigrants without driving the largely
black and Hispanic competition onto the unemployment rolls.

But the study hardly settled the question of whether immigrants make life
tougher for American-born workers. Lawrence Katz of Harvard, who was formerly
the Labor Department's chief economist, speculates that the American labor force
is so mobile that the impact of excess labor supplies on localities quickly
dissipates. Or to put it another way, more nonimmigrant workers would have come
to Miami if the Mariel boatlift had never happened.

Not Off the Hook

"There is now evidence," Mr. Katz said, "that where immigrants are going,
natives are leaving" -- evidence that Mariel-style immigration is not
necessarily traumatic for regional economies, especially rapidly growing ones
like Miami's.

But this interpretation does not get immigrants off the hook in the national
economic context. Indeed, it implies that in one place or another, more
unskilled immigrants mean lower wages and fewer low-end jobs for those already
here.

Mr. Katz, along with his Harvard colleague Richard Freeman and George Borjas of
the University of California at San Diego, say the impact of unskilled
immigrants has been substantial. They estimate that roughly one-fifth of the
growth in the wage gap between the skilled and unskilled since the mid 1970's is
linked to the growing supply of unskilled immigrant labor.

The United States is, of course, a nation of the descendants of immigrants who
are reluctant to deny opportunities to a new generation of immigrants. Thus to
many, the more important question is whether continuing immigration is adversely
affecting the American economy's long-term prospects. But here, too, the
evidence is ambiguous.

Cause for Celebration

Mr. Borjas notes that the skills and cultural backgrounds that immigrants are
bringing is "hollowing out" in the middle, with higher percentages of highly
skilled college graduates and higher percentages of people with just the
rudiments of education. Americans do not worry about the top end -- in fact,
many celebrate the arrival of all those Indian computer whizes, Russian
physicists and Filipino nurses as a revitalizing influence.

But over all, Mr. Borjas said, immigrants are far more likely to receive welfare
than people born in America. In 1990, he calculates, the 8.4 percent of
households with foreign-born heads received 13.1 percent of the total cash
assistance. And he questions the capacities of low-income immigrants to
assimilate into America's largely middle-class culture as rapidly as preceding
generations did.

Before the 1970's, immigrants entered the country with smaller earning gaps,
compared with their native counterparts, and made far more progress in closing
the gap. Mr. Borjas projects that the wages of immigrants who arrived from 1970
to 1990 will never catch up, remaining 15 to 20 percent behind those of
American-born workers. These (and less responsible) calculations are figuring
prominently in the California gubernatorial election, where Gov. Pete Wilson, a
Republican, has made an issue of the taxpayers' cost in supporting immigrants.

A Social Tragedy

Other economists share Mr. Borjas' concerns, but put a different spin on their
significance. Ms. Goldin notes that a disproportionate number of the
economically distressed immigrants are political refugees from the wars in
Indochina. Their problems constitute a social tragedy, but do not say much about
the consequences of immigration driven primarily by economic incentives.

Barry Chiswick, chairman of the economics department at the University of
Illinois at Chicago, points out that job opportunities for unskilled workers,
native and immigrant, have collapsed since the 1970's. Hence, it is hardly
surprising that immigrants facing language, cultural and racial barriers have
had more trouble moving up in a society in which native-born are also having
more trouble moving up.

Moreover, he emphasizes that only unskilled immigrants qualify as competition
for Americans near the bottom of the economic pecking order. Thus, changes in
immigration policy that discriminated in favor of the affluent and educated
would defuse the problem.

American immigration laws were in fact revised in 1990, raising the number of
visas for individuals in skills deemed in short supply and lowering the priority
of reuniting families. The latter policy of giving preferences to the relatives
of American residents, adopted in the mid-1960's, has been widely blamed for the
decline in average skill and earnings levels of immigrants.

Economic Waste

But Mr. Chiswick notes that Washington exercises enormous discretion in deciding
which skills are needed, a process open to both bureaucratic inefficiency and
political influence. He would much prefer a Canadian-style system, in which
immigrant preferences were largely determined by a formula based on education
and assets.

To some economists, the saddest aspect of limits on immigration (current and
prospective) is the sheer economic waste of preventing labor from moving to
where it is most productive. For in theory, part of the increase in productivity
of, say, a Haitian who goes from making 20 cents an hour in Port-au-Prince to $8
an hour in New York, could be used to compensate the native-born who are made a
bit worse off by competition from immigrants.

Immigrants might, for example, be made ineligible for beefed-up anti-poverty
programs like earned income tax credits and food stamps. But that may not be
constitutional; and it certainly does not mesh with notions of equality under
the law. Even more to the point, Mr. Chiswick argues, it would add to the sorts
of social problems that worry Americans most about low-end immigration.

What seems almost indisputable in the immigration debate, though, is the
unfortunate coincidence of widening income inequality in America and the
pressure on the United States to admit unskilled immigrants, legal and illegal.
"It would be tough enough to make sensible immigration policy in the best of
times," Mr. Ashenfelter concluded. "Today it's almost impossible."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Economic Analysis

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA: DIPLOMACY;
U.S. Again Offers More Visas for Cuban Refugees

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 10;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 445 words


The Clinton Administration made a new offer to Cuba over immigration yesterday,
saying that if Havana clamped down on the exodus of boat people, the United
States might take more than the 20,000 refugees it offered to admit each year
when talks between the two sides opened here five days ago.

But Administration officials refused to provide details, saying only that they
were prepared to show flexibility and that they considered the offer "a serious
attempt to meet the immigration needs of both sides," as one put it.

The proposal was outlined during an hourlong meeting yesterday afternoon between
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Michael M. Skol, who leads the American
delegation, and Ricardo Alarcon, a former Cuban Foreign Minister. The two
diplomats met alone at the Cuban mission here.

David T. Johnson, spokesman for the United States delegation, offered no details
about what took place and cautioned reporters against "premature speculation on
the outcome." He called the talks "businesslike and professional" and said both
sides planned to meet again today.

But in Havana, Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina said that the talks had stalled
and that there were "no positive signals to note."

Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said Washington intended to
continue its talks on immigration issues with the Cuban Government "as long as
it's productive."

The new American offer was put forth after Cuba said on Sunday that Washington
must grant entry to at least 100,000 Cuban refugees if it wanted President Fidel
Castro to end the current chaotic exodus of Cubans toward Florida.

The refugees are being taken to the United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, where more than 20,000 are currently housed. The United States is also
building refugee camps in the Canal Zone in Panama.

In addition to move visas, Havana wants Washington to fix a date for talks on
easing the economic embargo against Cuba, which it sees as the root cause of the
exodus because it is impoverishing people and making them desparate to flee.

But President Clinton has ruled this out and recently tightened the embargo, and
Administration officials at the talks insisted their new offer contained no
suggestion of any relaxation of the embargo.

During the talks yesterday, a crowd of some 200 Cuban-Americans chanted
anti-Castro slogans outside the Cuban mission and waved placards saying "Fidel,
go to Spain!" and "Give me liberty or give me death!" To counter the noisy
demonstration, the Cuban mission placed two loudspeakers on a second floor
balcony and drowned the taunts with a barrage of popular Cuban tunes, played
fortissimo.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Caribbean New York

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words


New York City is a perpetual work in process, an immigrant city that is always
remaking itself from the customs and intonations of its newest foreign-born
families. The process is often imperceptible until a sudden shift in conditions
brings a new demographic order into focus.

This will be recorded as the year in which the traditional Labor Day parade in
Manhattan was canceled for lack of interest, forcing politicians who typically
used it as a photo opportunity to retreat to the West Indian American Day Parade
in Brooklyn. Smart move. The gathering, known to West Indians themselves as
"Carnival," has long been the largest street gathering in New York, drawing
between one and two million revelers yearly.

The New York version of Carnival originated in the Caribbean, principally
Trinidad, two centuries ago, when African slaves took up the form from their
French masters, often using masks and costumes to lampoon the powerful. This
Africanized Carnival, with its bawdy dancing and steel drums, came to New York
in the 1920's, brought by immigrants. For the last 30 years, Caribbean
immigrants have made up the largest portion of newcomers to the city, and
Carnival has flourished accordingly.

Despite its gargantuan size, Carnival has typically been ignored by television
and much of the mass media, with the attention going instead the traditional
Labor Day parade in Manhattan. But in New York, tradition is fluid. The Labor
Day parade, held off and on for a century, became an annual event in 1981. It
dwindled as union membership fell and the cost of putting on the parade became a
strain.

Some politicians sensed the shift a few years ago, and began to appear at both
parades if they could. This time the pols headed for Brooklyn en masse, with
Gov. Mario Cuomo, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and two Senate candidates, Al Sharpton
and Bernadette Castro, crowding in for the photo op.

As the sociologist Philip Kasinitz writes in "Caribbean New York": "Carnival is
not merely a reflection of politics; in a very real sense, it is politics." With
all those politicians on hand in Brooklyn, and up to two million people greeting
them, it was clear that Carnival, two centuries old elsewhere, had claimed a
spot on the New York calendar.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Degrees of Freedom for Raft Children

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1234 words

DATELINE: HIALEAH, Fla., Sept. 6


Clad in "Batman" sneakers and a "Miami Dolphins" T-shirt, 8-year-old Yandro
Martinez says he has learned some English -- "teacher" and "door" -- and made
two friends since he started the third grade last week at Ben Sheppard
Elementary School here.

He tells classmates he is a "balsero," a Spanish term now applied to those who
came from Cuba on a raft or a small boat.

Yamury Arcos, 12, another balsera, also goes to school, but in a makeshift
classroom with 22 other children ranging in age from 10 to 17. She sleeps in a
bunk bed near her mother and 8-year-old brother, and her bane is the daily
"lockdown" that restricts her movements sometimes for as long as two to three
hours, preventing her from even going to the bathroom.

She is in detention at the Krome North Service Processing Center west of Miami,
held by Federal immigration officials until the United States decides policy on
Cuba and its emigres.

Lives on Hold

Yandro and Yamury -- he already set on a new life, she with her future on hold
-- are the children of Cuba's latest exodus. They are among hundreds of children
who have arrived in the United States this year after sometimes harrowing
journeys in unseaworthy boats and rafts, taken by parents who say desperation
over conditions in Cuba and worries for their children's future drove them to
the sea.

Once here, the children have been treated in dramatically different fashion.
While children like Yandro and his 5-year-old sister, Yeni, have found new homes
or moved in with relatives and started school, many more find themselves behind
barbed wire under detention with their parents.

There are 106 children ages 17 or younger at Krome and at least 1,200 other
children and teen-agers at the United States Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba. More than 400 of those at Guantanamo are under age 10, Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials in Miami said. Because breakdowns have been
compiled for fewer than half of the 24,000 Cubans detained on the naval base,
the number of children and adolescents could surpass 3,000, the officials said.

About 200 children from the recent wave of immigration have enrolled in public
schools in Dade County, most in classes where English is a second language, said
Henry Fraind, assistant superintendent. The system, which receives a high
proportion of Cuban refugees, has easily absorbed the newcomers, he said, after
prepared to receive hundreds more before the Clinton Administration stopped
granting entry to refugees.

The Cuban Government last month prohibited adults from taking children with
them, saying their lives were endangered. But in interviews with families who
made it, parents say that it was their concern for their children and their
future that led them to risk crossing the Straits of Florida.

The parents say that even for those children in detention at the Krome and
Guantanamo camps the prospects look brighter than if the children had remained
in Cuba.

Hardships for Children

"The situation in Cuba was already one of life or death," said Tomas Gonzalez,
who arrived with his wife, two sons and a pregnant 15-year-old daughter on Aug.
16. Their homemade boat, which carried 28 people, broke down during the tripfrom
Cuba.

The last straw, many Cuban parents say, was the mounting hardships on their
children in their homeland, even with both parents holding jobs.  Yandro's
mother, Olga Acevedo, said she could no longer get milk for the boy because
"they don't give milk to children after they turn 7."

The children themselves vividly remember deprivation of toys and even underwear.

"The schools don't have anything," said the Gonzalez's 11-year-old son, Tomas.
"Sometimes I could not copy the lesson because there were no pencils."

His 9-year-old brother, Kaisel, said he was writing to his best friend in Cuba
to tell him about his family's new home at an uncle's large house here.

"I'm telling him that if he sees my bed he'll faint," Kaisel said. "He sleeps on
a board with a sheet."

New Life Delayed

Francisco E. Bustamante, 51, an engineer, said he tried to instill in his two
young sons a sense of "dignity" by teaching them not to be docile in a system
that he said demanded obedience. Last month, Mr. Bustamante told his 14-year-old
son, Francisco, and his 9-year-old brother, Roberto, that they were leaving for
the United States in search of "freedom and hope" on a catamaran made of
55-gallon drums.

But freedom for the Bustamantes has been delayed since their arrival on Aug. 18;
the family is being held indefinitely at Krome.

More than 500 adults are divided with their children by sex and age, with women
and children under 12 sleeping together in a building while the men and older
male children stay outdoors under a tent. They come together only a few days a
week for a few hours, and some mothers said their children were "traumatized"
because of the separation from their fathers.

This is the first time children have been held at Krome longer than 24 hours, an
immigration service spokesman, Lemar C. Wooley, said, adding that teachers had
been brought in and a playground set up to make their stay more comfortable.
But two Miami lawyers have filed a class-action suit on behalf of the children,
arguing that they should be released because the camp does not provide an
appropriate environment for children.

Anxiety and Depression

In Guantanamo, the children live in a less confined but more chaotic environment
as thousands of refugees arrive almost daily. The constant population growth has
led to shortages of milk, medicine and other supplies as American military units
try to manage the camps. There is no school.

Social workers with church agencies that help relocate families say that many
children, after spending days vomiting and seasick in cramped boats where all
they could do was sit, are now afraid of water or getting on boats. Mental
health experts say those who have started normal lives are bound to suffer
anxiety and depression while adjusting to their new circumstances.

Detention, these experts say, can aggravate this state because of the
confinement and because dreams of prosperity in the United States have been
dashed.

Asbier Benitez, a talkative 10-year-old who came with his father and other
relatives in a hijacked boat last May, has recurring nightmares from which he
wakes up screaming.

Asbier is in school and his father, a tobacco farmer in Cuba, is already working
in a clothing factory. They live with seven other relatives in a spacious house.
But, the father, Santiago Benitez, said his son terribly misses his mother, from
whom Mr. Benitez is divorced and who stayed behind in Cuba.

Asked what he missed of Cuba, Asbier said: "My mother, my family, the land where
I lived and my old bicycle."

But Asbier, who lived in a house without electricity near Pinar del Rio in
southwest Cuba, has taken to Nintendo games, the cordless telephone in the house
and cars. But as he learns English, new foods and the American life style, he
clings to the familiar, including the Mexican songs he belts out with eyes
closed.

In Cuba, Asbier aspired to be a lawyer, or a singer or a bus driver. Here, he no
longer wants to drive a bus.

"There is no need for buses here," he said. "They go by empty, with one or two
people. In Cuba, they go by with people hanging from the doors."


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Asbier Benitez, a Cuban refugee who arrived in a hijacked
tugboat before restrictions were imposed, on his front porch in Hialeah, Fla. He
suffers from nightmares and says he misses his mother, who stayed behind. (David
Scull/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Reply to U.S. Keeps Talks Going

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 6


Cuba replied today to the new immigration offer made by the United States on
Monday as talks on stemming the exodus of boat people from Cuba entered their
fifth day.

An Administration official described the Cuban response as serious, though still
containing "some material we can't accept." But neither side provided details of
what the Cubans said or what the United States is offering. The two delegations
are to meet again Wednesday at the United Nations.

The Clinton Administration opened the talks by offering to take about 20,000
Cuban refugees annually instead of the 2,000 or so it has been accepting. Cuba
replied by suggesting that the United States accept 100,000 or more Cuban
refugees over an unspecified period of time.

On Monday the United States appeared to offer a new concession when it said it
was taking a "flexible" approach to the number of Cubans it was ready to admit,
implying that it might accept more than the 20,000 it had first proposed.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 9, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba, in Shift, Says Deal Can Be Reached With the U.S.

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1128 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Sept. 8


Just days after the Government described its talks with the United States over
immigration issues as being stalled, Cuban officials now say they believe a deal
can be struck.

Returning home for consultations with President Fidel Castro and other
officials, Cuba's chief negotiator, Ricardo Alarcon, said Wednesday night that
despite major differences he was "confident that an acceptable agreement can be
reached."

The change in tone came as the flood of refugees leaving the island on rafts and
small boats appeared to be leveling off, easing pressure on the Clinton
Administration to negotiate an accord under which the Cuban Government would
renew efforts to stop the exodus.

It also coincided with meetings in Madrid between the Cuban Foreign Minister,
Roberto Robaina, and three of the most prominent Cuban exiles ever to meet with
members of the Castro Government.

Meetings Called Positive

Though all three are considered moderates within the Cuban community in Miami,
where they live, one of them, Ramon Cernuda, is a formal representative in the
United States for one of the best-known dissident groups on the island. Another,
Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, is a former leader of Mr. Castro's insurgency who turned
against the revolution and spent years as a political prisoner.

Cuban officials provided no details on what was discussed in the meetings, which
were arranged by Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez of Spain. The dissidents said
only that the meetings represented a positive and conciliatory first step by the
Government.

Under the circumstances, however, the symbolism may have been far more important
than the substance.

"This is the first time that the Cuban Government has recognized the existence
of the opposition and has agreed to speak with it," Mr. Cernuda told reporters
in Madrid. Mr. Gutierrez Menoyo added, "The Cuban Government has taken a step
that it had not taken in 35 years."

Since Cuba began its negotiations with the United States in New York more than a
week ago, the Government here has sought to emphasize its willingness to engage
Washington in whatever dialogue it can.

Negotiator Sees Gains

At the same time, it has taken advantage of attention drawn to the refugees, a
total of about 30,000 in the past month, to repeat its argument that only by
ending the long embargo against Cuba can the United States ease the deprivation
that Havana says is the essential cause of the exodus.

In an interview with Cuban television on Wednesday night, Mr. Alarcon suggested
that Cuba was making headway in the political battle.

Citing recent criticism of the embargo by some United States senators and
newspaper editorialists, he said, "Every day the view becomes more widespread in
the United States that the only way to resolve the problems between the two
countries is by putting an end to the blockade and sitting down to talk about
all the problems in a broad and respectful way."

Cuban officials offered no details of the proposals that Mr. Alarcon presented
to officials here before flying back to New York this afternoon.

But two diplomats familiar with the Cuban position said that for the first time
since the refugee crisis began little more than a month ago, Cuban officials had
begun talking about the possibility of taking back some of the Cubans now
interned at camps in Panama and the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba. American officials said that the United States was asking Cuba to accept
only the 225 or so Cubans who have asked to return.

'A Handful of Issues'

Some American officials have said that the mere threat of a forced repatriation
of Cubans who risked their lives to leave the island could lead to riots at the
camps and angry protests from Cuban-Americans. At the same time, the Clinton
Administration has shown no sign of having come up with any other solution.

Some Cuban officials have indicated that an increase in visas for Cubans wanting
to join relatives in the United States -- even to annual levels of more than
20,000 migrants -- would not be a sufficient American concession in the talks.
One diplomat said that, in part, the Cubans were seeking assurances that sooner
or later the United States would agree to talks focused on the embargo.

The chief State Department spokesman, Mike McCurry, said today that the
negotiations on migration were down to "a handful of issues," which he would not
specify. But the Clinton Administration has insisted that it will lift economic
sanctions against Cuba only when the Communist Government takes concrete steps
to democratize its political system.

Although diplomats said today that Mr. Robaina's meetings with the Miami exiles
were the sort of first steps that Cuba might take toward an eventual political
opening, Cuban officials generally played down their importance.

"This is part of a process," the Foreign Ministry official in charge of the
Government's contacts with Cuban exiles, Jose R. Cabanas, said in an interview
this afternoon. "What this shows above all is our willingness to talk with all
sorts of people who have a respectful position and are not hostile toward our
country."

Despite founding the paramilitary group Alpha 66 and spending 22 years in Mr.
Castro's jails after being captured in 1964, Mr. Gutierrez Menoyo, 59, has
supported discussions with the Government in order to bring about democracy. Mr.
Cernuda, the director of a Cuban art museum in Miami, represents the Cuban
Committee for Human Rights, a group led by one of the island's most prominent
dissidents, Elizardo Sanchez. Like Mr. Gutierrez Menoyo and Alfredo Duran, a
lawyer associated with Democratic Party politics in Florida who also met with
Mr. Robaina, Mr. Cernuda has battled frequently with hard-line exile leaders in
southern Florida.

'Gestures of Generosity'

After meeting with Mr. Robaina himself today, the Spanish Prime Minister, who
helped obtain Mr. Gutierrez Menoyo's freedom in 1986, said Cuba must "begin a
process of rapid and profound transformations" that would include "gestures of
generosity toward dissident groups."

Mr. Gonzalez's comments appeared to represent a ratcheting up of pressure on Mr.
Castro by the Spanish Government, which has long sought to promote peaceful
change in Cuba but has appeared increasingly frustrated with the results.

Meanwhile, the pressure of Cuban events on the Clinton Administration may be in
remission. According to a spokesman for the United States Coast Guard district
office in Miami, rescue vessels picked up 689 Cuban refugees on Tuesday and
1,029 on Wednesday, continuing a pattern in which the numbers had hovered around
1,000 a day since last Saturday.

By midnight , 610 more had been plucked from the sea.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A raft with a "for sale" sign on the beach in Cojimar, Cuba,
after its builder decided not to use it. The flow of boat people appears to be
leveling off. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

Graph: "TALLY: Fleeing Cuba" tracks number of Cuban refugees picked up by the
Coast Guard each day since August 5, and provides statistics on refugee
placement. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service, United States Coast
Guard)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 10, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba: Keep Talking

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 468 words


The immigration agreement reached yesterday between Washington and Havana is a
good beginning. If humanely carried out it should bring immediate benefits,
including a cooling down of anti-immigrant politics in Florida, fewer drownings
of Cuban rafters at sea and faster reunifications of divided Cuban-American
families.

But matters should not rest here. The Administration, having made its point by
limiting this round of talks to immigration, should now find the courage to move
on to expanded discussions on all the political and economic issues dividing the
United States and its largest Caribbean neighbor.

Washington has now agreed to admit at least 20,000 Cubans a year "under existing
authority," in exchange for Havana's taking "effective measures to prevent
unsafe departures of Cuban citizens."

What this means on the American side is that Cubans eligible for admission
through family ties to U.S. citizens and residents will be moved ahead of the
waiting lists applicable to eligible immigrants from elsewhere. Such
discrimination in favor of Cubans is acceptable only if it does not increase
waiting times for others. The remaining Cuban slots will be filled by those with
special skills, the politically persecuted and others, but not by those now
being held at Guantanamo.

On the Cuban side, the agreement means that Havana will discourage unauthorized
departures. How this is done is crucial, since the freedom to leave one's own
country is an internationally recognized human right. At a minimum, Cuba must
not resume jailing those who try to leave.

Cuba has already said that it wants to expand discussions with the U.S. to other
issues. Obviously, Havana wants relief from the U.S. economic embargo. But it
has also given tantalizing hints, including discussions with opposition
activists this week in Madrid, that it is willing to talk about a political
transition toward multi-party politics as well.

The Clinton Administration should seize the chance to explore these issues, even
though that would infuriate the hard-line Miami emigres with whom the
Administration has rashly allied itself. If Mr. Clinton can now break free of
this sterile embrace, he will find bipartisan support among enlightened members
of Congress. As well, he could find encouragement from a newly published report
that during the Ford Administration Henry Kissinger sought, unsuccessfully, to
move toward full diplomatic normalization with Cuba.

The U.S. has a clear interest in less tense, more pragmatic relations with Cuba.
It also has an interest in promoting a nonviolent transition to democracy and
greater respect for human rights. Those interests argue for building on this
week's agreement with increased dialogue and new incentives for greater openness
by the Castro regime.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 10, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Critics Warn That Immigration Pact Leaves Many Cuban Issues Unresolved

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9


The Administration trumpeted its immigration agreement with Cuba today as a big
victory, but officials warned that Cuba was not going to disappear as a nagging
problem.

"We first have to see whether the Cubans are serious about enforcing the
agreement," a senior Administration official said. "And we continue to be
concerned about other problems there, like human rights abuses and the lack of
movement toward democracy."

At first glance, the agreement appeared to be a victory for the Administration.
President Fidel Castro promised to do what President Clinton had asked: halt the
exodus of boat people from the island. In return the Administration promised
something modest: entry for at least 20,000 Cubans a year.

Mr. Castro's concession generated suspicions that the Adminstration had made
secret side deals, perhaps a promise to discuss the trade embargo against his
country. But Michael McCurry, the State Department spokesman, vigorously denied
that there were any side deals.

Still, Administration officials acknowledge that their victory may prove elusive
unless Mr. Castro translates his words into actions.

"This is a major step forward in resolving the immediate migration problem, but
it will only be resolved if everybody meets his obligation under the agreement,"
said Alexander Watson, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American affairs.

A Dangerous Faucet

One fear is that Mr. Castro can turn the faucet of boat people back on at any
time. Since Washington has already tightened sanctions to punish him for
allowing the recent flood of boat people, it is unclear how the Administration
can turn up the pressure if there is a next time.

"The problem of Cuba still remains," said Peter Hakim, president of
Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington-based research center. "When you have a
country, 90 miles from our shore, that combines political repression with
economic misery, it will surely be a producer of more refugees on one hand, and
a tinder box for turbulence on the other."

Cuban-American groups applauded the agreement but warned Mr. Clinton not to put
the issue of Cuba aside.

"We don't mind if President Clinton claims victory on this one," said Jose
Cardenas, a representative in Washington of the Cuban American National
Foundation. "Our fear is he will try to put Cuba back on the shelf."

Now that Cuba is on the agenda, these groups want Mr. Clinton to keep up the
pressure on Havana to move toward democracy.

Another big problem for the Administration is the fate of some 26,000 Cubans
being detained at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Station. Some United States officials
have recurring nightmares of riots in which military police beat restive
refugees.

"The Clinton Administration is going to come under some pressure from the
Cuban-American community to resolve the Guantanamo situation," Mr. Hakim said.
"Cuban-Americans won't want to see thousands of refugees just sit there."

The Administration says Cubans at Guantanamo are welcome to return to Cuba and
then apply to emigrate at the United States office in Havana. For those who do
not choose this option -- and most are not expected to -- the Administration
promises them an indefinite stay at Guantanamo or at camps in other countries.

Even if the agreement succeeds at eliminating the wave of boat people, its
success will create some new brush fires.

For one, some human rights groups and Cuban-Amerians are already complaining
that President Clinton's negotiating tactic has violated Cubans' rights, since
he has asked Mr. Castro to prevent them from emigrating freely. This undercuts
Washington's image as a champion of human rights, they say, after many
Presidents have condemned Cuba and other Communist nations for denying the right
to emigrate.

"It's almost as if the West has asked Erich Honecker to stop Germans from
crossing over the Berlin Wall," said Frank Calzon, the Washington representative
of Freedom House, a human-rights group, referring to the East German leader.

The accord is also formenting some grumbling on Capitol Hill and among other
ethnic groups.

In an era when many members of Congress are campaigning to hold down immigration
numbers, the agreement, some lawmakers say, bends immigration laws to admit more
Cubans. And, with more than three million foreigners on waiting lists for visas,
some Haitians, Chinese and other ethnic groups say the Administration is playing
favorites.

The Administration responds that Cubans have been granted preference for 35
years, so their favored treatment in this agreement should not be cause for
complaint.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 10, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba's Hidden Gain

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Sept. 9


To judge from everything the Cuban Government has said in recent weeks, the
agreement it signed with the United States today in New York to stop the flow of
undocumented migrants cannot possibly work.

President Fidel Castro is obliged under the accord to try to keep his countrymen
from fleeing by sea. But what he received in return -- mainly an assurance that
at least 20,000 Cubans wishing to immigrate to the United States will be granted
visas each year -- falls so far short of what Cuban officials say is needed to
halt the flood as to raise questions about whether they have a vested interest
in the deal's failure.

Throughout the negotiations, the United States refused to discuss what Cuba
insists is the essential source of the migration problem: the embargo that the
United States has kept on the island's economy for 32 years and toughened over
the last 2.

Yet the talks themselves, and the exodus of migrants that prompted them, brought
Havana a greater American hearing than it had received in years for its argument
that the embargo is a counterproductive vestige of the cold war.

A Secret Promise?

"Although the blockade continues and although a hostile policy toward us
persists, the truth is that as of tonight, in one area, in one zone of the
relationship between the two countries, we have achieved normalcy," Cuba's chief
negotiator in the talks, Ricardo Alarcon said in an interview on Cuban state
television. "It has been demonstrated that Cuba and the United States can reach
agreement."

For the first time, the United States also formally committed itself under the
agreement to "oppose and impede" the violent hijackings of planes and boats by
Cubans fleeing the island. Coming after the Clinton Administration's reversal on
Aug. 19 of the longstanding American policy of accepting all Cubans leaving the
island, Mr. Alarcon said the measure represented confirmation of a "180-degree
change" in a United States policy that encouraged illegal immigration in the
past.

Still, so limited was Mr. Castro's apparent pay-off that some diplomats
speculated that Cuba might have received a secret promise to discuss the embargo
at a later point, perhaps after mid-term elections in the United States in
November.

The State Department spokesman, Mike McCurry, said this afternoon in Washington
that such talks would be conditioned on the emergence of "a pattern of political
and economic reform" in Cuba.

That has long been the Clinton Administration's policy. But what such a pattern
would look like has never been set out in any sort of definitive way. It could
be that if Mr. Castro showed a new willingness to let Cuba's small and weak
dissident movement organize and express itself more freely, the United States
would find a reason to assess such moves generously.

Talks in Spain

Some Cuban officials appear to believe that deep changes will have to be made
simply to keep the economy from collapse. Diplomats also speculated that talks
on Wednesday and Thursday in Spain between the Cuban Foreign Minister and
mainstream, anti-Castro Cuban exiles from Miami could pave the way for meetings
between Cuban officials and dissidents on the island.

Mr. Castro's consistent antipathy toward both capitalism and the dissidents
leaves many experts on Cuba skeptical. But the flight of some 30,000 refugees
from the island since last month and the events that prompted the Government to
allow it -- the group hijackings of several state-owned boats and a riot against
the security forces in Havana on Aug. 5 -- appears to have left more Cubans
believing that change will have to come, one way or another.

Many analysts of Cuban politics have argued that Mr. Castro would be loathe to
make significant political and economic changes at a time when they could be
seen as concessions to an unyielding American policy.

Under the agreement, Cuba said it would do everything it can to stop illegal
immigration to the United States but pledged to use primarily "persuasive
methods."

Many diplomats and other observers voice skepticism that the Cuban Government
will be able to stop the flow of refugees from the island without significant
economic changes and perhaps political ones as well.

Scrutiny of U.S. Blockade

Privately, several Cuban officials said they do not foresee great difficulty in
reimposing police restrictions on people leaving the country by raft, so long as
they are accompanied by a continued refusal by the Clinton Administration to
accept the refugees in the United States. But if a heightened flow of refugees
survives implementation of the New York accord, it could merely strengthen Mr.
Castro's hand.

Even if they fail to convince the outside world that what they call the American
"blockade" is driving the refugees, Cuban officials have already managed during
the last month to force the United States to reconsider the policy in a way that
it had not done since the Cold War ended.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 10, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

CUBA VOWS TO END EXODUS IN RETURN FOR A RISE IN VISAS

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 6;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 9


Cuba and the United States reached an agreement today under which Havana pledged
to stop its citizens from fleeing the country for Florida aboard makeshift rafts
and small boats. In return, Washington promised to accept at least 20,000 new
Cuban immigrants each year.

But the 30,000 Cuban refugees who have already fled the island, most of whom are
housed at the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay or at camps in Panama,
appear to be the big losers under the new agreement. American officials,
briefing reporters on the results of the eight days of negotiation, indicated
that the Cubans in Guantanamo and Panama would not be permitted to move ahead of
applicants now in Cuba.

American officials said the United States would not accept them while they are
in these camps and added that while they could stay there as long as they wished
or seek asylum elsewhere, they must return to Cuba and apply for immigrant visas
in the normal way if they wish to come to the United States. Cuba has agreed to
receive Cubans now in the so-called safe havens of Guantanamo and Panama.

Reflecting the poor state of relations between Cuba and the United States, the
communique announcing the accord was drafted in correct but chilly language. It
said the two sides had "mutual interest in normalizing migration procedures and
agreed to take measures to insure that migration between the two countries is
safe, legal and orderly."

In the first step toward fulfilling the terms of the accord, Cuba announced this
evening that it would stop further departures from mid-day Tuesday, even if
force had to be used. The statement said Cubans had 72 hours from mid-day
Saturday to clear up rafts or raft material gathered on beaches.

President Fidel Castro of Cuba has insisted that the cause of the sudden surge
of boat people to the United States -- the largest since 1980 -- was the
economic boycott of Cuba by the United States, and he wanted the talks in New
York to cover the ending of the embargo. But American officials insisted that
the talks be limited to migration, and it was uncertain what Mr. Castro had
achieved.

In Washington, Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff said the crisis was
resolved because of "the quick and decisive action" of President Clinton, who
made it clear that boat people would not be permitted to land in the United
States, but rather would be sent to "safe havens." On overall Cuban-American
relations, Mr. Tarnoff insisted that Cuba first had to make a transition to
democracy.

"It will not hasten political and economic reform in Cuba for the United States
to negotiate the terms and conditions of change in that country with its
unelected Government, over the heads of the Cuban people," he said.

Nevertheless, this was the most significant accord between the two counties
since the Carter Administration negotiated an anti-hijacking accord in the
1970's and agreed to set up quasi-embassies known as interest sections in Havana
and Washington.

In addition to the 20,000 new immigrant visas it has agreed to grant each year,
the Clinton Administration also expects to issue entry visas for 500 close
relatives of Cubans already living in this country.

And as an exceptional one-year measure, the United States will grant entry to
all Cubans living in Cuba who are now on the visa waiting list. Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State Michael M. Skol, who led the American negotiating team, said
some 19,000 Cubans were on this list, although he expects only 4,000 to 6,000 of
them to seek visas.

In total, Mr. Skol said that between 24,500 and 26,500 Cuban refugees were
likely to gain entry to the United States over the coming year. Last year about
2,700 Cubans qualified as legal immigrants.

In a statement issued in New Orleans, Mr. Clinton said today's accord would
"help insure that the massive flow of dangerous and illegal migration will be
replaced by a safer, legal and more orderly process." The settlement, he added,
was a "fair, good agreement, good for the United States."

At a news conference at the United States mission to the United Nations, where
the accord was wrapped up today, Mr. Skol insisted that the United States had
refused to even discuss the trade embargo against Cuba, let alone promise any
easing of it.

But Cuba made clear at the start of the talks that it wanted the Administration
to set a date for talks on easing the 32-year-old embargo in return for a new
migration agreement, arguing that the hardship the blockade causes forces people
to flee the country.

The text of the agreement makes no mention of economic issues, although the
United States promised "to take effective measures" to stop aircraft or boat
hijackings by Cubans fleeing their island.

Today's accord thus appears to give Mr. Castro very little since it fails to
commit the Administration even to hold talks about the embargo, as Cuba wanted,
or relax the additional restrictions Mr. Clinton imposed earlier this summer
when he made it harder for Cuban Americans to visit the island or send money to
relatives there.

"Castro miscalculated," said Representative Robert G. Torricelli, a New Jersey
Democrat who heads the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Western Hemisphere
affairs. "He gets nothing out of this except an end to damaging publicity about
the boat people. Since the Administration has not relaxed the new restrictions
on remittances and charter flights, Castro's worse off."

Cuba committed itself "to take effective measures in every way it possibly can
to prevent unsafe departures, using mainly persuasive methods," the agreement
states.

"We expect a dramatic reduction in departures" Mr. Skol said, adding that the
Administration also expected Cuba "to take humane measures to stop the outflow."

The round of Cuban-American migration talks that ended today is the 13th the two
sides have held since they signed their 1984 immigration pact, under which the
United States agreed to take up to 20,000 immigrants annually, although in
practice it has tended to admit far fewer.

Ceiling Becomes Floor

Under the new accord, this 20,000 ceiling on Cuban immigration in effect becomes
a floor, although total immigration is still capped at 27,845 by an immigration
law restricting nationals of individual foreign countries to no more than 7
percent of all immigrant visas issued each year.

If fewer than 20,000 Cuban applicants qualify for immigrant visas in any one
year because they lack relatives in America or needed skills, Attorney General
Janet Reno has undertaken to use her emergency powers to admit enough to bring
the total up to that figure.

In Washington, Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris
Meissner said at a news conference that about 5,000 of the planned intake of
20,000 this year were likely to be political refugees and 2,000 to 3,000 more
their close dependents.

She predicted that the Administration would issue an additional 3,000 normal
immigrant visas to qualifying Cubans. The Attorney General would then use her
authority to admit a further 9,000 to 10,000.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "TALLY: FLEEING CUBA" shows Cuban refugees picked up by the
Coast Guard each day from Aug. 5th to Sept. (Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service; U.S. Coast Guard)(pg. 4)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN;
Parade Underlines Chinatown Split

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 6;  Column 4;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 505 words


Long a staple in New York politics, ethnic parades have generated their share of
battles over the years. The latest is below Canal Street and is a sign of a
rising challenge to the established leadership in Chinatown.

The situation reflects a major split in the politics of Chinatown -- between
supporters of the Republic of China, commonly known as Taiwan, and the growing
community of newer immigrants from the mainland. The recent spark came when the
mainlanders sought to run a parade through the heart of Chinatown: the Bowery
and Mott Street, the stronghold of Republic of China supporters, who are the
governing elite of Chinatown.

Many supporters of the Republic of China saw the route of the parade -- the
first ever celebrating the mainland's founding in 1949, National Day -- as an
affront, symbolizing capitulation to Communism. Some even threatened to throw
rocks, eggs and tomatoes if the parade approached their streets.

The police denied the route for Sunday, Sept. 25, granting what many consider an
"outer" route along East Broadway and St. James Place. This angered some
mainlanders, who noted that supporters of the Republic of China are allowed to
run their parade celebrating the National Day of the Republic of China -- called
"the Double 10" -- through Mott Street on Oct. 10 every year.

There have been signs that old-country political lines are blurring. But the
issue shows there is still a long way to go. Traditionally, Chinatown residents
and business people have been overwhelmingly anti-Communist because Mao Zedong's
revolutionary soldiers in 1949 took their possessions and tortured and killed
relatives.

This hatred for Communism made them de facto supporters of the government of the
Republic of China and suspicious of the newer mainland immigrants, though many
newcomers are not necessarily pro-Communist.

Until now, the pro-mainland faction never would have staged a parade. But it is
fast gaining numbers and confidence, forming their own associations after often
being rejected by Chinatown's leadership.

The mainlanders are bitter over what they see as the undue influence of the
established leaders over the police. But police officials say they rejected the
Mott Street route on the merits, primarily because the parade falls on the last
day of the San Gennaro Festival in Little Italy.

"The event shouldn't take place at all," said Allan Hoehl, Assistant Chief of
Police, Borough of Manhattan South. "The San Gennaro Festival itself creates
tremendous traffic jams in the area."

The Police Department was caught in the middle, but both sides praised the
department's first Chinese captain, Thomas M. Chan of the Fifth Precinct in
Chinatown. He persuaded Chief Hoehl to allow the mainland parade and then worked
with its organizers over alternative routes.

Participants would not comment publicly, but many said privately that there are
many bruised feelings. "Whose passport do these police carry anyway, the Taiwan
Government's?" asked one.   JANE H. LII

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Meeting on the mainland parade, from left: Ho Shak Yang, K.TR.
Yang and Troy Liu. (Chang Lee for The New York Times)

Chart: "SNAPSHOT: The Chinatown Shift"

Although Chinatown is still pro-Republic of China, the balance of power is
shifting as a result of recent immigration from Mainaland China.

Below, legal Chinese immigrants to the New York area, 1982-91. Community leaders
also estimate that tens of thousands more have been smuggled in from Fujian,
China, a mainland province.

Map of Chinatown showing routes of the Mainland National Day Parade and National
Day Parade for Republic of China.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

At Immigration, Disarray and Defeat

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 3314 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10


The Immigration and Naturalization Service does not bother to collect as much as
$23 million a year in fees, easy money that could be gathered with just a letter
here or a phone call there. That is because, officials say, the agency cannot
afford to hire the accounting clerks to write those letters and make those
calls.

Yet each month the immigration service finds a way to allow dozens of its
inspectors to take round-trip, all-expenses-paid cruises to places like Nassau
in the Bahamas and Cozumel, Mexico, often accompanied by friends or family
members whose expenses are also paid by the cruise lines. The inspectors' job is
to check the passengers' travel documents on the return trip.

It is a curious division of resources -- no staff to collect millions but just
enough to perform a courtesy service for the cruise industry. Yet it is a
classic example of the mismanagement that plagues the immigration service,
perhaps the most troubled major agency in the Federal Government.

An investigation by The New York Times has found that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, an arm of the Justice Department, is broadly
dysfunctional. Hobbled by understaffing, underfinancing, conflicting mandates
from Congress and widespread mismanagement failures, it is an agency in
disarray. It lurches from one immigration emergency to the next, its employees
demoralized, its mission unrealized.

On the most mundane level, the agency cannot even find a way to open its mail
and answer its phones. On a more serious one, it does not make a concerted
effort to find and deport most aliens with criminal records.

Even its own officials, inured to failure, consider the agency ill-equipped to
handle its ever-rising demands.

"Lots of people are burned out, fed up, not willing to go on," said Walter D.
Cadman, district director in Miami.

Among the findings by The Times, emerging from interviews with scores of I.N.S.
employees nationwide, were these:

*No agency of the Government is more vulnerable to corruption than the I.N.S.,
where front-line workers, paid little more than the minimum wage, give out green
cards and other coveted documents that are worth thousands of dollars on the
black market. Year after year, dozens of employees are arrested for taking
bribes or related crimes. Yet even when corruption cases repeatedly expose
glaring weaknesses in the system, the agency usually neglects to correct them.

*Deportation officers seldom deport anyone. Most deportations that do occur are
carried out on an honor system. Deportees are asked to turn themselves in on a
certain day. In New York, for example, only about 4 percent actually show up.

*More than four million aliens come to the immigration service each year with
simple and perfectly legal requests for green cards, work authorizations or
other permits, but, as one senior manager put it, "we make people suffer." At
I.N.S. offices throughout the country, telephones go unanswered, mail goes
unopened, and immigrants stand in daylong lines that often lead them to surly,
untrained workers who cannot answer their questions. Even Attorney General Janet
Reno complains that sometimes when she calls the immigration service she cannot
get through.

For its inquiry The Times interviewed more than 100 agency employees and visited
immigration service offices in Chicago, El Paso, Los Angeles, Miami, New York,
Phoenix and San Francisco, among other cities.  The employees ranged from
entry-level workers to senior officers at headquarters in Washington. Most were
selected by their supervisors, presumably because the supervisors thought these
employees would present the agency's best face. What the employees offered,
however -- with a candor that is rare in government -- was a grim one.

"We have no mission, no tools, no leadership, so where are we?" complained Juan
Bustos, a deportation officer in San Francisco.

Patrick E. Kane, acting director of the Phoenix office, said, "We're dabbling in
everything, and we aren't really doing anything."

Robert E. Crebbs, a special agent in San Francisco, lamented, "There's
overwhelming apathy from top to bottom."

And A. D. Moyer, district director in Chicago, said: "A lot of people have gone
out of their way to make this a cold, rude, insensitive and inefficient agency.
The mentality of this organization leaves a lot to be desired."

Ruth Anne Myers worked for the immigration service for 33 years, and in June,
just four days after she retired as director of the Phoenix office, she
reflected on the agency's latest budget crisis.

"It's a mess," she said, shaking her head, "and I don't know if we've ever been
in a bigger mess."

All of this fosters a numbing fatalism. As a senior examinations officer in
Miami put it, "No matter what we do, good or bad, it makes no difference."

The Task
Impossible Job, Few Advocates

The service's mission, broadly stated, is to keep illegal aliens out of the
country and admit legal immigrants in an efficient, orderly manner. To
accomplish those goals it has about 19,000 employees and will spend $1.6 billion
this year. About one-third of that is from fees the agency collects from
immigrants.

Its budget has nearly tripled and its work force has grown by 50 percent since
1986, but in that time the agency's workload has markedly increased, too.

Last year the agency admitted almost one million new residents and naturalized
several hundred thousand others. It also handled more than three million
requests for work permits, border passes or other documents.

In addition, the agency apprehends more than one million aliens each year as
they try to enter the country illegally. Theoretically, the I.N.S. is also
responsible for finding and deporting almost four million others who are here.
And it must be ready to scramble whenever unexpected immigration emergencies
flare, like those in Haiti and Cuba.

With all that and more, agency officials say, the I.N.S. is overwhelmed. In
fact, the service's performance has usually been so lacking that others in
Government have generally preferred to look the other way and dispose of the
problem with a simple explanation: the task is impossible; there is no way the
United States can control its vast, open borders.

As a result, the I.N.S. has remained, in the words of a former Commissioner,
Gene McNary, "the agency nobody cared about -- dumped on, dirty-faced kids."

The occasional official who does take an interest finds that a large part of the
problem is the I.N.S. itself. "I tell you, 90 days over there, and you don't
know whether to laugh or to cry," said Don Wortman, a former senior official at
several Federal agencies who served on a Federal panel that studied the I.N.S.
three years ago.

Most members of Congress see no political benefit in trying to improve the
agency. After all, "in the immigration business, you're never right," said Chris
Sale, the Deputy Commissioner. "Half the people always think you're wrong,
depending on which half of the people you're dealing with."

An Unpopular Cause

As a consequence, the immigration oversight committees remain among the least
popular in Congress. The Senate subcommittee has only three members, the minimum
number, because "we could only find three senators who were willing to be on
it," said Jerry Tinker, its longtime staff director. Only two other Senate
subcommittees are as unpopular -- the one that oversees the Federal deficit and
the one that looks after the Internal Revenue Service. The House immigration
subcommittee is among the smallest in that chamber, too.

But now, for the first time, the rest of Government may have to take an
interest. Politicians from the border states are in open rebellion over Federal
immigration policy, denouncing it as a failure. Several of those states are
suing the Federal Government, saying millions of illegal aliens are draining
their resources. And from Florida to California this year, immigration has
become a fiery issue in election campaigns.

"Our immigration crisis demands action, and it demands it this year!" Gov. Pete
Wilson of California, a Republican, declared in June.

Representative Anthony C. Beilenson, Democrat of California, said as the
lawsuits were being filed this spring, "All of a sudden, immigration sort of
arrived, or ripened and blossomed as a national issue."

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, is well
aware that she runs a deeply troubled agency. "In the current climate," she
said, "I don't think we can continue to get by with some of these chronic and
traditional behaviors."

Ms. Meissner was a senior manager at the immigration service in the early 1980's
and after that worked as an immigration expert at a research institute in
Washington. When she took office last October, the Clinton Administration and
Congress made it clear that they expected her to rescue the agency. Very quickly
she outlined an aggressive strategy for change, and she is now reorganizing the
management structure. It was "dysfunctional" when she took office, Ms. Meissner
said.

Even with that change and many others planned, Ms. Meissner has come to a
disquieting realization. The agency's problems remain so numerous, so deep and
so daunting that many of her own employees openly question whether she or anyone
else can turn things around.

"These are huge challenges," she said in an interview. "I know the jury's still
out."

Attorney General Reno echoed that. "It is very difficult to create a functional
agency," she said, "while at the same time addressing all the emergencies that
constantly beset it," like the Cuban refugee crisis. "I don't think Doris and I
are satisfied yet, but I am proud of what they have done."

The Leadership
Little Guidance, Less Control

The Commissioner of immigration presides over an empire -- more than 19,000
employees in 62 offices throughout the country and 3 overseas. To manage such a
collection is difficult at best. But the service's own district leaders say they
are not being managed at all. Most say they never speak to their supervisors in
Washington, and this communication failure contributes to almost every one of
the agency's other problems.

"You feel like the Lone Ranger out here, you're so out of touch," said Mr. Kane,
the acting director in Phoenix.

Mr. Cadman, head of the Miami office, said: "We get no guidance. We have a
feeling we're adrift, in limbo."

And Mr. Moyer, head of the Chicago office, said, "I didn't speak to my boss for
two and one-half years."

James A. Puleo, an executive associate commissioner in Washington, was
responsible for supervising all of the districts from January 1993 until last
July. "I agree with them that the system doesn't work very well," he said of his
district leaders. "But I only have an illustrious staff of two. I don't call
them up to chat about nothing."

Ms. Meissner, the Commissioner, said the new management structure would
alleviate the problem, and Mr. Moyer said he had already seen some improvement
from his Chicago vantage point. But that will not necessarily clear up another
complaint, this one by Richard K. Rogers, head of the Los Angeles office: that
"absolutely no one is held accountable" for his work.

Expense-Paid Cruises

The leadership vacuum can breed embarrassments, like the messy problem of en
route inspections.

The I.N.S. is responsible for checking passengers arriving on cruise ships,
usually as they step off the ship. But some cruise lines prefer to have the
inspector carry out the work during the cruise, as a convenience to passengers.
So dozens of times each week, immigration inspectors from ports around the
country sail to Mexico, the Caribbean or more distant points, with little work
to do on the outbound trip, and then carry out the inspections on the way back.

The Justice Department's Inspector General's Office looked into the practice and
found that on some of the inspectors' trips, "family members and friends
accompanied them for free or on discounted fares." The inspectors traveled free,
too. In addition, the report said, if an inspector had other costs, "such as
taxi fares, hotels, meals, etc., the ship's purser would reimburse the inspector
directly." Most were one-day cruises, but some lasted five days. While on board,
some inspectors charged the cruise lines for overtime.

All of this, the Inspector General's Office concluded in its report last spring,
"creates a conflict of interest." And "since an inspector can fine a cruise line
$3,000 for each undocumented alien discovered," the Inspector General wondered
whether all these gratuities "could result in more lenient inspections." But
perhaps the most startling finding in the report was that while I.N.S.
management officials knew in a general sense that some inspectors were doing
inspections en route, they were unaware of the fringe benefits.

"This wasn't something I knew about," said Mr. Cadman, head of the Miami office.
"But it's wrong, flat wrong."

The agency's leaders were informed of the Inspector General's preliminary
findings on May 21, 1993. But nothing was done about them for more than a year.
A few weeks ago Mr. Cadman said he had given his staff no new instructions about
accepting gratuities, and during a round-table discussion with eight Miami
office employees, all of them said they had not heard about the report.

"There has been no notice of it," one said. She had carried out an en route
inspection the day before.

Mr. Cadman said, "I'm waiting for headquarters to set a policy."

At headquarters, Mr. Puleo deplored the practice of taking family members along
and declared: "The directive on that went out a year ago. We stopped it." But
asked for documentary evidence, Mr. Puleo said through a spokesman that he had
misspoken. Actually, nothing had been done.

Guidelines forbidding the acceptance of gratuities were finally issued only
after a reporter asked about them this summer.


The Money
Millions Owing, No One to Collect

Year after year, budget crises ripple through the I.N.S. The agency repeatedly
overestimates the fees it will collect from immigrants and visitors, fails to
plan for the inevitable immigration emergencies, then loses track of much of the
money it does have. Finally the agency finds itself with another shortfall, and
that hobbles every effort to start new programs or fix old problems.

"Budgeting over there," said Mr. Tinker of the Senate immigration subcommittee,
"is an Alice in Wonderland kind of thing."

After Congress passed major immigration laws in 1986 and 1990, the agency grew
so quickly that "the infrastructure collapsed," said Ms. Sale, the Deputy
Commissioner.

But financial management at the agency has long been sloppy. In 1980, the Senate
Judiciary Committee demanded a management study before it would appropriate any
money. In 1990, the General Accounting Office said the agency's budget process
was "deplorable." Today, the Office of Management and Budget labels the
financial controls at the I.N.S. "high risk," meaning they "warrant top-level
attention at the agency and by the Congress."

Kenneth W. Rath has been a senior I.N.S. financial officer since 1991, and he
now heads that office. Critical audit after critical audit has landed on his
desk. "I was the guy who was hired to sit on that stack of audit reports," he
said, "and I've solved those problems."

But around the country, other I.N.S. officials laughed at that. They noted that
about the time Mr. Rath made that remark this summer, his office announced that
the agency was once again $60 million short.

That led to the annual rite of midyear budget cuts in every office. "We just had
to cancel our contract with the convention center, where we were holding
naturalization ceremonies," said Mr. Cadman, the Miami director. "We couldn't
pay the rent."

Mail Doesn't Go Through

Part of the problem is downstairs in Mr. Cadman's own mail room. Because of
budget shortages, the office does not have enough people to open the mail --
1,500 letters a day. Many of the envelopes contain checks and cash --
application fees that could be fed into the I.N.S. budget. "Right now," the
records and information supervisor for the office said, "we're opening mail from
a month ago."

Even when the office does get around to opening the letters, Mr. Cadman said,
the volume of mail is so great that if a letter does not have the immigrant's
file number on it, "we can't deal with it."

"It goes in a box," he said. "We have a million letters like that in boxes. We
don't know what to do with them."

The paradox is that the agency may hold the solution to many of these problems
in its own hands. It lies in another critical audit from the Justice Department,
one that landed on Mr. Rath's desk a few months ago.

Airlines and cruise ships collect $6 from each passenger arriving in the United
States, and they are supposed to turn that money over to the I.N.S. But the
Justice Department found that the agency was failing to collect the fees from 22
airlines and six cruise lines -- a loss of as much as $23 million a year.

Mr. Rath explained: "I can't say that's wrong because I don't know. But there
are only two people down there monitoring this" in accounting.

The agency has the authority to subpoena records from the carriers and call
witnesses. But to collect the money, usually just a bit of research along with a
letter or phone call is enough.

A Simple Solution?

Mr. Rath conceded that the sensible solution might simply be to put more clerks
in that office, considering the money they could easily collect. But he said
that was easier said than done. "When you ask Congress for funding for support
personnel, it's not very glamorous," he said, adding with a wave of the hand,
"it's the first thing they cut."

On Capitol Hill, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat who heads
the House immigration subcommittee, was visibly stunned by that notion. He
almost bellowed as he said: "We'd leap across the committee table to give them
those people and 10 more! We're not stupid. But they've never asked."

The carrier fees are only one example of the millions of dollars the agency is
owed that it fails to collect. The I.N.S. also loses track of the bonds that
many immigrants post to guarantee that they will appear for hearings. When an
immigrant does not show up, the bond money is forfeited to the immigration
service. But in many offices no one looks at the bonds again -- and finally they
expire.

"We don't have anybody assigned to that," Phil Waters, acting director of the
San Francisco office, acknowledged with a shrug. "The only time we go back and
look at some of the bonds is if somebody asks."

Nationwide, the Justice Department found, the immigration service failed to
collect about $38 million in bond money in the last six years.

All of that, Mr. Rath said matter-of-factly, "is an inevitable result of the
management situation we have." But in Phoenix, Ms. Myers thinks explanations
like that are too facile.

"This kind of thing goes on year after year, but nobody's ever held
accountable," she said, her voice rising with anger. "Nobody loses his job.
Nobody gets demoted. Everyone gets their bonuses. Now here we are again in 1994
and we're $60 million short. It's so depressing."

                             --------------------

NEXT: Corruption is common, and deterrents are few.

Chaos at the Gates

TODAY -- The immigration service is mismanaged; its ranks, demoralized. --

TOMORROW -- The corruption virus: : It spread through the Washington office.

TUESDAY -- The most wanted: A poor record of deporting criminal aliens.

WEDNESDAY -- A Border Patrol success story fell on deaf ears in Washington.

THURSDAY --Cold, rude and insensitive: The agency ill serves its clients.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Chaos at the Gates -- First of five articles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A trip to the immigration office in Miami can be an ordeal, with
long, slow-moving lines. (pg. 1); Outside the Miami office of the immigration
service last month, people hoping to get an appointment lined up early in the
morning, waiting for the doors to open at 7:30. The agency puts out chairs for
the crowds; At the Miami office of the I.N.S., mail piles up in boxes, for lack
of people to open it. Many of the envelopes contain checks that could ease the
agency's budget problems. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
(pg. 24)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Gov. Chiles Seizes the Refugee Issue

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 10


Jeb Bush sounded like a promoter for Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida -- not like
his principal rival -- when a voter asked him the other day what he thought of
the incumbent's handling of the Cuban refugee crisis.

"I think Governor Chiles is doing the right thing," said Mr. Bush, the top
vote-getter in this state's Republican primary for governor on Thursday. "He's
gotten off his fanny on this one. He's hustling on this one. To his credit, he's
doing the right thing because he knows how politically powerful it is."

Mr. Bush should know. Helped by his flawless Spanish and his Mexican-born wife,
Columba, he devoted years to cultivating a political base in the Cuban-American
community here by espousing an uncompromising stand against Fidel Castro, Cuba's
president. He also seemed poised to benefit from the long-held perception that
Republicans are more virulent than Democrats about tightening borders.

But in an impressive example of political gamesmanship and fortuitous timing,
Mr. Chiles snatched this state's most talked about issue for himself. As the
first waves of Cubans on makeshift rafts reached Florida, he declared a state of
emergency last month and helped prevailed on President Clinton to throw aside 30
years of immigration policy to stanch the desperate exodus.

New Pact Is a Boost

The agreement struck by Cuba and the United States on Friday, in which Mr.
Castro pledges to halt the flow in return for stepped-up legal immigration,
seemed to be just what the Governor wanted.

"This new policy lessens the threat of dangerous, illegal immigration from Cuba,
if its provisions are honored by Cuba and the United States," Mr. Chiles
declared. "But we will remain vigilant in our resolve to protect Florida from
paying the price for the nation's immigration problems."

Cuba is only 90 miles from Florida, so the plight of the Cuban refugees is of
huge importance to voters here; the scenes of ill-fated treks to the shores of
Key West and the controversy over whether refugees should be admitted have
dominated the news in a state where residents already feel burdened by
immigrants.

Mr. Chiles's intervention has been exceedingly popular -- particularly beyond
Miami, where immigrants are not often welcome -- and has even won grudging
support from many Cuban-Americans here who are not eager to see the state
flooded with immigrants. Since Mr. Chiles is facing a difficult race and must
still overcome criticism for raising taxes and for failing to respond more
rapidly to Hurricane Andrew, his prominence on Cuba has the potential to save
him his job.

That is no small matter for the Democrats, who want to hold the Statehouse in
one of the most populous states and who say Florida could be a crucial
battleground in 1996.

"He's sitting in the catbird seat on this issue," said Robert Joffee, director
of the Mason-Dixon Florida Poll. "Chiles will get credit for being there and
being tough first."

Pedro Freyre, co-chairman of the Cuba Committee of the Greater Miami Chamber of
Commerce, agreed that with the accord reached Friday, "Chiles comes out smelling
like a rose because he sounded the alarm bells and delivered the White House."

But the accord does not deal with the refugees who have already fled the island
and are growing restless at the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay or at
camps in Panama -- and Mr. Freyre warned that Mr. Chiles still risks being
blamed for not helping broker a remedy for them. "This still has a potential
backlash for Chiles," Mr. Freyre said. "If I were a Bush strategist, I would be
hammering away at the Guantanamo and Panamanian issue; we're seeing our
countrymen put behind bars and in orange uniforms."

Such concerns surfaced at Mr. Bush's rally here on Thursday night, which drew a
heavily Cuban-American audience. "He's punishing Cuban emigres instead of
punishing Castro," said Max E. Borges Jr., a Miami construction executive who
had initially welcomed the Governor's leadership on the issue.

But while Mr. Chiles's position offended some Cuban-Americans, that should not
cause major problems for him because the Democrats have virtually written off
the exile community as voting Republican anyway. The Cuban-American community
accounts for roughly 5 percent of the statewide vote.

What matters more to Mr. Chiles is that three out of five voters in Florida say
they approve of the way he has dealt with Cuba and immigration from Cuba,
according to a Mason-Dixon poll of 611 registered voters taken Aug. 27 to Aug.
29. The poll also found that the approval level for Mr. Chiles on the issue was
higher among Republicans (64 percent) than among his own Democrats (59 percent).
The margin of error is plus or minus four percentage points.

Restricted Attack

The situation is more complicated for Mr. Bush, who faces a runoff next month
against Jim Smith, the Florida Secretary of State: he cannot criticize with Mr.
Chiles's efforts because many American-born Republicans are hostile to
immigration. But if he were to call for even tougher measures against the
refugees, he would risk alienating the Cuban-Americans.

"Jeb is caught between a rock and a hard place," said Bill Donegan, a supporter
of Mr. Bush who is a Republican commissioner of Orange County, in central
Florida.

As he looks to a likely general election contest with Mr. Chiles, Mr. Bush has
been left to attack Mr. Chiles only for not doing more to prod Mr. Clinton to
topple Mr. Castro.

"We'll see how long it sustains," Mr. Bush said of Mr. Chiles's popularity.
"President Clinton has a golden opportunity to bring about the fall of the
Castro regime. My guess is that that would help Lawton Chiles, but I don't care.
I would applaud Bill Clinton if he had the leadership skills to carry it out.
What I see right now is the exact opposite."

But Mr. Bush's tough talk about the Castro regime seems blunted by the images
that were splashed on the evening news here of a take-charge Mr. Chiles. The
Governor's recent actions have also made Mr. Chiles seem almost prescient on the
issue; long before the refugee influx reached crisis proportions, he sued the
Federal Government for costs associated with the immigrants.

In an interview on Friday, Mr. Chiles sought to frame his actions as evidence of
an experience gap between he and Mr. Bush, a developer who has never held
elective office.

"Bush says experience doesn't mean anything," Mr. Chiles said. "But I think it's
pretty fortunate that I went through Mariel 1. It didn't take me long to
recognize Mariel 2."

Acknowledging that the issue had helped him, Mr. Chiles added, "The only thing I
can tell you is if there were 30,000 more rafters in Florida, I'd hate to be me
running for office."


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida, left, listening to a plea from a
volunteer at a center for Cuban refugees in Key West last month. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Freewheeling Ways Pay Off for the White House

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1340 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10



The Clinton Administration was able to claim a triumph Friday in its talks with
Cuba, although its policy-making process on the immigration crisis was
undisciplined and untidy even by the Administration's freewheeling bureaucratic
standards.

Many Administration officials acknowledge that the last five weeks of
policy-making on Cuba have been marked to an unusual degree by ad-libbing,
domestic politics and a constantly changing cast of characters. Adding to the
confusion, several new voices on foreign policy were involved because the Cuba
crisis so heavily involved immigration matters and because so many officials
were on vacation.

Despite the bureaucratic messiness, the Administration was still able to get
exactly what it wanted in its talks in New York with the Cubans: Havana's
promise to end the flow of boats and rafts. Administration officials said the
reason for their success was that all the potentially contradictory veins of
American policies agreed on one point: trying to make the crisis Fidel Castro's.


Turning the Tables

Mr. Castro unleashed the flow of boat people with the aim of throwing President
Clinton on the defensive and pressuring him to ease the three-decade-old
embargo. But Administration officials boast that they turned the tables on the
Cuban leader by their decision to stop admitting boat people and to tighten the
embargo.

This dual strategy was driven largely by domestic politics: specifically, to
appease Floridians worried about a surge of refugees and to please
Cuban-Americans who constantly favor turning up the heat on Mr. Castro. But
Administration officials recognized early on that this strategy dovetailed
neatly with their goal of pressuring Mr. Castro to clamp down on the flow of
refugees.

"We decided we weren't going to play Castro's game," a senior State Department
official said. "We took him by surprise when we decided to stop allowing in
Cuban refugees."

But that decision also took some members of the Administration by surprise. This
is because, in a little-understood chapter of the Cuba crisis, the
Administration shunted aside its main Cuba contingency plan and started
ad-libbing.

In its first few months in office, the Clinton Administration put together an
emergency plan to deal with a flood of Cuban refugees in case a flotilla of
rafts began drifting toward Florida. The classified plan, known as Operation
Distant Shore, called for distributing thousands of Cuban refugees to forts and
other Federal sites around the nation so Florida would not be overwhelmed.

Abandoning the Plan

But at a pivotal White House meeting on Aug. 18, with the wave of Cubans
growing, that emergency plan was pushed aside. Instead, Defense Secretary
William J. Perry, Attorney General Janet Reno and State Department and White
House officials recommended to the President that he end the three-decade-old
practice of admitting all Cubans and instead send Cuban boat people to the
Guantanamo Bay Naval Station.

That recommendation came just hours after Florida's Governor, Lawton Chiles,
declared a state of emergency and warned President Clinton that he would order
Florida officials to detain all Cuban boat people. Back at the White House,
policy makers were mindful of Mr. Chiles's plight, recognizing that a tidal wave
of boat people not only could cripple the Democratic Governor in a tough
re-election campaign this fall, but could spoil Mr. Clinton's chances in
Florida, the fourth-most populous state, in the 1996 Presidential campaign.

Even though the United States was in a diplomatic showdown with Mr. Castro, an
unusually large role fell to Attorney General Reno, who used to be Dade County
prosecutor.

"Early on, she wore two hats: her Florida hat -- she was the most knowledgeable
person about Florida politics -- and her Department of Justice-overseer of
immigration hat," a senior Administration official said.

Vacations and Policy

Because both Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Anthony Lake, the
national security adviser, were on vacation during most of the second half of
August, large policy roles fell to two other officials.

Sandy Berger, the deputy national security adviser, was the behind-the-scenes
crisis manager. Then, Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff, a long-time
student of Cuba, became his department's point man in the crisis. As a special
assistant to Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance during the Carter Administration,
he held secret talks in Havana aimed at normalizing relations with Cuba.

Several officials said Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, had a
strong hand in Cuba policy as he made sure political considerations were not
forgotten.

Administration officials say their decision to stop admitting Cuban refugees was
key to their ability to resist pressures from Mr. Castro. If they had followed
their original contingency plan and distributed refugees around the nation, that
might have encouraged Mr. Castro to turn up the faucet even more.

'No More Mariels'

According to Mr. Clinton's advisers, two mottos animated the President's
thinking. One was "No More Mariels." With anti-immigrant sentiment growing
nationwide, he did not want a replay of the 1980 Mariel boatlift in which
125,000 Cubans swarmed into the United States, contributing to President
Carter's loss in the 1980 elections.

The second motto was "Remember Fort Chaffee." Bill Clinton lost his race for
re-election as Arkansas Governor in 1980 partly because Cuban refugees rioted at
that Arkansas fort. Several military police were injured and hundreds of Cuban
escaped, before being captured.

The decision to turn away Cubans pleased Florida officials, but it angered many
Cuban-American groups. To placate them, President Clinton told Cuban-American
leaders on Aug. 19 of his plans to step up sanctions against Cuba, including
tighter restrictions on travel and a ban on almost all remittances to Cuba.

To some officials, that was a sharp lurch away from the longstanding
recommendations of several low- and mid-level officials. In their view, the best
way to promote a peaceful transition to democracy in Cuba is to increase, not
decrease, the flow of Western ideas to Cuba, and that means increasing travel,
telecommunications and student exchanges.

"This was a self-coup against our own policy," one Administration official said.
Indeed, several officials said the ban on remittances went too far and might be
adjusted soon. One change under consideration would be aimed at helping Cuban
dissidents who have been kept alive by remittances from American relatives.

When the wave of refugees surged in mid-August, the Administration feared that
it would be overwhelmed and might be forced to make concessions to Mr. Castro.
But by the time talks began on Sept. 1, Administration officials were confident
they held the stronger hand.

Embarrassment for Castro

President Clinton won some room to maneuver by doubling Guantanamo's capacity to
hold refugees and by persuading Panama and Honduras to take up to 15,000 Cubans.
And while the refugee flow created big inconveniences for Washington,
Administration officials said it had backfired for Mr. Castro, becoming such an
embarrassment that he needed a deal to defuse the crisis more than President
Clinton did.

So the Cubans signed an agreement that did not mention the embargo. The
Administration promised to grant entry to at least 20,000 Cubans a year, and Mr.
Castro pledged in return to stop the boat people.

According to several officials, Mr. Castro approved the agreement in an effort
to earn some good will in the hope that the Administration would pursue the
route recommended by mid-level officials: increased openness toward Cuba.

On Friday, Mr. Tarnoff signaled that Cuban-American relations could indeed
follow a new path. He said, "If there are significant steps towards democracy,
free-market economy and human rights in Cuba, the United States will respond
with carefully calibrated measures of its own."


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "TALLY: Fleeing Cuba" tracks number of Cuban refugees picked up
by the Coast Guard, each day, since Aug. 5. Also shown are statistics related to
refugee placement. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service; United
States Coast Coast Guard)

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

From Cubans in the U.S., Pact Draws Both Praise and Scorn

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 10


In South Florida's Cuban neighborhoods, the United States' immigration accord
with Havana is being received as both political and personal news, garnering
praise and derision from different exile factions while drawing tears from
Cuban-Americans who learned that relatives detained at the Guantanamo Bay naval
base would not be admitted to the United States.

The politics, however, meant little to Blanca Maria Bacallao Barros, 22 years
old, who cried when she heard news of the accord on Spanish-language television.
Her husband, Jesus Perez Macon, is one of the roughly 25,000 Cubans held at
Guantanamo.

"I don't know what I'm going to do or where I'm going to go," she said at the
house in Hialeah, where she has been staying with relatives since arriving on a
boat this spring. Her husband, 27, a computer engineer, planned to follow on
another boat, but an immigration policy change landed him in detention.

In Miami's Little Havana neighborhood, there was more venom and fewer tears. "An
accord with Fidel is bad, because Fidel is a bad man," said Juan Gonzalez, 71,
who monitored the developments amid the chatter at the Versailles Restaurant's
coffee bar. "They should just kill him. He's an assassin and a drug trafficker."

A group of Castro supporters who held a small rally today in downtown Miami said
the accord was a sign that more talks with Havana should be encouraged. "Through
the process of negotiation, we can get results," said Andres Gomez, a member of
the Antonio Maceo Brigade, a group that advocates lifting the United States
embargo against Cuba.

The conservative Cuban American National Foundation also praised the talks, but
precisely because they did not address the embargo, while sticking to
immigration. The foundation encouraged further monitoring of human rights abuses
in Cuba and expressed hope that the Cubans held at Guantanamo would not be
returned against their will.

But some at the Little Havana coffee bar said Mr. Castro's opening of borders
should have been met with harsher measures than an immigration deal. "They
should have had a full naval blockade from the beginning, because this was an
act of war," said Carlos Rivera, 63, of West Palm Beach.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 12, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Immigration Labyrinth, Corruption Comes Easily

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 3050 words

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., Sept. 11


Up and down the East Coast, the word quickly spread through immigrant
communities. Come to the Northern Virginia offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Bring cash. Buy the right to live or work in the United
States.

Smooth-talking middlemen took care of the details, bribing immigration service
employees with gold jewelry, free vacations and cash-filled envelopes passed
hand to hand in the aisles of a nearby department store. Ghanaians, Lebanese and
Salvadorans, among others, flocked to what quickly became a multicultural
bazaar. Most came from the Washington area, but others drove hundreds of miles
and scribbled phony local addresses.

Immigration service clerks, some whose take-home pay was as low as $250 a week,
were eager to participate. "Money talks," one told a self-styled immigration
"broker" who had recruited hundreds of Salvadoran clients. Another employee said
she needed $50,000 to buy a house in Florida.

For two years, the bribery proliferated like a virus. "We let it happen," one
employee involved in the case said in a recent interview. "There was no
supervision to tighten down on us, and we let it go real wild."

Finally the Justice Department began an undercover investigation, and by the
time prosecutions were completed six months ago, eight employees of the
Washington district office stood convicted of accepting bribes. Altogether, the
I.N.S. said, they had fraudulently given more than 4,000 people permission to
work and sold legal residency to 1,000 more immigrants who did not qualify.

The scale of these abuses, documented in court records and described by some of
those involved, has never come to public attention before now. Even the agency's
senior managers were largely unaware of the case and its lessons. And the
immigration service has still done almost nothing to avert similar problems in
other offices.

The corruption in Arlington was not an isolated case. Every year dozens of
I.N.S. employees are arrested on similar charges. But an investigation of major
cases during the past decade by The New York Times has found that the agency has
repeatedly failed to shore up security weaknesses, even when corruption arrests
have exposed them over and over again.

The immigration service is an arm of the Justice Department, and it accounts for
21 percent of the department's staff. Yet Justice statistics show that 54
percent of the arrests within the department for corruption and job-related
misconduct during the last three years have been in the I.N.S. -- 76 of them
since 1992.

Immigration officials insist that only a tiny minority of the agency's 19,000
employees succumb to temptation. Still, present and former officials acknowledge
that the agency's lax supervision makes dishonesty far more tempting than it
should be. An employee weighing whether to take a bribe knows the "door is wide
open," said James Dorcy, senior investigator of corruption cases from 1980 to
1990.

The immigration service's senior managers are well aware that they have a
serious corruption problem. The Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization,
Doris M. Meissner, who took office 11 months ago, acknowledged in an interview
that the agency's low pay, antiquated computer systems and far-reaching power
over immigrants' lives can give a potentially dishonest employee both motive and
opportunity. There is, she said, "a climate for abuse that doesn't exist in
those other agencies."

Entry-level employees -- some earning barely more than the minimum wage -- grant
coveted benefits to immigrants willing to pay any price to stay in the United
States.  Ms. Meissner noted that a few keystrokes on a computer or some
misplaced files are all it takes to change a person's life forever.

The routine, unchecked flow of undocumented aliens across the borders makes it
even harder for the agency to stanch corruption within its ranks. "There is this
overwhelming attitude of: 'So many get through anyway, there's nothing to do
about it. So why shouldn't I get some money out of it?' " said Robert E. Crebbs,
a special agent in San Francisco.

Immigration service employees are constantly aware that no one is looking over
their shoulders as they make decisions. Richard J. Hankinson, the Justice
Department's Inspector General from 1990 until June, told Congress last year
that this lack of scrutiny "serves to eliminate one of the traditional
deterrents to crime: fear of getting caught."

Senior managers are hardly ever held accountable for corruption on their watch.
Indeed, the top officers in the Washington district got bonuses for their work
in 1993, the year several of the bribery arrests were made.

As Anthony D. Lazalde, a deportation officer in San Francisco, put it, "You can
commit bloody murder and get away with it."

The Promotion
Trusted Employee Already Tainted

Although it is not one of the nation's immigration hot spots, the district
office that serves the District of Columbia and Virginia is one of the nation's
busiest. And like his counterparts in the service's 32 other districts, William
J. Carroll, the director, continually pleads with headquarters for more people.

In 1990, Mr. Carroll put in another urgent request for help, on the eve of a
new, Congressionally created program that gave immigrants from El Salvador
temporary legal status. His staff, he warned, could not process the tens of
thousands of Salvadorans who would show up.

Headquarters thought he was exaggerating. Phyllis A. Howard, the assistant
district director for examinations in the Washington office, recalled being told
by senior officials, "Just get the job done."

On Jan. 1, 1991, the first of nearly 30,000 applicants began streaming to
temporary I.N.S. offices set up in church basements and community centers,
spending hours in line in the winter cold. And as the district's senior managers
struggled with the chaos, they all but forgot one of the district's sleepy
sub-offices, at 1521 Danville Street in Arlington, a few miles from the main
office.

Just as the Salvadoran program was beginning in January 1991, the Danville
Street office supervisor left, and the next most senior employee, Bertha Mae
Brown, was temporarily promoted to supervise the remaining two employees. Mrs.
Brown had worked for the agency for 24 years. She seemed a natural choice.

"I trusted her," Mrs. Howard said.

Jewelry, Perfume and Cash

But court papers show that even before the promotion a Ghanaian immigration
broker had enticed Mrs. Brown into corruption. He began by inviting her to
lunch. Soon, the records show, she was granting legal status to Ghanaians who
did not qualify.

Mrs. Brown's two subordinates, Carol Adams and Nazarea Holmes, struck their own
deals with brokers. On one occasion, Mrs. Brown told investigators, she passed a
cash-filled envelope from a broker to Ms. Holmes. About that time she was named
a Washington district "employee of the month."

The brokers showered gifts on the three women at Danville Street, including
sweaters, a video recorder, a leather coat and a television set delivered to the
office in a large paper bag. Mrs. Brown later admitted that she had received
gold jewelry, perfume, a trench coat, $6,500 in cash and two trips to Atlantic
City.

Mrs. Brown reported to Lynn Nelson-Paretta, the deputy district director. Ms.
Nelson-Paretta supervised the sub-office and seven other major programs in the
district and said she had visited Danville Street "maybe once a month." After a
few months, she shifted responsibility to Mrs. Howard, who also visited the
office no more than once a month.

"We didn't have time to think, 'How can we cross-check?' " Ms. Nelson-Paretta
recalled. "All energy was devoted to getting the job done, the people
processed."

The Bribes
A Contagious Temptation

As the bribes flowed at Danville Street, the brokers also began to corrupt the
district's main office. A broker who specialized in Latin American clients
testified that in November 1990 he had begun paying one clerk there, Saundra
Thomas, $100 for each work card she would slip him. To her, that was no small
sum. Mrs. Thomas's take-home pay barely topped $250 a week.

Work cards are prized by illegal aliens.  Employers generally accept them
without question, and they allow an alien to obtain a driver's license or Social
Security card. In Virginia, they can be used to buy guns. Mrs. Thomas was put to
work producing the cards, in Room 446 of the district's main office.

Although supervisors two floors below visited once or twice a day, Mrs. Thomas
and the other clerks were left alone in the small room for long hours,
surrounded by throngs of immigrants and brokers.

The cards were supposed to be given only to immigrants whose applications had
been approved by senior examiners. But the office had no system for making sure
that the cards clerks produced matched the applications.

"Everything was coming in fast, the controls weren't there, and there were
opportunities," said Mrs. Howard, the supervisor.

As the months passed, the bribery proved contagious. Brokers compromised
employees almost as soon as they were hired. One clerk began accepting $2,000
every week. Another took her first $100 bribe one month after starting work.

Everything began to unravel that May. An investigator in the Washington district
office got a tip that something was amiss at Danville Street. The Justice
Department's Inspector General was called in.

The case broadened in December when five aliens applied for Social Security at a
local office. They presented I.N.S. work cards that, improbably, were numbered
in sequence, arousing the suspicions of a Social Security worker.

The aliens were arrested, and soon afterward, Mrs. Howard said, she rushed to
the computer and started comparing the names of people who had received work
cards with the approved applications. Her heart sank. There were many more cards
than applications. "Then I really felt like a fool," she said.

The Justice Department's Inspector General sent an undercover agent to Danville
Street in the guise of a University of Maryland student intern. Within a few
weeks, a Justice Department official said, the agent was being solicited for
bribes as well.

One Justice Department official who saw the agent's daily reports said they made
sobering reading. "The middlemen were coming in and out of the office all the
time," he said, "bringing money, flowers, cards, booze, gifts and free lunch."

The arrests were made from July of 1992 to December of 1993. Five employees
pleaded guilty; three were tried and convicted. Sentences ranged from probation
to 21 months in prison. More than a half dozen brokers were also prosecuted for
paying the bribes.

The Accountability
Bonuses Paid Like Clockwork

When the inquiry was over, the prosecutor handling it praised Mr. Carroll, the
district director, for his role in bringing the corrupt employees to justice. To
Mr. Carroll, that cooperation is what he should be judged on.

In fact, at the Washington district office today, none of the senior managers
believe they should be held responsible for the behavior of their subordinates.
They see the bribery cases as random and unavoidable, and they heap the blame on
Mrs. Brown, the temporary supervisor at Danville Street, who served four months
in prison and was fined $2,000. In fact, however, only two of those arrested
worked under Mrs. Brown; five of the eight worked in the main office.

"It's like tuning up your car," Mr. Carroll said. "You do everything, but it
blows up. You've bought a lemon. Are you, the owner of the car, responsible?
Somebody's responsible, but not you."

The issue of accountability was joined in a round-table discussion with
reporters and 14 Washington district employees in mid-July. Toward the end of
the morning, Mrs. Howard and Ms. Nelson-Paretta were describing the difficulties
of managing so many programs at once. Across the table James Goldman, chief of
investigations, began to wince.

"If seven police officers in New York were arrested in one precinct, the captain
and the senior management would be out," Mr. Goldman declared to a suddenly
silent room. "Who is responsible for corruption in the workplace? The precinct
commanders."

As his colleagues looked back at him, Mr. Goldman went on, "Whenever people
start making excuses for corruption, I would be very wary and leery of it."

That debate has echoed since 1980, when the immigration service mounted its
first serious assault on corruption by hiring Walter Connery, a former New York
City police detective, as chief internal investigator. Since then, agency
officials said, hardly any senior managers have been denied bonuses, pay
increases or promotions as a result of corruption cases involving their staffs.

"If you take a whack out of their salary, they'd pay attention," Mr. Connery
said. John P. Chase, director of the agency's office of internal audit, agreed,
adding, "No one's ever held accountable."

None of the senior managers in Washington suffered salary cuts in the aftermath
of the case. To the contrary, in 1993, the year several of the employees were
arrested, Mrs. Howard, Mr. Carroll and Ms. Nelson-Paretta all received the $600
to $1,500 bonuses awarded to I.N.S. managers who are rated "outstanding" or who
have performed special tasks. All three hold the same jobs today.

On her own, Mrs. Howard changed procedures in her office to avert further
corruption. But when asked if anyone from headquarters had sought information
about those changes, so that other offices might benefit from what she had
learned, Mrs. Howard didn't hesitate to say, "No."

At I.N.S. headquarters, Mr. Chase said in a recent interview, "I did not know
that specific fixes had been made" at the Washington district office.

The Lessons
Simple Safeguards Have No Takers

Over the years, the immigration service has responded sluggishly, if at all,
when confronted with broad evidence of security weaknesses.

In one instance, Maria Bellardo Hughs, an I.N.S. employee in Miami, exploited a
flaw in the agency's procedures that allowed her to sell green cards for
permanent residence to Colombian drug dealers. She was indicted in 1986 and has
yet to be apprehended. A few years later, Christopher Matos, a New York
immigration official, exploited the same flaw and accepted $100,000 in bribes
from, among others, Colombian drug dealers.

That prompted the Justice Department's Inspector General in 1990 to warn the
agency explicitly about the loophole. The agency has still not taken remedial
action.

Mr. Chase was chagrined by this instance and others brought to his attention by
a reporter. His small office has only five investigators with many other
responsibilities. Nonetheless, he said, he would immediately begin a broad study
of previous corruption arrests to identify systemic weaknesses.

"These are things that I.N.S. managers should do without any prodding from a
journalist or anyone else," he said. "The vulnerabilities are still there, and
as a member of I.N.S. senior management, I don't feel very good about that."

There are more examples. In 1985, Tyson Jolliffe, head of computer security at
headquarters in Washington, was convicted of selling green cards. He had taken
advantage of a gaping security hole in the agency's primitive computer system:
any authorized user could alter files, and no record was left showing who had
done what.

The next year, Mr. Connery, who was chief of internal investigations from 1980
to 1986, publicly called on the agency to fix the problem. But an "audit trail"
system that tracks the work of each person using the computer was not installed
until after Patricia MacKey, a supervisor in the Miami office, was arrested in
1992. She was charged with changing the computer records of as many as 1,600
aliens who had bought fraudulent green cards from her.

Even now, no one is using the new audit trail system to look for corruption
because, the agency says, no staff members can be spared for that.

More than 10 years ago, Mr. Connery pressed the I.N.S. to stop relying on rubber
stamps to validate many vital document because they are so easily copied and
misused. The agency's examinations branch promised to do so, he said, but the
$250,000 set aside to buy mechanical stamping devices was lost in one of the
agency's perennial budget crises.

Today the agency continues to use rubber stamps, and when William Tait, a deputy
assistant director in the San Francisco office, was charged in June with selling
green cards, I.N.S. officials said he had used a duplicated rubber stamp in his
scheme.

Ms. Meissner, the Immigration Commissioner, said the repeated failure to learn
from the corruption cases was "absolutely unacceptable." She and her aides
attributed some of the failures to a reorganization mandated by Congress in
1989.

That year, the immigration service's internal affairs unit was disbanded and
replaced by an Office of Inspector General, which was charged with ferreting out
misconduct throughout the Justice Department. As the new Inspector General began
making corruption arrests, the agency's leaders had no one assigned to follow
up. Finally the agency set up its own office of internal audit in 1992.

"There was a gap," Mr. Chase said.

But Mr. Connery said the chronic indifference to security was deeply rooted in
the agency's culture, dating back decades.

"They need a program, a massive program, to stop this thing," said Mr. Connery,
who was head of investigations at the New York office until he retired in 1992.

John Britton, the Border Patrol agent who initiated the case against Ms. MacKey,
cited a lack of will. "There doesn't seem to be any motivation from the top to
counteract the problem," he said. "After an arrest, the attitude is: 'It's an
embarrassment. Let's ignore it.' Until it happens again."

Chaos at the Gates

TODAY The corruption virus: It spread through the Washington office.

YESTERDAY An agency is mismanaged; its ranks, demoralized.

TOMORROW The most wanted: A poor record of deporting criminal aliens.

WEDNESDAY A Border Patrol success story fell on deaf ears in Washington.

THURSDAY Cold, rude and insensitive: The agency ill serves its clients.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Chaos at the Gates: Second of five articles

GRAPHIC: Photo: Activities at the I.N.S. office at 1521 Danville Street in
Arlington, Va., led to a corruption investigation. The office is now closed.
(Karin Anderson for The New York Times)(pg. B10)

Graphs: "Price Tag: Coming to America" shows common street prices for the
illegal purchase of various immigration documents or benefits. (pg. B1,B10)

Chart: "Corruption in Justice Department Divisions" lists Justice Department
employees prosecuted for corruption or related on-the-job misconduct during
fiscal years 1992, 1993 and the first nine months of fiscal year 1994. (Source:
Department of Justice)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 13, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Rare Switch From Paperwork to Pursuit

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 9;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Anthony D. Lazalde awoke at 4 A.M. to study the eyes and ears of a Nicaraguan
immigrant in a dated photograph. He always does this before setting out to track
down a fugitive alien. Experience has taught him that the space between a
person's eyes and the contours of his ears never change.

In the first light of morning, Mr. Lazalde and Juan Bustos, his partner, donned
bulletproof vests and tucked revolvers into their waistbands. As they prepared
to go after the Nicaraguan, Elias Yankobich, they downed coffee, and the
caffeine mingled with a surge of adrenaline.

It was a big day, and an unusual one, for the two deportation officers, because
their supervisors rarely give them permission to leave their desks. They spend
most of their time keeping their 8,400 files in order.

"You wouldn't think it from our title, but deportation is the insignificant part
of our job," Mr. Bustos said. "What we do is follow paper. We pick up a case
when it comes into the system and track it until the end. And then the people
fail to surrender, and it's, 'O.K., let's go throw it in the drawer.' "

Hesitant to Pursue

The search for Mr. Yankobich, a 25-year-old truck driver whose criminal record
shows one felony conviction for possessing stolen property and one misdemeanor
conviction for drug possession, was set up for a reporter to witness. It is
possible Mr. Yankobich would not have been pursued otherwise, although as a
convicted criminal he is a priority candidate for deportation. His file had been
marked "for observation only."

"Nobody wants to do his case because he is believed to carry a weapon and be
dangerous," Mr. Lazalde said that morning in early August.

Mr. Lazalde, 36, and Mr. Bustos, 37, defy the stereotypical image of immigration
officers -- redneck bullies who have disdain for immigrants and refer to
Mexicans as "tonks" (for the noise a flashlight makes when it hits their heads).

Both grew up in the Mission District of San Francisco, a vibrant, crowded
neighborhood of Hispanic immigrants. Both are sons of Mexico-born laborers.

As a result, Mr. Lazalde and Mr. Bustos share an empathy for illegal aliens. Mr.
Lazalde, who is brown-skinned with a crescent mustache, has been stopped at the
border himself and searched by Border Patrol officers who were stunned to find
his badge. Mr. Bustos picked tomatoes as a child and said he understood "what
the campesinos feel like coming up here to do hard work nobody else wants to
do."

Other agents call Mr. Bustos "the social worker" because he strongly believes
that his sole mission should be to track down and deport criminal aliens, and
not hard-working illegal immigrants.

Curses, Tears, Curses

It proved relatively easy to find Mr. Yankobich. He had a trucker's license that
showed his employer as Double D Transportation. The dispatcher there offered to
turn Mr. Yankobich over to the officers provided he could first finish his
shift. At 3 P.M., Mr. Lazalde and Mr. Bustos waited in a back office at the
trucking company, drumming their fingers on stacked copies of California
Dumptruck News.

"It's like before a fight," Mr. Bustos said. "You got a little bit of
butterflies."

Mr. Yankobich was stunned when the two agents cornered him in a room. His body
coiled with tension, and he cursed them, wept and then cursed them again.

The agents allowed Mr. Yankobich to call his wife and lawyer, handcuffed him and
placed him in the back of the only car that the officers have at their disposal:
a 1986 Plymouth Reliant, which has no two-way radio and 125,000 miles on the
odometer. Later, when they found brass knuckles and a knife in his bag, they
nervously recalled that there had been no partition between the car's front and
back seats.

"He kept saying, 'How come me?' " Mr. Lazalde said. "We said, 'It's nothing
personal. We don't get paid by the deportation.' "

On the freeway, they told him he would likely be put on a plane to Nicaragua
that night -- as, in fact, he was, unaccompanied by any official. He told the
officers he would be back in no time.

If he "kept his nose clean," the officers replied, they would probably never
know.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In an operation in early August, Juan Bustos, left, and Anthony
D. Lazalde, right, who are deportation officers, escorted Elias Yankobich from
his workplace. Mr. Yankobich, a convicted criminal, was eligible for
deportation. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 13, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

WITH HIGH WINDS, CUBANS' EXODUS APPEARS TO END

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

DATELINE: COJIMAR, Cuba, Sept. 12


The six-week-old flood of refugees that left more than 30,000 Cubans in American
internment camps and an untold number dead at sea came to a virtual halt today.

Heavy winds across the northern coast conspired with the Cuban Coast Guard and
the police to hurry the last dozens of people leaving in makeshift rafts and to
dissuade others who had been preparing to go.

Following an agreement between the United States and Cuba on Friday to try to
halt the exodus, the Cuban authorities had given people who had already brought
rafts or materials to the beaches until noon on Tuesday to depart. Today,
security officers in several areas said they had received new orders to move up
the deadline by a day, though there was no official announcement.

"That's all of it," said Pedro Perez Quintero, 39, looking out on the dirty but
finally empty shore in front of his home in this town just outside Havana, which
has had been a main point of departure. "Everyone who was left out there took
off this morning."

Three days after the agreement was announced in New York, the circus atmosphere
of the beaches moved to the streets around the United States mission in Havana,
where hundreds of Cubans came seeking one of the 20,000 or more immigrant visas
that Washington has agreed to issue each year.

Early this morning, a long line formed a few blocks from the mission after
would-be emigrants began compiling their own list of those wanting visas. Later,
Cuban police officials were nearly swallowed in pushing and shoving that broke
out when they tried to pass out fliers from the United States Information
Service about the new accord.

"Please do not contact the Department of State, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service or the United States Interests Section in Havana about
migrating under this agreement," the one-page sheets said. "An announcement on
how to apply will be made as soon as possible."

Inside the Interests Section, which substitutes for an embassy because of the
lack of diplomatic relations, American officials scrambled to figure out just
how the New York accord would be put into effect.

The consular section, staffed until now by only seven officials, has already
been overwhelmed with the regular flow of Cubans asking to visit or join
relatives in the United States. The agreement allows the mission to bring in as
many new consular officers as are needed to process visas, but they can do
nothing until Immigration and Naturalization Service officials in Washington set
criteria for choosing those Cubans who will be allowed to enter the United
States.

According to United States officials, the number is expected to include perhaps
5,000 political refugees, who will be admitted if they can show that they have
reason to fear persecution in Cuba. The remainder is expected to be made up of
relatives of Cuban-Americans living in the United States and people with other
reasons for wanting to emigrate.

The United States has also pledged to clear up a backlog of more than 19,000
Cubans who have already qualified to immigrate but who are grouped on long
waiting lists for visas with citizens of other countries. Between 4,000 and
6,000 people on that list still hope to leave, diplomats here say.

Both the Cubans taken from the waiting lists and others who enter as immediate
relatives of American citizens -- about 500 did so last year -- will be in
addition to the promised 20,000.

"This is the only hope we have now," a 30-year-old factory worker, Caridad
Fortun said as she milled around near the Interests Section with her sister,
Aisa, a 36-year-old housewife. They hoped to join a brother who has lived in
Miami since the last big exodus of Cubans to the United States, the 1980
boatlift that took more than 125,000 people from the port of Mariel.

Caridad Fortun began trying to tell her story to a reporter, but she seemed to
be struggling to speak and after a moment she fell silent and looked away. Her
sister said Caridad had tried to leave the country on Aug. 19, on a raft with
her husband, her 11-year-old daughter, three nephews and two other friends.

Raft Kept Tipping Over

In three days at sea, the raft tipped over five times. At one point, a bag of
family possessions went overboard and Caridad's husband dove after it, Aisa
said. Like many of the more than 30,000 Cubans who fled on rickety vessels made
of old inner tubes, plastic foam and oil drums, he did not know how to swim. One
of the nephews did, she said, but he was not strong enough to save the larger
man.

"She is hoarse because she dreams about it every night," Aisa Fortun said. "She
yells in her sleep."

Reflecting the hundreds of people who rushed to embark immediately after the
accord was announced, the United States Coast Guard reported that its ships
patrolling off the Cuban coast picked up 1,004 Cubans from rafts on Sunday, an
increase from 551 on Saturday and 177 on Friday. Today, however, the number fell
sharply again, with 392 people rescued by 10 P.M.

Along the coast east and west of Havana, an area that had been cluttered with
homemade boats and rafts since the Government began allowing them to leave
freely last month, only a handful of such craft were still visible offshore this
afternoon, and most appeared to be heading out to sea or limping back.

Dejected Group on Beach

Rincon de Guanabo, a beach about 25 miles east of Havana, was strewn with the
wrecks of several vessels that had not been able to overcome the strong currents
leading into the Florida Straits.

There, Marta Santos, 44, sat on the rocks with a group of dejected friends after
the small motor on their raft had failed and they had been pushed back to shore.
Mrs. Santos said she had been a housewife, but could not call herself that
anymore because she had sold her small house to buy materials for the raft. It
had been christened "Noah's Ark."

"People are going to keep going out there," she said. "We saw a shark. There was
a dead man floating around out there, but people will do whatever they have to
do to get out of here. That is my situation. I will go again, even if I have to
go to Haiti."

Shortly after noon, an Interior Ministry officer on the beach told members of
the group that they would not be allowed another try.

"There is bad weather coming in, and we cannot allow anyone else to go out," the
officer, who would not give his name, told a reporter. "That treaty with the
United States is very serious, and it must be observed."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cubans who gathered near the United States Interest Section in
Havana yesterday struggled to obtain a flier giving details of the accord with
Cuba. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

Graphs: "TALLY: Fleeing Cuba" shows the number of Cuban refugees picked up by
the Coast Guard each day from Aug. 5-Sept. 12, and the number of all Cuban
refugees at Guantanamo Bay and ones picked up since Aug. 5. (Sources:
Immigration and Nautralization Service; United States Coast Guard) (pg. A12)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 15, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Insider's View of the I.N.S.: 'Cold, Rude and Insensitive'

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG with STEPHEN ENGELBERG,   Special to The New York
Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 2720 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14


Jamie Gorelick's baby sitter, a Colombian immigrant, could barely wait until the
day she would be sworn in as a United States citizen. But when the notice of her
swearing-in ceremony arrived, her heart sank. The ceremony had already taken
place.

The baby sitter missed a second and then a third swearing-in because subsequent
notices from the Immigration and Naturalization Service also arrived too late.
So, anxious and confused, she turned last spring for help to her boss, who
happened to be the Deputy Attorney General.

Ms. Gorelick oversees the immigration agency, but she said she had called the
I.N.S. "just as myself." Transferred from number to number, she lingered on hold
"for what seemed like forever," she said, until she was finally disconnected.
She tried again and reached an answering machine. She left her name, home phone
number and a request for assistance.

But the immigration service never returned the Deputy Attorney General's call.

With that brief encounter, Ms. Gorelick got a taste of how the I.N.S. often
treats its principal clients, for illegal immigrants, criminal aliens and
corrupt brokers do not consume the bulk of its time. Rather, the agency expends
most of its effort serving more than four million people from around the world
who each year make simple and perfectly legal requests for benefits, from
working papers to citizenship.

Every one of these clients pays a fee, generating $576 million this year, or a
third of the agency's budget. Yet immigration officials acknowledge that the
agency often fails to provide them with humane, efficient service, leaving
people like Ms. Gorelick's baby sitter (who eventually was sworn in)
unnecessarily anguished.

"We're a monopoly, yet we make people suffer," said Phil Waters, the acting
director of the agency's San Francisco office. "It's crazy. People are paying
good money to get service from the Government, and we're not giving it."

Every day, across the country, immigrants' phone calls go unanswered and their
letters sit unopened. Their files get lost, and their cases get improperly
entered in antiquated databases. And often, because they get only a busy signal
or a recording by phone, immigrants stand for hours, sometimes even overnight,
in lines that snake through office buildings and parking lots.

In an interview, Attorney General Janet Reno said she had not quite believed a
friend in Miami who told her that it was impossible to reach the agency by
phone. So she tried calling the Miami number herself -- and could not get
through.

With 19,000 employees and 65 nearly autonomous offices around the world, the
immigration service is not a monolith. Every day, some immigration officers rise
above their daily tribulations and hobbling constraints to offer compassionate,
intelligent service. And any agency that serves almost five million clients a
year is going to offend some of them and make mistakes with others.

But the I.N.S. mishandles far more cases than its share because the agency is
organized in a way that allows some barely trained employees to bark at the
clients, turn a deaf ear to their complaints or mishandle their requests.

"A lot of people have gone out of their way to make this a cold, rude,
insensitive and inefficient agency," said A. D. Moyer, director of the
immigration district in Chicago.

The I.N.S. is charged with two missions that many people inside and outside the
agency find to be in conflict. On the one hand, the agency polices the borders
and airports, arrests criminals and expels illegal immigrants. On the other, it
provides services to an overwhelming majority who travel or already live here
legally.

Of these two sides of the agency's personality, law enforcement has always
dominated. In fact, making arrests at the border has always been the road to
advancement. As a result, many legal aliens have long complained that some
immigration agents treat them like criminal suspects. This attitude, coupled
with the inefficiency that riddles the agency, often causes headaches and worse.

"The I.N.S. is completely like a Soviet bureaucracy," said Leonid Zagalsky, 39,
a Russian immigrant in New York. "Every sign starts with the word 'no': No
smoking. No standing. No sitting. No asking questions. You cannot reach a human
being by phone. And when you go, you stand for many humiliating hours in line
only to reach a semi-human who answers your measly question by talking in a
cabalistic language: 'I-95, dash, point 6, dash, B-52.' " (Mr. Zagalsky was
referring to the agency's complex numbered forms.)

Many of the agency's own employees, interviewed in roundtable discussions at
district offices across the country, openly ridiculed some of the agency's
efforts to serve its clients. And almost without exception, the employees said
nothing had improved for them since Bill Clinton took office -- in client
service or any of the agency's other fields of responsibility.

"There've been changes, but it's not really better," Mr. Waters said. "We're
falling even farther behind."

But the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, Doris M. Meissner, said
that she and others were struggling to improve. They are trying, for example, to
promote the idea that immigrants should be treated with "humanity and respect,"
as Ms. Gorelick said. Ms. Meissner has directed officials to stop calling
immigrants "aliens" and to practice "enforcement with a heart."

T. Alexander Aleinikoff, who became the agency's general counsel in March, said,
"I go around telling people: 'This is not the Deportation and Detention Service.
This is the Immigration and Naturalization Service.' "

But as with all the agency's problems, the leaders are dealing with an internal
culture that may be difficult to change.

One senior official at headquarters, for instance, rolled his eyes at the idea
that "illegal alien" was no longer an acceptable term. He asked, "What are we
supposed to call them, 'out-of-status visitors' ?"

The System
10 Years In the Wrong Line

On their first days on the job, immigration employees learn that efficiency is
usually the goal, not the reality. They confront mountains of paper files, and
they inherit backlog upon backlog. In the meager training courses that only some
of them attend, many only skim the surface of the very complicated laws they
will administer. And they are taught to be vigilant about the deceitful
practices of immigrants.

Overworked and guarded, they can make mistakes. And when they do, it can take
months to correct them, if not years. Michael and Corazon Graves of Newark,
Calif., believe they are paying a high price for what they see as the agency's
willful refusal to correct its own error. In essence, an immigration official
mistakenly told them to wait in the wrong line, and that line was 10 years long.

On May 13, 1982, an immigration examiner in San Francisco approved Mr. Graves's
petition to sponsor his stepdaughter, a Filipino, for an immigrant visa. With
that, he placed the stepdaughter, Maria Isabel Cruz, at the end of a long
waiting list for prospective Filipino immigrants.

In 1992, the year Ms. Cruz and her three sons were finally due to arrive, Mr.
and Mrs. Graves completed an addition to their home for them. Half a world away,
Ms. Cruz thought her final interview, with United States consular officials in
Manila, would be little more than a formality.

She was wrong. She emerged from the interview in tears, her mother said. The
consular officials denied her a visa because the I.N.S. had made a mistake in
approving the original petition. A stepfather, it turned out, cannot sponsor a
stepchild who was married before the age of 18, as Ms. Cruz was. The Graves were
unaware of this fine point of immigration law, and the examiner who approved
their petition had either failed to read it thoroughly or had not known this
herself.

The Graves should have been advised in 1982 that only Mrs. Graves, who is 50,
had the right to sponsor her child. But they were not, and so they were told 10
years later to start from the beginning, returning to the bottom of another
decadelong waiting list.

"We were in a state of shock," said Mr. Graves, a carpenter.

He hired a lawyer, who requested humanitarian parole for Ms. Cruz. That would
have allowed her to enter the country and wait here for her visa. The parole was
denied, in a letter from the district director in Thailand, who acknowledged
that "the facts presented are certainly unfortunate."

Crying, Mrs. Graves said, "Sometimes I wonder, 'Will I still be alive by the
time my daughter gets her papers?' "

Record Keeping
Filed Away In a Hodgepodge

The I.N.S. lost Jusuf Becovic's file in 1992 but refused to acknowledge it for
almost two years. Every few weeks, Mr. Becovic's lawyer, Diane George, would
call about the file, and an agency employee would say they were still searching
for it. Finally, Mr. Becovic, a building superintendent in Manhattan, sued the
agency.

After 10 months of litigation in Federal court and the intercession of two
Congressional offices, the agency created a new file for Mr. Becovic, a
Montenegro-born immigrant, and his wife, Hatidza. With that, he and his wife
were finally able to renew their work authorization.

"For two years, I had to keep it secret from my company" that his work card had
expired, Mr. Becovic said. "I would be fired."

Problems like this have their roots in a record-keeping system that combines 44
million paper files with a hodgepodge of more than a half-dozen outdated
computer systems that cannot talk to each other.

Despite almost 20 years of consultants' studies, promises and plans, the I.N.S.
still does not have a unified computer record-keeping system. It maintains only
one very basic central index system, and even that is incomplete.

Over the last two decades, different branches of the agency have cobbled
together their own computer networks, as have a few of the 33 district offices.
But none of these networks can communicate with the others. So an agency worker
checking an immigrant's record in one system has no way to know whether there
are other records in another system -- showing, for instance, that an applicant
for residency has a criminal history.

"If we had automation, we would double or triple our work," said Robert Reed, a
supervisory special agent in Los Angeles. In his office, agents still use manual
typewriters and carbon paper.

The automation problem slows nearly every service the agency tries to offer.
Officials across the country say they waste hours hunting through paper files
and the various computer systems to settle immigrants' cases. That in turn
lengthens the endemic backlogs -- like the 480 days it takes to become a citizen
in San Francisco, according to the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
Ordinarily, it should not take more than a few months.

The agency's central index system in particular contains much information that
is incorrect or incomplete.

Last year, California and several other states asked the I.N.S. to review the
files of 3.6 million immigrants applying for welfare and other benefits. It
turned out that about 18 percent of these people, or 650,000, were not even
listed in the central index, an omission that should have meant that they were
in this country illegally. Before denying them benefits, however, the states
pushed for more information, and found out that nearly all were here legally.

Ms. Meissner acknowledges the computer problem and says she has persuaded the
Clinton Administration to remedy it. On Aug. 30, the agency signed a $300
million contract for new computer equipment, the largest such contract in the
agency's history. By 1996, the immigration service hopes to merge all its data
into three integrated computer systems.

But this is not the first time the agency has tried to solve the problem, nor
the first contract it has signed for new computer equipment. Longtime I.N.S.
employees wonder whether these plans will turn out any better than the agency's
many failed efforts of the past.


Attitudes
Unpleasantness As the Norm

Immigration officers learn to be hard-nosed in their first days at the agency's
academy in Glynco, Ga.

During basic training, "we historically have told our employees that it's our
job to keep them out and our job to keep them from getting benefits," said Tom
Farris, an assistant district director in Chicago.

The training inculcates an intrinsic suspicion of immigrants, some I.N.S.
officers say. This often translates into rudeness and even vindictiveness, Mr.
Farris acknowledged. It can create an atmosphere in some immigration offices
that Maria Valencia, a Filipino immigrant in Virginia, described as a "sea of
unpleasantness."

While not totally out of place for law-enforcement officers on the border, this
attitude creates problems when displayed by examiners reviewing routine
applications. It has prompted many critics of the agency and even friends of it
to suggest that it should be split in two -- a service side and a
law-enforcement division. But Ms. Meissner says she believes that the agency's
"cultural cleavage" can be bridged.

Some local offices are already trying to do that. The agency's 33 district
directors run fiefs. They make their own rules, often quite different from one
place to the next, and set the tone. In Chicago, Mr. Moyer is the host of a
weekly television show in Spanish about immigrants' rights. He says he has found
it trying, but possible, to buck the entrenched mentality.

"When I first got here to Chicago, we had agents who would brag about their
weekend raids on Spanish-language movie theaters, and how all the Mexicans would
be jumping out of the balconies," Mr. Moyer said. "I have worked hard to try to
correct that. We do no more neighborhood raids. Our enforcement is as strong as
exists, but we go about it differently."

In Baltimore, the district managers say they demand that immigrants be treated
with respect. So it was no coincidence that Wiltrude Rasmussen, a Baltimore
deportation officer, took a closer look at the seemingly straightforward
deportation case of Adilio Diaz.

A 25-year-old Salvadoran, Mr. Diaz applied for political asylum in 1987. He
settled in Maryland and hired a lawyer, Guillermo Diaz-Fontana, who kept
assuring him that his case was going well.

Nothing could have been further from the truth. His lawyer, who later pleaded
guilty to Federal fraud charges, had already lost the asylum case, and Mr. Diaz
had already been ordered deported. He just didn't know it. So one day in
December 1990, Mr. Diaz, who said he had paid his lawyer about $1,250, arrived
at the Baltimore I.N.S. office, hoping to be told he could have a green card. He
left in handcuffs.

When Mr. Diaz's new lawyer, Alison Brown, of the Washington firm of Maggio &
Kattar, filed a motion to reopen the case, the I.N.S. did not oppose it; the
deportation officer, Mrs. Rasmussen, said she was already suspicious of the
first lawyer. The judge reopened Mr. Diaz's case, and, at 6 P.M. on Dec. 22, Mr.
Diaz was released from a prison in rural Maryland, 120 miles from his home. He
had no money because the Government had issued him a check for his cash -- only
about $6, in any case -- and the banks were closed.

Officially, the agency had no further responsibility for Mr. Diaz. But David
Talley, supervisor of the detention unit, said: "I couldn't put him out on the
street that way. It just seemed cruel."

So Mr. Talley drove Mr. Diaz home, a five-hour round trip, just in time for
Christmas with his family.

Mr. Diaz still lives in suburban Washington and works at a skilled job as a rug
repairman. His lawyer, Ms. Brown, said the case offered an important lesson.

"It goes to show," she said, "that you can be a human being, that you can handle
enforcement of the immigration laws without an attitude that every alien must be
thrown out."


Chaos at the Gates

SUNDAY: Immigration agency is mismanaged; its ranks, demoralized.

MONDAY: Corruption virus: It spread through the Washington office.

TUESDAY: Themost wanted: A poor record of deporting criminal aliens.

YESTRERDAY: A Border Patrol success story fell on deaf ears in Washington.

TODAY: Cold, rude and insensitive: The agency ill serves its clients.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Chaos at the Gates: Last of five articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Graves and Corazon Graves waited 10 years for Mrs.
Graves's daughter to be allowed to live in their home in Newark, Calif., but a
mistake by an Immigration and Naturalization Service worker prevented her entry
into the United States in 1992. The daughter and her three sons are still in the
Philippines. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times); The Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization, Doris M. Meissner, said she was struggling to
improve her agency's treatment of immigrants. (Vincent Ricardel for The New York
Times) (pg. A18)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 16, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

15 Immigrants Held In Illegal Gambling

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words


Fifteen Russian immigrants have been arrested in the Brighton Beach section of
Brooklyn for operating illegal gambling machines, the police said yesterday.
Seven of the suspects were also charged with gambling.

The immigrants had been operating illegal electronic slot machines at nine
Brighton Beach businesses, including a video rental store, laundry stores,
grocery stores and a car service, the police said.

The undercover investigation began in April after Edward Guglivov, 43, was
arrested for operating an electronic slot machine in the back room of his video
rental store on Brighton Beach Avenue, Lieut. Raymond Ferrari, a police
spokesman, said.

While in custody, the police said, Mr. Guglivov offered to pay the arresting
officer, Detective Luis Mendez, $200 a week to ignore his gambling business.
Detective Mendez agreed, as part of an undercover investigation.

On Wednesday, Mr. Guglivov was arrested along with the 14 other suspects, and
the illegal gambling machines were confiscated.

The police said Mr. Guglivov, who has been in the United States for 14 years,
was a liaison with the other slot machine operators.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 18, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Trashes Free Speech

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 16;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 274 words


To the Editor:

A counterpoint to "Porous Deportation System Gives Criminals Little to Fear
(front page, Sept. 13):


While the Immigration and Naturalization Service complains that it lacks the
resources to apprehend and deport convicted criminals sitting in prisons, it has
devoted seven and a half years and hundreds of thousands of dollars to deporting
eight aliens in Los Angeles who have committed no crimes.

William Webster, then director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said
shortly after these eight aliens were arrested that they had engaged in no
criminal activity and that, if they were United States citizens, there would be
no basis whatever for their arrest.

Yet the immigration service arrested all eight, accused them of supporting the
lawful activities of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a
constituent group of the Palestine Liberation Organization, and continues with
its deportation efforts to this day.

The case has likely cost the immigration service more money than any other
deportation case it has ever pursued. But its costs are far more than financial.

To justify its efforts, the agency has argued that immigrants in the United
States can be deported for political speech and associations that would be
protected by the First Amendment if engaged in by its citizens, and that it
should be able to use secret evidence and newspaper articles quoting anonymous
sources to support its charges. The agency has sought to deny immigrants the
very political freedoms that drew so many to our shores.
DAVID COLE
Prof., Georgetown U. Law Center
Washington, Sept. 14, 1994

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 18, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Sept. 11-17: Cuba's Boat People;
Castro, As Promised, Turns Off the Spigot

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 4;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 271 words


After a month in which Cuba threw open its coasts to people desperate enough to
flee the island on such vessels as they could make themselves, the shoreline
took on an almost ghostly emptiness last week. The United States Coast Guard,
which picked up more than 3,200 Cubans from rafts in the Florida Straits one day
in August, was finding only handfuls by Wednesday.

The point, Cuban officials argued, was that Americans could trust them to keep
their word.


In an agreement on Sept. 9, Cuba had promised to try to stop the exodus, relying
mainly on persuasion. Five days later, the Communist Party newspaper Granma
reported the Government's progress this way: "The objective has been reached
without a single incident, without a single death or injury, without a single
drop of blood spilled."

Cuba's Government was happy to see the tumult shift from the beaches to the
American diplomatic mission in Havana, where people came in hopes of obtaining
one of the 20,000 or more immigrant visas that the United States is now to give
Cubans each year.

The pledge confirmed President Clinton's break from a 35-year policy of granting
admission to the United States to any Cuban who arrived -- even those who
hijacked their rides.

What President Fidel Castro hopes the deal will bring in the coming months is
more talk: about Mr. Clinton's new restrictions on American travel and family
aid to Cuba; on the anti-Castro radio programs beamed to the island from
Florida, and maybe, eventually, about the 32-year economic embargo that the
Cuban Government blames for much of its economic distress.   TIM GOLDEN

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 21, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Chaos Keeps U.S. in Cheap Labor;
Foreign Adoption Mess

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 167 words


To the Editor:

Thank you for your series "Chaos at the Gates" (front page, Sept. 11-15), on the
extraordinarily mismanaged immigration service of the mighty United States. I'm
reading it as I sit at the airport, waiting to leave for Russia to bring home
our fifth internationally adopted child.

We have had consistently horrible service from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Omaha over the 12 years we have had to deal with it.
The agency has lost our documents, fabricated stories about our file and delayed
processing for months on end. It is impossible to communicate with it by phone,
and letters go unanswered.

In the past we have had to resort to calling our senator, and miraculously the
documents have then been issued. But this time even that didn't work, so I
called the Federal Bureau of Investigation (desperately), and it was able to
help. I hope your series leads to improvement in this bureaucracy.

REBECCA BRANDT
Mount Vernon, Iowa, Sept. 16, 1994

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 21, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Chaos Keeps U.S. in Cheap Labor;
Lost, Huddled, Insulted

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 351 words


To the Editor:

Your series on the Immigration and Naturalization Service (front page, Sept.
11-15) reads like my own diary: a tragicomic experience of trying to do the
decent thing with an arrogant, incompetent organization.

After the joy of marriage, getting approval to live in the United States was a
disaster. My wife, a United States citizen, and I, a British subject, followed
all the written rules. When I got approval to enter the United States, I moved
to stay with my wife's family in New Jersey. When we could, we moved to our
first home in New York City.

The immigration office in Newark said we must deal with the immigration office
in New York. New York said Newark. New York said it would handle this, but,
"Where is your file?" Newark could or would not find it. Writing letter after
letter failed. Forget the phone service. It is a cruel, 30-minute joke.

I.N.S. New York said I should not have moved. Didn't I know "the Government
doesn't like people moving"? Kafka or Orwell?

When I asked how I should proceed, the clerk repeated her view: "You should not
have moved." I politely asked how I could proceed and was shouted at: "Do you
understand English!" Being English, cold from yet another three hours of wintry
standing in line and having just been insulted, I did what all lost, huddled,
insulted but qualified immigrants should do. I wrote to my senator, Daniel
Patrick Moynihan.

Within two weeks, the Immigration and Naturalization Service found my file and
set an appointment for my review. I got prompt responses to each of my letters,
and the officer at my interview was extremely polite. I was astonished that he
worked for the agency! There are two I.N.S.'s -- one public and one for people
who write to senators.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is a disgrace to the United States of
America. It humiliates decent, legitimate immigrants who try to follow all the
rules and then mishandles illegal immigrants, letting them free to flout the
system. Use your senator if you want to get through sane.

BEN FARRINGTON
New York, Sept. 15, 1994

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 22, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Official Criticizes Lag By the U.S. in Issuing Visas

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Sept. 21


A senior Cuban official pressed the United States today to begin granting visas
to thousands of Cubans who want to emigrate, saying a new American policy must
show results quickly if it is to deter the flight of refugees.

The official, Ricardo Alarcon, a former Foreign Minister who was Cuba's chief
negotiator in immigration talks with the United States this month, cautioned
that he did not feel that Washington was deliberately delaying enforcement of an
agreement reached Sept. 9 in New York.

But he said that while Cuba had upheld its part of the deal by taking measures
to end the exodus of people from the island on makeshift rafts and boats, the
pressure could not be contained indefinitely if Cubans wishing to leave were not
offered a legal way to do so.

"This is dangerous, not because of how the Cuban authorities perceive it, but
because of how the people are perceiving it," Mr. Alarcon, the president of the
National Assembly, said in an interview. "The thing that is going to discourage
people from leaving illegally is to give them a real chance to emigrate legally.
And until now, I have not heard of one single visa that has been granted."

Under the terms of the accord, the United States is to issue at least 20,000
immigrant visas a year, in addition to those granted to Cubans who apply to join
relatives who are American citizens. This year, the Administration is also to
admit Cubans from a waiting list of more than 19,000 qualified applicants.

American officials have said they cannot begin to process the visas until the
Immigration and Naturalization Service sets the criteria and more consular
officers are sent to Havana.

In a telephone interview from Washington, a Justice Department official said
today that the development of entrance criteria was "in the final stages" and
that an announcement would be made soon.

Mr. Alarcon, however, said it was unacceptable that at least some visas had not
been issued. "They have thousands of people who are ready to travel now," he
said, referring to those on the waiting list. "All they need is a stamp on their
passports."

Cuban officials hope to extend their talks with Washington to include issues
like the 32-year economic embargo.

The two sides are to meet again by Oct. 24 to review the immigration issue. Some
Cuban officials have indicated that they are likely then to formally challenge
new sanctions imposed by President Clinton on Aug. 20 that restrict travel and
the sending of money to Cuba.

Weekly flights from Miami to Havana have already dropped to two from about a
dozen, and remittances estimated at more than $200 million each year have been
cut back.

Cuban and American officials are also expected to begin grappling with the
problem of what to do with thousands of refugees interned at American military
bases in Panama and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 29, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Planning to Hold a Lottery To Pick Some Cuban Immigrants

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28


Having promised President Fidel Castro that it would grant entry rights to at
least 20,000 Cubans a year, the Clinton Administration has decided to select
about one-quarter of that total by a lottery of Cuban applicants.

Administration officials who are putting the finishing touches on the
immigration plan said this lottery is intended to create opportunities for
Cubans who have no hope of being admitted under American immigration law because
they neither have close relatives in the United States nor qualify for refugee
status. The other 15,000 would be accepted largely by broadening the definition
of refugees and close relatives.

One official said that so many Cubans -- perhaps more than 100,000 -- might
apply for entry through the lottery that it could become an embarrassment for
Mr. Castro and increase pressures on him to liberalize his economy.

"One advantage of the lottery over accepting people on a first-come-
first-served basis is you won't have people standing in long lines outside the
American Interest Section in Havana," said an Administration official.

Another advantage of the lottery, Administration officials say, is that it might
encourage some of the 30,000 Cuban refugees being held at Guantanamo Bay Naval
Station to return voluntarily to Cuba -- something the Administration wants them
to do -- to try their luck in the lottery. If Cubans were granted entry on a
first-come-first-served basis, the Guantanamo refugees would have little chance
to qualify and thus little incentive to go back to Cuba.

State Department officials repeated this week that the refugees at Guantanamo
Bay have no chance to go directly to the United States. They noted, however,
that Venezuela, Mexico and other Latin American countries have agreed to
resettle several hundred of the Cubans.

The Administration agreed on Sept. 9 to admit more than 20,000 Cubans a year as
part of a deal in which it won Mr. Castro's promise to stop the exodus.

Last week, Ricardo Alarcon, Cuba's chief negotiator in the immigration talks
with Washington, complained that the Administration was dragging its feet in
announcing exactly how it would grant entry to the 20,000 Cubans a year. At a
news conference on Sept. 9, Attorney General Janet Reno indicated that the
details would be released late the following week.

In explaining the delay, one Justice Department official said, "It's more
important to do it right than to do it fast."

State Department officials said they were pleased by two steps the Castro
Government took this month: it met in Madrid with three prominent exiled
dissidents and it permitted farmers to sell their produce.

But Administration officials said these steps did not go far enough to warrant
the "carefully calibrated" response that the United States promised if Havana
took major steps toward democracy.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 2, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Isolated Immigrants Aim of D.W.I. Drive

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

SECTION: Section 13LI;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1400 words


FOR some in Long Island's growing Hispanic population, living isolated in a
culture very different from their own can make alcohol seem an escape. And the
authorities say that has shown up on the road, with accidents and arrests for
drunken driving.

Although there are many programs intended to stop drunken driving, such programs
often miss those who speak Spanish and have come from a different culture,
leaving a growing need for special programs to help Hispanic residents deal with
alcohol abuse.

To increase awareness about alcohol abuse and driving , a bilingual program, Si
Toma, No Maneje, or If You Drink, Don't Drive, began last month on the Island.
It is run by Project Long Island, part of the Century Council, a group trying to
fight drunken driving and under-age drinking.

The program, which is in Spanish, developed by the California Office of Traffic
Safety in 1989 has been expanded throughout California by the Century Council,
of Los Angeles, in collaboration with state agencies and the Roman Catholic
Church. About 800 companies in the alcoholic-beverage industry support the
council.

A member of the Si Toma, No Maneje Advisory Council in Los Angeles, Estella
Romero, said that in California, high numbers of arrests among Hispanic
residents for driving under the influence of alcohol had "raised the red flag to
the need for such a program."

Ms. Romero, who is with the advisory council in Los Angeles, said, "Where you
have large concentrations of Hispanics, the percentages may vary slightly but
the issue is there. There are language and cultural barriers that contribute to
a serious problem. The vast majority of Spanish-speaking immigrants are here
from countries where strict laws for driving under the influence don't exist.

"They simply don't know that they can lose their license, or will have to pay a
fine or serve jail time. The only way to curb this problem is by raising their
level of awareness."

She added that since the Si Toma, No Maneje program started in California five
years ago, arrests among Hispanic people for driving under the influence of
alcohol had dropped by 8 percent. "This didn't happen by accident," Ms. Romero
said. "In other states, Hispanic leaders have seen that it works and they've
contacted the Century Council to set up programs in their local areas."

In California, statistics for drunken driving arrests are kept by ethnicity, she
said, unlike New York, where statistics are broken down by sex but not by ethnic
backgrounds, and estimates can be made only by looking at the surnames of those
arrested.

Arrests for driving while intoxicated, or D.W.I., are rising steadily on Long
Island. Last year Nassau led the state with 5,657; through the end of August
1994, the pace is 7 percent ahead of last year, according to Roger Bogsted, the
Nassau County Stop D.W.I. coordinator, who work in the County Executive's
office.

The Suffolk Police District, covering the five western towns, had 3,971 arrests
last year and 2,532 this year, to July 31. Officials are projecting 4,300 by the
end of the year.

The eastern towns in Suffolk have separate police districts, each of which keeps
its own records for D.W.I. arrests.

The State Department of Motor Vehicles records countywide statistics for
convictions of driving while intoxicated (a blood alcohol level of 0.10 or more)
and driving while ability impaired (a blood alcohol level of 0.05 to 0.10). In
1992, the most recent year for which statistics have been compiled, Nassau had
4,684 convictions and Suffolk, including all towns, had 5,493.

The statistics are not broken down by ethnic backgrounds, but in response to a
reporter's request the coordinator's office issued an estimate by looking at the
surnames of those arrested. Mr. Bogsted, estimated that Hispanic people account
for 10 percent of drunken-driving arrests in Nassau. They making up 6 percent of
the county's population, or 75,000, according to the census though some people
say the number is far higher, totaling 250,000 in both counties.

In Suffolk, the Census said Hispanic people were 6.6 percent of the population,
or 90,000. Project Long Island estimated that Hispanic people account for at
least 13 percent of the drunken-driving arrests. But Sgt. Robert Reecks, the
central D.W.I. processing supervisor for the five western towns in Suffolk
County, estimated that Hispanic drivers account for 25 percent of D.W.I.
arrests.

Project Long Island, which started in December, has sponsored programs on
alcohol abuse, including Key to Life. In that effort 600 taverns and restaurants
have volunteered to provide free nonalcoholic beverages to designated drivers.

Another program, Home Free, worked with 19 taxicab companies and gave 2,000 free
rides in the Christmas holiday season.

Si Toma, No Maneje has formed groups in Omaha, Neb.; Eugene, Ore.;
Champaign-Urbana, Ill.; Amarillo, Tex.; Portland, Me., and, most recently, on
Long Island.

On Long Island the council has distributed posters, buttons and cash-register
stickers to 500 sellers of alcoholic beverages in Brentwood and Hempstead. The
materials are intended to help prevent under-age purchases and be reminders
about drunken driving, said the executive director of Project Long Island, Paul
Aniboli.

"Although Long Island doesn't have the same disproportionate number of Hispanic
D.W.I. arrests as the other designated Century cities," Mr. Aniboli said, "there
is a high rate of drunken driving among Hispanics, who are the fastest-growing
segment of the Island's population. We can't ignore a population that represents
a quarter of a million people in Nassau and Suffolk Counties. We must
communicate our message in their language."

In the last decade the number of Hispanic people on the Island has grown by 60
percent, according to the 1990 Census. But some demographers say the number is
closer to 250,000, because many are illegal aliens.

For a great many of these Hispanic residents, a major problem is culture shock,
said Ray Lopez, the First Deputy Commissioner of Planning and Economic
Development for the Town of Hempstead and former director of the Coordinating
Agency for Spanish Americans in Hempstead.

"Many Hispanics on Long Island came alone to this country and left their
families in Central America," Mr. Lopez said. "They thought America was the land
of opportunity, but found that it wasn't the dream they thought it would be, and
they're lonely. Many are not well educated and can't find jobs. So they get into
the bottle because they think this will be the solution. They're not drinking to
have fun, but to get drunk and escape.

"For those lucky enough to find jobs, a car is necessary. But they don't drive
very well or know how to read and write. So a friend will give them three or
four driving lessons, and then they might buy an illegal driver's license off
the street. If they need a license, they'll get it however they can.

"The worst part is that many don't have insurance, and they're naive about the
law. They don't know that if they drive after they've been drinking they'll no
longer get just a ticket, that now they'll go to jail."

The founder of the Hispanic Brotherhood of Rockville Centre, Margarita Grasing,
said the loneliness of many Central Americans on the Island was heightened by
the language barrier.

"For many Hispanics, the life style here is inducive to abuse of alcohol," said
Ms. Grasing, whose organization provides bilingual and bicultural services to
the elderly, after-school tutoring for students and adult classes in English as
a second language. "There is a definite substance-abuse problem in our
community, and the only way to reach out to the people is in their own language,
in their own places, where they buy their beer and alcohol."

Mr. Lopez said such efforts had to go beyond written materials and include
workshops, because so many Hispanic people cannot read or write and do not
understand the law.

Roger Bogsted, the Stop D.W.I. coordinator in the Nassau County Executive's
office, said that even though drunken-driving arrests of Hispanic people in the
county were not so high as elsewhere, education was critical.

"We're dealing with a different kind of cultural background," he said. "If
people can relate in their own language, we can spread the word and deal with
the problem preventively before it becomes a tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 2, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

MISSION TO HAITI: THE REFUGEES;
Some Haitians Doubt Decision to Go Home

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 20;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

DATELINE: GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL STATION, Cuba, Sept. 30


Jean-Louis Fortune was having second thoughts. Only moments before, word had
come from a nearby hangar, where a big television is permanently tuned to CNN,
that there was trouble in Haiti, that pro-army gunmen had fired on
demonstrators.

In Camp Six at the United States naval base here, where dozens of Haitian
refugees who had elected to return to their country waited, Mr. Fortune sought
reassurances for his own decision to return home.

"The U.S. soldiers will protect us, won't they?" he asked a visitor.

Mr. Fortune, like the other Haitians here, fled Haiti and tried to reach the
United States, only to be picked up by the Coast Guard and brought here.

Like the other Haitians here who have decided to return to their country now
that the United States military is occupying it, Mr. Fortune has been through a
briefing with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He has talked to
refugee workers from the United Nations. He has heard about the situation in
Haiti via the Voice of America and Radio Democracy, and a newspaper put out here
by the American military.

But Amnesty International, the human rights group, said this week that Haitians
are being encouraged to return home without being adequately informed of the
situation there.

For Mr. Fortune and the nearly 15,000 Haitians here, the agreement under which
Haiti's military rulers are to yield power, paving the way for the return of the
ousted President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, means that they too are
officially expected to return home.

There is no contingency plan for them if they do not, said a military spokesman
here. A group of 221 Haitians from here returned to Haiti on Tuesday, the first
to go back.

"The vast majority of the Haitians here want to go back," said Marine Brig. Gen.
Michael J. Williams, who heads the force that oversees the 45,000 Haitian and
Cuban refugees living here.

"For them the end is in sight," he said. "For the Cubans, the vast majority want
to go to the States. And they have a strong hope that political pressure will
eventually change the policy toward them. They're a much more volatile group
because they feel they got caught in a policy change."

Since August, when the Cuban Government for several weeks allowed people to
leave the island, Cubans picked up at sea trying to reach the United States are
now brought here rather than being given asylum. To apply for immigration to the
United States, they have to return to Cuba first.

At Camp India, home to nearly 1,700 Cuban men, several hundred refugees chanted
"Libertad" when a group of journalists arrived Friday morning. They complained
about a lack of freedom, about not being allowed to go to Miami, about being
held in "prison" when they had escaped the "prison of Cuba," as one young man
put it.

They complained about the food and the water and they thrust notes and letters
for relatives in Miami into the hands of anyone willing to take them.
Frustrated, some 44 Cuban males had already asked to be returned to Cuba if they
were not allowed into the United States. Early in the week, four swam the 300
yards back to their country.

"We are so desperate here," said Catalina de la Carida Ramirez Hernandez. "This
is no way to live. My daughter asks me every day, 'Why did we come here?' "

Despite similar complaints among the Haitian refugees about the food, the
accommodations, the restrictions and the lack of freedom to come and go as they
wish, many seemed reluctant to return to Haiti.

On Thursday afternoon, a group of young men in Camp Three lined the barbed wire
fence and held up signs saying they were political refugees and wanted political
asylum.

"Let the United Nations assign us to other countries," said one young man.

Indeed, in another camp, some 240 Haitian men had been processed to go to
Surinam and they still wanted to go there. Marc Herard, the camp leader, said
that no one there wanted to return to Haiti. But the program has been suspended
for the moment, leaving the men in limbo.

"Even if Aristide returns, we don't think it is safe to go back," Mr. Herard
said. "We don't think it will be safe to go back for several years, until they
have gotten rid of the opposition to Aristide."

But Mr. Fortune said he felt he had no other option than to return home. He had
signed the papers saying that he and his family wished to return to Haiti, and
they expected to leave for Port-au-Prince on a Coast Guard cutter on Sunday.
Still, he was uneasy.

"If you were my mother and I was your son," he said, "would you advise me to
return to Haiti?"


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many Haitian refugees are tired of living at Guantanamo Naval
Station in Cuba but are afraid to go home. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 9, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ABOUT MEN;
An Extraordinary Alien

BYLINE: By DAVID RAKOFF;   David Rakoff is an in-house writer for a New York
City publishing house.

SECTION: Section 6;  Page 38;  Column 3;  Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words


There are no welcoming decorations on the walls at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Manhattan. Nor do the people who work there seem happy
to see any of us who have come that morning for our green-card interviews.

After the metal detectors and bag check, we are thumbprinted (the woman
administering the procedure is suspicious and exasperated by some "highly
abnormal striations in the pads of my digits"). A Chinese couple is greeted by
their young, eager counsel. He shakes the husband's hand and then exuberantly
kisses the wife on the cheek. She looks horrified.

I am an impostor here. As a Canadian, I am indistinguishable from an
English-speaking American. I have a good job in publishing, and I am
American-educated. There are also very real differences in my case. My green
card comes through the "extraordinary alien" program. I have letters from
writers of national stature, met through my job, statements from friends at
magazines, all attesting to the Government that I am worthy of staying in this
country. It is a dossier of connection and privilege. The waiting period for
approval was, in my case, not years but four weeks. Even my eventual green card
is different: E1, the highest grade, apparently, although I have no idea what
that means.

I am a first-generation Canadian. My grandparents fled Latvia and Lithuania at
the turn of the century and moved to South Africa. My parents, in turn,
emigrated to Montreal, where I was born. At the International Expo in Montreal
in 1967, they watched a movie showing the popular images of Canada -- geese,
trees, a Mountie, children in the snow -- and heard a song: "Give us a place to
stand/and a place to grow/ And call this land Ontario/A place to stand/A place
to grow/Ontari-ari-ari-O!" We moved to Toronto. Every Canada Day -- July 1 -- my
father still puts up a Canadian flag by the front door. My circumstances do not
necessitate flight, unlike every generation of my family before me as well as
everyone else in the waiting room. I am playing at immigrant, imitating an
experience that is, for so many, a deadly serious one.

After two hours, I approach the woman at the desk, hoping she has forgotten my
thumbs, and say, my voice authoritative yet quiet and nonregional (like my
countryman Peter Jennings):

"I'm sorry. I was under the impression that I didn't need an interview this
morning."

I am ushered in immediately. The cubicle of the young I.N.S. employee is smaller
than my office at work. I am approved and out on the street in 10 minutes.

As I make my way to the subway, my heart is like that of my countrywoman Joni
Mitchell: "Full and hollow like a cactus tree." I feel alienated and foreign,
which perplexes me, since I have been on a mission, from the day I first came to
New York some 12 years ago, to pass for a native. Why now, of all times, was I
feeling so Canadian? With green card in hand, rather than feeling that my
problems had just been eliminated, I only desired to be identified as foreign. I
felt emasculated, homogenized and in danger of having my essential Canadian-ness
erased. Because we are different from Americans; subtly and, we like to think,
formidably. My countryman Robertson Davies summed it up when he pointed out that
the national character of Canadians, such as it is, owes a great deal more to
the stoic reserve of Scandinavia -- its latitudinal and climatic sister -- than
it does to the United States. I can think of even more galvanizing aspects to
our national psyche.

For example, when I was growing up, Canadians were united in fear of becoming
too big for our britches. To paraphrase Lorne Michaels (my countryman), it's the
kind of place where they award Miss Canada to the runner-up because the
prettiest already gets to be prettiest. Rather than demanding liberty or,
failing that, death, we are a country forever giving up our seats to the
elderly, all the while thanking one another for not smoking.

Which is not to say that we are raised without national pride. Canadians always
know who's Canadian. We just don't go showing off about it. Say "John Kenneth
Galbraith" to a Canadian and watch the words flicker across his eyes like the
shadow of an angel's wing. Then he will mention: "He's Canadian, you know."

The arm on the space shuttle used for interstellar repairs was built by
Canadians. In fact, the shuttle is never referred to on the Canadian news
without its Homeric moniker, as in "The American space shuttle, with its
Canadian-built arm, blew up today."

We are stealth aliens, like the Communists in the propaganda films of the
1950's, using our outward similarities to infiltrate American culture and to do
it one better. Canadians, paradoxically, have been redefining the very essence
of the American media for decades. Take, for example, the codifying guru of them
all, Marshall McLuhan.

So why not rejoice at the fact that I am permanently and legally below the 49th
parallel? I am extraordinary, for goodness sake. Put me on national television
and let me espouse socialized medicine! Let's put the "u" back in color before
anyone notices!

My friend Jim gets weepy when the customs workers at Kennedy say, "Welcome home,
Mr. Woods." He is grooving on the theatrics of nationality. I understand that.
There was a Kodak commercial in which a young Asian-American girl, presumably a
war orphan, now a valedictorian, thanks her white adoptive parents. I cried
shamelessly whenever it came on. I was moved by that myth of belonging, of being
from somewhere. And, I guess, of then being from somewhere else.

On my first trip back to Canada after getting the card, the official at the
airport fed it through the computer at her desk. My identity whirred out of the
slot on the other side.

"I also have my Canadian passport, if you'd like to see it." I said. "That won't
be necessary." she said.

Necessary or not, at that moment, I would have liked nothing more than for her
to have said to me, as I had been raised to say: "Oh yes, please, Mr. Rakoff."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 9, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Repatriating Haitians

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 14;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words


To the Editor:

Your Oct. 2 news article about Haitians at Guantanamo Bay Naval Station who have
indicated intentions to return to Haiti is disturbing.


International standards require that in order to promote repatriation as a
refugee solution, return must be voluntary and must occur under circumstances of
safety and dignity. But the limitations on the information about Haiti available
to asylum seekers at Guantanamo raise questions about the informed character of
their return decisions.

Also, the apparent breakdown in public order in Haiti seems to preclude a
finding of safety there. Under these circumstances, it is premature for United
States authorities to promote return from the Guantanamo Bay Naval Station to
Haiti.
ARTHUR C. HELTON
CAROL SCHLITT
New York, Oct. 5, 1994
The writers are, respectively, director of migration programs and coordinator,
Haiti and Cuba projects, Open Society Institute.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 9, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KIPS BAY;
Armenians And Identity

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 8;  Column 4;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 541 words


Andrey Arzumanov, 32, has lived in Rockaway, Queens, with his mother for a year
and a half. He speaks some English and a little Armenian, but like most of the
hundreds of Armenian refugees who have arrived in the New York area over the
last two years, his first language is Russian.

Now, with the help of the Diocese of the Armenian Church of America, the
gold-domed St. Vartan Cathedral at the northeast corner of 34th Street and
Second Avenue, he is looking for a job. And, what's more, he's building a sense
of his Armenian identity, something previous waves of Armenian immigrants have
not had to do.

"It was easier before to acclimate Armenian refugees because they spoke the
language," said Michael Guglielmo, director of the church's social-services
department. "This group doesn't speak the language and doesn't know the church."

The church set up the department of social services two years ago to handle
questions and problems from the new flood of refugees, largely Christian
Armenians fleeing Azerbaijan, under attack from the Muslim majority there. The
department has started a nationwide Russian Armenian Refugee network with
churches around the country.

Armenians have immigrated in three major waves, in the early 1920's, after 1975,
and then again starting in 1988.

"Since there have been gaps in the immigration process, Armenians never
developed a system to deal with refugees," said Mr. Guglielmo, who said they
have turned to many Jewish groups for guidance.

"Armenians and Jews have chosen to have a strong cultural identity, not to
assimilate, both groups are highly educated and they always seem to be running
from the same types of people," said Christopher H. Zakian, a member of the
diocese staff.

The social-services department has set up classes to teach Armenian history and
language as well as English as a second language. They have also set up job
workshops providing use of computers, typewriters, and phones. And when needed,
members of the department will help with everything from Social Security and
Medicaid information to discussing the path to permanent residency.

"People coming in from the former Soviet Union are different in many ways, just
in their demeanor," said Mr. Zakian, who attributes their qualities to growing
up in that part of the world. But, he said "there are a core group of Armenian
values." Besides dedication to family, he said, they include a strong sense of
national identity and historical experience and religious devotion.

For refugees like Mr. Arzumanov, St. Vartan represents a chance to integrate
their own history, language and religious traditions. Mr. Arzumanov, an engineer
with a speciality in computers, grew up in Baku, Azerbaijan. Like most of the
300,000 Armenians there, he never went to an Armenian church -- there was, after
all, only one in Baku, and it functioned more like a museum.

His life is now centered on St. Vartan, between English classes, job networking
and religious services.

And Oleg Ovanesyan, 28, a refugee living in Bensonhurst, said some Christian
Armenians didn't even know how to cross themselves. "In Baku, you had to conceal
your identity," he said. "Here, we're proud of our heritage."   MONIQUE P.
YAZIGI

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A job workshop for Armenian immigrants at St. Vartan's
Cathedral. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 13, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Visa Lottery for Cubans

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 9;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 135 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12


The Administration announced plans today to distribute 5,000 to 6,000
immigration visas to Cubans by lottery. Visas have largely been granted only to
Cubans who qualify for refugee status or to those with close relatives who are
Americans.

Cubans selected by lottery would be allowed to bring spouses and minor children
with them.

Under an accord signed on Sept. 9, Cuba agreed to curb the exodus of refugees by
boat and the United States promised to grant at least 20,000 visas a year.

The United States had admitted 3,000 refugees a year, but the new rules permit
6,000. New criteria broaden the definition of "refugee" to include former
political prisoners, rights activists, labor conscripts and others. Cubans
eligible for regular immigrant visas will increase to 4,000, from about 2,500.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 19, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

World News Briefs;
U.S. and Cuba to Meet On Immigration Issues

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 5;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18


Diplomats from Cuba and the United States are scheduled to meet next Monday in
Havana to discuss immigration matters, focusing on how to implement the Clinton
Administration's promise to grant entry rights to at least 20,000 Cubans a year.

The talks, which Cuban and American officials said would last two to three days,
will also examine how well Cuba is implementing the pledge it made in
immigration talks last month to stop the flow of Cubans who try to reach the
United States in small boats and rafts.

Administration officials said the two sides would discuss details for
implementing a lottery in which the United States would grant entry rights each
year to 5,000 Cubans.

The chief American representative at the talks will be Dennis Hays, coordinator
of the State Department's Office of Cuban Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 23, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Councilwoman Comforts Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 39;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words


Last weekend's street celebrations of democracy's return to Haiti were over in
Crown Heights. The echoes of the public speeches about hope and justice had died
out along Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn.

But in a first-floor office on New York Avenue in Crown Heights early last week,
a modest, muted project in the realization of democracy carried on. Caribbean
immigrants came through the doors of City Councilwoman Una Clarke's district
office at 648 New York Avenue. Afraid or angry, curious or emboldened, they
sought advice, help, citizenship papers and voting forms.

They said they were gratified, even ecstatic about the developments in Haiti.
But their immediate interest was in finding a way to have democracy arrive for
them in Brooklyn.

"I call myself a liberation politician," said Ms. Clarke. "The project in this
district is still in its infancy. But it's growing."

Ms. Clarke, born in Jamaica, represents the 40th City Council District in
Brooklyn, a bit of political geography that is only three years old. The
district was created by court order as part of the reconfiguration of the city's
electoral districts after the old formula for representation was declared
unconstitutional.

More than half of the people living in the district -- an uneven chunk of
Brooklyn that includes parts of Crown Heights, East Flatbush, Ditmas Park and
Kensington -- are Caribbean immigrants. Some arrived decades ago, scores arrive
every month. Their status -- legal, undocumented or some hybrid of the two --
varies. Their understanding of their rights or their perils differs.

But they all are aware that Ms. Clarke, who came to New York as a college
student in 1959, was once in their position, and so her office -- a cramped but
neat three-room converted condominium -- is a haven of sorts. She has aides who
are immigration specialists and a volunteer who speaks Creole for the Haitian
residents. She is untroubled by the fact that they might be in the country
illegally. And no one is ever asked whether he or she is a constituent, with a
real or potential vote.

The district offices of City Council members have often been the targets of
sharp criticism, even criminal investigations. They have served as mere office
extensions for lawyers on the Council. The budgets of nearly $200,000 set aside
for staffing and operating the offices have been misappropriated. But the best
of the 51 district offices across the city, whether dealing with parking
problems, the police or the lack of hot water, bring an intimate, effective
aspect of representational government to the streets.

The immigrants push through Ms. Clarke's door and lay out their predicaments.
Their situations are invariably complicated, frequently dire and sometimes
hopeless.

"Oh, it is typical to have a person arrive, usually a mother, who has been given
a 24-hour eviction notice," said Hugh Hamilton, an aide to Ms. Clarke and a
native of Guyana.

"She will be of questionable status. She might have a son or relative who has
had trouble with the police. She may or may not have been to somewhere else,
someone else seeking help. She is afraid of the bureaucracy, of anything
official. And now she has turned to one of her own. You really can't say no."

Saying some form of yes is, in fact, official policy.

"They come afraid, and so it's up to us to put them at ease," said Wayne
Patterson, Ms. Clarke's immigration specialist. "Our policy is this: we don't
care how you got here. You are here. You must be serviced."

Emelda Modeste was the first one through the doors last Monday in search of
service of some kind, any kind. A native of Trinidad, she had come to Brooklyn
and worked as a housekeeper. But chronic arthritis in her knees had forced
surgery and replacement of the joints. The operation had been botched, and she
could barely walk. She had been rejected for disability benefits. She wanted
help. She didn't want to endanger her immigration status, the specific nature of
which she declined to disclose.

Another woman was next, asking for forms to apply to sponsor other immigrant
arrivals. She didn't give her name, and said only that the forms were for a
sister and brother. Another immigrant, an emergency-room technician, walked in,
upset at his union and looking for help.

A man made out an informal resume in pencil, eager to have his name added to a
list for construction jobs for a new department store. A half-dozen students
from Wingate High School, all children of Caribbean immigrants, met with Ms.
Clarke and her assistants. The girls were looking for jobs.

"They feel that because I am an immigrant, they should be able to come here and
get answers, and so I get everything and everybody walking through this office,"
said Ms. Clarke, a former educator who won 93 percent of the vote in the 1993
election.

"But that's all right. This is a new district, and I am a different kind of
politician. I don't ask if they are constituents and if they have a vote I might
get. I'm the face of the faceless, the voice of the voiceless. I understand what
access is, what it means for these people. And I think the office is a vehicle
for the empowerment of people who don't truly understand how government works."

There are rows of confidential case files in the district office full of
questions about how government functions in Brooklyn and how the immigrants can
figure out how to participate. The district office, unlike those run by other
Council members, is open five days a week and as many as 12 hours a day.

One man came in saying the Tontons Macoute -- Haiti's former secret police --
were after him, with the help of the Central Intelligence Agency. He had to be
talked out from under a desk. Another man, who had recently become a citizen,
wanted to know why he couldn't get the letter on his apartment door changed to
upper case, and why it couldn't be done immediately.

Still, the aides will pick up the phone, occasionally as late as 10 P.M.

"You pick up that phone, you have no idea what you will hear," said Veronica
Beckford, another aide to Ms. Clarke. "But to the people calling, none of it is
ridiculous."

Mostly, it is urgent.

"Hello, this is Una Clarke, what did I promise you?" the Councilwoman, smiling,
says into the telephone as the day ends on New York Avenue. "Oh, yes, Mrs.
Carmichael. Do you have a visa? Was the adoption legal? Good."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Brooklyn

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 27, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
California Governor Suggests Requiring Citizenship Cards

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1174 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 26


Injecting a new element into the already raging debate over controlling
immigration in California, Gov. Pete Wilson suggested today that every
Californian be required to obtain an official identity card to present when
seeking a job, entering school or applying for nonemergency health care.

The Governor, who has made immigration control a theme of in his re-election
battle this fall with State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, argued in interviews, news
conferences and statements that such a card would discourage immigration but
would not impinge on individual freedom.

"If you are a legal resident, you have nothing to fear," he said in one
interview.

But Ms. Brown quickly attacked the Governor's proposal. "I have proposed a
tamperproof Social Security card to be used only when people are looking for
work," she said in a press conference in Los Angeles. "But the notion of
requiring children to carry ID cards is wrong and not what we stand for in
democracy. It's Big Brother, big government and another example of what Pete
Wilson will say just to get elected."

Even some of the Governor's political allies privately expressed dismay at his
suggestion, made in a interview published in The San Francisco Chronicle today,
and worried that he might have politically hurt himself, though not seriously
enough to lose his comfortable lead over Ms. Brown.

Mr. Wilson's suggestion apparently grew out of his support for Proposition 187,
a state ballot measure that would deny most social services, including schooling
and non-emergency health care, to illegal immigrants.

Proposition 187 would also require that teachers and health officials report to
immigration agents anyone they knew or suspected was illegally in this country.
But it says nothing of an identification card, and it is unclear if the idea of
such a card could cost the proposition any support.

Illegal immigration, and Proposition 187 in particular, have become the
centerpiece issues in this state's elections, with most major candidates
supporting a stronger residence verification system to keep illegal aliens from
obtaining jobs.  But only Mr. Wilson has raised the possibility of requiring
students and the sick, as well as job hunters, to have a card verifying legal
residence.

In a statement issued by his office, the Governor said that he had long believed
in the need for such a counterfeit-proof card and he noted that the possibility
was also being debated in Washington.

Then he called on Washington to set up a national system for verification of
eligibility for government services. But, he emphasized, he did not envision
Californians' being required to have an identity card with them at all times,
only when applying for some government service.

"The Governor believes the Federal Government, which has the sole responsibility
for enforcing the country's immigration laws, has the responsibility to
establish a system to facilitate verification and improve enforcement by making
our eligibility system tamperproof," the statement said. "The Governor believes
this is best accomplished with a single card."

Vibiana Andrade, the national director of the immigrants' rights program for the
Mexican-American Legal Defense Fund in Los Angeles, described the Wilson
proposal as a form of "fascism."

"A card like he proposes would be very controlling -- and very scary," she said.
The ballot measure has also generated opposition in other countries, including
Mexico, where protesters demonstrated outside the American Embassy in Mexico
City.

Governor Wilson strongly favors passage of Proposition 187 and argued today that
those who describe it as unconstitutional and invasive, among them Ms. Brown,
are guilty of "scare tactics."

Pollsters say the proposition has strong support in the state because there is
so much frustration over the steady influx of illegal aliens and the steady rise
in the cost of providing them with state services.

But in recent days the initiative appears to have lost some support,
particularly since it was criticized by national political figures, including
President Clinton and former Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, who share little
ideological common ground.

One leading California Republican who is a strong supporter and close friend of
Mr. Wilson said today that the identity card suggestion was "a bad political
move" by the Governor.

"Pete knows better than to go out that far, even if he believes it," said the
Republican, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "But he's feeling some heat on
this issue now that some top Republican and Democratic leaders are beginning to
criticize Prop. 187 -- and they're right to knock it. But old marine that he is,
he pushes back when the going gets tough."

The Wilson campaign's spokesman, Dan Schnur, said the Governor first proposed a
eligibility card more than a year ago while touring the porous border near San
Diego and so did not break new ground today.

"He said back then," Mr. Schnur recalled, "that 'There needs to be some means
for assuring that services are rendered only to those who are eligible as legal
residents,' and then called for 'a legal resident eligibility card.' "

But Mr. Wilson appeared to take the idea a step further today by calling for
students and the sick to carry cards.

The issue of students and the sick was initially raised in an interview with
editors and reporters of The Chronicle. This question was then posed to Mr.
Wilson:

"You're re-elected, 187 passes -- will there be a card that people have to carry
in California to prove that they are legal residents?"

Mr. Wilson replied, "Yes."

Later in the interview, he made it clear that he wanted the Federal Government
to come up with a card system.

Mr. Schnur said this morning, after reading the Chronicle account of the
interview, that the word "carry" did not imply that all Californians would have
to have a card on them at all times.

"The Governor," Mr. Schnur added, "was saying only that people will need a card
to get jobs and government services, but not that they will have to carry the
card at all times, even when they've got a job and aren't enrolling in school or
seeking health aid or whatever."


This afternoon, in a news conference in Salinas, the Governor sought to clarify
his position but in the end raised as many questions as he answered.

"I don't have any plan for an ID card," he said at one point.

But moments later he said, "What there would be is some kind of requirement for
some kind of verification."

Ramona Ripston, the executive director of the Southern California branch of the
American Civil Liberties Union, said she found the Governor's remarks
disturbing, even if they left her somewhat confused.

"Essentially he's talking about an internal passport system for this country,"
she said, "and that's something we really don't want. That's the kind of thing
they tried in South Africa. It things keep on like this, this is all going to
end up in court, with a lot of suits about cards and 187 and all the rest."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters in Mexico City gathered outside the American Embassy
yesterday to oppose the California ballot proposition on illegal aliens. The
rally against Proposition 187 drew about 2,000 people. (Associated Press) (pg.
A27)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 28, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. and Cuba Seem to Make Little Headway on Refugee Issue

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Oct. 27


The United States and Cuba have wrapped up talks here on immigration issues,
making little apparent headway on the status of thousands of Cuban refugees
being held in American internment camps.

Officials of both countries described the three days of talks that ended
Wednesday night as a largely satisfactory review of issues raised on carrying
out the agreement they signed on Sept. 9 to end a monthlong flood of Cubans from
the island.

But Cuban officials also complained about what they called recent "unilateral"
moves to release some of the captive refugees, and about slow action by the
United States on its pledge to grant at least 20,000 immigrant visas to Cubans
each year.

The two sides also differed sharply over economic sanctions imposed on Cuba by
the Clinton Administration during the crisis set off by President Fidel Castro's
decision to allow Cubans to leave freely on rafts, participants in the talks
said.

The penalties restrict American travel to Cuba and prohibit Cuban-Americans from
sending money and other help to relatives and friends there. Those remittances
-- estimated to total anywhere from $250 million to $500 million a year -- are
an important source of hard currency for a Cuban economy that has been strapped
for cash since the demise of the Communist-bloc trading system five years ago.

Cuban officials argued that because the sanctions had been a response to the
exodus, they had no place now that the migration problem was under control.
American officials said they had refused to discuss the matter, saying it was
not on their agenda.

"They have taken on a life of their own," an American official said of the
sanctions, which were initially described by United States officials as a
political payoff to anti-Castro Cuban-American groups for their support of an
end to 35-year policy of granting asylum to all Cuban refugees. "It's not tied
to immigration anymore."

With similar countervailing pressures at play over the fate of more than 30,000
Cubans being held at American military bases in Panama and at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, United States officials said they had not even discussed with Cuban
negotiators the possibility of letting the refugees apply for visas from the
internment camps.

Cuban-American groups seeking asylum for the refugees have demanded that the
Administration at least waive a requirement that the refugees return to Havana
to fill out their immigration paperwork. On Tuesday, Cuban-American lawyers who
are suing the United States Government to block the refugees' repatriation won
an order from a Federal judge holding up at least temporarily the departure of a
flight that was to bring 23 Cubans here from Guantanamo.

So far, only 42 of the refugees have returned voluntarily, and some American
officials have raised questions about the Cuban Government's willingness to
accept them.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 1, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

After Crackdown, Smugglers Of Chinese Find New Routes

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1141 words


More than a year after the tramp steamer Golden Venture went aground off Queens
with a cargo of 300 illegal Chinese immigrants, a Government crackdown on the
ship-borne smuggling of Chinese to this country has apparently led smugglers to
open a new route through the Caribbean.

So far this year, only two large ships, together carrying just over 300 Chinese
immigrants, have been intercepted on the high seas, a sign of the waning success
of ship-borne smuggling. More than a dozen ships were intercepted in the year
before, yielding 2,533 arrests.

But while the Government's blockade has choked off one avenue of entry,
officials say smugglers have adopted a new route in which small groups of
Chinese are taken to Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, where
they can board domestic flights to the mainland, avoiding the tighter inspection
of international travelers.

"The smugglers have had to alter their modus operandi, and this is the new
avenue that has come to the forefront," said John Wright, director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's criminal section.

While the number of smuggled Chinese is minuscule compared with the millions of
Mexicans and Central Americans who try to cross into this country each year, the
continuing smuggling underscores the difficulty in sealing the nation's borders
and controlling the increasingly sophisticated gangs of international
traffickers.

"It's like if you squeeze a balloon, it just pops out around your hand," said
Comdr. Robert Morrison, chief of the Coast Guard's migrant-interdiction branch.
"If we tighten up, they're going to look where there's a weak link."

The shift to the Caribbean route became apparent in spring of 1993, officials
said. In the year before, the Border Patrol arrested just 10 Chinese in Puerto
Rico. Last year, the number rose to 251 and has jumped to 453 so far this year.

Mr. Wright said many of the Chinese apprehended in Puerto Rico had begun their
journeys in Fujian Province in China. Typically, the would-be immigrants would
fly Latin America with an eventual destination of Santo Domingo in the Dominican
Republic.

Using small boats at night, the immigrants would cross the 100-mile Mona Passage
that separates the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.

Once in Puerto Rico, immigrants would try to board domestic flights to the
mainland or continue northward by boat to Florida. Mr. Wright said virtually all
of the Chinese apprehended over the last year said their final destination was
New York City.

So far this year, the Coast Guard has intercepted only two boats carrying
Chinese immigrants in the Caribbean. Other boats, carrying a mix of Dominican,
Pakistani, Cuban and Chinese illegal immigrants, have been discovered by the
Border Patrol, the immigration service says.

As arrests in Puerto Rico have mounted, the smugglers have once again begun to
modify their routes. Just this month, a group of 27 Chinese who had departed
from Antigua were picked up by the Coast Guard off Charlotte Amalie in the
United States Virgin Islands.

"There is a major influx coming into this area," Mr. Wright said. "My sense is
the operations are moving to South and Central America and the Caribbean."

The emergence of the Caribbean route is the latest twist in the long-range
cat-and-mouse game that has evolved between the Government and Chinese
smugglers.

While Chinese illegal immigration has gone on for decades, the rise of highly
organized Far Eastern smuggling organizations is a modern phenomenon, with
immigrants aboard the large freighters and fishing vessels favored by smugglers
often paying$20,000 to $30,000 each for passage to the United States.

Experts say that the smuggling of Chinese immigrants by boat began about five
years ago, although the first large-scale arrests of illegal immigrants were not
made until the arrival of the I-Mao No. 306 off the coast of Southern California
in 1991 with 118 Chinese aboard.

The number apprehended was relatively small, but the use of large vessels as
smuggling ships marked a disturbing turn in which the coastline of the United
States, like the southern border, became open territory for illegal immigration.

From 1981 through 1990, the Coast Guard had apprehended only 28 Chinese trying
to enter the country by sea. In 1991, the year the I-Mao No. 306 arrived, the
number jumped to 146, to 791 in 1992 and to 2,533 in 1993.

What brought the issue to a boil was the arrival of the Golden Venture off
Rockaway Beach, Queens, on June 6, 1993. Ten Chinese immigrants died as they
tried to swim ashore through the frigid waters.

Shaken by the Golden Venture incident, the Government announced a sweeping plan
devised by the National Security Council and several other Federal agencies to
crack down on the multimillion-dollar business of Asian smuggling.

Commander Morrison of the Coast Guard said officials hoped to improve
intelligence on smuggling ship departures, increase surveillance of the seas,
improve coordination on illegal immigration enforcement with foreign governments
and intercept smuggling ships as far from American waters as possible.

Some ships were intercepted as far out as 1,600 nautical miles from the United
States. In several cases, illegal immigrants were taken to other countries,
including Guatemala and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and then flown
back to China.

The strategy has sharply curtailed the arrival of ships to American waters. So
far this year, the only ships intercepted by the Coast Guard have been the Jin
Yinn No. 1, stopped in April with 113 Chinese immigrants about 980 nautical
miles southwest of San Diego and the Captain Denny, which was it was spotted
from the air in June about 350 nautical miles east of Norfolk, Va.

Commander Morrison said interviews with Chinese immigrants arrested by the
immigration service in the United States had indicated that two other ships
might have escaped detection.

From last year's high point, the number of Chinese apprehended at sea by the
Coast Guard has dropped to 340 so far this year.

"As far as the large mother ship operations are concerned, the numbers have
dropped off significantly," he said. "We've basically been having a full-court
press and we're optimistic."

But Commander Morrison added that while the time of the big ships appeared to be
waning, it was still uncertain whether the overall flow of illegal Chinese
immigrants by sea had begun to slow or had simply shifted to other routes that
are more difficult to detect.

"It's the million-dollar question," Commander Morrison said. "If you look at the
numbers, you can see that things have changed. We are encouraged that we are
getting less of the big vessels, but the fact is criminal organizations don't
tell us what they're doing. It's really hard to say what is happening now."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "TALLY: The Pace of Illegal Chinese Immigration" shows number of
illegal Chinese imigrants caught trying to enter the U.S., number of ships
carrying illegal Chinese immigrants intercepted by the Coast Guard, and the
total number of illegal immigrants captured trying to enter the U.S. between
January 1991 and September 1994. (Source: U.S. Coast Guard) (pg. A24)

Map of the Carribean sea showing location of the Mona Passage. (pg. A24)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 1, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
MINORITIES JOIN CALIFORNIA FIGHT

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1456 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 31


No state is more racially and ethnically diverse than California, and now
California's minority communities are beginning to rally against Proposition
187, the immigration-control proposal that has become the hottest campaign issue
in the state this fall.

Hispanic-Americans are distributing literature and holding demonstrations, with
students staging protest walkouts at some high schools almost daily.

Asian-Americans are working phone banks and banging on doors.

African-American ministers are speaking out from the pulpit.

Polls indicate that this outcry, along with the increasing opposition being
voiced by liberals, civil libertarians and assorted national political figures,
is beginning to have an effect.

In the past several weeks there has been a sharp falloff in support for the
proposition, which was once heavily favored. It would deny illegal aliens most
government services, including schooling and non-emergency health care.

The measure still leads by about a dozen points in most statewide surveys; a
month ago some surveys had it ahead by 25 points or more.

"We're getting the word out to our people about what this thing would really do
to ethnic groups," said Leonardo Vilchis, a community organizer in the heavily
Hispanic eastern part of Los Angeles. "People just hadn't been paying much
attention until recently."

There are poll numbers to support his assertion.

For example, a month ago, one of every two Hispanic-Americans in the state;
favored the proposition. Now, only one in five backs it.

Yet despite rising ethnic opposition and the proposition's recent slippage in
the polls, passage is still a real possibility. The state's white majority is
immensely frustrated that thousands of undocumented aliens continue to slip into
California and that the cost of providing services to them continues to rise.

Led by Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican who says California will go broke if
services to illegal aliens are not cut, the proposition's supporters remain a
potent political force. Nor, as the polls also show, have they lost all of their
allies in the state's ethnic communities.

"There's good support for 187 in the Mexican-American community, and it should
come as no surprise," said Jesse Laguna of San Diego, a second-generation
Mexican-American who is pushing hard for passage of the proposition. "An illegal
Latino can very easily cost a Latino-American a job, and nobody understands that
better than the American."

The Hispanic vote is the most powerful minority vote in California, where ethnic
groups account for more than a third of the population.

This morning, an influential Mexican-American voice in the state, that of Frank
del Olmo, the deputy editorial page editor of The Los Angeles Times, strongly
opposed the proposition in an Op-Ed article, arguing that the campaign to pass
it was "desperate and cynical" and "will stick in our craws for generations."

In particular, Mr. del Olmo had harsh words for Governor Wilson and for his own
paper, whose editorial page on Sunday endorsed Mr. Wilson's re-election. It was
the first Times endorsement for Governor in a quarter of a century.

The editorial page of The Times, probably the most powerful paper in the state,
has frequently criticized Proposition 187. But Mr. del Olmo said it was not
possible to separate Mr. Wilson from the proposition that he has championed in
his campaign.

"This campaign," Mr. del Olmo asserted, "is unprecedented in the harm it does --
permanent damage, I fear -- to an ethnic community I care deeply about and a
state I love. I know that many thousands, if not millions of Mexican-Americans
and Mexican citizens feel the same way."

Among them is Ruben Rodriguez, a second-generation Mexican-American from eastern
Los Angeles.

Mr. Rodriguez said life has been good to the Rodriguez family ever since the day
in 1911 when his grandparents crossed the border -- "legally, I might add" --
into the United States.

"We haven't all become doctors and lawyers, but we've been good, hard-working,
productive citizens," he said. "We've gone to war when we've been called and
we've paid our taxes, and we're proud to be part of the great American success
story."

But now, with Proposition 187 heading for a vote on Nov. 8, Mr. Rodriguez, who
runs a bakery in east Los Angeles, is worried about America and its immigrant
success story. He wonders what kind of opportunity the future will hold if the
proposition is approved.

"Passing it would be a terrible step backward," he said. "I know there's an
immigration problem. But 187 is no answer. It's just lashing out without rhyme
or reason, and the people who will be targeted and questioned will be the people
whose skin is not white, particularly Latinos and Asians. We can't let it pass."

He now lobbies against it every time someone enters his bakery.

Under Proposition 187, not only would undocumented aliens be denied schooling
and non-emergency medical care, but teachers and doctors would be required to
give immigration authorities the names of all people they know or suspect to be
in this country illegally.

That requirement is nothing less than a "constitutional insult" to Miya Iwataki,
a second-generation Japanese-American who is organizing Asian-Americans in Los
Angeles to fight Proposition 187.

"The word 'suspect' just sends chills all through me," she said. "Am I to be
treated different just because I don't look like the white majority?"

Like many Japanese-Americans, Ms. Iwataki has a special ethnic concern.

"During World War II," she explained, "my father joined up like every good
American to fight to save America and democracy. But my grandparents -- because
they had come to America from Japan, they were among those 'suspects' who were
snatched from their homes and interned in special camps. I worry that the kind
of anti-ethnic hysteria driving 187 is akin to the anti-ethnic hysteria that
swept the country after Pearl Harbor."

Ms. Iwataki said the answer to the immigration problem lies not in new measures
like Proposition 187 but in effectively policing the country's borders and
punishing those who hire undocumented aliens.

"There's no need to trample on the Constitution," she said. "That's why we're
fighting so hard."

Two weeks ago, when 70,000 people -- mostly Hispanic-Americans, Asian-Americans
and African-Americans -- rallied in downtown Los Angeles in a show of solidarity
against the proposition, many speakers declared that a pernicious bias against
ethnic minorities was the driving force behind the measure.

"We've got to send a message to the rest of the nation that California will not
stand on a platform of bigotry, racism and scapegoating," declared Joe Hicks,
the executive director of the Los Angeles branch of the Southern Christian
Leadership Conference, one of the country's major black civil rights
organizations.

In the black community, the message is being sent by ministers.

"We're urging the churches to get out the word, as they always have in hours of
crisis," said John Mack of the Los Angles Urban League, a major black community
organization. "There are black people and other minority people who are at odds
over jobs. But if you're black and you vote for 187, you're not just voting
against Hispanics, but you're also voting for the kind of thing that has been
used against blacks since time began."

In minority neighborhoods in many California cities, especially Los Angeles,
civic groups and clubs are the leaders in the anti-187 cause, distributing
literature, working phone banks, knocking on doors.

Ethnic-minority students, particularly in Southern California, also are helping
carry the fight and keep it at the top of the news, mainly through street
demonstrations. Here in Los Angeles today, student leaders from several high
schools held a meeting to plan strategy for the final week of the fall election
campaign.

Yet while opposition to 187 is rising, particularly in ethnic communities,
opponents of the proposition cannot escape the fact that ethnic opposition is
not yet solid.

"A lot of ethnic people are going to support this," said Gil Wong, a
first-generation Chinese-American in Los Angeles who is working for passage.
"How can anyone rationally support providing welfare to illegal immigrants?
We're going to win."

How to unify the ethnic vote against the measure?

City Councilman Mike Hernandez of Los Angeles, a seventh-generation
Mexican-American, argued that support for the proposition in the minority
communities was based mainly on ignorance of its true nature.

"We've got an education problem," he said. "Once you explain to somebody what
187 is really all about, you turn around a vote. That's our challenge."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Miya Iwataki, a second-generation Japanese-American, is
organizing Asian-Americans in Los Angeles to fight the ballot measure.;
California's minorities are rallying against a ballot measure that would deny
illegal aliens most Government services. Ruben Rodriguez, a second-generation
Mexican-American, shown with his sons, 11-year-old Julio, left, and Alex, 8,
said, 'Passing it would be a terrible step backward." (pg. A21) (Photographs by
Scott Robinson for The New York Times)

Chart: "CAMPAIGN DIGEST: On the Trail"

Developments yesterday in campaigns across the country.

CALIFORNIA: Senator Dianne Feinstein has taken the lead over her Republican
opponent, Representative Michael Huffington, a new Field Poll reported. Ms.
Feinstein led 45 percent to 39 percent. The poll, taken Oct 21-30, included
1,404 likely voters and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three
percentage points.

PENNSYLVANIA: Senator Arlen Specter of EPennsylvania will become the first
Republican to announce his candidacy for the 1996 Presidential nomination on
Nov. 14, according to U.S. News and World Report. Mr. Specter, a 64-year-old
Republican, declined to comment on the report, but he has been traveling around
the country, including Iowa and New Hampshire, sits of the first Presidential
tests in early 1996.

VIRGINIA: Recent criticism of Oliver L. North by members of his own party could
be making an impression on voters in the Virginia Senate race, a new statewide
poll suggested. For the first time in months, Senator Charles S. Robb, the
Democratic incumbent, may lead his Republican challenger. A poll of 580 likely
voters conducted by Roanoke College showed Mr. Robb favored by 39 percent, Mr.
North by 35 percent and J. Marshall Coleman, a Republican running as an
independent, with 14 percent backing. Twelve percent said they wer undecided.
The survey, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage
points, was based on telephone interviews from Oct. 27 to Oct. 30, a period in
which Mr. North was criticized by several prominent Republicans, including Nancy
Reagan and former Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson. Mark Merritt, a
spokesman for Mr. North, questioned the poll's finding. "It doesn't jibe with
any internal or other public polls that I've seen, so I have to seriously
question its credibility," he said.

(pg. A21)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CANARSIE/EAST FLATBUSH;
Helping Immigrants Get Help: A One-Stop-Shopping Approach

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section 13;    Page 10;    Column 3;    The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 435 words


Yvonne J. Graham understands a few things about providing health care for
immigrants that many doctors may not.

She knows that they often do not seek it out, because they are afraid that if
they are undocumented, they are not entitled to services. And she is well aware
that many of them go to a doctor only after they have exhausted the supposed
healing power of plant extracts or leaves.

So when her 12-year-old East Flatbush organization, the Caribbean Women's Health
Association, was slated for $6.5 million in city financing to create a community
primary-care center, she saw it as the chance to integrate what she was already
doing -- providing social-services referrals, prenatal aid and immigration
assistance to 20,000 clients -- with basic primary care that many were getting
from the city's overburdened emergency rooms.

What is needed, she said, is a one-stop-shopping approach to medical and social
services. "With primary care, you're dealing with the outcome of an illness,"
said Ms. Graham, a registered nurse and executive director of the agency. "With
social services, you're dealing with the preventative of the illness."

The association spends most of its time reaching out to women in the area who
are not receiving health care. For instance, a woman who wants to bring the rest
of her family over from Jamaica and needs to prove her financial independence
will not apply for Medicaid, because she is afraid that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service will determine that she cannot afford to sponsor her
children. That means she won't go to a doctor.

There are also cultural considerations. For example, many young immigrant women
come from countries where there are no special prenatal programs and have no
idea they need prenatal care, Ms. Graham said. Or, they are so accustomed to
warm weather, they are uncertain about how to properly dress a newborn baby and
need to be taught.

Then, there are clients who prefer to go to a voodoo priest to rid themselves of
an illness they believe came from a supernatural force, she said. "We have a
relationship with these voodoo priests," she said. "So they know to refer the
client to us."

Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced this summer that he would adopt a plan
proposed by former Mayor David N. Dinkins to open 16 new clinics, financed
through a combination of state bonds, city funds and nonprofit grants.

David R. Jones, the vice chairman of the Primary Development Corporation, which
will manage the development of the clinics, said that Ms. Graham's association
is "one that is a long time coming."   J.S.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

New Rules Puts Adoption In Limbo

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 35;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 5


Sgt. Wilfred Cain of the Air Force and his wife spent 18 months haggling with
officials in Panama to adopt a baby boy. They thought bringing their son into
the United States would be a breeze by comparison.

They were wrong. On Oct. 10, the day the Cains received the adoption papers,
they learned that the United States had changed its immigration laws 10 days
earlier. Their 2-year-old son, Cameron, no longer qualified for a visa, and the
Cains might not be able to leave Panama with him.

The Cains, who have raised Cameron since he was 6 months old, are tangled in a
new rule that adoption agency officials say could affect thousands of adoptions
by American couples abroad, particularly in Central and South America.

"We thought the nightmare of this red tape was over, but it's just the beginning
of another nightmare that continues today," Mr. Cain, of Brockton, Mass., said
in a telephone interview from Panama this week.

The new rule affects adoptions in countries like Panama and Romania that do not
recognize a difference between legitimate and illegitimate births. As of Oct. 1,
the United States considers all births in those countries to be legitimate,
meaning both parents can be accounted for. Previously, only the approval of one
parent was required.

Americans trying to adopt babies in these countries must now obtain the approval
of both parents, or the custodial parent must prove that the other parent is
dead or has abandoned the family. That is often impossible.

"In theory, this is to prevent the possibility that the other parent would try
to recover the child," said Rick Kenny, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. "But in practice, in cases where the mother is giving up
the child and doesn't name the father, this creates a problem for immigration
because we can't take the word of one parent."

Cameron's biological mother is a Panamanian Indian living in poverty. She signed
a letter of permission for the Cains to adopt her son and says she does not know
where the boy's father is. Under the new rules, the Cains have to wait two years
before they can take their son out of his native country, in case his father
wants custody. Failing to show up after two years is considered proof of
abandonment.

But the Cains can wait only two and a half weeks. Sergeant Cain's Air Force
posting in Panama City ends on Nov. 21, and he and his wife and their two
biological daughters are being moved to Florida. Sergeant Cain said he was
supposed to move in April, but the Air Force gave him an extension because of
the adoption.

The Cains could proceed with the adoption if they go to Florida, but Cameron
would have to stay in Panama until the waiting period expired.  Adoption
agencies that handle foreign placements say the law is so new that they do not
yet know which countries are affected. The State Department is compiling a list
of the countries that do not make a distinction between legitimate and
illegitimate birth, said Linda Perilstein, executive director of the Cradle of
Hope Adoption Center, a private nonprofit group in Washington.

Ms. Perilstein criticized the new adoption rule as unnecessarily rigid and
prejudiced against countries that allow private adoptions.

"Agencies are really worried," she said. "In Central and South America, it could
affect thousands."

The immigration service and adoption agencies said they knew of only one other
case like that of the Cains, and it had a happy ending.

Deborah and Martin Goldstein of Fairfax, Va., had trouble getting their adopted
son, Matthew, out of Romania. The Goldsteins had to leave the toddler behind for
10 days in foster care until Oct. 27, when the immigration service granted the
boy humanitarian parole status. The boy has since joined the Goldsteins.

The Cains are hoping for humanitarian parole for their son, too, which would
allow him to stay with them in the United States during the two-year waiting
period.

Julie Macdonald, director of the International Social Service American Branch
Inc., said the new rule is another reason United States citizens must be
cautious when they try to adopt foreign babies.

"You would be astounded by the number of calls we get," Ms. Macdonald said.
"It's heartbreaking." Sergeant Cain says the Air Force briefed him on all United
States immigration rules before he took the adoption to the Panamanian courts
last spring. But he says no one told him when the rules changed. "We thought if
we were going to bring another life into this world, we would take one who was
already here and needed a home," Mr. Cain said. "We thought it would be easier."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: SPENDING;
Democratic Candidate for Governor Halts TV Ads

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 29;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Nov. 5


In the waning days of California's gubernatorial race, Kathleen Brown, the
Democratic candidate challenging Gov. Pete Wilson, has withdrawn her television
advertisements but denies that her campaign is running short on money.

Two television stations, KNBC in Los Angeles and KCRA in Sacramento, said on
Friday that Ms. Brown had canceled orders for advertisements over the campaign's
final weekend on their stations and other stations throughout California.

Mr. Wilson's spokesman, Dan Schnur, called the withdrawal "the tactical
equivalent of giving an early concession speech."

He said: "Kathleen Brown has essentially run up the white flag of surrender. For
all practical purposes, she's walked away from her campaign."

But Ms. Brown denied Friday that her campaign had run out of money. And her
campaign announced that as part of Ms. Brown's stepped up attacks on Proposition
187, the controversial measure that would strip undocumented immigrants of the
right to tax-supported benefits, new television ads were being prepared
denouncing Mr. Wilson for backing the initiative.

"I am just fine," Ms. Brown said after speaking at a Sacramento church. "I have
plenty of resources to carry me across the finish line to victory."

But she and her spokesman, Steve Glazer, sidestepped the question of how much
money remained in her bank account.

Mr. Glazer said the campaign had spent $75,000 for 375 time slots on cable
television to rebroadcast Ms. Brown's one-hour Oct. 14 debate with Governor
Wilson. He said other money was being diverted to grass-roots organizing efforts
and to the promotion of Ms. Brown's book detailing her economic plan.

"I've tried to break through the politics of 30-second spots," Ms. Brown said.
"I am strategically trying to continue my effort to reach the voters in
nontraditional ways. We're doing very well in spite of the fact we're being
outspent."

She cited a new statewide poll that showed her trailing Mr. Wilson by just four
percentage points, the narrowest gap in months.

The Political/Media Research Inc. poll also showed that Proposition 187, which a
month ago held a seemingly insurmountable 2-to-1 lead in polls, was now ahead by
a statistically insignificant margin of 45 percent to 44 percent among 815
registered voters. The poll was released Thursday by the television stations
KNBC in Los Angeles and KCRA in Sacramento, and on Friday by The San Francisco
Examiner.

Other polls still show Mr. Wilson and Proposition 187 well ahead.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Tightens Immigration, Emphasizing Wealth and Skills

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 5


Canada, which takes in more people per capita than any other industrialized
country, plans to reduce the number of immigrants it will admit next year, put
greater emphasis on their skills and wealth, and shift the financial burden for
insuring their welfare from taxpayers to the immigrants themselves.

The cutbacks, announced this week, would limit the number of new immigrants to
about 200,000 entries in 1995, down from the 230,000 projected for 1994 and
240,138 who arrived in 1993. That would represent a retreat from an election
pledge by the Liberal Government to set immigration at 1 percent of Canada's
population of 29 million.

The plans for a lower ceiling are partly a response to an election a year ago
that highlighted negative public perceptions about immigration. Reform Party
members, who made big gains in western Canada, blamed immigrants for part of the
rise in crime and strains on the social benefits system, and they called for
limiting immigration to 150,000 people a year.

Tougher immigration policies have already been adopted by most countries in
Western Europe. In the United States, wide attention has been drawn to
California's Proposition 187, a measure to be voted on Tuesday that would deny
education, social services and non-emergency health care to illegal immigrants.

Canadian immigration groups argue that Ottawa is not only breaking promises but
also reverting to polices that favor northern Europeans, as opposed to people
from Asia, the Caribbean and Eastern Europe, who now dominate immigrant rosters.

"We're very concerned that this is a regression policy," said Maria Shin,
executive director of the Canadian Ethnocultural Council, a coalition
representing more than 2,000 local ethnic organizations across Canada. "We see
it pandering to interests of the Reform Party. The political dynamics of this
country have shifted to the right."

Immigration groups particularly object to a main provision of the new plan that
would limit the number of people who would be permitted to live here under
family reunification rules. Kike Roach, a spokeswoman on immigration for the
National Action Committee on the Status of Women, said that provision
"negatively impacts women," because women mostly enter the country under the
family-class category.

They say it also penalizes Asians, who tend to bring in not only spouses and
children but parents, grandparents and other relatives.

Among the restrictions in the so-called family class category is a requirement
that immigrants post a bond guaranteeing that their relatives will not use
social assistance. The Government produced figures showing that immigrants take
up more than $500 million in welfare services each year.

Critics compare the bond requirement to a head tax ranging from $5 to $500 that
was used around the turn of the century to restrict Chinese immigration. Bernard
Valcourt, a Progressive Conservative who had served as Immigration Minister,
said the Government of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney had rejected such a bond
because of the hardships it would impose on immigrants and their relatives here.

Under its new policies, the Government projects that "family class" immigrants
will dip to 44 percent of all immigrants from 51 percent during the next five
years, while those with skills or money will rise to 55 percent from 43 percent.

The new program is intended to attract immigrants who can start businesses in
Canada or fill specialized jobs.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 8, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Works at Equality

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 459 words


To the Editor:

Your article on equal opportunity at the Immigration and Naturalization Service
("Black Officers in I.N.S. Push Racial Boundaries," Oct. 30) describes a
situation that we found just as disconcerting 18 months ago.

That is why the I.N.S., in April 1993, initiated a concerted effort to get to
the heart of the matter by appointing a task force composed of
middle-to-senior-level managers across a broad range of program areas. Within
three months, that task force presented 37 recommendations to insure that the
I.N.S. is a hospitable workplace where equal opportunity characterizes every
aspect of our personnel practices.

When I arrived one year ago, I quickly endorsed the recommendations of that
comprehensive report and, in my first official act as commissioner, established
an equal employment opportunity advisory council to the commissioner. Since
then, we have built a solid record of achievement to overcome historical
problems of African-American employment at the I.N.S. Some highlights thus far:

* Through a bottom-up, service-wide strategic planning initiative, the I.N.S.
has designated professionalism and diversity in the work force as one of nine
major strategic directions that must guide all planning and actions.

* In our two major recruiting campaigns for Border Patrol agents and asylum
officers in 1994, we hired 102 minorities and women, a 76 percent increase in
minority Border Patrol hiring over 1993. In hiring 237 asylum officers during
fiscal year 1994 and this fiscal year, we achieved employment of 81 (34 percent)
minorities (African-American, native American, Asian, Hispanic and women).

* During fiscal year 1994, we filled 601 positions at the GS-9 through
supervisory and managerial levels, with more than 73 percent members of
minorities and women. African-American employees filled 12 percent of the
positions.

* During the last year, all executives and senior managers have received
training in equal employment opportunity laws and principles, alternative
staffing procedures, manager accountability and cultural diversity. In
September, all chief patrol agents and district directors in our central region
received three days of cultural diversity training presented by the Defense
Equal Opportunity Management Institute.

Through this record of progress and my own convictions about fairness and equal
opportunity, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is confronting its
problems and correcting them. Although minorities represent one-third of our
employees, we recognize we must continue to insure full representation of
African-American employees in our work force.

DORIS MEISSNER
Commissioner, Immigration
and Naturalization Service
Washington, Nov. 1, 1994

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 9, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

HEALTH WATCH;
California Pregnancy Study Finds Healthier Outcomes for Refugees

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

SECTION: Section C;  Page 9;  Column 2;  National Desk;  Health Page

LENGTH: 231 words


SUPERIOR educations and higher family incomes do not necessarily result in
healthier pregnancies and healthier babies. A new study in San Diego County has
found that immigrants and refugees from Mexico and Southeast Asia have better
pregnancy results than native-born American women, despite their often extreme
poverty and difficulties adjusting to a foreign culture.

The researchers attributed their findings to characteristics of American life
that include unhealthy eating habits, weak social support and excessive use of
alcohol and drugs. The findings were presented last week at the annual meeting
of the American Public Health Association in Washington by Dr. Ruben G. Rumbaut,
a sociologist at Michigan State University in East Lansing.

In examining differences among the various groups of women, Dr. Rumbaut and his
collaborator, Dr. John Weeks, director of the International Population Center at
San Diego State University, found that native-born women tended to gain more
weight during their pregnancies, had more abortions and fewer live births and
ate fewer fruits and vegetables but more fats and milk products. They also had
higher rates of sexually transmitted and pelvic diseases, experienced more
psychosocial difficulties, including marital discord and abuse, and were more
likely to smoke cigarettes, drink alcohol and abuse drugs.   JANE E. BRODY

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 13, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BRONX PARK EAST -- The Way They Were: Old Comrades
(Re)unite;
'Coopniks' Toast Bronx Memories

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 12;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 650 words


Once upon a time, from the 1920's to 1940's, there flourished a proletarian
utopia called the Allerton Coops in the East Bronx.

It was built by Eastern European Jewish immigrant trade-unionists, and only
those who earned their livings by "the sweat of their brows" could live here.
Bosses -- blood-suckers, in Coopspeak -- were not welcome.

In the Coops (pronounced Koops), a 700-unit Tudor-style complex along Bronx Park
East, you could not be evicted because you owed rent.

In the Coops, people addressed one another as "Comrades," and children took the
day off from school and marched in the May Day parade in red kerchief in Union
Square. Instead of Boy Scouts, they joined the Young Communist Group and Young
Pioneers League and counted Karl Marx, Joe Hill and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn among
their heroes.

But the fairy tale ended after World War II, when the Coops ran out of money and
"succumbed" to private ownership. Since then, the complex has gone through a
succession of capitalist landlords.

Today, the Coops is owned by Allerton Associates in Garden City, L.I., and there
are only a handful of the old-timers left. It is a working-class, racially mixed
neighborhood. Some tenants said that until recently, there was a lot of drug
trafficking. Plaster is falling off the ceilings, mailboxes are ripped out.
Garbage is piled in the streets.

Last Saturday, 500 former Coopniks gathered in the auditorium of Aging in
America, a social-services agency near the Coops. And although time has
discredited much of the ideology of their youth, the enthusiasm was no less
genuine. Surrounded by revolutionary cartoons and old photographs, they greeted
one another warmly, hugs and kisses interrupted only by nibbles of corn chips.

They sang songs. Accompanied by a folk singer, Jerry Silverman, a choir group
belted out "Joe Hill" and "Solidarity Forever."

It has been 50 years since many of them lived there, but most have not forgotten
their old friends.

"Oh my gosh, it's Toudy," gasped Sam Feldman as he saw Irving Goldstein. "I knew
you when you had more hair."

"And I knew you when you were younger," Mr. Goldstein shot back.

The people told stories of growing up in the Coops, of the stigma attached to
being a Coopnik in the schools and in the neighborhood. Teachers did not always
appreciate youngsters spreading socialist ideology. The police could be rough.
Because of this, the Coopniks formed a close bond among themselves.

Many said the Coops was like a "giant family." Resources were pooled. No one
ever went hungry.

But there were times when some felt the ideological zeal went too far. Carl
Abrams said he stayed away from the most aggressive Coopniks after seeing them
harshly denounce a woman for associating with another political faction.

"They had the answers to everything," Mr. Abrams said. "They accused people of
not being communist enough. I snapped back."

Most say they eventually became disillusioned with Communism -- and the former
Soviet Union -- after acknowledging that they had been misled. After leaving the
Coops, many became doctors, teachers and social workers, but they remained
active in causes like the anti-war and civil-rights movements.

Still, some find it difficult to accept the failure of Communism and can't bring
themselves to call the former Soviet Union Russia.

"Theoretically, Communism seemed so solid," Mr. Abrams said.

Now, they are banding together to help the current tenants fight the owners, who
they said were negligent in maintenance. (Management says the buildings'
landmark status makes it difficult for renovations.) The Coopniks also found a
pro-bono lawyer to defend a youth charged in an armed robbery.

"The Coops were on the side of the angels," Mr. Abrams said. "It wasn't about
Communism. It was about what we thought Communism would bring to people. We
didn't know it couldn't."   JANE H. LII

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Allerton Coops in the late 1930's, when it was a community
of trade unionists, socialists and communists. Today, a hammer and sickle over
an entrance, below, is a reminder of those times. (Chris Maynard for The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 18, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Refugees Get Visas

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;   Page 22;   Column 4;   National Desk

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: PANAMA CITY, Nov. 17


Thirty-nine Cuban refugees held at American internment camps in Panama were
flown to the Florida today and granted visas, officials said.

The 18 men, 15 women and 6 orphaned children were part of a plan to allow
elderly, sick or orphaned Cuban refugees in the camps to enter the United
States, United States military officials said. On Wednesday, the United States
also granted visas and flew four Cuban refugees to Texas, officials said,
because they were too sick to be treated in Panama. The United States has about
8,700 Cubans in camps near the Panama Canal. The Federal Government, which has
intercepted and detained the refugees since last summer, has denied entry to
most, saying the refugees must return to Cuba and apply for legal immigration.


REUTER
Reut14:44 11-17 1/3 1/3

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Extended Family Of Immigrants Mourns Victims Of Van Accident

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 799 words


Balbir Singh's family left the Indian state of Punjab in the kind of serial
migration that has been an article of faith for immigrants to the United States
for more than a century. First came his brother-in-law, then his sister and her
son, and then, in 1989, Mr. Singh.

Looking for economic opportunity and an escape from the civil strife in Punjab,
they settled together in Flushing, Queens, and became part of the Sikh community
whose life revolves around a temple in the Richmond Hill neighborhood. Mr. Singh
delivered newspapers until two years ago, when his sister, Kulwant Singh, got
him a job at the National Wholesale Liquidators Store where she worked, in
Bethpage, L.I. He quickly rose to assistant manager, and frequently drove a
company-owned van in which other store employees who lived in Queens rode to
work in a car pool.

On Saturday morning, at age 31, Balbir Singh died behind the wheel of that 1987
Ford Club Wagon van, in an accident that also claimed the lives of two of his
co-workers and injured 13 others. All of the victims were from India or Pakistan
and most were, like Mr. Singh, from Punjab, which for years has been riven by
conflict between Sikhs and Hindus.

One victim, who died at Mary Immaculate Hospital, was identified yesterday by a
hospital spokesman as Surinderpal Madhar, and the Chief Medical Examiner's
Office identified the third as Iqbal Singh, 23. It was not clear yesterday
whether Iqbal Singh was related to Balbir Singh, but Singh, which means lion, is
part of the name of many Sikhs.

At the Gurdwara Sikh Temple in Richmond Hill, Sukhbir Singh, a temple spokesman,
said yesterday that nearly all of the 16 people who were in the van were members
of the tight-knit temple. "They work six days a week and come to temple every
Sunday," he said. "Every time we do anything for our community, they help. We
belong to each other."

Iqbal Singh and Surinderpal Madhar often worked in the temple kitchen, cooking
meals for newly arrived Punjabis, and donated money to the temple, he said.

He said that three Rajijathain, high priests from the Golden Temple in Punjab,
the heart of the Sikh religion, were on their way to Queens for a memorial
service to be held at the Richmond Hill temple today at 10 A.M. Sikhism is a
monotheistic religion that blends elements of Islam and Hinduism. Its male
adherents traditionally wear turbans and ceremonial swords, and many serve in
the Indian military.

One of the injured, Jaqir Singh, 30, was a farmer in Punjab until he emigrated
in 1985. He lives in an apartment in Jamaica, Queens, with several other young
Sikh men. A friend, Parmjit Singh, said Jaqir Singh's goal was "to save money,
bring his wife and family here and have everybody together."

His wife is on her way to the United States, but rather than embarking on a
hopeful new life, she will be going to her husband's bedside at Jamaica
Hospital, where he is in critical condition with severe head wounds.

Many of the victims got their jobs through a network that has been a hallmark of
Indian immigrants, producing concentrations in such businesses as gas stations
and truck companies.

Neil Rosen, vice president of National Wholesale Liquidators, based in West
Hempstead, L.I., said that when the first of the chain's 12 discount stores
opened in 1984, one of the first people hired was a Punjabi man. "He brought in
his cousins, his brothers, everyone," he said. "It seems there are always people
from the Indian subcontinent coming in, looking for work, and they seem to bring
each other in."

Balbir Singh, who was single, found a home of sorts at the store, where nearly
all the employees are from India. "He loved his job, all the workers, all the
employees," said Kulwant Singh, who no longer works at the store. "He was a very
hard worker."

Balbir Singh helped his nephew, Sundeep Singh, 18, a student at Aviation High
School, get a part-time job there, and the teen-ager was in the van when it
crashed. He suffered head injuries. Yesterday, at Long Island Jewish Hospital,
Sundeep Singh, in a daze, a purple bruise covering much of his face, leaned his
head against his mother's shoulder as she wept for her dead brother.

At the National Wholesale Liquidators store in Bethpage, in a strip mall across
the street from a former Grumman plant, stunned employees yesterday went numbly
through the routine of arranging displays of plastic Santas and boxes of
cookware.

Mr. Rosen said the employees were distraught when the store opened yesterday
morning. "So I closed the doors, and brought them all together and told them
that we're family, and everybody had tears in their eyes, including me," he
said. "These people are not of my same hemisphere or my religion, but you work
with people for years, and it's family."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashor Thakur, second from right, the manager of the National
Wholesale Liquidators Store in Bethpage, L.I., talks with his workers and
workers brought from Baldwin and West Hempstead to help out. (Steve Berman for
The New York Times)(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Federal Judge Permits Entry of Haitian-Refugee Children

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 22


A Federal judge ruled today that Haitian children detained in the United States
Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay should be allowed into the United States in the
same way that Cuban-refugee children were.

The decision by Judge C. Clyde Atkins of Federal District Court here affects 231
unaccompanied Haitians under age 18 who have been in the Guantanamo refugee
camps since the summer.

Although Cuban children are also held in the camps, the Clinton Administration
last month began allowing those who were under 18 and alone to enter the country
on humanitarian grounds; another 3,000 children are expected to be brought to
the United States with their families.

In a lawsuit against the Government, advocates for the Haitian refugees said the
policy toward Haitian children discriminated against them on the basis of race
and national origin.

"This has nothing to do with immigration; it has to do with equal protection
under the law," said Steve Forester, the supervising lawyer for the Haitian
Refugee Center, which had asked the court to change the policy.

"You can't give a right to one group and then deny it to another, equally
situated group."

Justice Department officials had no comment on today's ruling, saying it was
being reviewed. But lawyers for the department have argued that different
treatment is justified for Haitians because the return from exile of President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide means that Haitians no longer face persecution at home.

Mr. Forester disputed that assertion. "Conditions in Haiti are still extremely
poor, and it's going to take at least six months to a year to see if there's
going to be a significant reduction in street-level repression," he said.

The ruling was the latest chapter in efforts by exile groups and advocates for
refugees to win the release of thousands of Cubans and Haitians detained at
Guantanamo since American authorities intercepted them as they fled their
respective countries for the United States.

About 30,000 Cubans have been held at Guantanamo and in Panama since last
summer, when the Clinton Administration reversed a longstanding United States
policy of summarily granting entry to people fleeing the Communist government of
Fidel Castro and instead began detaining them.

About 20,000 Haitians have been detained since late June and early July, but
most have returned to Haiti since President Aristide's return in October, and
about 6,000 remain at Guantanamo.

Late last month, the Haitian Refugee Center joined a lawsuit in which
Cuban-American lawyers successfully sought the right to meet in the camps with
Cubans who were contemplating voluntary repatriation. Today's ruling was in
response to the Haitian center's motion seeking, in addition to the children's
parole to the United States, legal counsel for Haitian refugees in detention.

In his ruling, Judge Clyde ordered the Federal Government to give lawyers from
the Haitian Refugee Center access in the camps to Haitians who files written
requests for counsel.

He also ordered the Government to provide the center with the names of all
Haitian refugees in Guantanamo Bay; the center is then to pass the names on to
relatives or lawyers who request them.

Judge Clyde's decision does not include the 1,588 Haitian children who are in
the camps with their families. But Cuban-exile groups in Florida say that, in
urging the release of Cuban children, they have told Federal officials that they
will also raise money to transport and relocate the Haitian children.

"We've been pressing the Administration for the solution of the problem of all
the children in Guantanamo," said the president of the Cuban American National
Foundation, Francisco Hernandez. "We don't believe children should be behind
barbed wire."

Since the White House announced last month that unaccompanied Cuban-refugee
children under 18, as well as elderly people and those with urgent medical
needs, would be granted entry, 319 Cubans have been flown to the United States
from Guantanamo. These humanitarian-parole flights are continuing.

Clinton Administration officials have also said that there are plans to release
and bring to the United States all Cuban minors and their families, a group
estimated at 8,000 to 10,000, although no date has been given for when those
releases will begin.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 26, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Salvadorans May Lose Status as Refugees

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,      Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;     Page 11;     Column 4;     National Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25


Reflecting the nation's toughening attitude toward immigrants, the Clinton
Administration is leaning toward ending a program that has granted temporary
protection to almost 200,000 Salvadorans who fled civil war.

Administration officials said today that a final decision was expected within
two weeks. They said that if the protected status ended, the Salvadorans would
have two options: return home or apply for political asylum or some other
permanent status.

These officials said that the Administration's tilt toward ending the
Salvadorans' temporary status had little to do with anti-immigrant pressures,
most prominently the California ballot measure passed by voters on Nov. 8,
Proposition 187, which would deny most government benefits to illegal
immigrants. Rather, they say, any such decision would reflect the greater
stability in El Salvador now that the fighting and intimidation there have
abated.

One official said, however, that these pressures had to be factored into the
decision, which he called a "done deal."

Advocates for the refugees say the violence and assassinations surrounding the
elections in El Salvador in March, in which 33 leftist opponents of the
Government were killed, demonstrate that many refugees will be in danger if they
are forced to return home. Lawyers for the refugees are threatening litigation
to prevent deportations of any of the 187,000 Salvadorans with protected status.

Congress voted to create the temporary-protected-status program in 1990 with an
eye to the Salvadorans' plight. President George Bush extended their temporary
status in 1992 and President Clinton did likewise last year, but that status is
due to expire on Dec. 31. Under this legislation, refugees are allowed to live
and work legally in the United States, but cannot become permanent residents.

Cutting off the Salvadorans' temporary status would not affect other groups,
including thousands of Soviet Jews and Vietnamese, who were allowed into the
United States as emergency refugees.

The deliberations about ending the Salvadorans' temporary status were first
reported on Thursday in The Washington Post.

Administration officials who want to end the Salvadorans' temporary status say
it is important for the Administration to show that it is not so soft on
immigration that it allows a temporary program to slip automatically into
permanent residence.

"We regard temporary protection as an important humanitarian tool to provide
people with relief when they really need it," said one Administration specialist
on refugee matters. "But our ability to maintain strong bipartisan support for
temporary protection means that when extraordinary conditions, like the
situation in El Salvador, change, these temporary programs can come to an end."

Several officials said they began looking into ending the Salvadorans' temporary
status early last summer, well before Proposition 187 captured the nation's
attention.

Arthur Helton, direction of migration programs for the Open Society Institute,
an advocacy and research center in New York, said today that even if Proposition
187 was not explicitly discussed, it would influence the decision.

"Clearly the ungenerous climate concerning immigrants will be a key factor in
any determination," he said. "If the arrangement for Salvadorans is ended, it is
likely to be another victim of raging anti-immigrant sentiments."

Administration officials say that there will not be large-scale deportations of
Salvadorans if their temporary status is revoked. The refugees will be given
several months to continue working as they make arrangements to return home,
these officials said.

"There is no plan for mass deportations or roundups," one official said.
"Everyone understands the need to insure that we prevent undue hardship and
abrupt actions. No one will be left out in the cold."

Some officials say only a fraction of the Salvadorans may eventually be sent
home because many might still be granted political asylum. In addition, under
American immigration law, temporary residents who have been in the United States
for seven years can apply for permanent residence on the grounds that being
deported would cause an extreme hardship to them or to a family member who is a
permanent resident or an American citizen.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 27, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

PHOTOGRAPHY VIEW;
From Diversity Come Struggles

BYLINE: By Vicki Goldberg

SECTION: Section 2;  Page 39;  Column 1;  Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1480 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING THAT EVERYONE who is not an American Indian is an
immigrant or the descendant of one, so it can scarcely be denied that this
country has been immeasurably enriched by the diverse groups of people that have
populated it.

Think of the artists who have been immigrants: Albert Bierstadt, Thomas Cole,
Arshile Gorky, Willem de Kooning and Louise Bourgeois, among others, and among
photographers, Timothy O'Sullivan, Eadweard Muybridge, Jacob Riis (who was so
poor at one point that he lived on the street), Robert Frank. These few came
from the acceptable places -- Great Britain, northern and central Europe
(although Gorky, an Armenian, barely qualified) -- and made their way up
mainstream paths.

The nationalities that came here in force after the liberalized Immigration Act
of 1965 decided (or realized) that they had to fight not only the usual artists'
battles but battles for ethnic recognition and inclusion as well. Their struggle
has occasionally widened art history's embrace and has persistently raised
difficult questions.

"American Voices/Latino Photography in the U.S." at Fotofest, the big biennial,
international photography fair in Houston (through Wednesday), fits the bill. A
huge survey (more than 700 pictures by 39 photographers) directed by Latinos, it
is made up of three shows, devoted to the three largest Latino groups in this
country: Mexican-American (Robert C. Buitron and Kathy Vargas, curators), Puerto
Rican (Charles Biasiny-Rivera, curator) and Cuban-American (Ricardo Viera,
curator). They are all bicultural, but technically Puerto Ricans are not
immigrants. They were first granted citizenship in 1917.

This is a vigorous show, far from perfect, with little that will make you snap
to attention but plenty of energy, work not often seen on the circuit, and much
worth looking at. Even so, I hope such shows will soon prove themselves luxuries
rather than necessities. History and surveys are useful, but it would be nice to
think this work could be viewed as art first and Latino only afterward.

Although the work was born of a diaspora, displacement is by no means the
central concern of many of the photographers. If Arturo Cuenca's photo-based
painting of a ship sinking beneath a large wing, with a metal pipe standing
before it on the floor, refers to Cuba at all, the reference is highly obscure.
Adal's elusive, off-balance scenarios depend on Surrealism much more obviously
than on Puerto Rico.

Victor Vasquez's unsettling mixed-media images of hands pierced by nails and
surrounded by crowns of thorns are reactions to AIDS. Tony Mendoza's photographs
of his family and the story of his late marriage and the recent onset of chronic
illness go beyond national borders. Laura Aguilar's "Clothed/Unclothed" series
suggests the double outsider status of gay Chicanos and Chicanas; Ricardo
Zulueta's image of two nude men reading The New York Times on the subway is
definitely not a bicultural statement.

The relations of reporters to their material can be harder to decipher. Jack
Delano, born in Russia, did solid documentary work in Puerto Rico in the 40's,
resembling nothing so much as his solid documentary work in the United States in
the 30's. More recently, Sandra Reus made a tough and amusing report of the Miss
Legs of Gold and the Miss Cinnamon Skin pageants. Did her background give her
better access? Possibly.

Others use their art to address their dual heritage directly. Hector Mendez
Caratini's startlingly high-colored photographs of Puerto Rican masqueraders
amount to portraits of masks. Maria Martinez-Canas explores her relationship to
Cuba in prints based on Cuban stamps, Annie Lopez pokes bittersweet fun at
stereotypes -- a sexy woman in a strapless bra above the caption "Really
Mexican!" -- and some of Juan Sanchez's montaged images deal with the struggle
for Puerto Rican independence.

So what is the lesson about Latino photographers? Mainly that there is talent
among them, and almost as many approaches as exist on the pluralistic art scene
among non-Latinos (a new demographic category). In fact this is one of the
strong messages of this show: that the riotous individuality of artists
everywhere may be more to the point than cultural similarities.

A related message comes across in a different language in a good show organized
by Monica Chau at the Houston Center of Photography, "Picturing Asia America:
Communities, Culture, Difference" (through Dec. 23). It includes people of Thai,
Vietnamese, Filipino, Chinese, Indian, Japanese and mixed-race ancestry; "Asia"
is a big umbrella. Smaller and tighter than "American Voices," this exhibition
puts together photographers who, though their approaches differ markedly, are
all grappling in some way with issues of identity.

THE QUESTION OF NATIONAL IDENTITY has come up repeatedly in American history:
when we split from the English, when the North fought the South, when the
Government imprisoned second- and third-generation Japanese-Americans in World
War II. Recent history has added the question of sexual identity, the new
bicultural consciousness and a heightened awareness of the power of
representation to fix identities in other people's minds.

In "American Voices," origins range over not only three geographical areas but
also over varying colonial histories vis-a-vis the United States and varying
relationships to the home country. Martinez-Canas left Cuba at the age of three
months and has never returned; Cuenca came here only a couple of years ago,
after establishing his career on the island. But whatever these photographers'
stance on assimilation, it's a good bet that they want their work to be seen in
mainstream circumstances.

This show gives them a chance, which is useful enough, as there have not been
many such, or much study of this work. Despite the boom in Latin American art in
the United States during the 80's, few universities teach Latin American or
Latino art history, which means that very few curators or critics have much
knowledge or background. A few museums, like the Museo del Barrio in New York,
the Mexican Fine Arts Center in Chicago, the Mexican Museum in San Francisco and
the Guadalupe Cultural Arts Center in San Antonio show Latin American and Latino
art. But though these places do an important and possibly indispensable job,
they preach mainly to their own congregations or to the already converted.

Translating success in an ethnic community into success in the mainstream
culture is no simple matter, as "Crossover Dreams," the 1985 film about a salsa
musician, made vividly clear. But the art establishment, by no stretch of the
imagination an equal-opportunity employer, has at least recognized a few Latino
photographers and artists. Andres Serrano has a wide national reputation,
assisted by the dubious distinction of having run afoul of the National
Endowment for the Arts not once but twice. The Guggenheim Museum will mount a
survey of Felix Gonzalez-Torres's work in February.

Neither is at Fotofest, but some who are have been prominently featured in
recent New York shows: Martina Lopez (as well as Osamu James Nakagawa in
"Picturing Asia America") was in "Metamorphoses: Photography in the Electronic
Age" at the Fashion Institute of Technology; Abelardo Morell is in the "New
Photography" show at the Museum of Modern Art, and Ana Mendieta has a one-person
show at Gallery Lelong. This does not sound like mere tokenism.

Insistence on full attention for every ethnic group has its drawbacks. There's
the ghetto factor: one ghetto for Latinos, another for Asian-Americans, a third
for blacks and a fourth for women, all of whom deserve to be seen by society as
artists first and foremost. There's the divisive factor, with art, once so
powerful a force for community, insisting on separation. And there's the
mushroom factor, with interest groups sprouting in any old corner, and some of
them proving poisonous.

THE ISSUE HAS ALMOST AS many facets as a prism and is not easily resolved into a
simple shape. Even the terms tend to be contentious. Chicano is a political
designation; Hispanic is disliked by many, Latino by others. Whatever these
photographers and artists are called, they deserve a good look, and if the only
way they can get it is by a little affirmative action or a show of their own,
they have my vote. Many of us can use the education.

Still, the art comes first, and it had better have punch or depth or moxie on
its own before the nationality of its maker is taken into account. The fact that
several people in "American Voices" have turned up so recently in shows that
make no reference to multiculturalism and no apparent concessions to it proves
that some of this photography is wandering loose in the mainstreams of art, and
that immigrants are still making meaningful contributions to the culture.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Halloween," by Tony Mendoza, at Fotofest in Houston -- It
would be nice to view the work as art first and Latino afterward. (Fotofest
'94)(pg. 41); "A Threat and a Promise" by Adal, part of "American Voices/Latino
Photography in the U.S." (pg. 39)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 27, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WORD & IMAGE;
The Shroud

BYLINE: By MAX FRANKEL

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 42;   Column 3;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words


A GREAT SHROUD has been drawn across the mind of America to make it forget that
there is a world beyond its borders. Except when showing "Star Trek" or some
imitation, the three main television networks obsessively focus their cameras on
domestic tales and dramas, as if the end of the cold war rendered the rest of
the planet irrelevant. Their news staffs occasionally visit some massacre,
famine or shipwreck and their star anchors may parachute into Haiti or Kuwait
for a photo op, but these spasms of interest only emphasize the networks'
apparent belief that on most evenings the five billion folks out there don't
matter one whit.

Midst all the agitation about immigrants in California and Texas, have you seen
even one good report on the 23 million refugees roaming the globe? Or the
response to immigrants in Germany or, if it could be found, Canada? After all
the hype given to Charles Murray's portentous I.Q. alarm, did you catch even a
single network asking what other societies think about intelligence tests? Or
what they've learned about the relationship between talent and economic growth?

Americans who grew up with the trauma of Vietnam have heard virtually nothing
about Vietnamese society since the war or about Vietnam's discovery, like
Russia's and China's, that our vaunted market system corrupts even as it
enriches. Not a peep anywhere about the economic boomlet in India, whose
progress Americans once judged to be a challenge for democracy. Hardly a glimpse
of South Africa since Nelson Mandela's triumph, as if Americans had no
conceivable interest in black-white societies. No TV viewer keeping normal hours
could learn that Latin America has largely abandoned military rule and
repression, restructured a decade of devastating debt (to American banks!) and
elected a cast of reform-minded leaders.

Some people might argue that none of this matters now that the fear of war has
evaporated, now that no Russians compete for influence in Indonesia and no
hostile forces rule in Ethiopia. But do other peoples offer Americans only the
competitions of war and trade? Is there nothing to be learned about how the
Swedes and French care for their elderly? How Italy, the Pope's home, deals with
abortion? How Brazilians handle drug addiction?

IT TAKES NO JOURNALISTIC genius to propose these story ideas; I've culled most
of them from one week's Economist, Time and Newsweek. Telling those stories in
interesting, even dramatic, ways is no more difficult than explaining the pros
and cons of a balanced-budget amendment or of admitting DNA evidence in a
criminal trial. What's been lost at the television networks is perspective on
the world, the passion to learn, to explore, to employ the educational force of
the camera.

And money to do the job.

The Fox network seems content to operate without much national or foreign news.
It lives by the standards of its creator, Rupert Murdoch, who gives no sign in
any of his media ventures that he regards communication as a calling.

Ted Turner, who does, struggles to stretch his all-news Cable News Network
around the globe. But the journalism that he can afford is constrained by his
small share of television's audience and advertising.

So America still depends on ABC, CBS, NBC and their affiliates, which have been
draining advertising dollars from magazines and newspapers for decades without
investing nearly enough in reporting. They've killed the weekly brilliance of a
Life and other magazines and destroyed the competition that invigorated urban
dailies. And now the networks are diverting still more millions of dollars from
reporting to gossip and blather.

Obviously, the quest for mass audiences that TV advertisers demand has always
put a premium on entertainment. But the prior generation of TV moguls, who
created the networks, grudgingly acknowledged that their great power -- and the
Federal monitors of that power -- imposed an obligation to render public
service. They paid their dues with large, costly news departments and a fitful
schedule of superb documentaries.

Today, each network pretends to "cover" the world with seven or eight full-time
correspondents; none of them breathe the air of South America and few ever tour
Asia or Africa. For filler, they buy footage from foreign networks and
part-timers. To be sure, when American troops are sent abroad and when the
President sojourns at a colorful (or comfortable) foreign summit, the great
anchors -- Jennings, Rather and Brokaw -- can be found reading the nightly news
from a distant beach or rooftop. But their customarily swift return pronounces
even those foreign stories instantly dead. (Heard much from Haiti lately?)

The corporate chairmen who preside over the networks surely think of themselves
as worldly citizens. But there is no evidence that Thomas S. Murphy of Capital
Cities/ABC, John F. Welch Jr. of General Electric (NBC) and Laurence A. Tisch of
CBS have ever challenged their broadcasters to spend an extra few hours or
dollars to enlarge the perspective of their audiences. When they do give the
news division a prime-time hour -- usually after entertainment has failed to
outdraw a competing show -- they insist on a "magazine" of marginal
investigations and trivial features whose main appeal at headquarters is that it
can be produced for less than a sitcom.

ARE NEWSPAPERS any better? Not many. USA Today, which proclaims itself a model
for the future, normally devotes more space to the United States weather map
than to all foreign news. The New York Times reserves prime space for the
reports of three dozen full-time correspondents abroad; The Los Angeles Times
maintains almost as many. The Washington Post fields a foreign team of 24; so
does The Wall Street Journal (plus 60 more on the roster of its European and
Asian editions). The Christian Science Monitor and The Chicago Tribune each
still keep a dozen reporters overseas. But given the networks' modest effort,
America's picture of the planet is painted by a total of only 400 American
correspondents, including those from news magazines and wire services, plus a
few hundred foreign nationals assisting them.

That leaves too many people depending upon the eyes of too few. And what
journalism neglects, politics will inevitably ignore. A shallow understanding of
the world will damage the nation's sense of itself, its commerce and its
standard of living and may blind it to even greater threats. Will Americans end
this century more isolationist than when it began?

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 1, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

10 Immigrant Journalists Slain in U.S. Since '81, Report Says

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 579 words


Ten immigrant journalists have been killed in the United States because of their
reporting since 1981 but only two of the cases have been solved, a committee of
American journalists said in a report yesterday.

The Committee to Protect Journalists, a nonprofit organization that gets much of
its money from large United States news organizations, labeled the killings
assassinations and said they were "specifically intended to smother fact finding
and silence dissent."

The report by the committee described the killings of Vietnamese, Haitian,
Chinese-American and Cuban-American journalists working for ethnic publications
and radio stations. "These journalists had fled repression and turmoil in their
native countries only to find death in America for openly expressing their
political views," it said.

The report said journalists working for ethnic news organizations in the United
States were routinely subjected to intimidation, death threats, beatings, and
arson that were part of organized terror campaigns by military or criminal
organizations or foreign governments.

In 1993, a Haitian radio broadcaster in Miami who was a supporter of President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide was shot to death while attending a benefit concert for
the family of one of two other broadcasters who had been killed two years
earlier. In 1987, a Vietnamese journalist in Houston found the body of a dog on
his driveway with a note threatening the reporter's life.

Because of poor coordination and a lack of information about immigrants,
law-enforcement agencies and United States news organizations have often given
the killings low priority, the report said.

The committee called on Attorney General Janet Reno to investigate the killings.
Kati Marton, the chairwoman of the committee, said Ms. Reno had been sympathetic
when representatives of the committee met with her several weeks ago.

Ms. Marton said the killings would have drawn more notice if the slain
journalists had been working for English-language news organizations. "I have a
feeling," she said, "that we don't consider non-English-language media of quite
the same import as English media, despite the fact that we are a nation of
immigrants and some of the bravest reporting is being done by these
non-English-language media."

Carl Stern, the Attorney General's spokesman, said the Justice Department would
review the committee's report. He added that Ms. Reno was aware of the situation
and that "there is a higher level of action than this committee may be aware
of."

The committee, which usually works on the dangers facing journalists in other
countries, said its attention was drawn to the problems of ethnic journalists in
the United States after the killing of Manuel de Dios Unanue, a Cuban-American
journalist in New York City, in 1992. A teen-ager was convicted of the killing,
which prosecutors said was ordered by a leader of the Cali, Colombia, drug
cartel who wanted to stop Mr. de Dios's exposes.

The report also describes the killings of the three Haitian radio hosts in
Miami. Each led Creole-language programs that criticized Haiti's military
government. On Nov. 18, the Miami police arrested a 24-year-old man of Haitian
descent and charged him with what they said was the 1991 murder-for-hire of two
of the broadcasters. The person accused of the third killing in 1993 is awaiting
trial. But the report concluded that the men who ordered the killings have not
yet been charged.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 1994, Friday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about killings of immigrant journalists in the United
States included an erroneous date, supplied by an official of the Committee to
Protect Journalists, for a meeting between Attorney General Janet Reno and a
representative of the committee. A committee official said yesterday that the
meeting occurred in March, not several weeks ago.


                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 2, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 61 words


An article yesterday about killings of immigrant journalists in the United
States included an erroneous date, supplied by an official of the Committee to
Protect Journalists, for a meeting between Attorney General Janet Reno and a
representative of the committee. A committee official said yesterday that the
meeting occurred in March, not several weeks ago.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 2, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Man Held for Practicing Dentistry Without Degree or License

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: BRENTWOOD, L.I., Dec. 1


Over the last four years, Gilberto Cordova drilled and filled and cared for the
teeth of more than 100 patients, most of them fellow immigrants from El
Salvador. But the police said today he did it without a degree or license to
practice dentistry.

"He provided a full range of dental services, everything from new bridges and
crowns to root canal," said Detective Lieut. Gerard Pelkofsky of the Suffolk
County police.

Mr. Cordova's illegal practice is an example of an underground network that
serves Suffolk's growing population of Central and South American immigrants. It
is a network that provides services with no language barriers and no questions
about alien status, the police and advocates for Latino immigrants said.

"Dental and medical care is a big problem for them," said Patrick Young, program
director for the Central American Refugee Center, an advocacy and service
organization in Hempstead. "They have no idea how things work in this country so
they go where their friends go and where people speak their language."

Mr. Cordova's illegal practice came to light a week ago when a patient who had
had root canal work developed an infection and had to have several teeth
extracted by a licensed dentist, the police said.

The patient, a native of El Salvador, complained to the police, who found that
Mr. Cordova had attended dental school in El Salvador but had never earned a
degree in dentistry and was never granted a license to practice dentistry.

Lieutenant Pelkofsky said detectives raided Mr. Cordova's split-level brick and
aluminum-sided home here at 81 Adams Street at 8:50 P.M. on Wednesday and found
a complete dental office on the lower floor.

Mr. Cordova, 47, and his wife, Rosa, 42, who worked as his receptionist and
dental assistant, were charged with the unlawful practice of dentistry. Both
were given desk appearance summonses and are to appear in First District Court
in Central Islip on Jan. 17.

Lieutenant Pelkofsky said the Cordovas faced other possible charges, including
the violation of environmental laws in disposing of X-ray film and other items,
and failure to use procedures necessary to prevent the spread of the AIDS virus.

The police said that Mr. Cordova's father and brothers were all practicing
dentists in El Salvador and that his son was a student at the New York
University School of Dentistry.

At one time in Central America, it was not uncommon for some dentists to work
without formal degrees. Typically, they learned their trade as apprentices to
other dentists.

Mr. Cordova had worked as a technician at a dental laboratory on Long Island
until two years ago, when he quit to work full time at his growing dental
practice, the police said.

The shades were drawn at the Cordova home this afternoon and telephone calls
went answered. The mailman made a delivery shortly after noon as two young men,
one of whom was described by a neighbor as Mr. Cordova's son, entered the house.
Both declined to comment.

Maria Hernandez, who lives around the corner on Jackson Avenue with her sister
and brother-in-law -- all Salvadoran immigrants -- said her sister had been a
patient of Mr. Cordova's.

"I can't believe he is not a real dentist," Ms. Hernandez said. "My sister had
no problems with him. He and his wife were always very nice to us."

Mr. Young of the Central American Refugee Center said that an estimated 85,000
Salvadoran immigrants live on Long Island, of which 35,000 live in Suffolk. The
largest concentration, or about 5,000, live in modest single-family homes and
apartments in Brentwood, he said.

Most Salvadoran men are legal aliens, he said, while many of the women and
children tended to be illegal aliens.

"Finding good professional health care and legal advice is a difficult problem
for Latino immigrants," he said. "There have been many cases involving people
who have taken advantage of Salvadorans and their problems with immigration.
This case with a dentist points out the need for better educating the
Salvadorans about medical services available to them."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gilberto Cordova

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 2, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Exiles Raise Cash To Resettle New Refugees

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 1


Frustrated over Government delays in releasing Cuban refugee families held in
detention camps at the Guantanamo naval base in Cuba and in Panama, Cuban exile
groups are getting pledges to privately finance the transportation and
resettlement of about 8,000 refugees in this country.

The money would also pay for schooling for more than 2,000 children.

Representatives of an ad hoc committee that has been pressing the Clinton
Administration to release the families said they undertook the effort because
they feared that costs of illegal immigration in Florida and an anti-immigrant
mood in the country have delayed for weeks a Federal announcement on when the
refugees could come to the United States. That announcement is now scheduled for
Friday by Justice Department officials, an Administration official said.

"They're very generous," the official said of the Cuban-Americans' offer to
underwrite the relocation. But the official added, "This is not going to turn on
whether it's a burden to the state, but on humanitarian concerns."

But the cost factor has been an issue for Gov. Lawton Chiles, who has sued the
Federal Government to get it to pay expenses associated with illegal immigration
into Florida. Mr. Chiles ran for re-election, and won, stressing his success in
keeping more than 30,000 Cuban refugees away from Florida last fall.

To appease the Governor and Federal officials worried about anti-immigrant
sentiment elsewhere, Cubans in South Florida have been lining up help in the
past few weeks to avoid a drain on public money.

They said they already had commitments from private institutions, corporations
and individuals to cover at least half of the estimated $15 million needed to
relocate the refugees. The pledges include free flights from a volunteer aviator
group, scholarships from Christian schools and about 9,000 sponsors willing to
take in families and guarantee that they will not become a public charge for at
least a year.

The Cuban refugees have been held in detention camps since last August, when the
Administration ordered their interception after thousands set out in boats and
rafts for the United States because of worsening economic conditions in Cuba.
The detentions marked the reversal of longstanding American policy of granting
entry to refugees fleeing the Communist Government of Fidel Castro.

Although Cubans in the United States have always played a major role in the
economic assimilation of each new wave of immigrants from Cuba, the plans for
the Guantanamo refugees are the most ambitious and broad-based to date. That
they even tried, some experts in Cuban affairs say, attests to the exile
community's organizational and financial capacity, and its impatience with
American policy on Cuba.

"It's almost an embarrassment for the Cuban community that Castro and divided
families continue to be a major public policy issue," said Mark B. Rosenberg,
acting dean of the College of Urban and Public Affairs at Florida International
University. "The result is that the community tries to come up with its own
solutions."

Last month Administration officials said they were leaning toward releasing the
families on the ground that keeping children in Guantanamo for months was
inhumane.

On Friday, Justice Department officials are expected to list the conditions
under which the families would be granted entry. An Administration official said
humanitarian need, as measured by the age and health of the child, among other
things, would be determined case by case before anyone was allowed in.

Administration officials said the decision on the Cuban families was an
expansion of a policy announced in October to allow the humanitarian parole into
the United States of unaccompanied children under 18 in the detention camps, as
well as the elderly and those with urgent medical needs. Already, more than 400
Cubans have been flown in and relocated by voluntary relief agencies under this
policy.

Francisco Hernandez, president of the Cuban-American National Foundation, said
the ad hoc committee lobbying for the release of the families has secured
pledges to help pay for about $2.5 million in transportation costs and about $12
million for initial resettlement costs, including education, health insurance,
food and housing.

Mr. Hernandez said about 9,000 people, mostly relatives or friends of the
refugees, have applied with the foundation to sponsor the families. About 30
percent of them are expected to move to Cuban communities in New Jersey, New
York, California and other states.

Most contributions are needed in Miami, which even Cubans who settle elsewhere
eventually choose as their permanent home. Tom Willey, the South Florida
director of World Relief, a service arm of the National Association of
Evangelicals, said the agency was urging Christian schools in the Miami area to
donate scholarships.

Mr. Willey said that one school had already agreed to take five students, and
that he expected many others to follow suit.

The volunteer search-and-rescue group Brothers to the Rescue has committed its
donations to fly the children in. Little Havana Activities and Nutrition Centers
of Dade County, which finds jobs for immigrants in the health care and service
industries, says it believes it can place most of the refugees.

Interest in helping the refugees has also come from commercial carriers like
United Airlines and from the newspaper El Nuevo Herald and Roman Catholic
schools, Mr. Hernandez said.

He also said his group had offered to pay for the 1,500 Haitian children who are
being held in detention camps in Guantanamo. A Federal judge ruled last month
that these children should be allowed into the United States in the same way
that Cuban children are, but the Government has appealed that decision.

"Our purpose is to show that this is something that can be done," Mr. Hernandez
said. "We're prepared to hold their hand for a year or a year and a half."

A spokesman for Mr. Chiles said the Governor had insisted that families be
allowed entry only on four conditions -- that they also resettle in other
states, that they have sponsors, that the Federal Government take full financial
responsibility for them and that the group is counted against the 20,000 visas
the United States has agreed to grant annually to Cubans who want to come to
this country.


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuban-Americans are collecting pledges to privately finance the
bringing to this country of 8,000 refugees being held at camps at Guantanamo
Naval Station and elsewhere. Many refugees, like this girl, live in tents.
(David Scull/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Moves to Halt Abuses In Political Asylum Program

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 8;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2


Concerned that tens of thousands of foreigners had applied for political asylum
as a backdoor way of getting jobs in the United States, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service announced significant changes in the process today with
an eye to deporting ineligible applicants more quickly.

The immigration service said that to reduce a backlog of 425,000 asylum seekers,
it would more than double the number of asylum officers, interview all new
applicants within 60 days and seek to dispose of all new cases within 180 days.

At the same time, the agency announced tightened restrictions on work permits
for asylum seekers, many of whom hold jobs during the year or more that it now
takes to resolve their cases.

But the agency said it had scrapped a plan to impose a $130 asylum application
fee. Critics of the fee had argued that many applicants, fleeing persecution
abroad, would have difficulty paying it.

In a news conference at the immigration service's headquarters, its
Commissioner, Doris Meissner, also announced two other decisions, both
politically sensitive and both of which had been expected in some version. One
will grant entry to some Cuban children who fled their homeland during a vast
exodus last summer and who are now being held at the Guantanamo Bay Naval
Station and in Panama. The other will end the temporary protection, granted four
years ago, of tens of thousands of refugees from El Salvador.

Ms. Meissner's announcement of an overhaul in the asylum application process
comes at a time when anti-immigration pressures are rising across the country.
She said the program needed to be revamped because of the enormous backlog and a
widespread abuse of asylum, which under American law is to be granted only to
applicants who can demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution in their
homeland.

"These reforms re-establish a balance," she said, "between compassion and
control: to grant asylum to persons who need protection and speed the process to
remove nonmeritorious applicants from the country."

Using money authorized by the anticrime legislation enacted this year, the
agency will more than double the number of asylum examiners, to a total of 334.
This increase in staffing is accompanied by a new commitment to grant an initial
interview to every asylum applicant. Until now, most applicants have proceeded
to their hearings without such interviews.

As the number of examiners rises, so will the number of judges who hear asylum
cases, to 179 from 116.

The goal will be first to keep current with the 13,000 asylum applications filed
each month, an outcome that officials hope can be achieved by April, and then to
start paring the backlog.

Another big part of the overhaul is the tightening of work-permit restrictions.

Under current rules, asylum seekers can obtain work permits within 90 days of
applying. This encourages many foreigners to apply for asylum, because they know
they can work during the long wait as their cases are caught up in the backlog.

To discourage that practice, asylum applicants from now on will be given work
permits only after they are granted asylum or if there is not a final
determination of their application within 180 days.

Responding to the immigration service's new initiative, Deborah Anker,
coordinator of Harvard Law School's immigration program, said she feared that
accelerating the process might deny applicants painstaking and fair
consideration.

But Daniel Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which wants far tougher restrictions on immigration, called the changes
"a paltry crumb."

He said that because of the pledge to grant interviews to all asylum applicants,
he doubted that the processing would be speeded; last year only 30 percent of
applicants were granted interviews. Further, Mr. Stein said, even if the backlog
of pending cases does fall, the backlog of rejected applicants awaiting final
deportation orders will mushroom.

In her announcement concerning the Cuban children at Guantanamo and in Panama,
Ms. Meissner said the Government would interview all 3,000 of them and would
grant entry, on a case-by-case basis, to those facing the greatest hardships.
Their parents will be admitted with them.

The Clinton Administration has come under heavy pressure from Cuban-American
groups to admit all these children and their parents -- about 8,000 people in
all, or roughly a quarter of the Cubans now detained there.

But many Floridians have voiced concern that a new flood of Cubans would burden
their state's strained treasury. To make the Administration's decision easier,
Cuban-American groups have promised to provide millions of dollars to sponsor
new arrivals and ease the burden on the state.

Eager to do away with any impression that thousands of Cuban families would be
granted blanket entry, Ms. Meissner declined to estimate how many of the
children would be admitted on humanitarian grounds, which will be based on age,
health and other factors. Nonetheless some leaders of Cuban-American groups said
they had assurances from the Administration that nearly all the children would
eventually be admitted.

Ms. Meissner said today's decision did not apply to the 5,700 Haitians at
Guantanamo, who fled Haiti's former military dictatorship, since replaced by the
Government of the democratically elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Ms. Meissner also announced that the Administration would end, as of Dec. 31,
the protected status that has allowed about 200,000 refugees from El Salvador to
remain in the United States while a civil war raged at home. She said that
status was being ended because violence and human rights abuses had abated in
their homeland.

Congress granted these refugees temporary protected status in 1990, and
President Clinton extended it last year, but it is due to expire at the end of
December.

Seeking to reassure those who might be alarmed by the move, Ms. Meissner said
they could apply individually for asylum and would be granted permission to work
for nine more months in the United States. Those who have been in the United
States at least seven years can apply for permanent visas on hardship grounds.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Journalists in Danger

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 22;   Column 1;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 256 words


Journalists in many lands risk their lives to report the news, but many
Americans are unaware of the special risks taken in their own country by
reporters who write for immigrant and expatriate communities. A report by the
Committee to Protect Journalists, for many years a monitor of the dangers faced
by mainstream media reporters, points up the need for this special awareness by
the profession, law enforcement and the public.

Journalists for expatriate publications and radio stations, reporting on matters
of deep controversy concerning their native countries, have been murdered in the
United States. The committee cites 10 cases since 1981 involving Vietnamese,
Haitian, Chinese-American and Cuban-American journalists. Others have been
threatened with violence.

The committee suggests that the failure of these assassinations and terror
tactics to draw more attention is an indictment of mainstream media as much as
of law enforcement. Perhaps the committee is correct that news managers do not
find this violence newsworthy or they think the public will not care. In any
case, the committee rightly demands: Attention must be paid.

Responding to the committee's call for a Justice Department investigation to
assess the dangers, Carl Stern, the department spokesman, said investigations
were indeed under way. He added: "There is a higher level of action than this
committee may be aware of." Exactly so. The Government needs not only to act on
these cases, but also to be sure the public knows it is acting.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 4, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Salvadorans See Future Imperiled by U.S. Immigration Move

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 27;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: SANTA TERESA, El Salvador, Dec. 3


People in villages like this one say they survive because of the money they
receive from relatives working in the United States.

The hundreds of monthly stipends and the savings brought with villagers who
return to live here have an impact on every small farm and tiny business. So
everybody sees their future dependent on a decision announced Friday in
Washington that the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service will
not renew a program that allowed tens of thousands of Salvadorans to live in the
United States legally.

"Without the money from the North we will dry up, " said Aristides Gonzalez, who
used the income he earned in the United States to start a small snack bar and
grocery store here. Still, exactly what the decision will mean for them is not
clear.

The intent of the American program was to give temporary refuge to Salvadorans
because the civil war made this country dangerous. But the war ended two years
ago, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service determined that the
political and human rights situation in El Salvador has improved significantly.

The program expires at the end of the year. The Immigration Service said those
covered by it have nine months to apply for political asylum under another
program.

An estimated one million Salvadorans live in the United States, about half of
them with full legal status. Of the rest, according to American officials,
nearly 200,000 orginally joined the temporary program that is now being
abolished. Immigration officials say only 85,000 remain in the program, although
other officials say the number is probably much higher.

El Salvador's Central Bank estimates the Salvadorans covered by the program will
send their families $302 million this year, more than the value of the country's
main export, coffee. The total amount of remittances from all Salvadorans living
abroad is expected to reach $1 billion this year.

While waiting for hearings on their claims for asylum Salvadorans will be able
to live and work in the United States legally. But it is not known how long it
will take to hold the asylum hearings, let alone how many Salvadorans will be
granted asylum.

On their way to jobs or farm chores here in Santa Teresa, in central El
Salvador, six men gathered around a table under the wobbly awning at Mr.
Gonzalez's snack bar and talked about what Salvadorans in the United States mean
to this village.

Leonel Rivas pointed out that in contrast to the areas of El Salvador where
people do not have many relatives in the United States, this village and those
nearby have progressed remarkably. There is now a bridge over the ravine that
once isolated several communities. Electricity has been extended to other
villages, and dirt roads once barely passable have been paved.

"It's only recently that people had a way to get to jobs in Zacatecoluca," Mr.
Rivas said, referring to the closest city. "Now farmers can get their crop to
the market."

Local officials said the improvements were due in large part to taxes paid by
the small businesses started and now sustained by the money earned in the United
States.

American officials in El Salvador warned the State Department that a sudden drop
in remittances from Salvadorans could be disastrous for the poorest regions of
the country.  The officials said if the Salvadoran economy could not provide
jobs, then more Salvadorans would probably go to the United States illegally to
find work.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 4, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Irish Immigrants In Saugatuck

SECTION: Section 9;  Page 12;  Column 6;  Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 119 words


To the Editor:

It was pleasant to read about the Saugatuck section of Westport, Conn., where I
reside ("An Immigrant Haven, a Sailor's Delight," Oct. 2), but no mention was
made of the first wave of European immigrants. The first tracks for the opening
of the New Haven Railroad were built by Irish immigrants in 1849. A combination
of centuries of oppression and disastrous famine drove nearly a million Irish to
a new life of freedom in America. Many of these early Irish settled in and near
the Saugatuck railroad station and it was soon known as "Little Dublin." The
street I live on, Treadwell Avenue, was known locally as "Irish Boulevard" as
late as the 1930's.

KENNETH H. POWERS
Westport, Conn.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 5, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Exodus of Refugees Reaches Its Last Stage

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam


The final months of the 20-year exodus of refugees from Vietnam are a jumble of
departures and returns as some of the last unfinished business of the Vietnam
War is completed.

Planeloads of families heading for America are crossing paths with returning
Vietnamese-American entrepreneurs as well as with boat people rejected for
asylum who are flying home from refugee camps.

Within little more than a year, the refugee era will be over, and Vietnamese
will enter the United States not as refugees but as immigrants, mostly for
family reunification, like the citizens of other nations at peace.

A State Department official said that about 64,000 Vietnamese had already
returned from Asian refugee camps since 1989 and that about 40,000 remained in
the camps. This unluckiest group of returnees reached camps in Hong Kong and
Southeast Asia but were refused resettlement in the West because they were
judged to be economic migrants, not genuine refugees fleeing political
repression.

The State Department official said that the major camps were scheduled to be
shut down by the end of 1995 and that the United States expected to take in only
1,000 or so more of these boat people before that time.

In addition, the organized program in which the United States accepts Amerasian
refugees -- the offspring of American servicemen -- directly from Vietnam is
essentially complete, with about 20,000 Amerasians and 60,000 of their family
members resettled.

The final formal refugee program, involving about 35,000 former political
prisoners and about 110,000 family members, is scheduled to be completed by the
end of next year or soon after.

The paths of some of these various groups quite literally cross, as Camilla Ngo,
a successful Vietnamese-American lawyer, discovered when she left Vietnam on a
brilliantly sunny morning at the end of a three-week visit. She found her
aircraft crowded with former prisoners and their families, each wearing a red
plastic-covered name tag, following the refugee route she had taken two decades
before to the United States.

Among the refugees was Hue Nguyen, a former captain in the South Vietnamese Army
who spent six years in a labor camp and much of the time since then in the
effective exile of a remote farming region. At the age of 52, he was making one
last try at beginning his life anew.

With him and his wife were their two daughters, ages 7 and 9, who were leaving
their homes and playmates, as Ms. Ngo had done many years before, to become
Americans. Mr. Nguyen said he hoped they would study hard and perhaps, one day,
return to Vietnam.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 7, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION REVIEW;
French Role in Sending Jews to Death

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section C;  Page 20;  Column 1;  Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 581 words


Official French complicity in the deportation of scores of thousands of Jews
from France during World War II has not gone unexposed. The most powerful
account remains Marcel Ophuls's painstaking and painful film "The Sorrow and the
Pity." Although the title of tonight's hourlong documentary on the Discovery
Channel, "France's Forgotten Shame," leans toward hyperbole, the program does
add another sorry chapter to a soiled record.

The focus is on an unfinished housing project in the town of Drancy, near Paris,
which served as a concentration camp from 1941 to 1943. From there, with the
collaboration of the French authorities in both occupied and unoccupied parts of
the country, many Jews were shipped east to Auschwitz and other death camps.

"Shame" melds accounts by survivors of Drancy and Auschwitz with a narration
that provides context. The refugees' hopes that French law, principles and
ideals would shield them from the Germans were doomed by the French authorities'
acquiescence and even enthusiasm for cracking down both on immigrants and on
Jewish citizens. In the camp, survivors recall, class differences were manifest,
with the French-born Jews given supervisory jobs and the poorer immigrants
consigned to menial tasks. The refugees were in greatest jeopardy, but no Jew of
any sort could feel safe.

Newsreels and old photographs make grimly vivid the big 1942 roundup of Parisian
Jews, including many women and children. Residents of the town of Drancy could
not fail to notice the shipments in and out of the camp, but as one admits, they
feared to ask questions.

A survivor calls Drancy "a camp of deception," where despite hard conditions,
some hope still flickered. The narrator calls it "the anteroom of Auschwitz." Of
some 74,000 deportees from France, only 2,400 survived.

'48 Hours'
'What's Your Gripe?'
CBS, tonight at 10

The Scroogish is mixed with the Santa Clausian tonight as "48 Hours" reporters
focus on the care and noncare of customers by department stores, automobile
manufacturers, airlines and a drainpipe cleaner.

You will learn, if you have not noticed it on your own, that it is not always
easy to find a department-store employee who has much interest in selling
("benign neglect," somebody calls it), but only too easy to find an automobile
dealer who applies pressure to buy. You will meet an airline employee who
descends to the bowels of Los Angeles International Airport to track down a
piece of misdirected luggage, and a jolly Roto-Rooter man in Queens who inquires
as he arrives on an emergency call, "What evil has befallen you tonight?" And
you can accompany three drivers atop the Colorado Rockies as they test the
promise of their auto contracts to provide roadside assistance "anyplace, any
time."

There are lessons to be drawn for the shopping season. If you want to return a
shirt, try Nordstrom even if the shirt was bought at Marshall Field. If you plan
to break down in the Rockies, better have a cellular phone along. If you can't
get satisfaction from Sears for a broken washing machine, visit the district
manager in the company of a "48 Hours" reporter, with camera. And if you've been
bumped from a flight, try Roto-Rooter. As Santa von Clausewitz must have said,
shopping is war by other means.

FRANCE'S FORGOTTEN SHAME
The Discovery Channel, tonight at 10.

Produced by Bruce Eadie and directed by Stephen Trombley. A production of
Worldview Pictures. Linda Kenyon, narrator.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jews interned at Drancy, near Paris, during World War II were
later sent to Nazi death camps. (Worldview Pictures/Discovery Channel)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 8, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 126 words



G.O.P. Split on Immigration

 Senator Alan Simpson, the most influential Republican on immigration issues, is
charting a course at odds with the House Republicans' "Contract With America."
Page B20.


Expanding Trade Accord

Countries at a summit meeting in Miami plan to expand the North American Free
Trade Agreement to include virtually the entire hemisphere, officials said. Page
A14.


Bullets Meant for Clinton

The man who opened fire at the White House six weeks ago thought he was shooting
at the President, Federal officials said. Page A18.


Kmart Comes to Manhattan

In its first foray into Manhattan, the Kmart discount chain has signed a lease
for what would be its largest store this side of Alaska. Page B1.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 9, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Leaders of 11 Orthodox Churches in America Plan Unity Move

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 577 words


Declaring themselves more American than immigrant, the leaders of 11 Orthodox
Christian churches with six million members in North America have come together
for the first time to establish an administratively united church with one voice
on social, religious and political issues.

"We'd like the American public to know the Orthodox Church has come of age,"
Archbishop Iakovos, the leader of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of North and
South America, said at a news conference yesterday at the Archdiocesan
headquarters in Manhattan. "The U.S. is not a foreign land. It is our land."

Russian, Greek, Serbian and other Orthodox churches have grown independently in
the United States for 200 years. Each group has historically served immigrant
communities and maintained closer ties to their separate mother churches than to
each other.

The decision to establish a single Orthodox body in the United States is subject
to approval by leaders of the mother churches overseas. Depending on their
decision, it could provide for a pooling of resources on committees and other
church bodies.

The chairman of the Standing Conference of Canonical Orthodox Bishops in the
Americas, a long-standing bishops' group, will serve as the spokesman for the
united church.

The Orthodox churches split with the Roman Catholic Church in 1054, when these
churches rejected the Latin rites of the church. Their refusal to recognize the
jurisdiction of the Pope remains the principal dividing point between these two
branches of Christianity.

The ritual that developed at the patriarchate of Constantinople, known as the
Byzantine rite, became the standard of Orthodox worship after the 13th century.
Although the original language was Greek, the liturgy was adapted into many
other languages.

Yesterday's announcement reflects a recognition by Orthodox Christian leaders
that their churches by now have spanned several generations born in the Western
Hemisphere.

Their changing situation is signaled by their rejection of the word "diaspora"
in characterizing the contemporary Orthodox Church.

"We cannot accept the word 'diaspora' to describe the church in North America,"
the bishops said in a statement they drafted last week in a three-day meeting at
an Orthodox retreat center in Ligonier, Pa. "In fact, the term is
ecclesiologically problematic. It diminishes the fullness of faith that we have
lived and experienced here for the past two hundred years."

The bishops also issued a statement yesterday calling for increased
evangelization in North America.

"We believe our task in North America is not limited to serving the immigrant
and ethnic communities, but has at its very heart the missionary task of making
disciples in the nations of Canada and the United States," the statement said.

Orthodox leaders said their meeting came after decades of cooperative efforts
among the bishops on such matters as missionary work and theological training.

While calling for administrative unity and greater interaction among the member
churches at the local level, the bishops emphasized that the individual churches
would still be free to continue with their own liturgical traditions. If the
need arose to conduct services in the language of recent immigrants, for
example, the churches would be allowed to do so.

"Call it unity with pastoral diversity," said Metropolitan Philip of the
Antiochan Orthodox Christian Archdiocese in Englewood, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 11, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Are American Taxpayers Too

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 14;  Column 3;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words


To the Editor:

Re "Anti-Alien Sentiment Spreading in Wake of California's Measure" (front page,
Dec. 4):

I was born and raised in Austria, married an American citizen in 1985 and have
lived in this country ever since. We pay approximately $10,600 annually in
Federal, state and local taxes. The only government service we have used since I
came to America is the public school our daughter attends.

When you state that "like many illegal aliens, legal aliens also cost American
taxpayers in government services," you forget to mention that we immigrants also
pay taxes -- often worth more than the services we use, thus subsidizing
services to some American citizens.

The issue is not citizenship but insuring that everyone's basic needs are met,
independent of immigration status. Articles like yours, which purport to show
how much immigrants cost "American taxpayers" while forgetting the contributions
immigrants have made to this country, serve only to heighten xenophobia and
racism.

As an Austrian, I find it difficult to forget what this can do. It is, after
all, hardly a coincidence that the chief cause celebre of neo-Nazis is the
supposed unaffordability of immigrants.

BARBARA JUNGWIRTH
Brooklyn, Dec. 4, 1994

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 15, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Shouldn't Favor Bosnian Refugees

SECTION: Section A;  Page 28;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 338 words


To the Editor:

Re "Fleeing Bosnia, Blocked by America" (Op-Ed, Dec. 9): Julie Mertus fails to
understand the situation of the Bosnians who are trying to emigrate to America.
As a Yugoslav immigrant myself, I spent four and a half years in an Italian
refugee camp (1958-62) before my parents and I received a United States visa.

What makes my case different from that of the Bosnian refugees is that my
parents and I had the dream of coming to America and we were ready to make any
sacrifice necessary to achieve it, including time spent in refugee camps. We
also never asked for or received any assistance either from individuals or the
Government after arriving here.

The Bosnians who come to the United States today are a different kind of
immigrant. Most (maybe none) would never have considered leaving Bosnia before
the war in the former Yugoslavia. But now their expectations of the United
States and the community that sponsors them are unreasonably high.

The Bosnians are bitter at the world for abandoning them; they feel that the
world owes them for what they have gone through. They expect to be received and
treated as heroes. Disappointment with the reality is severe.

Most consider government assistance as a right because of what they went
through. Most expected more, both materially and in the attention they will
never get.

Ms. Mertus overlooks that Bosnians who left their homeland (except for the
wounded) are considered deserters by the Bosnians who stayed and fought. While
Bosnia is on the verge of disappearing, they are complaining about not being
resettled fast enough. Many of the wounded Bosnians who are now in America
regard healthy Bosnians who come here as rodents that abandoned ship.

Wounded, orphaned and widowed Bosnians should be helped in coming to America and
in resettling here. The "healthy" Bosnians should be treated no different from
any other refugees.

STJEPAN BALOG
Warren, Mich., Dec. 9, 1994

The writer is president of the Bosnian Relief Committee.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 15, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Time to Act on Cubans and Haitians in Camps

SECTION: Section A;  Page 28;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 247 words


To the Editor:

For some months, safe haven camps have been organized at Guantanamo Bay Naval
Station in Cuba and in Panama for more than 35,000 Cubans and Haitians who have
fled their countries (front page, Dec. 10). Now, the United States Government is
obliged to provide a solution to the needs of these Cubans and Haitians for new
permanent homes.

The executive committee of governments, including the United States, that
oversees the work of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees concluded
in 1981 that after a large-scale influx of asylum seekers has stabilized, states
should take action to facilitate voluntary repatriation, to promote local
settlement in the receiving country or to provide resettlement in third
countries. This conclusion recognizes the human right of asylum seekers to a
resolution of their situation of international homelessness.

All Haitians and Cubans in the safe havens who can establish a well-founded fear
of persecution should be admitted immediately to the United States as refugees.
Others could be brought to the United States on humanitarian grounds or urged to
repatriate if appropriate.

The timeline for such action is not specified in international practice, but the
March 1995 date negotiated by the United States with Panama for safe-haven
facilities would provide a manageable deadline for such a solution.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director of Migration Programs
Open Society Institute
New York, Dec. 12, 1994

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 16, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Prosecutor Rejects Rape Cases Brought by Male Van Drivers

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words


After a 21-month investigation, District Attorney Richard A. Brown of Queens
issued a report yesterday concluding that seven immigrant van drivers working in
the Rockaways had falsely accused a male police officer of raping them. Mr.
Brown said Officer Reggie Rivera would not be prosecuted because the rapes never
took place.

The drivers, all of whom are black immigrants working in the illicit van trade
on the Rockaway peninsula, had a strong motive to defame Officer Rivera because
he had issued thousands of tickets to van drivers and represented a direct
threat to their livelihood, the report said.

At a news conference, Mr. Brown stopped short of saying the accusers had
deliberately conspired to fabricate the charges, which have led to months of
protest marches by black community activists. But Police Commissioner William J.
Bratton did not hesitate in calling them liars.

"In no uncertain terms, backed up by a very lengthy report, the District
Attorney of Queens County has made it clear that there are not seven rape
victims in this case, there are only two: New York City Police Officer Reggie
Rivera, and the citizens of New York City who were raped by this rat pack," Mr.
Bratton said.

The accusers and their lawyers, the Commissioner said, had maliciously concocted
the rape stories in order to intimidate the police from enforcing the law
against the van industry.

Leon Greenberg, a lawyer for the accusers -- who was personally accused by Mr.
Brown of hindering the investigation -- said the report was "a carefully crafted
scheme" to cover up the truth of the allegations and protect the City of New
York from a huge financial liability. He said investigators from the District
Attorney's office and the police were biased against the accusers, and had
fabricated evidence to make the charges appear to be a conspiracy.

And in a brief telephone interview, one of the seven accusers denied that he or
the others had lied about the rapes.

"There is nothing made up in this story," said the accuser, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because a civil suit is being pursued. "They are trying
to cover up. We thought if we went to the D.A., this would never happen to us
again. But now I feel so disappointed and sick."

The case began in April 1993, when an African-born livery-van driver from
Rockaway Beach accused Officer Rivera of having sodomized him at gunpoint three
months earlier. In October and December 1993, three other van drivers and a
mechanic who had been test-driving a van charged that Officer Rivera had raped
them. And yesterday's report disclosed for the first time that two other drivers
had stepped forward earlier this year to say they had been raped, beginning in
1989.

Because the District Attorney took so long to decide whether to present the case
to a grand jury for prosecution, many politicians and community leaders had
begun calling for a special prosecutor in the case. Several black newspapers and
clergy members rallied to the drivers' cause, saying their case was being
ignored because they were black immigrants operating in an underground economy
on the margins of society.

But Mr. Brown said the nature of the charges produced the most exhaustive
investigation in the history of his office, including hundreds of interviews,
hours of surveillance, the review of 4,000 traffic tickets, and the use of an
independent expert in sexual assaults.

John M. Ryan, the senior executive assistant district attorney who headed the
investigation, said there was no single piece of evidence that conclusively
proved the accusers had concocted their charge. But taken as a whole, he said,
there was no physical or medical evidence of rape and there was a good deal of
evidence to show that Officer Rivera could not have raped the men in the manner
they claimed.

The report said Officer Rivera was usually writing traffic tickets during the
times that the accusers said the rapes took place. The van in which the first
accuser said he was raped was ticketed in a different location at the same time
the rape was said to have occurred, the report said. It also said some of the
physical details of the rape descriptions provided by the accusers were
implausible.

Most importantly, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Brown said, the accusers had a strong motive
to get rid of Officer Rivera. Their report describes the officer as a
"ticket-writing machine," issuing up to 200 tickets a day to drivers in the
thriving unlicensed van industry, who illegally pick up passengers for less than
the cost of public transportation and take them to subway stops or shopping
malls.

The first accuser, described in the report as an industry leader, was so angry
about being repeatedly ticketed by Officer Rivera that he organized an August
1992 meeting of Rockaway van drivers in a public library to urge them to file
citizen complaints against the officer, the report said.

When those complaints failed to get the officer transferred, Mr. Ryan said, the
accusers began their charges of rape. He added that he did not know if any of
the accusers except the first were present at the library meeting.

The accusers' other motive was financial, Mr. Ryan said, noting that they have
filed a $120 million civil damage suit against the city. Mr. Greenberg said his
clients would not drop the suit.

The report also says that at least five of the seven had at one point lived in
the same apartment complex on Seagirt Boulevard in Far Rockaway. The accusers
have said throughout the investigation that only two of them knew each other,
and yesterday, Mr. Greenberg continued to make the same point.

Asked if he planned to prosecute the accusers for making a false report, Mr.
Brown said he did not, pointing out that such an action was a Class B
misdemeanor, the lowest class of criminal conduct. He said building such a case
would require an extensive effort for such a small charge and might deter
legitimate sexual-assault victims from coming forward in other cases.

Many of the findings in the case represented a battle of experts. The accusers
had hired Nat Laurendi, a retired New York City police detective who was
formerly chief polygraph operator for the Manhattan District Attorney's office,
who conducted lie-detector tests that he said showed they were telling the truth
about the rapes. But Mr. Brown's in-house polygraph operator, as well as the
F.B.I.'s chief lie-detector expert, reviewed Mr. Laurendi's tests and concluded
that the accusers were actually lying.

Similarly, both sides hired experts in rape trauma syndrome to determine whether
the accusers appeared to exhibit the normal characteristics of rape victims, and
the two experts disagreed. The report does not address whether, because the
accusers come from Africa and the Caribbean, there may have been language and
cultural barriers that produced behavior patterns different from the norms. But
Mr. Ryan said his office's expert on the subject has a background in the
cultural differences among victims of sexual assault.

Officer Rivera declined to comment yesterday, but his lawyer, James Lysaght,
chief counsel for the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said his client was
still upset at having "become the object of public scorn on the basis of such
despicable calumny."

As a result of a court-approved agreement in the civil case, the officer remains
restricted from entering the Rockaways except to go to the bank once a week.
Hearings in the civil case are scheduled to resume on Dec. 27.

The officer was transferred last spring from the Rockaways to the 107th Precinct
in Fresh Meadows, Queens, where he is on active duty. Commissioner Bratton said
he had not determined Officer Rivera's future assignment.

Two Views, Both Accusatory

"There are not seven rape victims in this case, there are only two: New York
City Police Officer Reggie Rivera, and the citizens of New York City who were
raped by this rat pack." -- POLICE COMMISSIONER WILLIAM J. BRATTON

"There is nothing made up in this story. They are trying to cover up. We thought
if we went to the D.A., this would never happen to use again. But now I feel so
disappointed and sick." -- ONE OF THE ACCUSERS

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 18, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: PELHAM PARKWAY/BAYCHESTER;
Runoff From the New Diaspora Is Water of Life for Old Synagogues

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section 13;    Page 12;    Column 5;    The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 647 words


Evening services had just begun last Wednesday at Rabbi Jacob Twersky's
synagogue on Bronx Park East. A few stragglers arrived, and soon 18 faithful
were praying, including eight recent immigrants from Russia. It was a good
showing.

The previous week, minutes before the daily evening service, the rabbi had been
forced to his "emergency list" -- the men, many elderly, willing to drape coats
over their pajamas and clamber through the dark streets of Pelham Parkway to
make the minyan.

"The Russians," the rabbi said, "have saved this shul."

The Russians, by all accounts, have saved the other synagogues in what was for
nearly half a century one of the most vibrant Jewish neighborhoods in New York
City. Although Pelham Parkway has received only a smattering of the tens of
thousands of Russian Jews who have come to the city over the last decade, they
are now sustaining a community decimated by the suburbs, retirement and deaths.

It is the third turning point in Pelham Parkway's Jewish history. In the 1920's,
the newly completed subway lines brought the first settlers from Manhattan's
Lower East Side, and starting in the mid-1960's, thousands more came up from the
South Bronx. Eventually most left. But at the height of Jewish life in the
1950's and early 1960's, longtime residents like to recall, the benches along
Bronx Park East swarmed with people, and the houses and apartment buildings
between the park and Matthews Avenue were inhabited almost entirely by Jews,
with a minority of Italians.

Refugee associations began resettling Russian Jews in Pelham Parkway after tens
of thousands had already been transplanted to Brighton Beach, Bensonhurst and
other areas in Brooklyn. Altogether, Community Board 11, which includes Pelham
Parkway, is home to roughly 3,000 Russian Jewish families, said David Edelstein,
executive director of the Jewish Community Council of Pelham Parkway.

Not all are interested in religion.  In fact, Mr. Edelstein said, it is only "a
small percentage" that has become active in synagogues."The largest number of
them don't understand the importance of affiliation in the United States."

Still, there are enough to relieve anxieties caused by the closing of three
synagogues since the early 1980's, leaving only 10, said Rabbi Maurice L.
Schwartz, president of the Rabbinical Board of the Bronx and leader of the Kahal
Adas Yeshurun congregation.

Last week, at Rabbi Twersky's synagogue, which occupies the first floor of a
single-family house, the rabbi spoke to the eight Russians in Yiddish and
Russian. All of them had arrived since 1989, and they expressed pride in
learning about Judaism.

For the neighborhood's American Jews, there is a particular satisfaction in
teaching Judaism to the Russians. "They've given us a sense that we're part of
an important point in Jewish history," Mr. Edelstein said.

But they have has also changed the role of the synagogues, which now routinely
offer English classes and provide refugees with furniture. That, in turn, has
created a delicate tension.

"Unfortunately, there is competition for the Russians because everyone looks at
them as saviors," said Norman Gampel, a former president of Congregation Kahal
Adas Yeshurun. "Thank God, there's no animosity. You don't talk about it. There
might be a, 'Why didn't we think of that?!' "

Some of the ideas that synagogues have thought of, Mr. Gampel said, include
setting up a Russian club and giving a disproportionate number of honors, or
aliyah, to Russian Jews on the Sabbath.

Roman Averbukh, 13, whose bar mitzvah in February was Rabbi Twersky's first in a
year, came here in 1990 from Moldova. He attends services daily, but he said his
peers are more interested in becoming American. "They don't worry about religion
now," he said. "They worry about school and friends and other things."
NORIMITSU ONISHI

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Russian Jews, young and old, at Rabbi Jacob Twersky's synagogue.
(Susan Harris for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 18, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WHAT'S NEW YORK THE CAPITAL OF NOW?

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 12;   Column 3;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 84 words


As the international migration agency for the Jewish community, the Hebrew
Immigrant Aid Society processes 3,000 Russian refugees and immigrants a month,
including those featured in your article on Brighton Beach.

We would like to congratulate the photographer Sebastiao Salgado, who flew with
our clients from Moscow to Kennedy Airport, and Roger Rosenblatt, who portrayed
these refugees so honestly.

MARTIN A. WENICK
Executive Vice President,
Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society
New York

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 19, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Why Refugees Wait

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 125 words


To the Editor:

In "Fleeing Bosnia, Blocked by America" (Op-Ed, Dec. 9), Julie Mertus says that
"a U.S. bureaucrat's daily allowance" has put "on hold" the lives of 32 Bosnian
refugees in Pakistan awaiting resettlement in the United States.

The cancellation of an October visit by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service officer in New Delhi had nothing to do with a bureaucrat's per diem. It
had to do with an outbreak of plague in India, which resulted in the temporary
cancellation of all flights leaving the country.

The officer in charge from New Delhi will travel to Islamabad to conduct refugee
interviews Jan. 14-19.

PHYLLIS E. OAKLEY
Asst. Secretary of State
Population, Refugees & Migration
Washington, Dec. 16, 1994

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Blind Eye: How the Immigration System Handles Discipline -- A special report.;
Behind One Agency's Walls: Misbehaving and Moving Up

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG and DEBORAH SONTAG,   Special to The New York Times



SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 3236 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The harassment of Ginger Kramer began shortly after she took a job as an
automation clerk in the Livermore, Calif., office of the Border Patrol. In a
sworn statement to investigators, she said her boss, J. William Carter, crudely
invited her to have sex on his office couch. She pushed him away as he tried to
embrace her, she said.

A few weeks later, Mr. Carter ordered Ms. Kramer to deliver his newly laminated
identification card to his office, she told investigators. He grabbed her again,
and this time forced his tongue into her mouth, peered down her blouse and
declared that he would not let go until she "did it right."

Mr. Carter denied the charges. But the Immigration and Naturalization Service
concluded in 1990 that there was "no question" that Ms. Kramer had been sexually
harassed. And the Justice Department, finding that Mr. Carter had engaged in
"highly unprofessional conduct with Ms. Kramer and other female employees,"
urged the agency to punish him or remove him from the managerial ranks.

Even so, the I.N.S. balked at taking any disciplinary action until last year,
when the agency suspended Mr. Carter for three days -- one-tenth the standard
punishment for misusing a Government car. Today Mr. Carter is the second-highest
official in the Border Patrol and was an applicant for its top job. He declined
to be interviewed, or to respond to questions in writing.

Mr. Carter's case illustrates what many immigration officers see as the agency's
historic failure to hold managers accountable for egregious wrongdoing. They say
a "good old boys club" has often protected people like Mr. Carter, the third
generation of his family to serve in the Border Patrol. Cynics in the agency sum
up its personnel practices with the motto, "Screw up -- move up."

"There is a philosophy among the top-ranked managers that you can't touch top
management," said James Dorcy, the agency's chief internal investigator from
1980 to 1990. "For some reason, they seem to think it would bring down the whole
damn agency if you messed with a certain level of person."

Immigration officials say the handling of misconduct cases over the years has
eroded morale at one of the Government's most troubled agencies. Richard J.
Hankinson, the Inspector General at the Justice Department from 1990 to 1994,
told Congress last year that the agency's "happenstance" system for imposing
punishment had taken its toll, encouraging corruption and poor performance.

The immigration agency, in a statement, acknowledges that it has "an admittedly
checkered record" in disciplining its employees. But top officials insist that
Doris M. Meissner, who became I.N.S. Commissioner a year ago, is cracking down
on officials who deserve to be disciplined by establishing an Office of Internal
Audit.

And last October, they say, the agency began doing background checks on all
applicants for top managerial positions. For the first time, the agency will
verify that officials promoted to top jobs have no record of wrongdoing.

Documents obtained through the Freedom of Information Act, interviews with
dozens of present and former I.N.S. officials and the agency's written responses
to questions disclose many cases in which the agency failed to impose swift or
certain punishment on managers and others who broke rules. Among them were these
employees:

*Robert Moschorak, the former district director of Los Angeles. After he sought
preferential treatment for his wife's application for citizenship in 1990, a
subordinate, Jane Arellano, reported him to Justice Department investigators.
Mr. Moschorak later confronted her in a hallway and, a witness said, began
throttling her. Immediately afterward, he was said to have remarked, "Would
murder get me a day off, or some other disciplinary action?" Mr. Moschorak
denies that he pinched Ms. Arellano's windpipe or made the remark, and the
agency took his word over that of the witness and concluded that no assault had
occurred. He retired with full benefits last year.

*Robert Scofield, a supervisor of special agents in the Washington district. His
sexual involvement with a Taiwanese prostitute who was an illegal alien, Chin
Chun Lee Huang, compromised his own agents' investigation of an Asian crime
ring. The immigration service said it demoted Mr. Scofield to a post with less
pay and fewer benefits but did not dismiss him because of "excellent
performance" and a "crisis in personal life contributing to impaired judgment."

*Roy Hendricks, the former deputy district director in Hawaii. Mr. Hendricks
assigned himself and his wife, who was not an I.N.S. employee, to help guard a
group of illegal aliens being returned to Hong Kong. Although internal
investigators verified that Mr. Hendricks had improperly included his wife on
the trip, the agency took no action. Several years later, the United States
Special Counsel, an agency that protects Federal whistle-blowers, concluded that
Mr. Hendricks had retaliated against a subordinate whom he blamed for tipping
off investigators. The I.N.S. says it settled that case by suspending him for 30
days without pay. In August 1991, the agency sent Mr. Hendricks to supervise the
training of new officers at its academy in Georgia.

*Richard Smith, now director of the Seattle district. While deputy director, he
repeatedly pursued and sexually harassed a female subordinate, the agency's
investigators found. At the same time it was investigating Mr. Smith, the agency
promoted him to one of its top jobs, heading the Seattle office. The I.N.S.
admits paying $93,000 in a confidential deal to settle the case to avert the
risk of "protracted litigation" but says it never took any disciplinary action
against Mr. Smith because, it says, "not all of the allegations were supported."
He denied the charges and retained his promotion.

When asked about these cases and others, Chris Sale, the I.N.S. Deputy
Commissioner, said that the agency aimed to set proper standards for the future
rather than to overturn cases already decided.

"You and I may disagree with how things were handled, but at this point deals
have been made," Ms. Sale said.

The Chief Agent
'Unprofessional,' But a Fast Ascent

J. William Carter comes from a long line of Border Patrol officers, following
his grandfather and father into jobs on the Texas-Mexico border.

His father, Harlon B. Carter, was chief of the Border Patrol by age 37 and held
the powerful post of Southwest regional director until he retired in July 1970.

Two years later, Mr. Carter entered the patrol. Several colleagues said he was
an indifferent student at the patrol's academy and was close to failing the
course. Nonetheless, he was rapidly promoted, and by 1984 he had been appointed
Assistant Regional Commissioner for the southern region of the immigration
service.

There, in the Dallas office, Mr. Carter was accused of committing a serious
breach of I.N.S. rules: coercing his secretary into lending him $600 to cover a
travel advance.  Mr. Carter repaid the money only after the woman reported the
matter to senior I.N.S. officials in Dallas, according to a statement she gave
the agency. The case appears to have been handled informally, and the I.N.S.
said it did not discipline him.

Soon afterward, Mr. Carter was promoted to chief agent in Livermore, Calif. Ms.
Kramer was hired there as an automation clerk in what she describes as the
"first big job for a hick from Globe, Ariz."

Although Ms. Kramer had several encounters with Mr. Carter, her complaint stems
from an incident that she says took place in his office on Nov. 28, 1988. "He
stood in front of me, and said that my dress was very pretty," she told
investigators. "Carter then grabbed my dress. I crossed my arms to protect
myself, and he then pulled me to him. I resisted. He pulled me tighter, then
pressed his lips against mine and forced his tongue inside my mouth. I resisted
the kiss, and he said he would not release me until I did it right."

Ms. Kramer said she left the office crying. Ten minutes later, Mr. Carter called
her back and said, "Show me you know how to kiss."

"I did it," she said, "because I was confused and afraid that he would fire me
if I didn't do what he said."

Mr. Carter acknowledged that he solicited a kiss from Ms. Kramer and later told
investigators, "Our lips touched." But he said that he did not grab her or
coerce her in any way. Ms. Kramer immediately reported the incident to her
supervisor, who later told investigators that she was visibly upset.

A few months after Ms. Kramer reported Mr. Carter's behavior, the former Western
Regional Commissioner, Harold Ezell, flew up from his office in Los Angeles and
offered her a $7,500 settlement. Mr. Ezell told her that Mr. Carter would not be
dismissed or otherwise penalized.

"It's not like Carter beat her up and threw her out of a car," said Mr. Ezell,
who has retired and was an author of California's anti-illegal-immigrant
measure, Proposition 187. "It seemed to me at the time that Bill had a major
wake-up call and he would not allow this to ever happen again."

Ms. Kramer refused the settlement offer, and the investigation pressed ahead,
eliciting accusations from other women. Mr. Carter's secretary, for instance,
said he had also made passes at her. And she said that once, when he told her
that her Halloween costume "turned him on," the secretary broke in tears.

The I.N.S. investigation of Ms. Kramer's case was completed in 1990. It drew no
conclusions. A few months later, another agency official, reviewing the record,
wrote that there was "no question" that Mr. Carter had sexually harassed Ms.
Kramer.

Agency documents show that the incident involving Ms. Kramer prompted Mr.
Carter's transfer from Livermore to Washington headquarters in 1992, a move that
was ultimately beneficial to his career.

When Mr. Carter was promoted to Acting Deputy Assistant Commissioner of the
Border Patrol in January 1993, Ms. Kramer was outraged that he had never been
disciplined. She took her case to the next level, Justice Department
adjudication. The immigration agency is part of the Justice Department.

"The records make clear that supervisor Carter engaged in highly unprofessional
conduct towards complainant and other female employees," the adjudicator in the
case, Mark L. Gross, wrote on Sept. 30, 1993.

Mr. Gross also asked why, given "the gravity of Carter's offenses," the agency
had neither removed Mr. Carter from the managerial ranks nor punished him.

The I.N.S. responded by suspending Mr. Carter for three days, but it kept him in
Washington as second-in-command of the Border Patrol. Ms. Kramer dropped her
case in exchange for a $15,000 settlement.

"I don't understand why someone can do things that are so sick and get rewarded
for them by the Government," said Ms. Kramer, who still works for the Border
Patrol in Livermore. "It really bothers me. I sat down and wrote a letter to
Hillary Clinton, but I didn't mail it because it didn't sound very educated. How
could he do what he did to me and to other women and now he's in a higher
power?"

The District Director
Choking Accuser Without Penalty

Eighteen years after she came to this country from Mexico, Maria Teresa
Moschorak applied to become a citizen as her husband, Robert Moschorak, was
vying for one of the agency's most coveted jobs, Los Angeles district director.

Mr. Moschorak, while acting director of the office, decided to do his wife a
favor and arranged for her to jump to the top of a six-month waiting list. To
save her additional months of delay, he wanted to set up a special swearing-in
ceremony on the very day she was interviewed by the I.N.S.

But there was a complication that Mr. Moschorak apparently wanted to sidestep:
Mrs. Moschorak had two misdemeanor arrests on her record for petty theft.
Neither had resulted in a conviction, and ultimately they would not have
disqualified her from citizenship. But she had acknowledged only one arrest on
her application, and omission of the second, if detected, could have meant
another five years of waiting.

Mr. Moschorak asked a subordinate to handle his wife's application "discreetly,"
without telling his immediate superiors. The subordinate later told
investigators that he had routinely speeded up processing "for any service
employee."

At the time, however, the Los Angeles office was already facing a lawsuit for
giving just such preferential treatment. Jane Arellano, the assistant district
director in charge of citizenship, found out about the special request and
bluntly told Mr. Moschorak that she would not speed up his wife's application,
particularly given her arrest record.

Ms. Arellano then reported the incident to the Office of the Inspector General,
the Justice Department unit that investigates wrongdoing at the I.N.S.

With an inquiry on the incident pending, the immigration service promoted Mr.
Moschorak to district director. A few days later, on June 7, 1990, the Inspector
General's investigators interviewed him about various accusations of wrongdoing.

The next day, at 7:50 A.M., Mr. Moschorak confronted Ms. Arellano in a hallway.
According to her account in a sworn deposition, he was furious about his session
with the investigators. "What did you tell those guys?" he demanded.

"He got increasingly more angry at me," she said in the deposition. "His hand,
he reached up with his right hand and put it on my throat. He pinched my
windpipe."

Ms. Arellano said she staggered backward, and as another senior I.N.S. official,
Rosemary Melville, walked by, Mr. Moschorak turned and asked whether committing
murder would earn him a day off under I.N.S. disciplinary rules. Ms. Melville
told investigators that she saw Mr. Moschorak's hand on Ms. Arellano's throat
and, unsure if he was joking, asked whether this was his way of treating
"problem employees."

Ms. Arellano, who said she was left with a red mark on her throat, immediately
reported the incident to the Inspector General. Investigators eventually
concluded that Mr. Moschorak did "influence and intrude" into his wife's case,
but did not break any laws.

Their report recounted conflicting versions of the choking incident. Mr.
Moschorak said he had been joking with Ms. Arellano and had touched her "in that
neck area very close to" her shoulder. Ms. Arellano and Ms. Melville stuck to
their accounts.

The Inspector General's office said it forwarded its report to Commissioner Gene
McNary. But the agency said it never received the document, and the matter
disappeared into the bureaucracy.

Ms. Arellano continued working for Mr. Moschorak over the next three years. The
agency did not even consider disciplining him until February 1993, and it acted
only after Ms. Arellano complained to the agency that protects whistle-blowers
that Mr. Moschorak was retaliating against her.

On March 30, 1993, Mr. Hankinson, the Inspector General, told Congress that an
unidentified district director had "physically intimidated" a subordinate and
had gone unpunished for years. That same day, Mr. Moschorak announced to his
staff that he would retire five years early.

Mr. Moschorak called Ms. Arellano's account "pure bunk" and said his retirement
was long planned.

The I.N.S. eventually reviewed the choking incident and concluded that while Mr.
Moschorak had acted inappropriately, "no assault had occurred." The agency
acknowledged that it had "failed to take timely action."

The Deputy Director
Year After Year, Clerk Is Harassed

In early 1985, shortly after Richard Smith arrived in Seattle from Salt Lake
City as the No. 2 immigration official, he began paying particular attention to
a young clerk in the computer room who dressed fashionably and spoke with a
twang. Mr. Smith, who confided to a male subordinate that he was "hard up"
because his family had not yet joined him at his new posting, put his arm around
the clerk, Cynthia Maldonadobarreiro, and said in front of witnesses, "We need
to make it."

"He followed me into the office and closed the door," Ms. Maldonadobarreiro said
in a recent interview, recalling that first encounter. "I backed into a corner,
and then he started grabbing himself. I turned around and put my face in the
wall. I knew he was going to grab me. Luckily, a supervisor came in, and Smith
made like he was looking at files. He grabbed a file and walked out of the
office."

During the next few months, Mr. Smith repeatedly made comments about Ms.
Maldonadobarreiro's appearance. Once, she said, he winked and said, "I really
like the slit on your dress."

He followed her so closely in the hallway one day that he stepped on the back of
her heel, sending her sprawling. Mr. Smith broke her fall, she said, by grabbing
her around the breasts. Another time, she said, he tore a slit in her skirt.
Once, she said, he reached into her blouse and snapped her bra. Sometimes when
she walked into the office in the morning, she said, he would greet her with an
exaggerated raise of his eyebrows. Once, he said: "You came in late three times
this week. What are you going to do to make up for it?"

After three months, Ms. Maldonadobarreiro filed a sexual harassment claim. It
was not taken seriously, and the district director, Ronald A. Brooks, reacted
with what an I.N.S. investigator would later term "cynicism." Mr. Brooks
disputed that characterization, but said in an interview that at the time he
viewed Ms. Maldonadobarreiro as someone who might invent an allegation of
harassment. "When I was director, she was the type of person I would not be
alone with," Mr. Brooks said.

Ms. Maldonadobarreiro quit in January 1986, taking a civil service job in
Seattle. An agency investigation concluded that she was sexually harassed and
that her departure was an instance of "constructive dismissal" -- when someone
leaves a job because the employer has made the atmosphere so hostile that there
is no other choice.

But even after she left the immigration agency, Ms. Maldonadobarreiro said, Mr.
Smith continued to harass her, making phone calls to her new employer.

The agency began investigating the case in April 1986, and Ms. Maldonadobarreiro
pursued it herself for five years without a lawyer. In September 1990, the
I.N.S. settled the case, offering her a job as an investigative assistant and
back pay of $93,000.

By then, Mr. Smith had been promoted to district director, a job he still holds.
Mr. Smith, through an I.N.S. spokeswoman, said he did not want to comment.

Ms. Maldonadobarreiro returned to work in February 1991, and she says that Mr.
Smith began calling her again, asking in a panting voice, "Are we going to do it
this time?" Mr. Smith told investigators he did not make any such calls.

Although the settlement was supposed to be a secret, male colleagues would
flatten themselves against a wall when she walked by. About two weeks after her
return, she said, Mr. Smith got on the elevator, grabbed his crotch, and raised
his eyebrows.

She filed a second complaint of harassment in May 1991, which the I.N.S.
determined to be unfounded, and took leave without pay. "I felt powerless," said
Ms. Maldonadobarreiro, who now raises horses on a ranch near Killeen, Tex.
"Everybody was saying it was me. I was making him do this. I was made out to be
a damn criminal, and he got away with everything. You know, same old, same old."


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cynthia Maldonadobarreiro, Seattle immigration office -- "I
felt powerless. Everybody was saying it was me. I was making him do this." (Lisa
Davis for The New York Times); Ginger Kramer, Livermore, Calif., office -- "I
don't understand why someone can do things that are so sick and get rewarded for
them by the Government." (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times); LIVERMORE,
CALIF.: J. William Carter, accused of harassment; LOS ANGELES: Robert Moschorak,
accused of assault. (The Orange County Register); SEATTLE: Richard Smith,
accused of sexual harassment. (Robert DeGiulio/Seattle Post-Intelligencer) (pg.
D22)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 25, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Pushes To Collect Travelers' Fees

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,     Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;    Page 20;    Column 5;    National Desk

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has won agreements over the last few
weeks to collect at least $5.6 million in fees that the agency had not bothered
to recover before, for lack of accountants.

That money comes from the $6 fee from each arriving international passenger that
airlines collect as part of the ticket price. The carriers are supposed to turn
that money over to the immigration service, which uses it to pay for its
inspection programs. But the Justice Department found earlier this year that the
agency was not collecting the fees from 22 airlines and six cruise lines -- a
loss of as much as $23 million a year at a time when the agency's obligations
were about $60 million greater than its projected income.

Asked about that last summer, Kenneth Rath, the agency's chief financial
officer, complained that he did not have enough accountants. "There are only two
people down there monitoring this," he said.

In September, The New York Times published a series of articles about the
immigration service's management problems, including the failure to collect this
money. Immigration, furthermore, has become a central political issue for the
country, agency officials acknowledge. As a result, they realize, their
operations will come under greater scrutiny from Congress and the rest of the
Government.

In the last few months, Frederic I. Marks, director of debt collection and cash
management for the I.N.S., has added two more accountants to his staff.

"We're taking an aggressive role to collect these fees," Mr. Marks said.

In November his office won agreement from Jamaica's national airline to pay $4.2
million over the next four years. The carrier has already turned over $1
million. All the money is fee receipts that were collected over the last several
years but not sent to the agency.

This fall his office also collected $901,546 from "a Pacific Asian national
carrier" that the agency declined to identify, including $88,383 in interest,
and smaller amounts from several other carriers. The office is also negotiating
with three other airlines that together owe $3.7 million in fees. The agency is
threatening to file suit if the airlines do not pay.

"I personally feel substantial progress is being made," Mr. Marks said. "But
these things can't be changed overnight. It takes time."

The immigration service, meanwhile, has been criticized on another front --
failure to collect fines from airlines for carrying illegal immigrants into the
United States.

A Justice Department report shows that the agency is failing to collect as much
as $12.3 million a year in such fines, which total $3,000 for each illegal
immigrant. The Justice Department's Inspector General, in a report issued in the
fall, found that the I.N.S. failed to collect the money for more than 4,100
violations that inspectors had cited in 1993 -- 40 percent of the cases.

In response, the agency said, "The I.N.S. concedes that there is a need to
improve its procedures for collecting fines."

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Acts to Halt Bribes for Alien Work Cards

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 12;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 25


Trying to reduce the temptation for employees to take bribes, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service has decided to stop issuing work cards in district
offices. Instead, starting next spring, the cards will be mailed to immigrants
from one or two central offices.

Work cards are given to aliens awaiting hearings on their immigration status.
With the cards, they are free to look for work. But the cards are also prized
because in some states they can be used to obtain driver's licenses, Social
Security cards and other documents that are often used to demonstrate
citizenship. As a result, the work cards can be a valuable item on the black
market, costing illegal immigrants $500 or more.

In one particularly grievous case of corruption, eight employees of the
Washington district office of the immigration service were recently convicted of
accepting bribes. Altogether, the agency said, they had fraudulently given more
than 4,000 people permission to work in this country.

Nor was the corruption in the Washington office an isolated case. Every year
dozens of immigration service employees are arrested on charges of corruption or
related misconduct. The New York Times reported on the widespread corruption in
the agency last September.

The new procedure on issuing work cards, one of several steps the service is
taking to deal with its corruption problem, also comes as immigration has become
an important political issue.

The recommendation to mail the work cards from central offices came as part of a
larger management review this fall of agency procedures. Doris Meissner, the
Commissioner of Immigration, has acknowledged that her agency's employees --
some earning little more than the minimum wage -- are more vulnerable to
corruption than those in most other agencies of Government because they grant
coveted benefits to immigrants willing to pay almost any price to stay in the
United States.

This month, the agency is also installing an advanced computer program that will
enable internal auditors to track corruption and employee misconduct cases and
see whether loopholes in the system made them possible.

"Now, every time we have a case, we have to look through all the other cases" by
hand, William G. Rightor, the deputy director of internal audit, said as he
demonstrated the new system last week.

The new tracking system is intended to allow auditors to spot common elements in
repeated cases and take corrective action, a practice the agency had previously
neglected. Had this system been in place before, agency officials said, the
immigration service's management might have noticed the work card problem on its
own.

Under the new plan for issuing work cards, district offices will approve the
applications and then send the paperwork to regional immigration service
centers. There, officers will review the papers, produce the work cards and mail
them to the immigrants.

"We signed off on this two weeks ago," Chris Sale, the Deputy Commissioner, said
last week. "It will be operational in June."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

BUSINESS DIGEST

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 55;  Column 1;  Financial Desk

LENGTH: 624 words


The Economy

The many predictions of a strong holiday shopping season were apparently wishful
thinking for many retailers, particularly in apparel. Early indications are that
the season's sales, while better than last year's, have not been what the
retailers hoped for. Many shoppers held off until just before Christmas, forcing
merchants to cut prices. The extent of the markdowns implied a desperation not
seen since the low points of the recent recession. [Page 1.]



Trying to reduce the temptation for employees to take bribes, the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service has decided to stop issuing work cards in
district offices, instead mailing them to immigrants from one or two central
offices. Because the cards can be used to obtain driver's licenses, Social
Security cards and other documents used to demonstrate citizenship, they can be
valuable items on the black market. [12.]

International

After losing billions of dollars in Mexico last week, investors asked if the
peso devaluation would set off a series of damaging devaluations throughout
Latin America. The short-term answer appears to be no, even in Brazil and
Argentina, which are thought to have overvalued currencies. [55.]

The steep decline in the value of the peso has resulted in a potential loss of
roughly $8 to $10 billion for American investors in Mexican stocks and bonds,
Wall Street experts estimated. American owners of Mexican stocks took the
biggest hit, suffering both the devaluation's effect and from falling stock
prices. [55.]

The collapse of China's bid to join the World Trade Organization suggests that
the country's Communist Party leaders might not have given trade negotiators the
authority to compromise. Some Western diplomats saw a strong resemblance between
China's approach to the talks and its successful strategy last spring to
persuade President Clinton to put trade with China ahead of U.S. concerns about
the nation's human rights record. [55.]

Japan's electronics industry, creeping back from a long slump, has registered an
increase in production in 1994 for the first time in three years. But the gain
resulted mainly from strong shipments to the United States and Asia of computer
parts, not a surge in demand for consumer electronics. Production of
consumer-electronics equipment in Japan fell nearly 9.7 percent. [55.]

The Media Business

This holiday season, "A Christmas Carol," the newest challenger to the Radio
City Music Hall's Christmas show, has been drawing big audiences to the
Paramount auditorium at Madison Square Garden. But the production is expected to
lose money unless it can win acceptance as a New York holiday perennial. [55.]

James Warren, The Chicago Tribune's new bureau chief in Washington, has won few
fans among journalists working there. Small wonder: His columns rail about "the
ethical cesspool of Washington journalism," describing what he believes to be
the spoiled-brat nature of some star news professionals. [57.]

The hottest cover face this month belongs not to a model, nor a youngster, but
to a 70-year-old superstar -- Paul Newman. And the runner-up in popularity seems
to be a 74-year-old, Pope John Paul II. Deirdre Carmody: Magazines. [57.]

Once upon a time, there was a Salt Lake City advertising man who decided to
write a story for his two daughters. On Sunday, "The Christmas Box" will appear
in the No. 2 position on The New York Times paperback best-seller list. [57.]

Today's Column

A computerized food-preparation device looks ahead to futuristic meal-making
machines not too far removed from the type that Jane Jetson might use. Teresa
Riordan: Patents. [56.]


LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 5, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Five Charged With Holding Thai Women Captive for Prostitution

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1156 words


Four men and a woman were charged with smuggling at least a dozen women from
Thailand into this country and forcing them to work as prostitutes at a heavily
guarded Chinatown brothel, Federal authorities announced yesterday.

Officials said that the defendants, all Thai citizens, promised the women
lucrative restaurant jobs in New York but instead imprisoned them in the brothel
and ordered them to have sex with 400 to 500 men to win their freedom.

Mary Jo White, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York,
said that four of the five defendants were arrested yesterday morning by agents
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The fifth is still being sought.

The authorities said the ring had been smuggling women into the country since at
least last summer. The police shut down the brothel, at 206-208 Bowery, in early
November after someone there called 911.

According to immigration service investigators, scores of women speaking little
or no English worked at the brothel. They were kept behind a series of locked
doors and monitored by video cameras and three daunting guards. Rarely were any
allowed outside to catch even a glimpse of daylight. Their hope of release was
pinned on meticulous records they kept of how many customers they served. The
immigration service said it first became aware of the compulsory prostitution at
the Chinatown brothel on Oct. 11. The place was not closed until Nov. 8,
however, because the police said they were helping immigration officials and did
not want to interrupt their investigation.

Investigators said the five defendants played various roles in the smuggling
case. They include Somchay Khounsavanh, also known as Sam, 39, of 909 Washington
Boulevard, Stamford, Conn., who was described as a guard at the brothel and
Saravut Wattanasiri, known as Yai or Kevin, 30, of 20 Confucius Plaza in
Chinatown, who the authorities said smuggled one of the captive women from
Thailand and collected the money she earned.

The others are Somyos Kedjumnong, known as Odd, 41, of 127 Parsonage Street,
Rocky Hill, Conn., who officials said smuggled two of the women from Thailand
and collected their brothel money; Thongchai Wutthidetgrainggrai, known as Kiang
or Kriang, 35, of 42-04 Saull Street, Flushing, and Vilawan Pajimnoht, known as
Lek, 39, also of 42-04 Saull Street, Flushing. The latter two were accused of
smuggling at least nine of the women held at the brothel. Somchay Khounsavanh
has not yet been arrested. Each defendant faces a maximum sentence of life in
prison. Officials said the investigation is continuing but would not speculate
on whether there are likely to be more arrests.

Siew Geok Adkins, also known as Lilly Chan, who the authorities said managed the
brothel and was called "Mama" or "Mama-san" by the women, was arrested when the
brothel was raided in November and is being held without bail. She has been
charged with conspiring to smuggle women into the country and force them to work
as prostitutes.

According to court papers filed in the case, immigration officials learned of
the brothel after members of the Mayor's Task Force on Midtown Enforcement did a
routine inspection Oct. 11. The task force inspectors were approached by a Thai
woman who suggested that she and the other prostitutes were being held against
their will. The police and the immigration service were called.

Immigration investigators interviewed 31 women that day. Three agreed to
cooperate and left with the officials. The others refused to be questioned any
further and stayed at the brothel. Investigators said that Ms. Chan allowed the
police to search the place and said she would help them find Thai nationals who
brought the women to her.

While the investigators were busy, however, they said that she vanished,
apparently through a secret door concealed by a false wall.

According to the court papers, the brothel remained open while the investigation
continued. At 11:30 P.M. on Nov. 8, the police responded to a call to 911 from
someone in the brothel who said that women were being held captive there. The
police arrested Ms. Chan and soon after the brothel was closed down.

According to the papers, some of the women said they were approached in Bangkok
last summer and promised jobs in American restaurants paying large sums of
money. Some had valid passports while others did not. All were given false visas
and one-way plane tickets to New York.

Shortly after they arrived in New York, the papers said, the women were taken to
the Bowery brothel. There, Ms. Chan instructed each woman that she could not
leave until she had "400." One woman thought this meant $400, but she found out
that it referred to the number of men she would have to have sex with. Others
told investigators that their quotas were 500 men. Some of the women kept their
own meticulous records of how many customers they served.

According to investigators, the standard rate at a Chinatown brothel is $130. Of
that, $30 goes to the brothel and $100 to the prostitute. Investigators
therefore estimate that each woman need to pay $40,000 to $50,000 of her
earnings to gain release.

Investigators said that Ms. Chan negotiated with the smugglers over the price of
each woman. Fees from customers, the papers said, were split with the smugglers,
except in the case of a few women who Ms. Chan bought outright from the
smugglers. She kept all of their receipts.

Fleeing the premises was impossible, the women told investigators, because of
the maze of doors, video monitors and guards. According to the court papers, the
women said they were told by one of the guards that if any of them escaped,
numerous gang members in the city would easily track them down.

During her one month at the brothel, one woman told investigators that she was
only permitted outdoors once, when a customer took her and several other women
in a van to see the Statue of Liberty. Otherwise, she said, she and the other
women were kept indoors. Food was brought to them by guards.

Another woman, in her month's time, went out twice: once to see a doctor when
she was sick and another time to rest at an apartment when she was feeling
poorly.

A third women said she was allowed outside three times during her three months
of servitude. Twice, accompanied by a guard, she went to buy clothing, and a
third time she went out for a walk with several of the other women.

Investigators said the women were not physically harmed but were treated rudely
and felt certain that force would be used against them if they disobeyed.
Investigators said that some said they feared for their lives.

Investigators suggested at least nine of the Thai women were cooperating. The
court papers said one of these women said that when she spoke to her mother in
Thailand, her mother said one of the defendants had called her and said his gang
friends would soon find her daughter.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 8, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Cultures Clash in Suburbs;
Schools Struggle to Cope With Influx of Immigrant Students

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 25;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1637 words

DATELINE: WESTBURY, L.I., Jan. 4


Below a small, drooping American flag, the high school beginners' English class
was growing restless and noisy.

Not even the imposing presence of Westbury High School's principal, Pless M.
Dickerson, quieted the whispers in Spanish and Haitian Creole. Mr. Dickerson
waited for the school bell to ring to confide his own frustration.

"You can see how difficult it is to teach students with different abilities in
the same class," he said. "We need bilingual aides. And we're looking for
funding."

Ordinarily, the principal's complaint would go no further than the Westbury High
campus, a cluster of 1950's buildings where teachers are trying to cope with
daily rising numbers of immigrant students who cannot speak English or read a
basic first-grade primer.

But the suburban school district's private struggle became public knowledge last
month when a teacher, David Dahle, made the same complaint from a jail cell
instead of his science lab.

Mr. Dahle, 49, a 25-year veteran, was taken from his home in Glen Cove by the
police and was accused of purposely closing the heavy door of his classroom on a
14-year-old Haitian student, whose fingertip was severed in the incident.

There at the police station, Mr. Dahle found himself talking as much about
educational policy as about slamming doors. He said he was frustrated by trying
to teach ninth-grade science to two dozen Creole-speaking Haitian students who
barely understood his English. Mr. Dahle told the police that the district had
not hired the Creole-speaking aide he had requested. The school has only two
Creole-speaking staff members, a teacher and counselor, not nearly enough to
serve the 75 Haitian students.

The Westbury Union Free School District, like many in the suburbs, has been
hard-pressed in recent years to absorb a wave of immigrant students pushed here
by civil unrest and poverty and pulled by a chain of family and friends.

It has not yet learned the lessons that urban districts like New York City long
ago came to terms with. For nearly five years, leaders of the growing Haitian
community here have pressed school officials for Creole-speaking teachers and
aides, but always there was a list of reasons to deny the demands. Some parents
suspected that the suburbs were simply uneasy with them.

"Suburban school districts are definitely behind, markedly so," said Roger Rice,
a lawyer with Multicultural Education Training and Advocacy Inc., an advocacy
group for immigrant students nationwide that is based in Boston. The group says
most complaints it hears are about suburban districts, a trend it noticed about
three years ago.

Conceding a Need, Blaming Resources

Westbury is an integrated suburb of nearly 20,000 people with a mix of
blue-collar, middle- and upper-middle-class sections. Its high school's
population is about two-thirds black. School officials there readily agree they
need to do better, but say they lack the resources for teaching the immigrants,
who are now 20 percent of the high school's 900 students.

They blamed a shortage of Haitian teachers, a budget that has not grown in three
years after voters resisted tax increases and too little state and Federal help.

"You're looking at the tip of an iceberg," said Superintendent Robert D.
Pinckney. "And unless there's some kind of common effort made by the state and
the feds to help us, you're probably going to get a lot of Prop. 187's," he
added, referring to the California initiative approved by voters in November to
deny public education and nonemergency medical care to illegal immigrants.

In a news conference, the superintendent even questioned whether anyone would
certify a teacher for Creole because, he said, it "is not a language, it's a
dialect."(Linguists consider Creole a distinct language with its own grammar and
syntax.)

No Shortage Of Haitian Teachers

Locally, there are teacher training programs offering credentials in Haitian
Creole, said Carole Berotte Joseph, the director of the two-year-old Haitian
Bilingual Education Technical Assistance Center at City College of New York,
which matches certified Creole-speaking teachers with school districts.

"I don't know how serious the shortage is, because I know there are Haitian
teachers who are not working," she said.

"Very often," she added of suburban districts, "they are not ready to receive
immigrant children because their mind-set is middle-class children. For whatever
reason, they finally realize that they have this new population to deal with.
And very often they just don't bother because they know the parents don't have
much political clout."

The influx of immigrants to the school has shown no sign of slowing: about 100
new students from Haiti and El Salvador registered in Westbury this year,
swelling the classes in the district's $1.24 million bilingual education
program.

That money, which includes just $46,000 in Federal and state aid, did not cover
students arriving after the school year began. When more newcomers signed up,
the size of existing special classes simply grew.

"Every time I go to the guidance office I see three or four new arrivals," said
John Mecca, a Westbury social studies teacher for 34 years and president of the
Westbury Teachers Association. "The district is aware and they are trying to
find qualified bilingual people as aides or teachers. But the problem grows
faster than the possible solutions."

Wealthy Foreigners Easily Absorbed

There are suburban school districts that smoothly absorb immigrants,
particularly wealthy students with advanced skills, like many Japanese in
Scarsdale or Iranians in Great Neck, L.I. Westbury also had few difficulties
with earlier Haitian arrivals, may of whom had been through elite schools in
their country.

Then came the most recent group, impoverished students from El Salvador or
Haiti, who frequently did not know how to read or write in their own languages.

In June the high school principal asked the district for two teacher's aides who
could speak Spanish or Haitian Creole, but did not get them.

In a subdued fashion, many Haitian parents on Long Island have been privately
debating the quality of suburban education. But many do not know enough English
to challenge the school system.

"It's not a bad school," said Yonel Verna, a Westbury parent, who received a
number of telephone calls from Haitian parents after Mr. Dahle's arrest. "They
have some good teachers. There is a barrier between the languages, and sometimes
the teachers get upset when the kids don't understand them."

'Good Intentions Don't Educate'

Last summer, members of the Long Island Haitian Coalition met with the Westbury
superintendent to press for change, but ultimately were disappointed with the
response.

"Good intentions don't educate the kids," said Cajuste Carelus, who had been a
science teacher in Haiti. With limited resources, Westbury High officials have
tried to patch together an informal system of student translators who are
matched as "buddies" with English-speaking teachers. In addition, the district
has 17 teachers working in its bilingual program.

Even without the buddy system, many Haitian students already intercede like
United Nations diplomats, interpreting for classmates baffled by lessons.

"I didn't understand anything when I first came here," said Raphael Camille, a
17-year-old senior who left Haiti two years ago. "I wrote whatever they put on
the blackboard and I tried to understand it later. It was really frustrating.
Sometimes the other students would explain an exercise, and you still couldn't
understand."

Eventually, her English improved so much that she was tapped to be a student
aide, translating civics lessons for Haitian students. She wanted to help
others, she said, and noted that she had been impressed by Mr. Dahle, who would
give her extra help during her lunch breaks.

Risks of Seeking Extra Help

Even today, the Nassau County District Attorney's office was still sorting out
conflicting versions of precisely what happened before the door slammed on the
teen-ager's finger.

With Mr. Dahle present for a Thursday morning court hearing, the assistant
district attorney sought more time to interview witnesses to decide whether
there was "sufficient evidence" to prosecute.

The youth, Peterson Borga, who left Haiti in June, was enrolled in a special
"sheltered" science class for Haitian students that the school had organized on
the theory that the Creole-speaking students could help one another.

And the more accomplished students did try to help with translation, but
Peterson complained the effort was not always appreciated. "The teacher doesn't
like it," he said, "and he pushes them out of the way."

School Blames Student and Family

School district officials blamed the student for the dispute, saying that he had
walked out of the classroom after having been scolded for "talking out of turn."

The teen-ager's lawyer, Steven Seiden, offered this very different version: The
argument began with Peterson's simple question about kilometers. When the
teacher asked him to stay after class for an explanation, Peterson questioned
why he had to wait. The teacher snapped, "If you don't want to wait, then leave
now!" So the student opened the door, gripping the edge lightly with his hand
until he felt a sudden push.

In late December, the Borgas filed a civil complaint against the district,
blaming a frustrated teacher's temper tantrum for the incident. An operation to
reattach Peterson's severed fingertip was unsuccessful.

A few days earlier, the district filed documents of its own challenging the
Borga family's claimed residency in Westbury. Officials said he actually lives
in nearby Uniondale.

The district demanded back payment of $4,014.60 in tuition.


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Westbury Union Free District, like many in the suburbs, has
been hard-pressed to absorb immigrant students, mostly from Haiti. Lovely
Joseph, left, and Jocelyn Jean Pierre attend an English as a Second Language
class. (pg. 25); Near a sign greeting newcomers in six different languages, the
principal of Westbury High School on Long Island, Pless M. Dickerson, left,
talked with students recently. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. 30)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 12, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Hunting Fistfuls Of Bounty Dollars;
An Unusual Freelance Career: Capturing Convicted Aliens

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 4;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1540 words


The final leg of Lennox Medina's aborted flight from justice was a 12-story
elevator ride up to the Immigration and Naturalization Service's deportation
office in Manhattan. After 18 hours spent in handcuffs and in silence, the
30-year-old native of Trinidad and convicted felon began to swear and to
threaten violence. And then he began to cry.

"You'll get paid now," Mr. Medina said to the two men beside him in the
elevator, who had captured him earlier that morning last week on the streets of
Brooklyn.

"You won."

So ended another odd, arduous triumph for a 28-year-old Queens man who makes his
living as a bounty hunter, prospering as a result of one of the more inadvertent
privatizations of government activity.

The bounty hunter, son of a Colombian immigrant, along with his partner, a
Caribbean immigrant, does every day what the Government's immigration
authorities rarely do: He searches out and finds criminally convicted aliens,
and brings them in to be deported.

"Why immigration doesn't do its job, I don't know," said the Queens man. "I'm a
kid who is a bounty hunter, and I'm doing it for them. It's pathetic, in a way."

The bounty hunter readily agreed to be photographed, saying that his face gives
no clues to vengeful criminals who might want to seek him out. But he refused to
allow his full name to be printed. His first name is Manuel. .

Manuel works for bondsmen who specialize in bailing out criminal aliens who are
in the custody of the immigration service. Many of these aliens have been
ordered deported because of their criminal convictions, but, once released, and
confident that immigrant agents will not come after them, they simply ignore
their deportation orders. They also forego the deposit they gave the bondsmen --
immigration bonds are very low -- but the bondsmen are obliged to turn them over
to the Government. So the bondsmen send Manuel and his partner after them, armed
with store-bought badges.

Manuel works out of his Queens apartment, tracking fugitives by computer,
sometimes with mixed emotions, but always for cold cash. He makes $5,000 to
$15,000 a month. His fee for capturing Mr. Medina was $2,500.

"The aliens who have gone to prison for crimes and who are hiding so as not to
be deported, they are our bread and butter," he said. "To be honest, it's easy
money. Absolutely."

Immigration officials have conceded that they do not track down significant
numbers of illegal immigrants, even the convicted criminals who are their top
priority. Only one-tenth of the 200,000 criminal aliens subject to deportation
in the United States in 1993 were actually deported.

In New York City, according to immigration officials, 15 deportation officers
are in charge of a caseload of 69,495 aliens, including an uncalculated
percentage of convicted criminals, who are scheduled to be deported.

Last week, immigration officials in Washington announced that the agency's
$323.5 million increase in financing in 1995 included $45.6 million to improve
its efforts at deporting criminal aliens. But as of now, "We don't have the
manpower or resources to go after individuals in New York," said Chip Bogdanski,
a spokesman for the immigration service.

The bounty hunter smirks at the immigration official's lament, for he says it is
often very easy to locate and apprehend fugitive aliens in New York City. Manuel
and his partner often find their task remarkably straightforward: They simply go
to the aliens' addresses as listed in prison records and find that they have
returned.

Sometimes, they get amazingly lucky. Manuel said he once was involved in a car
crash in Queens, and he got out of his car to discover that the other driver was
a criminal alien he was searching for.

Manuel wears a bulletproof vest, but he has never been hit and has never had to
use a weapon. He rarely needs backup.

A former Army enlisted man, Manuel said he was enticed into his line of work by
a Clint Eastwood movie about bounty hunters, "For a Few Dollars More." He
cultivates a mystique, wearing a lapel pin featuring a skull, a sword , a snake
and two words: "The Hunter."

Manuel's lucrative and largely unmonitored business -- anyone over 20 in New
York State can be retained by a bondsman to bring in a fugitive -- has raised
concerns with civil libertarians.

"The bounty hunters aren't licensed, aren't regulated, and in fact nobody knows
who they are," said Norman Siegel, executive director of the New York Civil
Liberties Union. "The potential for abusing a person's civil rights is great,
even more exacerbated when you are talking about undocumented people."

Manuel, however, doesn't pretend to be too troubled about civil rights, although
he admits he runs the risk of being arrested himself should he, say, break down
the wrong apartment door.

"All I need to take a guy in is an order from immigration telling the bondsman
to surrender the guy who didn't show up to be deported," he said. "You'd be
shocked at how these guys come without a fight. I don't even know if they know
who I am."

In fact, the partners say, their greatest obstacle is often the immigration
service itself. The two men said that, in New York, they sometimes arrived at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service office at 26 Federal Plaza with a
fugitive in tow only to be told that the Government agents wouldn't take him.

"I have had convicted alien felons ride up in handcuffs in the elevator with me
and then ride back down the elevator with me, without the handcuffs, of course,"
Manuel said.

Once, he said, the agency would not take a Jamaican-born drug dealer into
custody because they were having an office party. Immigration officials,
however, said they would never turn away a fugitive who had been convicted of a
serious crime and represented a threat to public safety.

The bounty hunters chuckle, and they offer their experience last week with
Lennox Medina as an example. They captured Mr. Medina outside his mother's
apartment in Crown Heights late on Jan. 3. Mr. Medina, who had been living in
the United States illegally since 1979, had served six months for gun possession
at Riker's Island in early 1993. He was released to the immigration agency, but
posted a $10,000 bond to earn his freedom. He promised to report for his
deportation, but he didn't.

So his bail bondsman called Manuel, and it took him and his partner two days to
find and handcuff Mr. Medina.

Manuel spent last Tuesday night sleeping in his Mitsubishi minivan with Mr.
Medina in handcuffs in a parking lot across the street from the immigration
offices. At 8 A.M., he reported to deportation with Mr. Medina.

"They told me first they wouldn't accept him because Mr. Medina was saying he
was in the last stages of AIDS and was dying, but he had no documentation and he
was a 250-pound bull," the bounty hunter said. "Then, they said he didn't have
his traveling documents and wouldn't be accepted. Then, they said they didn't
have room in the detention center. It was a joke."

A spokesman for the immigration service said proper procedure was followed
throughout.

But an unusual deal was brokered between the immigration officials and the
bounty hunters. The officials said that they would take Mr. Medina into custody
only if the bounty hunters brought them Mr. Medina's passport and permission
from the Government of Trinidad for his return. (This is the job of Government
deportation officers.)

The bounty hunter drove to Brooklyn, listened to Mr. Medina's mother screaming
with concern for her son, and then asked for her son's passport. He didn't say
who he was or why he required the passport.

"Are you going to shoot my son?" asked Catalina Medina.

"I'm not here to kill anybody," the bounty hunter said.

The mother gave him the passport.

Next, armed with United States Department of Justice paperwork that read "Notice
of Official Detail," the bounty hunter arrived at the Trinidadian Embassy on
Third Avenue in Manhattan with Mr. Medina in handcuffs, and he met with Matthew
Toussaint, a consulate official in charge of immigration. Mr. Toussaint prepared
the documents without asking who the bounty hunters were.

"I'm not familiar with the internal workings of the United States immigration
service," Mr. Toussaint said in a later interview. "They provided the documents.
I can't speak to who they were."

Mr. Medina absorbed all of the events without great emotion, at least until he
got in the elevator the final time at 26 Federal Plaza. He had been in the
United States since he was 15 years old. He said he had no one to turn to when
he got back to Trinidad.

"I tried to make it in this country," he said without elaboration.

At that point, the immigration agents shackled Mr. Medina's legs and led him off
to a detention center on Varick Street. He was scheduled to be on a flight last
Sunday to Trinidad.

"Suddenly, there were no problems about AIDs, about passports, about space for
him," the bounty hunter said. "No, they had two knuckleheads do their work for
them."

With that, the bounty hunter reached into the back of his minivan, pulled a
folder full of photographs and case files, and headed to Queens. A criminal
alien from the Dominican Republic was next.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manuel, the bounty hunter, does what the Government cannot or
will not do: he brings in aliens to be deported. (Monica Almeida/The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 12, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Hanoi to Accept Refugees Now in Germany in Exchange for Aid

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 5;   Column 1;   Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: BONN, Jan. 11


Germany said today that it would soon begin forcibly repatriating some of the
40,000 Vietnamese immigrants here illegally, and that Hanoi agreed to accept
them by 2000 in exchange for increased trade and economic aid.

About 60,000 other Vietnamese whose status as refugees or immigrants has been
recognized would not be affected, officials said.

The accord will eliminate a legacy of the cold war and enable Germany to compete
more effectively with the United States and Japan in the emerging market economy
in Vietnam, but official rejected criticism that the agreement sacrificed human
rights for business aims.

"There are about 20,000 Vietnamese whose applications for asylum have been
rejected, and these would be the first to be considered for repatriation," said
Bernd Schmidbauer, who helped negotiate the agreement. "We assume there will be
some Vietnamese citizens who will want to go back voluntarily, but we do not
know exactly how many there will be."

Phan Huy Oanh, a Vietnamese refugee who has lived in Europe for 20 years, said,
"Only a small percentage want to go back voluntarily."

Long delayed by Vietnam's refusal to guarantee that the returnees would be
welcome, the agreement commits Germany to provide $130 million in aid over the
next two years, part of it to help the refugees get a new start in Vietnam.

Bonn will also make available $65 million next year to underwrite risk insurance
for German investment projects and exports to Vietnam. Daimler-Benz A.G., the
automotive giant, said today that it was planning to build a $70 million bus
factory in Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon).

West Germany offered political asylum to thousands of Vietnamese during and
after the Vietnam War, which ended with a Communist victory in 1975. Others were
Vietnamese workers and their families brought in as laborers and students by
Communist East Germany in the 1980's.

There were about 62,000 Vietnamese in East Germany when Communism collapsed in
1989, and about 12,000 stayed after unification in 1990 despite a Government
offer of a plane ticket and $2,000 cash for every one who agreed to return home.

In 1993 Germany eliminated a constitutional guarantee of an asylum hearing for
anyone who could get into the country and apply.

                             --------------------


<rr>Old Glory in Hanoi

BANGKOK, Thailand, Jan. 11 (Special to The New York Times) -- United States
diplomats say they are within days of raising an American flag over a modern
nine-story office building in Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, to mark
establishment of limited diplomatic ties 20 years after the last American
diplomats were forced to flee Vietnam.

The building is expected to be opened this month after the signing of an
agreement on American and Vietnamese properties seized at the end of the Vietnam
War.

"We've already got the flag here, and it's ready to go up," said an American
diplomat in Hanoi, speaking on condition that he not be named.

The building is expected to be converted into an embassy when the two countries
establish full diplomatic relations, although that move is thought by some
diplomats to be months away, if not years. The United States has said that it
will withhold full diplomatic relations until there is further progress in
determining the fate of more than 1,600 Americans still listed as missing in
action in Vietnam.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 17, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The Cold War In Brighton Beach;
Police and Russian Emigres Share an Uneasy Relationship

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1285 words


Of numerous murders in recent years linked to Russian organized crime in
Brighton Beach, not one has been solved. That, police investigators say, is
because no one has come forward with any information, despite the fact that
dozens of people were present at the scenes of some of the killings.

The unsolved murders -- the police say as many as 15 in the last 10 years -- are
perhaps the most flagrant consequence of the uneasy relationship between the
police and Russian immigrants in Brighton Beach. It is a wariness bound up in
competing stereotypes and conflicting interests, and it represents yet the
latest twist on a tension intrinsic to the dynamic between the police and many
new immigrant groups in New York City.

Police officials say many Russian residents regard them with fear and suspicion,
frequently offering only silence or, even worse, bribes. They say the distrust
has been inflamed by sensationalized accounts in Russian-language newspapers of
neighborhood confrontations with the police.

The immigrants -- there are as many as 40,000 in Brighton Beach who emigrated
from Russia or other parts of the former Soviet Union -- counter that the police
often treat them as if they all were members of organized crime. The officers,
many say, are overly physical, poorly trained and prone to snidely suggesting
they all go back to Russia.

"There are a lot of misconceptions and they flow both ways in Brighton Beach,"
said Alexander Lanzman, who heads the local Independent Republicans of South
Brooklyn. "It's true the Russians usually have an attitude with the police. But
it's important for the police to comprehend that not every Russian is a
criminal. There is a good deal of education to accomplish."

Sometimes, the misunderstandings are relatively benign. One day last month, for
instance, an elderly Russian woman, unable to find the words to express her
confusion and anger, wound up thanking the police officer who was handing her a
summons for illegal parking.

But often, they are considerably more serious. Last summer, a police officer
tried to break up a fight on the boardwalk and ended up being assaulted by men
and women on both sides of the initial dispute, the police said. Six Russian
immigrants were arrested, and they, in turn, filed complaints of police
brutality.

"The Russian immigrants in Brighton Beach have been dropped into a strange
atmosphere, and once here they have tried to create for themselves a
self-contained world," said Capt. Dale Reidel, the commanding officer of the
60th Precinct. "It's hard to avoid the sense that they want nothing to do with
the police. We're trying to bridge that gap."

But even those attempts can bring frustration for the police. Recently, the top
officers at the 60th Precinct invited the Russian community to the latest in a
series of "sensitivity sessions," to share complaints and ideas with the members
of the police force.

No one showed.

The 60th Precinct currently has two officers who speak Russian, and it requests
that Russian-speaking police academy cadets do their training in Brighton Beach.
The precinct recently hired a Russian woman as a receptionist, and posted her at
the entrance to the precinct station house.

Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's office has even become involved in the effort to
minimize the misapprehensions and mediate the mistrust, organizing a meeting
between Russians and the most senior members of the Police Department and
assigning one of its community liaison representatives to assist in establishing
more meaningful contacts.

"I felt that to open a real dialogue, we had to broaden the base of who the 60th
Precinct was talking to," said Alex Kart, the Mayor's community aide who came to
New York from Kiev in 1980. "They had people they used to reach out to the
community, but it wasn't enough. Things were bad in Brighton Beach, and neither
the Russians nor the 60th Precinct were going anywhere."

Great divides between the police and new immigrants have been a constant of life
in New York City. Tensions flared between the authorities and Italians in the
Bronx earlier this century. The police have long been wary of patrolling the
Chinese neighborhoods. And today, relations with the Dominicans in Washington
Heights and the Colombians in Jackson Heights remain charged by shared
confusions and mutual mistrust.

At any moment on any day on Brighton Beach Avenue, everyone appears to be going
everywhere. The avenue is the main commercial and social artery in a
neighborhood that contains the greatest concentration of emigres from the former
Soviet Union in the world. Horns blare, cars clog the streets, and the subway
rumbles over the elevated tracks in a vibrant world filled with illegal peddlers
of everything from hats to illicit pharmaceuticals.

Through it all walk the officers of the 60th Precinct. They manage to elicit the
occasional returned nod or wave of the hand. But the community's aloofness is
palpable.

"A lot of the people don't even speak enough English to speak to us at all,"
said Officer Richard Jacobson, who walked the Brighton Beach Avenue beat for the
last year. "They get out of your way, that's their acknowledgment."

Those acknowledgments can be elaborate.

"I can walk through the precinct," Captain Reidel said, "get to the boardwalk in
Brighton Beach, see literally hundreds of people there, and then have them part
for me like the Red Sea."

For many of the emigres, their lives in the former Soviet Union, where
corruption and tyranny reigned among the police forces, wrought a distrust of
authority that is difficult to shake.

"I have spoken to the police and tried to explain to them the peculiarities of
Russian psychology," said Felix Andreev, the president of the Brighton Beach
Business Improvement District and the self-styled "Mayor of Brighton Beach."
"They have come from a world where to cheat the state, to evade the law, is a
heroic deed."

The wariness that characterizes the daily relationship between the Russians and
the police in Brighton Beach has in recent months occasionally erupted into
arguments, brawls and arrests.

In July, the fight on the boardwalk resulted in a half-dozen arrests. Later in
the summer, there was a dispute over a parking space in the lot across from the
station house that culminated in an exchange of epithets and the arrests of a
father and son for disorderly conduct.

And last month, an officer from the 60th Precinct, who was writing a summons for
an illegally parked car, was roughed up by several bystanders, the police said,
and more arrests followed.

The incidents provoked a protest outside City Hall by roughly 50 residents of
Brighton Beach, as well as a storm of heated articles in the city's Russian
newspapers.

One paper's account of the fight on the boardwalk, in which police say a
uniformed officer tried to intervene in a fistfight, began this way: "Five
Russian immigrants were beaten up and humiliated by police officers. Six police
officers were injured -- mostly bruises."

Felix Gotlibovski, one of the men arrested in the incident in the parking lot
last summer, said: "All the officers in that precinct should be laid off -- they
are kids who have guns who think they are gods. All the talk, all the meetings,
it's not going to help."

Mr. Gotlibovski's fatalism appears to be shared by many older immigrants who are
mistrustful of the newer arrivals.

Sophia Vinokurova, the owner of M & I International Food on Brighton Beach
Avenue, who arrived in Brooklyn 20 years ago, said she thought it was the newer
immigrants, the younger ones, who had the hardest time with the police.

"We want peace," Mrs. Vinokurova said. "Like it used to be."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "A lot of the people don't even speak enough English to speak
to us at all," Officer Richard Jacobson says. "They get out of your way, that's
their acknowledgment." The police now have signs in Russian and a Russian
receptionist. Brighton Beach Avenue is the main commercial and social artery and
is patrolled by officers of the 60th Precinct. (Photographs by Edward
Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B1);

Mapof Brooklyn showing location of Brighton Beach (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 20, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S.-Cuba Refugee Talks

BYLINE: By Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 136 words


Cuba and the United States ended two days of immigration talks yesterday, and a
United States official said there was progress on visas and other issues for the
"safe, legal and orderly" flow of refugees.

The negotiations were a follow-up to a September agreement that halted an exodus
of over 30,000 Cubans fleeing on makeshift vessels.

In return for Cuba's promise to stop uncontrolled migration, the United State
agreed to issue at least 20,000 visas each year.

"We agreed that progress has been made over the past months in insuring that
migration between our two countries is safe, legal and orderly," said Dennis
Hays, the State Department's coordinator for Cuba.

Washington remains adamant about not allowing the talks to include other issues,
like the 30-year trade embargo against Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 22, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Gang Suspected in Abduction of 2

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 29;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 479 words


Two recent immigrants from China looking for work as cooks in Manhattan were
kidnapped on Friday and forced to ask their families in China to pay $30,000
each in ransom to a powerful gang, the police said.

Both men had emigrated from Fuzhou, the capital of Fujian Province in southern
China, and settled in Boston about two years ago, said Lieut. Joseph Pollini,
the commander of the Brooklyn Robbery Squad. But despite the apparent
coincidences, the two men did not appear to know each other, he said.

Investigators said they believed that last week, the men went separately to an
employment agency in Boston, identified as the Leung Chi Employment Agency, and
were told that jobs as cooks were available in New York.

One victim, Lin Xio Kwi, 21, traveled to Manhattan on a Greyhound bus on Friday
and, as he had been instructed, called a pager number, Lieutenant Pollini said.

Two unidentified men picked him up in a car and drove him to an apartment house
in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, the police said. He was met there by two other men and
told that he would be held in a third-floor apartment until his family paid
$30,000 to the Fuk Ching gang, a powerful crime organization that police
officials say has helped smuggle thousands of illegal Chinese immigrants into
the United States.

The other victim, Haung Ahong Sheng, 20, was already in the apartment and had
been bound and gagged with duct tape after calling his family to ask for the
ransom, the lieutenant said. He said it was not clear how Mr. Haung had come to
New York or how he had been taken to the apartment.

Lieutenant Pollini said both men were held overnight. Their guard eventually
fell asleep, allowing Mr. Haung to crawl to a window, from which he jumped,
shattering his left ankle. He crawled three blocks before finding police
officers.

Officers raided the apartment and arrested Fai Chin, 27, who they believe is a
member of the Fuk Ching gang. Mr. Fai was charged with kidnapping. The police
are still searching for the three others.

Lieutenant Pollini said Mr. Lin was found bound and gagged on a dirty mattress
with a wool cap pulled over his face, bruised but otherwise unharmed. Mr. Haung
was taken to Lutheran Medical Center, where he was treated for a broken ankle.

Both men are being kept under police protection, Lieutenant Pollini said. He
said the police had contacted their families and told them not to pay the ransom
money.

Asked if charges were being considered against anybody connected with the Boston
employment agency, the lieutenant would say only that the investigation was
continuing. He said employment scams and attempts to extort money from relatives
in China were common practices of the Fuk Ching and other violent Chinese gangs.

"They think they're going to avoid detection by the police by demanding money
from family members in China," he said.


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fai Chin, 27, was charged yesterday in the kidnappings of two
Chinese immigrants who came to New York from Boston in search of work. (Andrew
Lichtenstein for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 22, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KENSINGTON;
A Small Melting Pot, in Danger of Overflowing

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 8;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 450 words


About 8,600 Bangladeshis have come to New York in the last decade, making them
among the smallest and newest ingredients in the city's melting pot. Many say
that language and cultural barriers have made assimilation especially hard, and
they say they fear that a large influx of immigrants expected this year will
overwhelm the resources of the local Bangladeshis.

Few immigrants are fluent in English. Many own small grocery stores, restaurants
and coffee shops that cater mainly to other Bangladeshis.

Their way to New York was paved by the State Department, which in 1995 expanded
quotas for countries not known as traditional immigrant sources.

Morshed Alam, president of the American Bangladesh Friendship Association, which
has offices in Manhattan, Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx, accused the government
of abandoning Bangladeshis once they arrive. Although most are here legally, he
said, they do not know how to get the services they may be entitled to, like
low-income housing and medical care, because the city has no specific outreach
programs for Bangladeshis.

Mr. Alam also complained that no Bangladeshi-owned businesses have received
minority contracts from the Giuliani administration. He said that while former
Mayor David N. Dinkins's director of Asian affairs, Virgo Lee, was in weekly
contact, he has heard from Mayor Giuliani's director of immigrant affairs,
Valery Oltarsh, only once since the election.

Ms. Oltarsh said the city was aware of the group's problems and had met several
times with Bangladeshi representatives since June. Fran Reiter, Deputy Mayor for
Planning and Community Relations, said the city has helped community groups set
up a volunteer translation service to make it easier for them to obtain city
services.

Under the State Department's immigration diversity program, Bangladeshi
applicants can receive up to 3,850 visas for 1995. But Mr. Alam said that the
actual number of immigrants would triple or even quadruple in the next few years
because these immigrants are likely to apply for visas for their parents and
siblings to come as well.

That, he said, would swamp the resources resources of the local Bangladeshis.

"We don't need welfare and will not go on welfare," he said. "But unless someone
steps in to help with job and language training and helps them settle in, things
will be a big mess."   J.H.L.

ON THE MOVE
From Bangladesh
to the Boroughs

Where Bangladeshis have settled in New York, according to the 1990 census.

Queens 5,072 (Astoria, Sunnyside, Corona)

Brooklyn 1,842 (Kensington, New Lots, Midwood)

Bronx 1,083 (Parkchester)

Manhattan 670 (Lower East Side)

Staten Island 28

Total 8,695

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 25, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

STATE OF THE UNION: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON, WITH BOW TO G.O.P., REAFFIRMS HIS THEMES OF '92 AND ASKS NEW
COOPERATION

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1512 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24


President Clinton tonight sought to build a rationale for the second half of his
term, at once defending his record and embracing many ideas backed by the new
Republican Congressional majority, but amending them to suit the brand of
centrist Democrats who elected him.

In a State of the Union Message that was by turns conciliatory and studded with
pointed delineations of difference, Mr. Clinton pledged his cooperation in
shrinking the Government, cutting taxes, overhauling welfare and cracking down
on illegal immigration. But he repeatedly veered away from endorsing specific
Republican proposals for dealing with those issues, instead presenting his own
ideas as sensible, humane alternatives to more extreme courses of action.

Humbled by last fall's sweeping Republican electoral victories, Mr. Clinton
offered only a few new programs in a speech that lasted 81 minutes, the longest
a President has ever taken to deliver his State of the Union address. Rather, he
turned to the themes of his 1992 campaign in resurrecting the notion of a "new
covenant" of shared responsibility between government and citizens. [Transcript,
page A18.]

Interrupted 96 times by mostly bipartisan applause, Mr. Clinton cast himself as
the champion of working Americans by repeating his calls for tax breaks for the
middle class and a revision of lobbying and campaign finance laws, priorities
that faded in the first half of his term.

"I am frank to say that I have made my mistakes, and I have learned again the
importance of humility in all human endeavor," said Mr. Clinton, who began his
speech with congratulations to the newly elected majority and to the new Speaker
of the House, Newt Gingrich of Georgia. "But I am also proud to say tonight that
our country is stronger than it was two years ago."

"We cannot ask Americans to be better citizens if we are not better servants,"
the President added. He argued that government should be smaller in size but not
in spirit, called on the nation to participate in political discourse and vowed
to oppose any efforts to roll back his victories on gun control.

Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, who delivered the official Republican
Party response from Trenton, took pointed note of the changed political
landscape, saying with a chuckle that "some of the President's ideas sounded
pretty Republican" and proclaiming that her party meant business.

"On Election Day, you gave us your trust," she said in her own talk to the
nation. "We accept your mandate. President Clinton, you must accept it as well."

Just a year ago, Mr. Clinton stood at the same rostrum in the House chamber for
an exuberant recital of his first-year record and a bold defense of his sweeping
health care proposal. In 1993, he unveiled his economic plan with similar
fanfare, to rousing cheers in a chamber where the majority Democrats had waited
a dozen years to see one of their own in the White House.

Tonight, as the first Democratic President to face a joint session of a
Republican Congress since Harry S. Truman almost half a century ago, Mr. Clinton
cast his oratorical net wide but set his sights much lower.

He joked that he now knew how the Republicans must have felt on his own victory
in 1992, and said with a nod to Walt Whitman that in both elections, "we did not
hear America singing; we heard America shouting." Now, he said, "both of us,
Republican and Democrats alike, must say, 'We hear you.' "

The President said that for the last two years he had tried to do his part.

"Our businesses are more productive, and here we have worked to bring the
deficit down," he said. But he added, "The rising tide is not lifting all
boats," and too many people are "working harder and harder for less and less."

He also called on Congress to clean its own house by passing comprehensive
restrictions on lobbying, curbs that it stopped short of passing at the close of
the last session and that the Republicans have blocked this year.

"There doesn't have to be a law for everything," Mr. Clinton said, asking
members simply to stop taking gifts from lobbyists immediately.

"Just stop," he said.

"We don't have to wait for legislation to pass," the President declared, "to
send a strong signal to the American people that things are really changing."

On topic after topic tonight, Mr. Clinton sought the political middle ground,
extending an olive branch to Republicans but begging to differ as well. He said
balancing the Federal budget was a worthy goal but challenged them to show how
they could do so without raising taxes or endangering Social Security benefits.

He recalled his own longstanding commitment to overhauling welfare so that it
became only a temporary transition to a life of work, but he warned against
punishing children who need help most.

"I want to work with you, with all of you, to pass welfare reform," he said.
"But our goal must be to liberate people and lift them up from dependence to
independence, from welfare to work, from mere childbearing to responsible
parenting. Our goal should not be to punish them because they happen to be
poor."

In others ways, Mr. Clinton split the differences.

He endorsed raising the minimum wage to bolster the earning power of the poorest
workers, but without saying by how much. His advisers said he preferred an
increase of at least 75 cents, to $5 an hour; Some Democrats favor increases
twice that size, while some Republicans oppose any minimum at all.

The White House chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, said the President had opted
for a general endorsement of an increase in the minimum wage as a step toward
negotiated compromise, rather than a specific suggestion that might be dismissed
out of hand. "This is obviously one that he could basically posture on and send
something up that goes nowhere," Mr. Panetta said. "But his hope is that the
Congress will recognize the need to do something with the minimum wage."

Among the steps the President endorsed on the immigration issue was adoption of
a national computer system to keep track of citizens and aliens authorized to
work in this country. That would allow employers to check the immigration status
of job applicants. Such a system was recommended by a commission headed by
former Representative Barbara Jordan, Democrat of Texas.

The proposal has drawn criticism from ethnic and immigrant groups, but the White
House hopes it will stand as a contrast to more conservative proposals like
California's Proposition 187, which, now stayed by the courts, would deny public
services and benefits to undocumented aliens.

Mr. Clinton also called for a new public-private campaign against teen-age
pregnancy, in which, Administration officials said, Hillary Rodham Clinton will
probably play a role.

In the most starkly partisan moment of the evening, Mr. Clinton acknowledged
that several members of the last Congress who voted for the ban on 19 types of
assault weapons had lost their seats as a result and that "some of you who are
here because they voted for it are under enormous pressure to repeal it."

Without using the word "veto," he said sternly: "A lot of people laid down their
seats in Congress so that police officers and kids wouldn't have to lay down
their lives under a hail of assault weapon attack, and I will not let that be
repealed. I will not let it be repealed."

That was too much for the Republicans who had applauded many of his other
proposals; they remained seated and silent while most Democrats rose in
applause.

As is his practice, the President had worried over and polished the speech until
virtually the last minute, sending fourth and fifth drafts back to his principal
domestic and foreign policy speech writers, Donald Baer and Robert O. Boorstin,
in late afternoon. He spent most of Sunday and today in his study in the White
House, fussing particularly with the opening and closing sections.

Aides said he had prepared for the address by reading old speeches, including
the declaration of his candidacy for the White House in October 1991, when he
promised to restore the American dream for "the forgotten middle class."

In fact, all the atmospherics of the President's address were intended to stress
his support for ordinary working Americans and for partnership between
government and citizenry.

Mrs. Clinton, who in past years was flanked in the House gallery by captains of
finance, labor and big business whose support the Administration wanted for its
economic and health care programs, sat tonight among members of Americorps, her
husband's national service program, in which students receive scholarships and
stipends in exchange for community work. She also paid homage to a military that
has often regarded her husband warily, sharing the row with Cpl. Gregory
Depestre, a Brooklyn-born marine who was brought up in Haiti and served as a
peacekeeper there last year, and with the family of Jack Lucas, a marine from
Mississippi who served on Iwo Jima and was the youngest man in this century to
be awarded the Medal of Honor.


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton and Newt Gingrich as the President spoke last
night. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A1); In a speech embracing many
ideas backed by the new Republican majority in Congress, President Clinton
delivered his State of the Union address to the House and Senate last night.
(Associated Press) (pg. A15)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 26, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Aid to Mexico and Immigration Are Linked

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 87 words


In an effort to generate support for a package to aid Mexico in its economic
crisis after the devaluation of the peso, top Administration officials said they
had asked Mexico to prevent illegal immigrants from crossing into the United
States and control its economic policy strictly.

But after more than four hours of hearings by the House Banking Committee, not a
single member, regardless of party, expressed support for the $40 billion in
loan guarantees in the Administration package.

Article, page A14.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and Alan Greenspan, the
Federal Reserve chairman, discussed Mexico at a House hearing. (Stephen
Crowley/The New York Times)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 28, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Cram Schools: Immigrants' Tools for Success

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1267 words


On a brisk Saturday morning, while most of their friends were relaxing at home,
16-year-old Jerry Lee and eight other Asian teen-agers huddled over their
notebooks and calculators for a full day of math and English lessons.

During the week, they all attend public schools in the city. But every Saturday,
they go to a Korean hagwon, or cram school, in Flushing to spend up to seven
hours immersed in the finer points of linear algebra or Raymond Chandler.

"I complain, but my mom says I have to go," said Jerry, a Stuyvesant High School
student from Sunnyside, Queens, who has already scored a 1520 on the Scholastic
Assessment Test for college, but is shooting for a perfect 1600. "It's like a
habit now."

Long a tradition in the Far East, where the competition to get into a top
university borders on the fanatic, the cram schools of Asia have begun to appear
in this country too, in Queens and New Jersey and Los Angeles and elsewhere,
following the migration of many Koreans, Japanese and Chinese over the last two
decades.

In the last 10 years, the cram schools -- called juku in Japanese and buxiban in
Chinese -- have become a flourishing industry, thriving on immigrant parents'
determination to have their children succeed. Only a handful of cram schools
existed here when the hagwon that Jerry attends, the Elite Academy, opened in
1986. Today, the Korean-language yellow pages list about three dozen Asian cram
schools in the New York area. In Los Angeles, the Chinese yellow pages list
about 40.

In Asia, academic competition begins as early as age 4 or 5, as children vie for
the best preschools so they can have an edge in getting into the best elementary
schools. By the time they enter high school, the competition to get into a
prestigious university like Seoul National University or Tokyo University is
famously intense.

While the pressure to get into a good school is not nearly so extreme in the
United States, the cram schools, like the Elite Academy in Flushing or the
ambitiously named Nobel Education Institute in Arcadia, a heavily Asian suburb
of Los Angeles, have nonetheless found a burgeoning niche in Asian communities.
Chinese and Korean newspapers bulge with cram school advertisements. Some
schools simply print lists of their graduates who have been accepted to New York
City's specialized high schools, Hunter College High, Stuyvesant and Bronx
Science, as well as to Harvard, Stanford and M.I.T.

For some busy parents, the schools have become a kind of academic baby-sitting
service. But most see them as a way of insuring that their children excel in
spite of public schools that they perceive as lax and unchallenging compared
with those in Asia.

Since language and cultural barriers prevent many of them from moving easily in
American society, they are willing to invest whatever is required to insure that
their children, armed with diplomas from the best universities, will not face
the same hardships. Tuition averages about $200 a month.

"We try to make sure that our children have as much opportunity as possible,"
said Sung Kim, the father of an Elite Academy student who now attends M.I.T.
"They will have a better life."

The rigor and discipline of the cram schools have even begun to attract a
growing number of non-Asian parents who want their children to excel.

"The Asian people are willing to invest in their children," said Miri Kessar, an
Israeli immigrant who sent her 11-year-old daughter to a Flushing hagwon to
study. "They want the best for them. They want Harvard, Yale and Princeton."

Mrs. Kessar, principal of the Woodbury Jewish Center Religious School on Long
Island, said she still feels guilty that she didn't discover the hagwon earlier,
despite her daughter's perennial straight A's in school.

"It's like a hot iron on my heart knowing that my daughter is being introduced
to this so late," said Mrs. Kessar, a Forest Hills resident. "When my youngest
is in third grade, he will be the first one at the door."

In the drafty basement of an office building on 39th Avenue, nine students at
the Elite Academy sat bundled in ski jackets as they wrestled with a long list
of vocabulary words.

They breezed through "ephemeral," "loquacious" and "effervescent," as their
teacher, a graduate student in English at Columbia University, prodded them with
rapid-fire banter that kept them laughing.

They occasionally stumbled. "Voluptuous" drew a puzzled look from one student;
"equanimity" was quickly defined, but one student said, "I don't know what they
mean by 'evenness of temper.' "

A voice from across the room piped up: "Cool."

After lunch, the cheery banter died away during a three-hour lecture on
mathematical matrices.

The lecture went well beyond the subjects of the S.A.T. The teacher explained
that the idea was not only to teach the students test-taking skills, as do
places like the Stanley H. Kaplan Educational Centers, but also to push the
students beyond what they learn in public schools.

Young Dae Kwon, director of the Elite Academy, said that many of the students
have attended the evening or Saturday classes since they were in third grade.

Mr. Kwon, an engineering graduate of Seoul National University, said that
compared with cram schools in Korea, his is a breeze. Students do not bow to
their teachers, discussion is encouraged, no one yells out the stern command,
ch'aryot! that snaps students to rigid attention in Korea. His only request is
that student not put their feet up on their desks.

"The kids are different here," he said. "Even Korean kids are different. They
are much more talkative."

Mr. Kwon came to the United States in 1979, and after working for several years
for the Korean Institute of Machinery and Metals, decided to start a small
hagwon to help his own young children. "They had so much free time," he said. "I
just thought they could use that time to study more."

He started the school with just 16 students. Today, the school has about 400.

The Japanese schools, such as Hinoki International School and the ENA-KG
Kunitachi Gakuin Yobiko in Scarsdale, primarily serve the children of executives
who are in the United States for a few years. They are identical to juku in
Japan; classes are conducted only in Japanese.

The Chinese and Koreans, most of whom have come to settle in this country, have
geared their cram schools to help students succeed here. At the Elite Academy,
English is the language of instruction and the only tests that count are those
to get into American schools.

Jeong Kim, an 18-year-old freshman at M.I.T. who attended the Elite Academy,
said there was never any debate in his home over whether he would go to the
school. From the seventh grade on he spent all of his Saturdays at the school.

"Of course, I didn't like it too much, but my parents said go, so I went," he
said.

His father, Sung Kim, had gone to a hagwon in Korea and knew how hard it was.
But he sent his children anyway.

"In human life, there are certain periods in which we must do certain things,"
he said. "When you are in school, it is time to study."

Mr. Kim graduated in business from one of the best universities in Korea. He
owns a dry-cleaning store in Queens, where he works 14 hours a day, six days a
week. No vacation. No holidays.

"I would never be doing this kind of work in Korea," he said. "But here, we have
to do anything we can to survive."

After years of paying for classes at the hagwon, he now has one child in M.I.T.
and another in Harvard.

"I think it has paid off," he said. "They will be able to get any job they
want."

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Asian parents who want their children to excel turn to cram
schools like the Elite Academy in Queens. (Chang Lee/The New York Times) (pg.
1); The Elite Academy in Flushing, Queens, is one of a growing number of cram
schools in which Asian students can bone up for college admission tests.
Students studied recently in an intermediate English class. (Chang Lee/The New
York Times) (pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 30, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Battered Immigrants Find a Haven

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 950 words


The room was bright and smelled of strong coffee. The women, seeking strength in
one another's faces, huddled around a table laden with food they had cooked. In
this place where they felt safe, they discussed the problem that has made them
feel so desperate and alone.

Anzhela, the first to speak, described how her husband would disappear for weeks
in their native Uzbekistan, then abuse her when he returned. After they
immigrated to New York, the violence grew worse.

"One night he beat me severely, then dragged me to the bathtub and turned on the
taps," she said in Russian. "He wanted to drown me, but I survived."

In a whisper, a woman named Sofiya spoke of the night her ex-husband appeared at
her Brooklyn apartment with a knife.

"He was stabbing at the door, and if I opened it he might have killed me," she
said. "Who will protect me? I am in constant fear."

The women, immigrants from the former Soviet Union, meet weekly to talk about
husbands who have blackened their eyes, broken their bones and permanently
damaged their psyches. Their support group is sponsored by the Jewish Board of
Family and Children's Services, an agency of the UJA-Federation of New York. The
federation and six other agencies receive help from The New York Times Neediest
Cases Fund, which is conducting its 83d appeal for donations.

Victoria Neznansky, a social worker with the board, formed the support group
last spring to help abused immigrants realize they were not alone.

"It was hard to start, because people in the Russian community are suspicious of
groups," said Ms. Neznansky, who emigrated from Ukraine in 1989. "But these
women agreed to join because they trusted me. After the first meeting, they
completely opened up."

The group is part of a growing effort to stem domestic violence among
immigrants, a problem that social workers say is widespread. While emergency
phone lines and shelters for English-speaking women have existed for years, they
rarely address the needs of abused immigrants. And while the New York police
have taken a more aggressive stance on domestic violence under Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani, language and cultural barriers leave immigrants especially vulnerable.

"A lot of our clients are very reluctant to discuss domestic violence because it
is hidden in the Soviet Union," said Florence Rabinowitz, the director of the
board's mental health unit at the New York Association for New Americans in
Manhattan, where the group meets. "It's an area that isn't getting enough
attention.

"Russians are reluctant to discuss problems outside their immediate family," she
continued. "If they have a social worker who speaks their language and
understands their culture, it makes for a much more comfortable situation."

Every year, the board helps hundreds of immigrants from the former Soviet Union
resettle in New York. If social workers suspect domestic violence, they refer
women to Ms. Neznansky, who counsels them individually before introducing them
to the group. The support of their peers, she said, is especially valuable.

"Together, they realize that this problem does not just belong to them," she
said. "They see that there is hope and help."

Although many of the women live in the Russian immigrant community of Brighton
Beach, Brooklyn, they did not know one another before they joined the group. But
now, they say, they help one another as counselors and confidantes with the
guidance of Ms. Neznansky, whom they call Vika.

"We are friends because of our misfortune," said Dora, a pale woman dressed in
black. "We left our relatives behind, so this is all we have. With Vika's help,
we survive and find our own identity."

When Ms. Neznansky immigrated to New York, the board's Refugee Assistance
Program helped her adjust to life here. Impressed by her motivation and fluency
in English, the board hired her as a translator and later sent her to New York
University, where she received a master's degree in social work. In 1993 she
started working for the board full time, devoting her attention to battered
immigrant women.

Many of the women said they endured physical and psychological abuse for years
before emigrating. They described cultures that tolerated domestic violence and
relatives who would not acknowledge their suffering. Many said they feared that
leaving their husbands would have meant losing their children.

"When I finally left, my son stayed with his father," Dora said. "Now it is just
me and my daughters, but Vika has showed me that I have the capacity to be a
loving, caring mother."

Although most of the women came to New York with their husbands, all but two
have left them since they started therapy. Ms. Neznansky stressed that the
decision was theirs. She occasionally testifies for them in court, but refers
them to other agencies for help in navigating the legal system.

"I never tell them what to do, I just offer emotional support," she said. "I
educate them about their rights and the freedom they have in this country."

For the group members, whose ages are 21 to 51, Ms. Neznansky is not only a
social worker but also a sister, wise friend and fairy godmother. They talk not
just of beatings and emergency-room visits, but also of children, jobs and the
challenge of finding happiness in a new country. She has helped them find
English lessons, housing and jobs. And she has inspired at least one of them to
consider a career in social work.

"I would like to give someone as much warmth as Vika has given us," Anzhela
said. "She opened our eyes, and now we are starting to live."

Previously recorded $3,686,942.84
Recorded Friday
(Last business day) 10,638.00

Total $3,697,580.84

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victoria Neznansky, center, a social worker with the Jewish
Board of Family and Children's Services, speaking with members of a support
group she founded for immigrant victims of domestic violence. (Ruby
Washington/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 5, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: COLLEGE POINT/FLUSHING;
For Day Laborers, a New Hurdle

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 9;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 252 words


Most mornings on Northern Boulevard, scores of men wait for vans whose drivers
are searching for day laborers. The men, mostly Salvadorans and often
undocumented, dicker over the day's wages. Recently, though, residents and
storeowners have complained that the men are intimidating to passersby and
customers.

Last week, the local City Council member, Julia Harrison, introduced an
anti-loitering bill that would make it illegal to remain in a public place while
"engaging in a course of conduct designed to harass, seriously annoy or alarm
another person."

Ms. Harrison says the bill would not prohibit day laborers from simply
assembling. But civil rights groups say it would give law-enforcement officials
too much latitude, allowing them to target capriciously the newest and most
desperate immigrants, who stand in the same spots where Irish and Italian
laborers stood decades ago.

"Anti-loitering laws are already on the books," said Norman Siegel, director of
the New York Civil Liberties Union. "If people are blocking streets, there are
laws against that. The thing we have to do is work with the people."

St. John Vianney Roman Catholic Church allows day laborers to gather in its
parking lot near Northern. A church secretary, Deborah Gonzalez, who has helped
workers when employers refused to pay them, says the laborers are no trouble.
"Some of them on Northern cause problems. There's sometimes a little drinking."

"But not these guys," she said. "They just want to work."   N.O.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 6, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Hard Labor -- A special report.;
Despite Tough Laws, Sweatshops Flourish

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2711 words


A 4-year-old girl plays with a cloth doll in an aisle of a small, dingy garment
factory in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, while her mother sews thin cotton sweaters
nearby.

A 44-year-old immigrant from China works 12 hours a day, seven days a week, in a
windowless garment shop in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, earning $200 on a good week --
or less than $2.50 an hour.

At three garment shops on different floors of a grimy industrial building in
Long Island City, Queens, the fire exits are sealed shut by metal gates with
large padlocks.

The scenes may sound like Jacob Riis's descriptions of squalid New York City
garment factories a century ago, but they are strikingly contemporary.
Sweatshops still exist in New York, 104 years after Riis first chronicled
dangerous physical conditions and exploitive labor practices in apparel
factories on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.

In fact, they are flourishing despite a host of laws that have accumulated since
Riis's days -- rules on labor, health, safety and immigration designed to flush
them out and, if necessary, shut them down.

The state, in response to complaints from the industry and unions, created a
specialized unit of 20 labor investigators in 1987 responsible solely for
cracking down on garment factories that flout wage and safety laws. But experts
say that at least 50, if not 60 investigators, would be needed to truly curb the
abuses.

And the state does not get much assistance. The number of Federal labor
investigators has declined every year for the last five years; the Immigration
and Naturalization Service has only about 30 agents to inspect all businesses in
southern New York State, and the city's Fire Department inspects factories once
a year, at best.

The shops continue to thrive because of dramatic changes in the apparel
industry, which in New York has shifted from the large factories that once
replaced sweatshops back to the small shops themselves. And the new shops, which
are so mobile they can open and close practically overnight, operate in an
insular, non-English-speaking world of immigrants that is difficult to regulate
under the best of circumstances.

As a result, nearly 2,000 sweatshops operate openly throughout New York City, in
the garment center and Chinatown in Manhattan, in Sunset Park and Williamsburg
in Brooklyn, in Long Island City and Corona in Queens, and in the South Bronx.

They generally employ 20 to 50 workers, many of them illegal immigrants, willing
to suffer long hours, low pay and miserable working conditions just to have a
job. Most shops are owned by immigrants, too, now primarily from China and
Korea, just as their predecessors came from Italy and Eastern Europe. They pay
their workers in cash and often deny them the minimum wage, overtime, holidays
or any other benefits.

Some of these sweatshops are remarkably bright and spacious, with fluorescent
lighting, freshly painted walls and even river views. But there are still those
that rival the most sordid garment factories described and photographed by Riis
in "How the Other Half Lives," which was first published in 1890.

In these shops, holes in warping floors are covered by plywood boards. Sprinkler
systems, unmaintained, no longer work. Electrical wiring dangles dangerously
overhead. And 84 years after the Triangle Shirtwaist Company fire killed 146
garment workers, fire exits are covered by metal gates that are padlocked -- as
was the case in six of eight garment shops in Williamsburg and Long Island City
inspected in a single day last November by state labor investigators.

In Sunset Park, a tiny garment factory operates inside a two-story cinder-block
building that used to be an auto repair shop. It has no windows. Twenty people
work inside, and the only fresh air comes when the door, a wide metal garage
door, is open.

"In the summertime, the temperature inside is so hot," said a worker there, a
Chinese immigrant who gave only his last name, Wou.  "There is no ventilation at
all."

Mr. Wou, who came to New York from Shanghai last year, sews lapels and collars
onto women's shirts. Each shirt requires 10 to 15 minutes of labor, and earns
him 60 cents.

Sewing 12 hours a day, six or seven days a week, he makes about $200. And he
seethes because he has calculated what he would earn if his boss were willing to
abide by the law and pay him the minimum wage and overtime: $450 a week.

"I want very much to change the situation, but I don't know how to do it and I
don't have the power to do it," Mr. Wou said through an interpreter.

'Fertile Soil'
 Desperate Workers In Thriving Shops

There are at least 2,000 sweatshops in New York State, the overwhelming majority
of them in New York City, state labor officials estimate. They are thriving
precisely because of people like Mr. Wou, immigrants desperate for work, unable
to speak English, and either ignorant of their rights under American laws or
afraid to assert those rights.

"The fertile soil for sweatshops is an immigrant community living in fear," said
Thomas Glubiak, who oversees the unit created by the State Labor Department.

The resurgence is fueled, too, by severe economic pressures on local
manufacturers to keep prices low because of competition from factories in Asia
and Latin America, where labor costs are a fraction of those here.

Inside New York's shops, as in others in Los Angeles, Miami and El Paso,
thousands of immigrants, legal and illegal, do not even make the minimum wage,
which is $4.25 an hour. Most are forced by employers to work overtime hours, at
straight-time wages, if they want to keep their jobs. Under state and Federal
law, overtime wages must be paid when factory workers put in more than 40 hours
a week.

Ying Chan, for instance, said she has worked in sweatshops in Chinatown and
Sunset Park almost continuously since coming to New York 15 years ago from
southern China. Mrs. Chan, 55, said she usually works from 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. on
weekdays and somewhat shorter days on weekends.

She has never been paid overtime and has usually made less than the minimum
wage, Mrs. Chan said. Her pay has varied almost every week because she is paid
by the garment, with her employers dictating the terms. Paying by piece rates is
legal, provided that the employee's pay, when computed on an hourly basis, is at
least the minimum wage.

Mrs. Chan said her wages have fluctuated from a low of about $20 a day to a high
of about $50 a day.

"I have had no time to take care of my family," she said through an interpreter.
"We have to work on Saturdays and Sundays, seven days a week."

Barriers of language and culture have sealed off many sweatshop workers from the
American labor mainstream and the basic protections of Federal and state labor
laws.

"They don't complain, they are desperate for work and they are easy prey for
business opportunists," said Maria Echaveste, administrator of the United States
Labor Department's wage and hour division.

Even workers who do speak English and know how to protect themselves often do
not dare. For instance, a 26-year-old shop worker from Lima, Peru, said she was
familiar with American labor laws. But she felt helpless to demand more than the
$3 an hour she makes for trimming finished dresses, placing them on hangers and
wrapping them in plastic.

"I can't do nothing," she said in newly learned English. "If I claim the
overtime, they will fire me."

Many Chinese immigrants who work in Chinese-owned sweatshops said they were
afraid that if they spoke up, their employers would not only dismiss them but
also have their names published in New York's Chinese language newspapers --
effectively blacklisting them.

And like a 43-year-old man from Puebla, Mexico, many sweatshop workers know that
they can report their bosses to state labor investigators, but fail to do so out
for one reason alone.

"Por temor," he said. Out of fear.

Cracking Down
When Time Cards Don't Match Up

Several dozen workers were busy making black-and-white plaid skirts early one
morning when Jong Kim and Linda Rojas-Galvez, state labor investigators, dropped
by P. S. Pleating at 325 West 38th Street in Manhattan. The investigators first
counted the workers, 37 spread out over the shop's two floors, and then the time
cards in slots next to the time clock.

There were only 18 cards, a telltale sign that workers are being paid off the
books, and probably at less than the minimum wage.

The investigators immediately began a formal inquiry. Mrs. Rojas-Galvez
interviewed several workers in Spanish, who said that they were not paid for
overtime work but that lately there had been little overtime anyway. The workers
said they were paid $5 an hour.

The investigators prepared written charges against the factory for failing to
maintain proper payroll records. Leonard De Rosairo, Mrs. Rojas-Galvez's
supervisor, said he also suspected the workers were not telling the truth about
their wages; he said the workers might have been coached on what to tell Labor
Department officials.

The investigators scheduled an appointment for the factory's owner to provide
complete payroll records for inspection. If the payroll records are incomplete
or even nonexistent for some workers, the owner can be fined a maximum of $1,500
for a first violation and $3,000 for subsequent violations. There are larger
fines for more serious violations, like paying below the minimum wage and
failing to pay overtime; these can be as much as 25 percent of the wages in
question.

Two hours later, after a visit to Blue Ribbon Belt on the 10th floor, a new shop
with no payroll records, the investigators descended four floors to a bustling
shop called Pink Feather Inc.

Several very young-looking womens were among 59 workers assembling blouses. One,
Flora Elisa Valdez Zomora, who was sewing shoulder pads into the shirts,
insisted at first that she was 21. But she finally admitted, while speaking
Spanish with Mrs. Rojas-Galvez, that she was only 17.

Another woman, who was folding shirts nearby, said she was 22, but she could not
recall the year she was born.

The shop owner, Julianne Song, a smiling but nervous woman, was cited for
employing minors. Ms. Song told the investigators that she had hired the girls
only a few hours earlier.

(It is illegal for minors to work in the shops, but it is not against the law
for them to simply be there -- like the 4-year-old girl playing with her doll in
the Williamsburg garment shop. State investigators try to discourage the
presence of children, who are often brought by parents who cannot find or afford
day care, because even young children are sometimes put to work helping a parent
who works on a piece rate.)

Five minutes later, the three investigators were standing in the lobby of the
building, comparing notes before heading off to lunch. Ms. Valdez Zomora, the
Mexican teen-ager who had just admitted that she was under age, walked glumly
from an elevator and out the front door. She had just been dismissed.

New Strategies
Industry Breakup Mars Enforcement

Changes in the structure of the women's garment industry have simultaneously
made it easier for sweatshops to operate and more difficult for government
agencies to root them out.

When big apparel manufacturers made their own garments in New York, the industry
was relatively stable. State and Federal labor officials could readily inspect
factories and enforce the laws. Unions could organize large shops and negotiate
contracts.

But garment manufacturers do very little actual manufacturing these days. They
design and market their goods, but they contract out the cutting and sewing of
garments to small shops in New York and other American cities and to large shops
overseas.

The breakup of the industry over the last three decades into a vast, loose
network of manufacturers, jobbers, contractors and subcontractors has defused
the manufacturers' responsibility for the wages and safety of factory workers.

So government investigators and union leaders have had to devise new strategies.
The State Labor Department created the apparel industry task force to regulate
sweatshops and enforce the laws.

But with only 20 investigators, and with relatively small fines that for some
shop owners are just part of the cost of doing business, the unit has not been
able to eradicate sweatshops, or even curtail their numbers significantly.

And the number of Federal labor investigators has declined sharply in recent
years because of budget constraints, while the investigators' responsibilities
for monitoring many industries has expanded. There were 804 Federal
investigators in the country in 1993, compared with 970 in 1989, according to
the General Accounting Office -- a drop of nearly 20 percent.

The city's Fire Department, which has prime responsibility for insuring that
fire exits are not locked, also strains under budget problems and conflicting
priorities. Local fire companies are supposed to inspect every factory in their
districts once a year. But the inspections take a back seat to higher
priorities, including fighting fires, of course, and maintaining hydrants.

"The problem is when we have too much work, and we don't get to a building every
year," said Edmund P. Cunningham, assistant chief of the department's Fire
Prevention Bureau. "Maybe it's every two years."

Manufacturer Links
 Tying Small Shops To Big Companies

Labor officials are experimenting with new ways to tie large manufacturers to
the small shops that commit abuses while under contract with the manufacturers.

The Federal Labor Department, for example, has sought voluntary agreements with
well-known manufacturers to police their small contractors.

"When you focus on stable companies, you have a reputation, a public persona,"
said Ms. Echaveste, the head of the department's wage and hour division. "That
reputation is very important to the company. Reputation is not significant to
some small contracting shop."

The Gap, the retail chain that now also manufactures clothing, has hired former
Federal labor investigators to train its contractors on following the laws and
to audit their operations, checking for violations of minimum wages and
overtime, Ms. Echaveste said.

Labor officials would like to see the Gap become a model for other big
manufacturers.

The Federal Labor Department gets the manufacturers' attention by invoking a
measure in Federal law, known as the "hot goods" provision, that can link
abusive contracting shops with their manufacturers. The law prohibits the
shipping of goods produced through violations of the wage and safety laws. When
government investigators find a sweatshop that owes money to its employees,
Federal officials can seize the garments, even after the contractor has shipped
them to the manufacturer.

But garments often move very quickly, before investigators can seize them.

Union leaders believe that stronger union representation in sweatshops would
stop abuses. But traditional organizing methods are useless when dealing with
small, highly mobile contractors.

"The traditional organizing strategy has been shop by shop," said Francisco
Chang, an organizer for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. "But if
you do that, the shops just shut down and move."

Instead, the union is trying an experiment aimed at organizing a large portion
of New York City's sweatshop workers simultaneously. It has set up three
workers' centers to reach sweatshop employees, one in Sunset Park, another in
Williamsburg and a third in the Manhattan garment center itself. Mr. Chang runs
the Manhattan center, where nonunion immigrant shop workers can come at night
for English language classes or to seek help getting back wages.

The long-term goal is to create enough solidarity among sweatshop workers so
that the union can organize the shops on such a broad scale that the owners
cannot defeat them just by closing down.

Mr. Chang contended that large manufacturers also contribute to the problem.
They deliberately foster price competition among the small contractors, he said,
all but forcing them to cut corners and underpay workers to obtain contracts and
remain in business.

"It's a tough industry to crack," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A child plays with dolls as her mother works in a garment shop,
Big Apple Knitting, in Long Island City, Queens. It is illegal for minors to
work in the shops, though it is not against the law for them to be there.
(Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Clockwise from top: Workers at
their sewing machines at Steve's Apparel, in Queens (Edward Keating/The New York
Times); Jong Kim, center, and Linda Rojas-Galvez, right, state labor
investigators, inspecting P. S. Pleating on West 38th Street in Manhattan (John
Sotomayor/The New York Times); Leonard De Rosairo, a supervisor of inspectors,
after examining time cards at P. S. Pleating, and a locked door at Steve's
Apparel. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 3;  Style Desk

LENGTH: 171 words


In 1906, a 7-year-old Russian immigrant named Abraham Tracuvotsky arrived on
Ellis Island with his parents and seven siblings. The family settled in
Philadelphia and later changed their surname to Tracy.

The boy later became the singer ARTHUR TRACY, one of America's most popular
radio stars in the early 1930's. His renditions of "Marta" and "Ramblin' Rose"
on his show "The Street Singer" made him an overnight success.

Last Wednesday, Mr. Tracy, who is 95 and lives in Manhattan, returned to Ellis
Island for the first time.

"It didn't have the import to me that it has now," Mr. Tracy said yesterday. "I
remembered everyone on the boat talking about the Statue of Liberty. When we
passed it, I saw it, but wasn't old enough to appreciate it. It was such a
thrill to see it now."

Mr. Tracy's recordings are now available to another generation, this time on
compact disk. A recent collection of some of his songs, "Arthur Tracy Street
Singer" (Good Music Records), has already sold more than 500,000 copies.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 19, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

MAKING IT WORK;
The Furs of Brighton Beach

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 3;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 847 words


BEFORE the Communist revolution stifled luxury in Russia, aristocrats would
glide through the snow in ankle-length sable, with matching muffs and hats.
Wealth is rare in Russia these days, and sable still rarer, but fur is still as
fundamental to the Russian landscape as birch trees and onion domes.

So in the Russian-immigrant enclave of Brighton Beach, on a day as cold as iced
vodka, the streets are awash with shapki (fur hats) and shuby (fur coats).
Compared with the sea of puffy down and navy wool in Manhattan, the scene is
almost exotic.

Fur has been a status symbol in Russia for centuries, said Elizabeth Valkanier,
a visiting scholar at the Harriman Institute for Advanced Soviet Studies at
Columbia University. For immigrants making the tumultuous adjustment to life in
New York, it is a palpable connection to their culture, providing continuity and
a certain amount of cachet while their everyday existence is often unsettled.
They may leave many possessions behind when they come to New York, but Russian
immigrants rarely abandon their fur.

"Why would I leave it?" asked Ronya Galkin, whose silver fox hat shimmered like
a snowflake as she shopped on Brighton Beach Avenue. "The hat has been with me
for many, many years." Mrs. Galkin was swathed in a lamb coat, a style she said
was most popular with elderly women. "The young girls prefer fox," she said,
pointing to a dark woman in voluminous fur, a modern-day Anna Karenina.

Hobbling off the icy boardwalk, two elderly women showed off their coats, one
striped raccoon, the other coarse and black.

"This is 10 years old, and it might last forever," said Maria Kogan, whose black
coat accompanied her from Moscow two years ago. "I love it very much."

In the West, animal-rights advocates have made wearing fur a political issue, to
the point where it carries a certain amount of guilt for some. But it has never
been an issue in Russia, where the Arctic climate makes fur a wiser choice than
wool.

Many Russians wear the same coat for decades, but it does not grow more valuable
with age. "All fur fades and gets fragile with age," said David Mechutan, the
president of the Mechutan Fur Corporation in New York, who travels to St.
Petersburg every year to buy sable at the annual fur auctions. "It's not the
type of thing you make an heirloom out of."

If fur is favored among women in Brighton Beach, it seems requisite for the men.
While they stick to wool coats, almost all of them wear shapki made of dark
rabbit or fox fur, with bulky flaps to cover their ears.

Outside a fish store, Boris Shatar sold Russian books, his shapka nearly
covering his eyes. "I came from Ukraine with two, but I gave one to a friend,"
he said, reaching to touch the mass of black rabbit fur atop his head. "This one
is my favorite, anyway."

If a Russian immigrant fails to bring a shapka to Brighton Beach, it is not for
lack of taste. During the Gorbachev years, Mrs. Galkin said, the only place to
buy fur was the black market, at exorbitant prices.

"Before the revolution, everyone wore sable," she said. "But during Communism
all kinds of fur were hard to find. If you had a fur hat in your family, you
were lucky."

Ms. Valkanier, the scholar, whose family is Polish, recalls visiting Moscow in
1941. "I remember crossing Red Square with my mother in her fur," she said, "and
everyone was gawking at us."

In the late 1970's, the Soviet government grew more relaxed about luxuries and
fur became more accessible. Women attending the Bolshoi Theater would keep their
fur hats on to convey opulence. These days, Ms. Valkanier said, fur is extremely
popular and extremely costly. "All the nouveaux riches want fur coats," she
said. "But it depends on what connections they have."

Mrs. Galkin suggested that shapki were easier to obtain in Brooklyn than in
Moscow, although the quality might not be as good. As she spoke, another woman
approached with fur hats she was peddling for $20.  "Don't buy," Mrs. Galkin
warned. "It is not the real thing."

Russians in Brighton Beach are not known for their geniality, and in some cases,
fur hats and lapels are convenient places to bury their heads when a stranger
approaches: all that is visible is a pair of scowling eyebrows or a down-turned
mouth.

"Yes, I am sure you think it is beautiful," sniffed a heavily made up woman on
the boardwalk, whose poofy hat was adorned with rhinestones. "Now please go
away."

Others resent the assumption that their furs come from the homeland.

"This was a gift just last year!" said a woman in a sleek brown coat who was
sifting through compact disks in the Black Sea Bookstore. "It is from Manhattan,
not Russia!"

Some Russian immigrants interviewed said they also owned wool hats and coat,
bought in Brooklyn. When the weather is less nippy, they said, their fur stays
in the closet.

"There is more snow and wind in Russia and Ukraine, so when we get here the
winter seems fine," said Mr. Shatar, shivering in a leather jacket as the
thermometer dipped toward zero recently. "But a day like this is for shapki."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fur is the winter garb of choice for many Russian immigrants in
Brighton Beach, including Ronya Galkin (top) and (right) Khad Kimaldeld and
Maria Kogan. (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 19, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Building a P.T.A.: The Struggle in Corona

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 1;  Column 2;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3100 words


MARINA PERALTA, a recent arrival from the Dominican Republic, is essentially
baffled by the goings-on inside Intermediate School 61 in Corona, Queens, a
squat, brick building where her son and 2,200 other students spend their days.
Her most basic link to understanding the school, the I.S. 61 Parent-Teacher
Association, holds evening meetings once a month that she says she can rarely
attend.

"I don't have enough time, even though I know they're important," she said in
Spanish. "And they're always in English. That's the main problem. I do
understand one or two words, but that's not everything."

In similar circumstances is Khamro Murdukhayeva, who emigrated from Tashkent in
the former Soviet Union last year and whose son, Abraham, is in the eighth
grade. When asked if she attended P.T.A. meetings at the school, Mrs.
Murdukhayeva suggested in her halting English that school was for children only.
"Baby, school. Baby go every day," she said.

These mothers are typical of many parents at I.S. 61, also known as the Leonardo
da Vinci School, built beside a power plant and home to 59 nationalities. Mostly
poor and non-English speaking, parents here are often new immigrants struggling
with issues far more overwhelming than whether to join the P.T.A. About
three-quarters of them are on welfare, and some are undocumented aliens. They
are trying to find work and survive in an unfamiliar city. Around them they see
gang activity, drug abuse and other crime; school can seem a relatively benign
haven, and in any case, many of them have been raised in cultures where
questioning authority, particularly that of a teacher, is unthinkable.

The result is that most of the parents at I.S. 61 fail to connect with the
P.T.A., and the P.T.A. doesn't connect with them. At a recent book fair, only
one mother showed up to help besides Linda Biggs, who is the P.T.A. president.

"One problem is, people work during the day," said Ms. Biggs, who does not,
apart from volunteering at the school, where she seems to spend most of her
time. "When you have to do these activities, they're at work."

With only 30 parent members, this P.T.A. is struggling to make a difference in
the school, although it is in better shape than it was in 1990 when it was a
sham operation with only a handful of members, most of whose children were no
longer in the school. Its struggle to revive -- hobbled by parents too busy to
get involved and rapid turnover in leadership -- is being repeated across the
city and the nation, where nearly dormant P.T.A.'s have been revived by fresh
groups of immigrants and also by more established parents alert to the need for
change.

Experts say an active group of parents can spark improvement in a school, both
among the students, who see that their parents care, and the teachers, who
realize they have a wider audience. These days, mothers, who are often working,
have less time to deal with issues and are therefore demanding faster action. At
the more active schools, issues are forced to a head in situations where parents
a generation ago might have been more timid. And the issues, in New York City
and beyond, are more pressing than ever: apart from worries like school safety
and asbestos contamination, parents are questioning what tax dollars are buying
for public education, and how they can share power with administrators and
teachers to improve their schools.

"It's beyond the bake sale," says Ayo Harrington, who heads the United Parents
Associations, a city-based federation of parent groups. Still, variations on the
bake sale are alive and well, particularly at a time of deep budget cuts for
city schools, when many P.T.A.'s are gearing up for increased fund-raising
efforts to buy goods and services the city no longer will provide. One school,
P.S. 41 in the West Village, routinely raises more than $100,000 a year, Ms.
Harrington said.

While no single P.T.A. is typical of the entire city, the story of I.S. 61's
revived group illustrates the kinds of pressures that can affect a parent group.
While a P.T.A. and a principal need to cooperate, each is often suspicious of
the other, fearing being co-opted. A P.T.A. can be divided by issues within the
school and can be put on the defensive by decisions at the district level and by
city- and statewide problems, like budget cuts and policy changes. Much of what
happens revolves around the personality of a P.T.A. president, and constant
turnover in the schools makes it difficult to institutionalize much of anything,
aside from the perennial candy drive.

The Rise of a Dynamic Leader: Getting the Revival Going

Like many city neighborhoods, the one around I.S. 61, at 50th Avenue and 99th
Street, is highly diverse and not well off. It has shifted over the last 10
years from a mostly white, predominantly Italian area, crowned by a patch of
green known as "Spaghetti Park," to a mosaic of Latin American, Chinese, African
and Eastern European families.

Under the best of circumstances, it would be difficult to get so many different
groups to join forces on a common cause. But even school policy seems to pit
them against each other: for example, children who arrive speaking mostly
Spanish or Chinese are assigned to bilingual classes, where they are essentially
separate from the rest of the school. Few of them participate in art, music,
band or computer classes, because their schedules are jammed with courses like
English as a Second Language, says the principal, Phyllis LaPerchia. At the same
time, some parents of children in the regular curriculum are opposed to
bilingual education, considering it an unnecessary expense since previous
immigrant generations survived without it.

But people can overcome their differences, and at I.S. 61 they did it, to a
degree, in the past. One of the chief reasons the P.T.A. revived in 1990, say
people who were there, was Debbie Battiste, a dynamic mother of three and
product of the public schools who had had a career working for Manufacturers
Hanover, as a teller and an administrative assistant, on Wall Street.

"People always involve themselves with their mortgage, wanting to know what's
the better rate," Ms. Battiste said, explaining her decision to get involved. "I
always wanted to know, what's the better school?"

She challenged the incumbent president and won. Then, inheriting all the
problems of parent apathy that continue to haunt the I.S. 61 group, she went on
the offensive.

"We started a trip club, where we'd go on the weekends to Ellis Island, Radio
City, Madison Square Garden, the museums," she said. "These people had never
been to F.A.O. Schwarz at Christmas." The catch: she would announce the trips
only at P.T.A. meetings, so people had to attend to find out about coming
attractions. Someone told her to advertise them, but Ms. Battiste, who is fluent
in Spanish, refused: "I said no, let them earn it."

"At one point, we had 50 or 60 people coming," she said. "Which is not a lot,
considering the amount of kids in the school, but it was better than what we
started with."

As part of the revival, and to respond to concerns of Hispanic parents, all
proceedings began to be translated into Spanish, by the school's current parent
coordinator, Albert Gonzalez, a man possessed of saintly patience. "Often
they're new in this country and they're shy," he said. He told of one
presentation where the speaker just happened to be standing behind the parents.
None of them dared shift their chairs around to face her, and spent the hour
with their necks craned awkwardly over their shoulders instead.

The Leader Moves On: How the Transition Went

Ms. Battiste was the P.T.A. president for about two years. In June 1993, her
daughter graduated, and the P.T.A. mantle was inherited -- through an election
-- by Pedro Santana, a father of three. "I thought he had the momentum to keep
it going," Ms. Battiste says.

Mr. Santana said being an active parent at the school definitely made an impact
on his older son's performance. "The principal and the assistant principals get
to know you, and you feel much more comfortable about going to them," he said,
adding that he was helped with his son's disciplinary problems and they were
"nipped in the bud."

After an election last fall, Mr. Santana shared the title of co-president with
Ms. Biggs, but both she and Mrs. LaPerchia insisted that he has little to do
with the P.T.A. these days. Mr. Santana says, "I've taken on little part-time
jobs, and that's one reason I haven't been around."

So Ms. Biggs, the other co-president, is the de facto leader of the P.T.A., a
job she characterizes as difficult at best, regardless of where the parents come
from. "People have this attitude of, oh, what can we do about it," she says.
"They're not saying, this is public education, I pay my taxes and I should be
more involved."

Ms. Biggs, a single mother of three who lives in the Lefrak City housing
complex, is deeply involved in the school, shuttling between the principal's
office and the parent room just off the library with a knapsack brimming with
P.T.A. papers. But it has been years since she held a job, although she talks
now of becoming a school aide, and she clearly has not been trained at
organization or innovation.

Confronted with the problem of getting more parents to participate, she has yet
to come up with a working solution, although she is proposing that parents
volunteer to help run a badly needed Police Athletic League after-school
program. She was frustrated when, trying to register people to vote in the most
recent school board elections, many parents refused to sign their names. "The
immigration thing definitely comes in," she said.

"Linda's vision is a little different," says Ms. Battiste, who reports "butting
heads" with her when they served on the P.T.A. together. "You have to sit back
and say, what am I doing wrong? What should I do differently?"

There are still 30 or so parents turning out for the meetings, parents like Juan
Almanzar, who has two children in the school and is trying hard to learn
English. "We don't know what they're being taught," he said, recalling how he
signed a form permitting his son to take a course on family life and sexual
behavior even though he was unclear about the content. He comes to the P.T.A.
meetings for answers and has signed up through them for English classes, taught
by Mr. Gonzalez.

These parents have major concerns, like safety, the need for after-school
activities, and the dearth of art, music and computer offerings for students
enrolled in the vast bilingual program. The parents meet in the airy school
library, under calmer conditions than a parent encounters in the mint-green
hallways of the school, where students in various stages of adolescence stampede
from room to room in a cloud of candy wrappers, flannel shirts, dropped pencils
and loose change.

Sometimes the active parents are set back by tragedy. Mrs. LaPerchia, Ms. Biggs
and others point to Rosa Mizhquiri, an immigrant from Ecuador whose
seventh-grade son, Carlos, collapsed and died of a brain aneurysm at the school
earlier this month. She was active in the P.T.A. and a member of the newly
formed committee for the school's Compact for Learning, which brings various
people together to discuss curriculum and other matters.

"The community worked together to help the family," Mrs. LaPerchia said.
"Teachers were just throwing in $20 bills," as part of a collection to defray
travel expenses for the family's trip back to Ecuador for the burial.

Throughout the city teachers' roles in these groups depend on the individual
school. At I.S. 61, teachers can and do participate. At least one thinks
activism, not just attendance, could be far better. "I've worked in a few
inner-city schools and there hasn't been one school that's had a functioning
P.T.A. like you see out on the Island," said Richard Farkas, the United
Federation of Teachers leader at I.S. 61, where he has taught math for the last
10 years. "Those meetings are standing room only, with a lot of arguments back
and forth."

Part of the problem is that many I.S. 61 parents are so unfamiliar with the
school system that even the fundamentals are a mystery to them, "We started
talking about redistricting," says Mr. Gonzalez, "and I had to stop and explain,
what is a school board, what is a district."

When redistricting was being discussed, and one plan called for I.S. 61 to be
the only junior high in a new district, Ms. Biggs tried to get parents out to
protest at Queens Borough Hall in Kew Gardens. She managed to have "two or
three" parents show up for an initial march, she said, but when a second one was
planned two months later, those parents seemed to feel they had already done
enough.

The P.T.A. and the principal seem engaged in a wary dance, each professing
support for the other but clearly co-dependent, and not necessarily thrilled
about that.  The principal has no power over who is running the P.T.A. but
stands to benefit from money that is raised to buy "thank-you gifts to the
school," as Ms. Biggs refers to them. Last spring, when Mrs. LaPerchia suggested
buying desktop copiers for her assistant principals, that's what the P.T.A. did.
The copiers are used to make duplicates of suspension notices for students, Ms.
Biggs said. In retrospect, Ms. Biggs seems to have second thoughts about that
gift. "We need to think about the kids' needs," she said. Both sides are
turf-conscious; Mrs. LaPerchia doesn't have telephone numbers for the P.T.A.
executive board, and if she wants them, she has to get them from Ms. Biggs.

Fund-raising, which many P.T.A.'s in the city have long considered their primary
role, takes place on a modest scale at I.S. 61, mostly through a candy drive and
donations; last year, the P.T.A. raised $3,000. But in an illustration of how
fractured one school can become, Ms. Biggs is constantly surprised, she said, to
discover competing fund-raising operations going on around her. One assistant
principal has organized two fund-raisers already, she said, and the sixth grade
recently had a jewelry sale, organized by an assistant principal, that took her
by surprise.

"It's kind of confusing," she said. "We're all supposed to be in the same
cause."

What P.T.A.'s can do well is direct interested parents toward committees that
discuss school-based management, like I.S. 61's Compact for Learning committee.
At I.S. 61, the process is just beginning; many of the active parents in the
P.T.A. are also on the committee.

'It's Like a Sin To Be an Immigrant'

Beyond the walls of the school, the P.T.A. also has to deal with feeling
alienated from the District Board 24, which has only one nonwhite member, Louisa
Chan. District 24, which includes I.S. 61, gained notoriety with its opposition
to the "Children of the Rainbow" diversity curriculum and hardly reflects the
diversity at the school. So far, it hasn't meant less money, because school
enrollment continues to climb, but it does mean occasional tremors, as when one
member, Frank M. Borzellieri, last year announced plans to remove all
multicultural or "anti-American" books from classrooms and libraries.

"This is the philosophy of the district," said one teacher, who would not allow
her name to be used. "It's like a sin to be an immigrant."

Meanwhile, a school like I.S. 61 is so overcrowded with immigrants that its very
ability to be a school is threatened. Under city policy, children who register
must be accepted, even if they come on the last day of school. Classes crammed
with more than 35 children are not unheard of. The school, which opened in 1966,
was designed for 1,500 children and now has 2,200. More arrive every day.
Closets have been turned into windowless classrooms, dividers have gone up in
once-spacious rooms, and the teachers' cafeteria does double duty as a
classroom. The crowding makes it that much harder to keep track of the students.

"We assume they've gone to school, and sometimes they haven't," said Mrs.
LaPerchia, who seems to be constantly reshuffling classrooms, teachers and
students to accommodate everyone. "You just open your doors and they keep coming
in."

A bulletin board near her office displays essays written by some of the newest
immigrant children, who come from Liberia, Haiti, Pakistan and Hong Kong. "I
came to the U.S. from Haiti," wrote Suzanne Gaulaperc, in script that scrolled
like gentle waves. "In my life I always say I hope I know New York. I come to
United States I was crying. I miss all my family and friends. I have a friend I
be with her for six or seven years. We hug each other and crying it was very
sad."

In June, Ms. Biggs will be gone, moving out as her twin daughters graduate from
the eighth grade. Of her five-member P.T.A. executive board, only one person,
Nellie Aguilar, will remain as the 1995-96 school year gets under way. And Mrs.
Aguilar is not exactly looking forward to it.

"I am totally terrified of all the things that are going to fall on my lap,"
said Mrs. Aguilar, a native of Puerto Rico. She is hoping against hope that more
parents turn out for the P.T.A. And she is thinking of starting to recruit now,
from at least one of the elementary schools in the area that feed into I.S. 61.
"I'm a little bit scared that I'm going to be stuck doing everything, and I
don't think it's fair."

Parent Associations: How They Work When They Do Work

Here are guidelines culled from a manual, "What the Outgoing P.A. President
Should Have Told the Incoming P.A. President," by Lilly Lopez, director of
training for the Parents Coalition for Education in New York City, and Steve
Richardson.

A good parents association:

 * Puts out information in all the languages

* Plans activities to help parents develop their skills, like public speaking,
assertiveness training, how to run meetings effectively.

* Informs itself by attending district-level meetings and school board meetings,
and bringing that information back to the membership.

* Meets on a regular basis with school administrators and teachers to bring
their concerns to the table, and works with the school in developing solutions.

* Publicizes elections of officers and gives adequate notice.

* Prohibits school officials from interfering with the group, including
supervising or inspecting accounts.
 More information, on training and other matters, is available from the
Coalition, at (718) 937-1119, and another umbrella group of parents
associations, the United Parents Associations, (212) 406-7068.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Linda Biggs (right), the president of the Parent-Teacher
Association at Intermediate School 61 in Corona, is trying to revive a group
hobbled by parents too busy to get involved. At a meeting last week, she confers
with (left to right) Casimir Ike Anyanwu, an eighth grader; his mother, Monique
Onwukah, and the group's treasurer, Nellie Aguilar. (Rebecca Cooney for The New
York Times ) (pg. 1); With the help of eighth graders, Linda Biggs, P.T.A.
president, readies the materials for the annual candy sale. Last year, the sale
helped the P.T.A. raise $3,000. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 14)


Graph: "Looking at I.S. 61" give the ethnic breakdown of I.S. 61 (pg. 14)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Bowing to Critics, Clinton Abandons Plan to Charge Border Fee

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 7;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22


On the eve of a Presidential trip to Canada, the White House reversed course
today and said President Clinton had abandoned a plan to impose a fee on people
entering the United States across its land borders.

The decision was timed to prevent a dispute over the proposal from becoming the
focus of a two-day meeting between Mr. Clinton and Prime Minister Jean Chretien.
But it will leave the Administration without $400 million a year in projected
revenue that it had said would be used to help finance the fight against illegal
immigration.

The abrupt withdrawal of the plan represented a major reversal. White House
officials said they had misgauged the resentment it would provoke in Canada and
Mexico and among members of Congress from border regions. The plan involved
charging $3 for each vehicle and $1.50 for each pedestrian crossing.

The officials said the reversal followed high-level meetings at which the
President was warned that the plan was creating ill will and would never win
Congressional approval.

Instead, the White House said today that it would allow states to impose a
border fee and that those states would be rewarded with additional inspectors,
border guards and other improvements.

As a practical matter, aides acknowledged, worries about damping border commerce
made it unlikely that any state would impose fees. Unless some do, they
conceded, the Administration will be unable to dispatch more than 1,000 new
inspectors and make other improvements that were to have been financed by the
fees.

Because Mr. Clinton also called for spending an additional $800 million to fight
illegal immigration, Administration officials sought to emphasize today that
most of his proposal -- including 700 new Border Patrol agents -- remained
intact.

Indeed, because much of what was to be raised with the fee was to have been
spent on speeding the flow of legal traffic across the frontiers, the officials
contended that the reversal would not greatly harm anti-immigration efforts.

But in addition to the 680 border agents from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and 375 from the Customs Service for which there will now be no funds,
the Administration will also have to cancel plans to add lanes and improve
technology at congested crossing points like El Paso and San Ysidro, Calif.

In accounting for what led to Mr. Clinton's decision, Administration officials
pointed today to public protests from members of Congress and from Canada and
Mexico, and to private meetings last week in which delegations of angry Texans
visited the White House to register their complaints.

And on Capitol Hill, Secretary of State Warren Christopher was stunned when an
appearance before a House subcommittee turned into a forum for attacks on the
plan.

As late as Monday, White House officials said Mr. Clinton might have to
reconsider the plan but still intended to discuss it with Prime Minister
Chretien after he flies to Ottawa on Thursday to begin his first state visit to
the capital. But after the Canadian Embassy here circulated a document that laid
out objections to the fee, officials grew concerned that media coverage of a
meeting that is not otherwise expected to generate much coverage would
inevitably focus on the rift.

Administration officials said today that they had done a bad job of testing the
waters. "It was all wrapped up in the budget," one official said, "and I don't
think anybody stepped back and asked whether it could fly."


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Said to Promise Some Political Steps to Get U.S. Loans

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 22


Despite the insistence of Mexico that it would not accept any political
conditions on $20 billion it is to receive in loans and loan guarantees from
Washington, officials said today that it did agree to sweeten the deal with new
measures to control undocumented immigration into the United States and drug
trafficking.

Mindful of the sensitivity of Mexico to the notion that it acted under American
pressure, United States officials noted that its commitments grew out of
discussions begun before the loan talks and reflected longstanding concerns of
President Ernesto Zedillo.

But the Americans also acknowledged having pressed Mexico for quick results --
first to avoid more stringent political conditions on a $40 billion plan that
the Administration ultimately abandoned, then to try to mollify Congressional
opposition to the $20 billion agreement signed on Tuesday.

"There was clearly a commitment by the Mexicans before the financial crisis to
work in these areas," one American official said. "But we've definitely made an
effort to get some of these things more quickly and in writing."

In at least some areas, Mexico's promises appeared to be neither binding nor
particularly specific. For instance, while the Zedillo Government pledged to
crack down on the leaders of a notorious cocaine-smuggling organization, the
so-called Gulf Cartel, American officials said their private agreement included
few details about how Mexico would do so.

Still, the accords were focused deliberately on some of the most contentious
issues on the bilateral agenda. And officials said the Administration had
already begun presenting them to legislators who have complained for weeks that
the United States was getting little in return for its sizable efforts to rescue
Mexico's economy.

"There's a lot of politics involved," the United States Ambassador to Mexico,
James R. Jones, said in an interview today. "A lot of U.S. congressmen wanted to
claim credit for forcing Mexicans to do things that they didn't want to do. I
always felt that if you put these things into a package, it would undermine what
we are trying to do."

Under draft legislation proposed last month by the House Banking Committee, part
of the package called for Mexico to halt the debt-for-equity swaps under which
the Government has forgiven hundreds of millions of dollars in Cuban debt in
exchange for equity given to Mexican investors in Cuba, said officials who saw
the draft.

A senior Mexican official said such conditions were rejected as "totally
impossible."

Yet the accords that were finally reached appear to overlap closely with
proposals that the State Department made to Mexico as part of a side letter that
was intended to keep political conditions out of the loan-guarantee legislation
itself.

Steps that Mexico agreed to take on undocumented immigrants included new
measures to break up immigrant-smuggling rings, the expansion of a border
anti-crime force and a promise to shut down a network of water tunnels in
Nogales that are often used for smuggling immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 24, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Taking Over Mexico

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 29;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


When a government lies, its people must pay, and very soon do.

When a poor country borders on a rich country, people from the poor country
often cross into the rich country to find work. Sometimes they don't have entry
visas.

When these people illegally hunting work are presented as a terrifying menace,
soon legally arrived foreigners become targets, then even certain native-born.

They are time-proven, all three of these little truths. They are also guaranteed
to be ignored when they are the roots of trouble, as they are of the U.S.-Mexico
intertwined double crisis of economic immigrants.

Maybe there are still parts of the U.S. where you can ignore Mexican-American
realities. But not here, where the Mayor has a hot line connecting with Tijuana,
nearby over the border, and certainly not now.

Without vote or debate in either country, the U.S. Government has taken over the
responsibility for Mexico's economic future.

This decision was the result not only of mismanagement but falsehoods, evasions
and self-delusions by the Mexican and U.S. Governments.

Originally they were designed to convince Americans that Mexico was strong
enough financially and politically to enter an economic partnership with the
U.S. -- the North American Free Trade Agreement -- that would profit investors
and workers in both countries.

Then, as the Mexican economy unraveled, fast, the cover-up began. U.S. and
Mexican officials did not pass on what they knew to the investing public or
workers who were supposed to get jobs from Nafta.

How long can you cover up a collapsing peso? That can be answered precisely now
-- until a few days before Mexico is to default. Then the Clinton Administration
had to decide -- let the partner default and investors wait, or throw, oh, $20
billion to $50 billion into the pot to pay back Mexican and U.S. investors.

President Clinton spared Congress the trouble of a vote. Congress kissed his
hands. But if Mexico goes bankrupt anyway, life will get nasty for Americans who
should have revealed early warnings. So Washington decides to supervise Mexico
and spend money to prop up its banks.

That puts America in charge. Mexican investors may like that -- and Mexican
politicians who have been running what Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan describes
as a one-party Leninist system.

But most Mexicans detest becoming wards of the U.S. or surrendering their oil as
collateral. Maybe they will just go and have a revolution. Then Mr. Clinton can
tell us how to get our money back.

The whole collection of Mexican and American turpitudes will result in even more
Mexicans coming to work illegally in California and Texas. Since these states
once belonged to Mexico, that eases whatever feeling Mexicans may have of
committing a heinous crime.

But since in so many American eyes they are, why was the immigration problem
never faced squarely in the Nafta or loan talks? Shyness?  Not exactly. America
is two-minded about Mexican immigrants. U.S. industry -- agriculture, textiles,
construction -- wants them in time of labor shortages and other times wants them
not.

Americans have the right to demand their Government try to stop illegals at the
border. But whipped-up anti-illegal passions soon become anti-immigrant
prejudices.

That is not maybe. California's plan to take health and education benefits from
illegals is now in the courts. State action against legal immigrants has been
ruled out by the Supreme Court. But unless the Court rules otherwise, Congress
not only can act against legal immigrants but already has. A House panel has
voted to deprive them of many health, education and welfare benefits.

Now we shall see whether Representative Gingrich and Senator Doletell their
Republican colleagues to go along with the committee or fight for
legal-immigrant rights in the name of that old American motto, what was it
again, e pluribus something.

Next step: Gov. Pete Wilson of California wants a constitutional amendment to
take citizenship from anybody born in the U.S. whose parents arrived without
papers. Babies should be more careful -- the fourth little truth.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 25, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

...And Welcome to the United States

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 27;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 338 words


Pledging their allegiance to the United States was not the joyous occasion that
150 immigrants expected when they arrived at the Federal District Court in
Manhattan yesterday morning.

The would-be Americans finally got to take the oath of citizenship -- but not
before they were reprimanded by a Federal judge, who threatened to throw them in
jail because he disapproved of their behavior in the courthouse, several
immigrants and their relatives said.

The episode began as families and friends waited anxiously outside Room 110 at
the Foley Square Court House while the applicants spent nearly two hours
completing their final processing and paperwork. Then they waited for more than
another hour before Judge John E. Sprizzo arrived.

When he entered the courtroom, the crowd of 250 people, some of them elderly and
many weary from standing the entire time, broke into applause, punctuated by a
few whistles.

Their behavior apparently did not sit well with the judge, who upbraided them
and threatened them with jail for their display, several people said.

"The judge got behind his bench and started saying 'How dare you, how dare you,'
" said Richard Rodriguez, whose Polish-immigrant wife was taking the oath of
citizenship. "His tone was like he was implying they weren't worthy of
citizenship. He threatened, 'I could throw you in jail for that kind of
behavior.' "

Judge Sprizzo, who has been a district judge since 1981, declined comment.

Ben Abdallah Essiaghi, a 32-year-old native of Casablanca, Morocco, said he and
the others "were excited because it was the oath of citizenship."

"It's a big deal for a lot of people," said Mr. Essiaghi, who has been in the
United States for eight years and owns a small grocery store in the Bronx. But
he said Judge Sprizzo "treated us like we were little kids in school."

Finally, the judge administered the short oath.

"We were so happy about this and then it turned out like a nightmare," said
Agnieszka Sawicka, Mr. Rodriguez's 28-year-old wife.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 26, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Jewish Immigration Group Gets New Chairman

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 25


Avraham Burg, a young and outspoken Labor member of Parliament, has been
appointed acting chairman of the Jewish Agency, the influential but troubled
body that oversees Jewish immigration to Israel.

The "acting" modifier will be dropped in June when the appointment is expected
to be ratified fully by the agency and its sister body, the World Zionist
Organization.

As chairman, Mr. Burg, 40, replaces Simcha Dinitz, a former Israeli Ambassador
to the United States, who is on trial on charges of having used agency credit
cards to make personal purchases worth thousands of dollars. His indictment and
forced resignation a year ago fueled already-strong attacks on the agency as a
bloated bureaucracy in need of change and perhaps even dismantlement.

Among the most severe critics was Mr. Burg. On Wednesday, he told the Jewish
Agency Board of Governors, which appointed him, that he wants to reinvigorate
the organization by forming a new relationship between Israel and Jews in other
countries.

What that relationship should be has become a dominant question for many Jews at
a time when Israel can stand on its own financially and is making peace with the
Arabs. But Jewish life is seen by many here as being in peril in countries like
the United States, where Jews are marrying out of faith at a record pace.

"There are serious existential threats: indifference, assimilation, we're not
relevant, atomization of the Jewish people -- everybody is going his or her own
way," Mr. Burg said on Wednesday. And if real peace does come to Israel, he
added, "The question will be asked: Can we, and how do we, survive without an
external enemy?"

Created in 1929, the Jewish Agency was the precursor of the Jewish state that
came into being 19 years later. It was the vehicle for contributions to the
Jewish settlement in what was then Palestine, and its leader, David Ben-Gurion,
became Israel's first Prime Minister.

It has since overseen immigration to Israel, including the more than 500,000
arrivals from the former Soviet Union during the last six years. But while an
important force, it has had to defend itself against assertions that it has
become an overgrown dumping ground for Israel's political parties.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 28, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court to Decide Case On Bias Against Legal Aliens

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1179 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27


The Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether a Reconstruction-era civil
rights law, originally intended to protect the legal rights of former slaves,
also bars discrimination against aliens.

While the issue reaches the Court in the context of the refusal by an insurance
company to write homeowner's insurance for people who are not American citizens,
the case could have considerably broader implications.

The United States Chamber of Commerce and a coalition of large employers told
the Court that an interpretation of the 1866 law as barring employment
discrimination against aliens would force employers to violate that law every
time they complied with a 1986 law that makes it a crime to hire aliens who lack
documents authorizing them to work in the United States.

The question the Court agreed to decide covers only private and not governmental
discrimination against aliens, so the case is not likely to affect such
governmental measures as California's Proposition 187, which bars illegal aliens
from public school, welfare benefits and non-emergency health care. The
California measure is being challenged principally on constitutional grounds;
Supreme Court precedents have given aliens a protected status within the 14th
Amendment's guarantee of equal protection.

But the Constitution does not govern purely private behavior like employment or
ordinary commercial transactions, which are covered by a number of modern and
century-old civil rights laws.

In the case the Court accepted today, the law at issue is the Civil Rights Act
of 1866, which is usually referred to as Section 1981, after its numerical
listing in the United States Code. The law gives "all persons" the same right to
"make and enforce contracts as is enjoyed by white citizens."

The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, ruled
last year that this law could be invoked by an Australian citizen, a legal
resident of the United States, who was refused a homeowner's policy on his
Baltimore house by the Government Employees Insurance Company, a subsidiary of
the Geico Corporation. The company told the man, Vincent P. Duane, that it did
not write homeowner's insurance for noncitizens.

Mr. Duane sued in Federal District Court for an injunction and damages. Geico
asked that the suit be dismissed on the ground that Section 1981 applied only to
discrimination on the basis of race. Both the District Court and the appellate
court ruled that the law also bars discrimination against aliens. Those courts'
rulings made no distinction between aliens in the United States legally or
illegally.

The case has not yet gone to trial, reaching the Supreme Court on the purely
legal issue of the law's scope.

In its appeal, Geico v. Duane, No. 94-1139, the company argues that Congress has
never indicated a belief that private discrimination against aliens was illegal.
The debate over the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which made it
illegal for employers to hire undocumented aliens while at the same time
protecting some legal aliens against job-related discrimination, proceeded on
the assumption that no laws existed on the subject, the company's brief said.

The notion that Section 1981 already prohibited discrimination against aliens
"is an astonishing proposition," the brief said, "because Congress has
legislated for more than a century without identifying or implementing any such
national policy."

Mr. Duane argued in his brief that to interpret Section 1981 as not applying to
discrimination against noncitizens, the Court would have to ignore the law's
literal language, which guarantees to all the rights enjoyed by "white
citizens."

In 1987, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New
Orleans, ruled that Section 1981 did not apply to aliens; the Supreme Court
considered that decision but ultimately did not review it.

Also today, the Court heard arguments in a Federal criminal case that raises the
question of whether the Government has jurisdiction under the racketeering law
to prosecute a crime involving a single small company with operations
essentially confined to one state.

Last year the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San
Francisco, overturned the racketeering conviction of a former Federal prosecutor
who used the proceeds of narcotics dealing to finance the operation of a gold
mine in Alaska.

The Racketeer Influence and Corrupt Organizations Act, the Federal law usually
known as RICO, makes it a crime to invest income from racketeering activity in
"any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect,
interstate or foreign commerce." The Ninth Circuit ruled in this case that the
Government had failed to prove that the gold mine had more than an "incidental"
effect on interstate commerce.

The ruling was startling because since the New Deal, the Federal courts have
placed few if any constraints on the authority of Congress to regulate and
define interstate commerce. In its appeal of that 1994 ruling, U.S. v.
Robertson, No. 94-251, the Government is urging the Court to rule that any
"perceptible and identifiable" impact on interstate commerce is sufficient to
provide jurisdiction.

In this case, the gold mine used supplies from outside Alaska and its owner, the
defendant, traveled in and out of the state, Miguel A. Estrada, an Assistant
Solicitor General, told the Court.

Justice Sandra Day O'Connor asked, "Is there any business enterprise in America
that wouldn't be covered" by the commerce power?

"As a practical matter, I cannot think of any business in America that wouldn't
be covered," Mr. Estrada replied. He added that "in our economy in this day and
age, I can't think of anything that is likely to happen in the real world" that
would not have implications for interstate commerce.

The Justices appeared essentially to agree with the Government's lawyer,
although one member of the Court, Justice Antonin Scalia, said in frustration at
one point, "If that's what we've said, maybe we should unsay it."

Later, addressing Glenn S. Warren, the defendant's lawyer, Justice Scalia did
not appear to hold out much hope that the mountain of precedent arrayed against
him was about to tumble down. "You don't have a single case in which 'affecting
commerce' has been interpreted by this Court as you wish us to interpret it
here," Justice Scalia told Mr. Warren in a disappointed tone.

But a second interstate commerce case the Court is considering during this term
may present more problems for the Government. In early November, the Court heard
arguments in U.S. v. Lopez, No. 93-1260, which challenges the constitutionality
of a 1990 law that made it a crime to possess a gun within 1,000 feet of a
school. A Federal appeals court declared the law unconstitutional as going
beyond the Government's authority to regulate interstate commerce. Today, nearly
four months after the argument, that case is apparently still under active
consideration, as several questions about it from the bench indicated.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Well-Founded Fear

BYLINE: By Geraldine Brooks;   Geraldine Brooks is author of "Nine Parts of
Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women."

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 706 words


She makes women's clothes. In today's Algeria, that is a political act, and
potentially a fatal one. Until last year, when she abandoned her market stall in
Algiers, 38-year-old Naima Belahi imported fabric from France and Italy and
sewed it into beaded evening gowns or stylish short dresses. Then, last March
10th, Algeria's Islamic insurgents ordered all women to veil themselves within a
week or risk becoming legitimate targets of murder. The day after the deadline,
militants killed a 16-year-old high school student who was walking to class
without a head scarf.

Ms. Belahi, visiting the U.S. at the time, was afraid to return home. She
neither makes nor wears the shroudlike Islamic dress that must cover the female
body. To do so, she feels, would be to signal agreement with the extremists. She
has taken refuge with a Connecticut family and applied for political asylum.

Unfortunately for Ms. Belahi, her case has fallen into a chaotic system that
almost never considers persecution of women a basis for asylum. Despite growing
worldwide abuse of women by religious extremists -- not just in Algeria but also
in Afghanistan, Sudan, the Gaza Strip and Saudi Arabia -- the Immigration and
Naturalization Service works from a sketchy manual that advises against
accepting most sex-based claims.

Asylum seekers must show a "well-founded fear of persecution." This can be based
on race, religion, nationality or political views. Less commonly, it can be
based on membership in a "particular social group" that is subject to abuse.

In Algeria, more than 50 women have been killed since the Islamic insurgency
began in 1992. Many more have been knifed or raped for working alongside men or
wearing Western dress. The murdered women have included the principal of a co-ed
school, a secretary who worked at a police station to support her unemployed
siblings and a 22-year-old woman wearing jeans and buying cigarettes -- enough
to identify her to the militants as a "prostitute."

Yet when an Algerian doctor applied for asylum here this year, saying she had
been threatened with death because she supervised male physicians, the I.N.S.
case officer said that violence in Algeria was "too random" to support her claim
to belong to a "particular social group" at risk of persecution.

If Algeria's violence is considered too random to warrant asylum, awkward
questions arise about countries -- including a close U.S. ally, Saudi Arabia --
where abuse of women is systemic. In 1993, after almost two years of
deliberation, Canada granted asylum to a Saudi student known as Nada who had
argued that she risked flogging and imprisonment for walking in the street with
her hair and face uncovered. In the U.S., asylum experts say that Nada's
predicament would most likely have been viewed by the I.N.S. as a matter of
cultural mores rather than as persecution.

But substitute race for sex and the American position seems untenable. Imagine a
country half black and half white, where the blacks may not legally leave the
house without a white's permission, or where they may be caned in the street for
refusing to wear the official segregating dress. That is the situation for women
in Saudi Arabia.

Last spring, some experts in immigration law at Harvard Law School submitted
guidelines on asylum for women to the I.N.S. with the hope that they might
become the basis for a fairer assessment of claims of persecution. With
anti-immigrant sentiment rampant in the Republican Congress, however, any
attempt to liberalize I.N.S. standards is sure to meet resistance.

Yet asylum seekers constitute a tiny fraction of the people seeking admission to
the U.S. each year. Opening the gate wider to persecuted women is hardly likely
to result in a flood of new applicants. Most of the persecuted women live in
countries where men control their right to leave the country, or even the house.

By granting asylum to women like Naima Belahi, the Algerian seamstress, the U.S.
could send a powerful message to those who distort religion to justify terror.
The message would be that Americans, too, hold certain things sacred -- and
among them are liberty, equality, the pursuit of happiness and the right to hold
one's own beliefs.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Report on Nicotine Levels Wins Polk Award

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 620 words


Reports on subjects ranging from the nicotine content of cigarettes to fraud and
mismanagement at the Immigration and Naturalization Service have won the George
Polk Awards for 1994.

The journalism awards were announced by Long Island University, which
administers the awards. The winners are chosen each year by a panel of
journalists and professors at the university.

A report on the ABC news magazine "Day One" asserting that tobacco companies
artificially elevated the amount of nicotine in cigarettes won in the category
of network television reporting. The broadcast, reported by John Martin, Walt
Bogdanich and Keith Summa, raised an issue that made headlines around the
country, prompted Congressional hearings and led Philip Morris, the cigarette
maker, to file a libel suit against the correspondents; the suit is pending.

The award for national reporting went to Joel Brinkley, Deborah Sontag and
Stephen Engelberg of The New York Times for a series documenting corruption and
waste in the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service. The articles,
which prompted Congressional hearings, showed that the agency had failed to
perform tasks ranging from opening its mail to deporting immigrants convicted of
crimes while in the United States.

Allan Nairn won the award in magazine reporting for his series in The Nation on
United States military intervention in Haiti. Mr. Nairn concluded that, even as
it was returning Jean-Bertrand Aristide to the Presidency, the American
Government was trying to limit his power and preserve the position of Haiti's
elite.

The awards were established in 1949 in memory of George W. Polk, a CBS
correspondent who was killed in 1948 while covering the civil war in Greece.

These were winners in other categories:

EDUCATION -- Olive Talley of The Dallas Morning News reported that Texas A & M
officials falsified records and ignored competitive bidding requirements on a
contract that was given to an associate of a university regent. Her reportings
led to the resignation of the chancellor and the chairman of the Board of
Regents.

ENVIRONMENT -- Jim Lynch and Karen Dorn Steele of The Spokesman-Review of
Spokane, Wash., won for reports asserting that much of the $7.5 billion spent to
clean up radioactive waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation had gone to waste.

FOREIGN -- Barbara Demick of The Philadelphia Inquirer focused on an ordinary
street in Sarajevo, chronicling the lives of residents in a city under siege.

TELEVISION DOCUMENTARY -- Steven Emerson and Martin Koughan's "Jihad in
America," independently produced and broadcast on PBS, asserted that a radical
Islamic terrorist network existed in the United States.

POLITICAL -- Joe Stephens of The Kansas City Star wrote that Bob Griffin, the
Missouri House Speaker, had tried to enrich his friends through newly legalized
riverboat gambling.

LOCAL -- Sonia Nazario of The Los Angeles Times reported on hunger in a
middle-class suburban city, West Covina, leading the school board to begin a
student breakfast program.

METROPOLITAN -- David Armstrong, Shelley Murphy and Stephen Kurkjian of The
Boston Globe won for a series on the hidden hazards of elevators and escalators,
and government's failure to address them.

MEDICAL -- Dave Davis and Joan Mazzolini of The Cleveland Plain Dealer
chronicled an array of abuses in medicine. In one series, they found that
doctors, eager to profit from high-tech procedures, bypassed a state law
intended to limit the spread of unneeded and costly medical equipment.

CAREER AWARD -- Philip Hamburger of The New Yorker was honored for more than
half a century of writing, covering everything from music to Presidential
inaugurations.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 15, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Flood May Carry Away Immigrants' Farm Jobs

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: PAJARO, Calif., March 14


Driven from their trailers by the same flood waters that lay brown and still
over the Salinas Valley's fertile strawberry and lettuce fields, immigrant farm
workers, desperate for jobs, faced the prospect today of having to join a new
migration.

With their homes and possessions soaked in mud and sewage, many workers camped
temporarily today in Watsonville on the other side of the flooded Pajaro River,
with relatives or in a Red Cross shelter. Local officials said they would not be
allowed to return until Pajaro was dry and until they had received tetanus shots
to ward off disease. But after that, their futures loomed as uncertain as ever.

Richard Nutter, Monterey County's agriculture commissioner, called the recent
rains the worst natural disaster ever to strike the $2 billion farming industry
that makes the county and surrounding areas the nation's leading producer of
vegetables.

Mr. Nutter said many of the 40,000 men and women who work in the fields at peak
times would certainly lose their livelihoods.

Asked what he would do now, Arturo Ordaz, 38, who has worked in the strawberry
fields here for five years, took a moment to consider his answer. "That's what
we are going to find out," he said. "We will look wherever we can. But there is
flooding everywhere."

Already today, the mud-covered streets here were filled with refugees as small
groups of residents rummaged through their ruined homes, carrying away sacks of
clothing, baby carriages, pots and pans, bird cages, an accordion.

Flood waters from the weekend's deluge, bubbling gently with sewage from a
damaged waste treatment plant, still covered much of the town, as well as the
fields.

The sounds of scraping and sweeping came from the doorways of a barbershop, a
feed store, a garage, a cafe as owners cleared away muck.

But for most of the town's residents, there was no such remedy. Growers here
expect that in many places it may be months before there are crops for the farm
workers to plant and harvest.

"Much of the land will not be farmable this year," Mr. Nutter said.
"Strawberries are one of the most labor-intensive crops, and that is going to be
a major loss right there."

One major grower, Mike Antle, estimated that half of the region's farmland had
been affected, 20 percent to 30 percent of it seriously.

"No question about it, the farm workers will be devastated," Mr. Antle said.
"Most of them don't have any resources. They are barely making it. They don't
really have anywhere to go."

Mr. Ordaz said that depending on the conditions of the fields, he could earn
$100 to $200 a week. Like many of the farmhands in Pajaro, he sends part of his
earnings home to family members in Mexico.

Many of the workers share trailers at the edge of the fields where two or three
or more families divide a monthly rent of about $200, said Ramon Valenzuela, the
manager of a trailer park with a dozen homes.

Mr. Valenzuela, who is 44, said he came from Mexico for a look 15 years ago, was
attracted by what to him were high wages, and stayed. In addition to managing
the trailers, he works at the J. M. Smucker Company processing plant here, where
fruit from the fields is crushed and put into bright blue plastic barrels for
shipment to a factory.

He and other plant workers said they hoped the jam manufacturer would bring
fruit in from elsewhere to keep them busy at the plant, but they, too, were
uncertain. "Maybe we need to go looking for another job," Mr. Valenzuela said,
standing almost knee-deep in the mud outside his home. "I don't know yet."

Even without the floods, the lives of these workers are hard. Mr. Ordaz, the
strawberry picker, said that when his field work was done each day, "I am gaping
with exhaustion, and my back is in pain."

Now he is desperate to find work like that anywhere he can. "It's a question of
survival," he said.

Such a life is hard on the workers' children as well, many of whom leave school
to help their parents in the fields, and many of whom move with them from town
to town.

"I may lose a good many of my students now," said Lucy Lettunich, who teaches
first and second graders at an elementary school in Watsonville. "A lot of their
parents are looking at jobs that are nonexistent."

She said that most of her students were the children of field workers and that
their migratory life added an unusual sadness to school. She said she had worked
out a ritual, with hugs and handshakes, for the constant departures of her
children.

"They love school, and they are attached to each other," Ms. Lettunich said.
"Whatever I give them they appreciate. Their eyes are wide with curiosity. On
the weekends, they tell me they don't want to go home."


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Pajaro, Calif., a small town in Monterey County where nearly
2,500 acres of prime farm land are submerged, Freddie Rosales, left, and John
Reyes, with plastic wrapped around their legs, shoveled muck from their front
yards when the rain that has lashed California slackened yesterday. (Jim
Wilson/The New York Times)

Graph: "ALMANAC: Water Conditions in California" tracks snowpack, precipitation,
and resevoir storage levels, expressed as a percentage of the annual average.
Graph runs annually from 1985 through March 14, 1995. (Source: California
Cooperative Snow Survey)

Map shows the location of Pajaro, California.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 20, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

New School Would Serve Immigrants

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words


In an effort to accommodate New York City's burgeoning immigrant population,
Schools Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines is proposing to establish a special high
school in Queens for the children of immigrants.

Like other city schools, this one would provide instruction in both English and
the students' native languages. But the range of languages the 1,000-student
school would offer would be broader, and it would also provide more services for
students and their families, like counseling on health care, jobs and
naturalization.

The school is intended to go beyond language differences, and focus on helping
students make the transition to a new country and culture, said John Beckman, a
spokesman for Mr. Cortines. Some students might spend just a year there and then
transfer to another city high school, he said. Others might attend for all four
years and graduate there. A similar program is run by the San Francisco public
school system, which was headed by Mr. Cortines before he came to New York.

The proposal, which requires approval by the Board of Education, represents an
attempt by the school system to grapple with huge increases in enrollment of
immigrant children, whose numbers have imposed a major burden on the city's
already overcrowded schools.

Mr. Beckman said that the city's public schools, with more than 1 million
students, have been adding 25,000 students a year -- most of them from immigrant
families and many of them living in northwestern Queens.

Called The Newcomers School: An Academy for New Americans, the school would open
in September in a high school building, soon to be vacant, in Long Island City.

The school is intended to absorb students from immigrant enclaves nearby while
also easing overcrowding in two Queens public high schools.

Now, most immigrant children with limited English skills attend regular high
schools. If the students speak certain languages, including Spanish, Russian,
Cantonese, Mandarin and Korean, they may enroll in bilingual classes, which
teach math, social studies, science, and other major subjects in that language
and in English. If the students speak other languages, such as Urdu or Hindi,
they must take courses in English as a Second Language.

The Newcomer School would emphasize bilingual education, a subject of national
debate among educators, who disagree about whether it is better for foreign-born
students to do most of their learning in English or to study subjects like
science and social studies in their native languages.

But the school's proponents say that having several years of bilingual education
is important to bring immigrant children up to speed, particularly in higher
grades where subjects become more technical and complicated.

"If you just teach English, the child does not continue to grow in the other,
more complex subjects," said Margaret Harrington, superintendent of high schools
in Queens, who helped craft the Newcomers School idea. "National studies have
shown that it takes two years for a kid to master social English, but it takes
six to eight years to master the vocabulary of science and social studies. The
longer we have the kids in the school the more they become truly bilingual and
they can really understand and be educated."

Which languages will be taught is still up in the air, but Dr. Harrington said
she hopes to include Bengali, Urdu, Hindi, and Haitian Creole, as well as the
others offered in most high schools.

Dr. Harrington said that the 70,000 students in Queens's 33 high schools
represent more than 60 languages. And she said the immigrant population is
changing so rapidly that "the languages we need this September will be different
than the languages we'll need the next September."

New York already has the International High Shool, which emphasizes English as a
Second Language and where many students take college courses. And there are two
smaller alternative schools in Manhattan and the Bronx, called Liberty high
schools, which are meant as short-term programs for immigrant students, who move
to regular high schools after six months or a year, Mr. Beckman said.

Above all, Dr. Harrington said, the Newcomers School would try to be flexible,
working around the needs of the immigrant students.

Dr. Harrington said she hoped the classes would be smaller than in other high
schools and allow for a "closer relationship between students and teachers."

Besides language, the Newcomers School would provide support and counseling to
the students' families, helping parents navigate their new life and keeping them
involved in their children's education. A nonprofit community organization,
Federated Employment Guidance Services, which Dr. Harrington said currently
works with Russian immigrants in a school in Forest Hills, would set up an
advice center in the school.

"The children who come as newly arrived immigrants face particular difficulties,
but that child didn't come to the U.S. alone," Mr. Beckman said. "He came with a
family and that family needs help too. The family's adjustment helps the child's
adjustment."

The Newcomers School would help address what has become a serious overcrowding
problem at Newtown High School in Elmhurst and William Cullen Bryant High School
in Long Island City. Dr. Harrington said that both schools have about 70 percent
more students than they are supposed to and that over half of the students are
in bilingual or English as a Second Language courses.

The problem will only get worse, Dr. Harrington said, since the largest classes
are currently in sixth grade. And since the Newcomers School would use an
existing building, the old home of Long Island City High School, which is moving
to a new building, school officials say it would not be very expensive.

Dr. Harrington said the Newcomers proposal got an enthusiastic reception at a
public meeting in Queens last week. And a leader of one parents group said
yesterday that his organization was inclined to support the plan.

"The idea of a welcoming environment where staff are really knowledgeable about
a variety of cultures, a variety of languages, a variety of experiences, is very
important and helpful," said Jon Moscow, executive director of Parents Coalition
for Education in NYC, Inc. "We think that bilingual education properly done is
extremely effective and necessary. The key to that is flexibility. If there's
one thing that's absolutely certain it's that one size does not fit all."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A School for Newcomers"

Opening Date: Fall

Enrollment: 1,000 students

Grades: 9 - 12

Location: Long Island City, Queens

Projected Languages: Spanish, Haitian Creole, Russian, Polish, Bengali, Korean,
Mandarin, Cantonese, Urdu, Hindi

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 21, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

After Years in Exile in South Florida, Nicaraguans Feel the Tug of 2 Homes

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1291 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 19


In her nine years in the United States, Maria Luisa Campos has learned a
construction trade and become used to the nickname Marylu. Most of her family is
here, including her parents, four sisters and a brother, and her 11-year-old
daughter speaks Spanish with the accent of an English speaker.

Ms. Campos is among more than 100,000 Nicaraguans who came here fleeing war,
economic hardship and a leftist government. Like the Cuban exiles before them,
the Nicaraguans have spent their years in exile in Miami building new lives,
setting up businesses and staking out neighborhoods with streets and schools
named after their most famous poet.

But a recent change in Federal rules has reminded many Nicaraguans of the legal
limbo they face as immigrants, caught between a recovering country that says it
cannot yet absorb them and an adopted one that has never given them a blanket
welcome.

What still eludes many of them, they say, is a certainty about where their
futures lie. "I have one foot here and the other over there," said Ms. Campos,
41.

About 1,000 Nicaraguans gathered last month in front of the offices of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service here to protest new rules that deny
applicants for political asylum work permits while their cases are pending.
Without such permits, immigrants cannot work legally, and employers who hire
them face possible criminal sanctions. Federal officials say the change, which
included a promise that new asylum cases would be heard more quickly, is meant
to cut down on fraudulent claims and help clear a backlog of asylum cases -- not
only Nicaraguans, but also Guatemalans, Chinese and others.

Immigration officials say the new rules on work permits will affect about 24,000
Nicaraguans whose applications for asylum have yet to be resolved, as well as
thousands more who are appealing their cases.

Nicaraguans here say the change threatens the livelihood of thousands of exiles,
forcing them either to take illegal jobs for substandard wages or to leave. All
of this only underscores the precarious security of immigrant populations who
say they have been caught in the shifting tides of politics and history; they
have stayed so long in their country of refuge that they have put down roots,
and now they find it difficult to think of starting over in their own country.

Ms. Campos's father and her oldest daughter, a married nursing student with whom
she lives, came to Miami before her and have obtained political asylum. Ms.
Campos said she was denied asylum years ago but continued working with work
permits that she was allowed to renew annually.

"If my daughters left with me I'd go back, but what do I have there?" said Ms.
Campos, who has been out of construction work after suffering a knee injury and
is now studying flower arrangement.

Almost invisible before the 1980's, Nicaraguans are believed to be the
second-largest Hispanic group in the Miami area, after Cubans. Although the 1990
census counted fewer than 75,000 Nicaraguans in Dade County, their population,
both legal and illegal, is estimated at closer to 150,000, the largest
concentration of Nicaraguans in the United States.

Nicaraguans, much like the Cubans, moved here in waves. The Cubans regarded them
as fellow refugees from Communism and welcomed them with open arms after the
Sandinista revolutionary victory over the military dictator Anastasio Somoza
Debayle in 1979. The bulk of them, and the poorest, came in the years of United
States-financed armed resistance to the Sandinista Government.

Elections in 1990 ousted the Sandinistas. But then Americans moved on to other
crises, and much of an exile community that expected to be transient has stayed
put.

Many in that community do not want to go back because, they say, their country's
democracy is too young and the economic and political problems are too big. Some
say they fear political reprisal. Others await the settlement of property claims
after losing homes and farms to confiscations. Still others say they do not want
to return because they no longer believe they belong there.

"Now the situation is different because the children who are protesting are
American," said Cristobal J. Mendoza, head of the Committee of Poor Nicaraguans
in Exile, which sponsored the protest at the immigration service and plans
another outside the White House in May.

Roberto Arguello, 39, a banker who came from one of the wealthiest Nicaraguan
families and helped form the Nicaraguan American Bankers and Businessmen
Association, a lobbying group here, said many decided long ago to stay for good.

"I adore this country," said Mr. Arguello, who became a United States citizen in
1986. "My father died in the United States. My family business is here. Even
though I'll do everything possible to help Nicaragua with money, I can never go
back."

The Nicaraguan exodus strained education and health services here. But a
multitude of small businesses, newspapers and professional organizations, and
areas of the county with a distinct Nicaraguan imprint, attest to the success of
a large part of the exile community.

In Sweetwater, a city west of Miami, an L-shaped shopping center is Centro
Comercial Managua, and West 97th Avenue is Ruben Dario Avenue, named after
Nicaragua's best-known poet. This is also where former members of President
Somoza's National Guard don their uniforms for a parade every year and where the
Somoza family co-owns a successful Nicaraguan restaurant.

John Hamilton, director for Central American Affairs at the State Department,
said that in 1994 Nicaragua registered its first year of economic growth in a
decade, with total private investment of $40 million to $50 million, part of it
from exiles here. President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro of Nicaragua said in a
recent interview that Nicaraguans received $150 million a year from relatives in
the United States, but exiles estimate the figure at twice that.

In December, President Chamorro urged in a letter to President Clinton that
Nicaraguans be allowed to stay longer in the United States because "the economy
of my country is still fragile and couldn't take a massive return of our
citizens."

But many here fault her Government, saying it has engaged in corruption and
nepotism and in political alliances with the Sandinistas. Many here say they are
skeptical that they would be treated fairly, and some, like former members of
President Somoza's National Guard, say they are outright fearful of what they
call Sandinista terrorists.

Noel Castillo, 43, and Antonio A., 32, are merely disillusioned. While Mr.
Castillo fought as Comandante Trampa (Commander Trickster) during the war
against the Sandinistas, Antonio A. was a Sandinista worker who roved the same
mountains making sure peasants remained loyal.

Today, Antonio A., who is here illegally and did not want his full name used,
makes trusses for prefabricated houses in Homestead, and Mr. Castillo works as a
warehouse manager and studies radiology part time in Miami. They meet with their
families for dinner and sometimes talk about politics back home, but they never
discuss the past and its failures.

Enemies in their country, they are friends in exile.

"To me the war is over," Mr. Castillo said. "All I want is to move ahead."

Despite the apprehensions, more than 200,000 Nicaraguans have returned from the
United States and neighboring Central American countries since the 1990
elections, Nicaraguan Government officials say.

"Who cannot adjust to what is his?" asked Orlando Barreto, a 67-year-old
corporate lawyer, in a telephone interview from Nicaragua. He returned after
living in Miami for seven years, believing his native country is now "on the
right track."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicaraguan immigrants, objecting to a rule change that is
forcing many to either leave the United States or work illegally, protested last
month outside the Miami office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
(Tim Chapman/The Miami Herald)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 22, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Booster Shots for Academic Success

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 346 words


As part of his effort to boost academic success, New York City's Schools
Chancellor, Ramon Cortines, would establish a special school for immigrant
students and a new program aimed at qualifying more minority students for the
city's most selective high schools. Both ideas deserve support from the Board of
Education.

Many immigrant students need extra help in navigating the city school system, so
Mr. Cortines would create the Newcomers School as a comprehensive resource for
some 1,000 immigrant students and their families. It would be in Queens, where
an influx of foreign students has overwhelmed at least two local high schools.

The new school will be open to any Queens student scheduled to enroll in grades
9 through 12 who has lived in the United States for less than a year and who has
trouble with English or is unfamiliar with American schools. Parents will be
expected to participate in career and family-oriented programs aimed at helping
the adults assimilate. Students would attend for at least a year, taking courses
in English and their native languages.  Just as immigrant students need time to
adjust, many African-American and Latino students need a push to apply for the
city's specialized high schools -- Stuyvesant, Bronx High School of Science and
Brooklyn Tech. Acceptance to these nationally recognized centers of science
excellence is based, in part, on competitive entrance exams for which students
are often privately coached.

Mr. Cortines proposes a Math/Science Institute to help about 350 students,
mostly African-Americans and Latinos from underrepresented areas, prepare for
the special schools each year. Promising sixth-grade students from around the
city would take additional courses in math, science and test-taking during the
summer, on weekends and after school for about 18 months to improve their
chances of entering the premier schools. Admission standards will not change.

These two special programs will not guarantee success. But in the best tradition
of public education, they will broaden opportunities.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 26, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Newcomer Schools Raise Old Questions

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 39;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words


The special school for immigrants proposed last week by Schools Chancellor Ramon
C. Cortines joins a growing field of "newcomer" schools in states like
California, Texas and Illinois.

For educators and civil rights officials, the schools raise questions that have
long dogged special programs: Do they truly help children or risk harm by
isolating them from the mainstream?

These are not only pedagogic questions, but also legal ones. The Department of
Education's Office of Civil Rights, concerned about segregation, has
investigated immigrant programs. In an investigation of a California school that
has served as a benchmark for cities setting up other immigrant schools, the
department gave voice to an informal guiding principle: The schools should aim
to be transitional; students should probably not stay beyond a year.

But in his plan for New York's Newcomers School, which would open in September
in Long Island City, Queens, Mr. Cortines proposes allowing the students to
remain for up to four years. The 1,000 high school students, who would attend
voluntarily, would have the option of graduating from there. That could be a
problem.

In 1990, Federal investigators said a so-called newcomer elementary school in
Sacramento, Calif., would violate civil rights segregation laws if it kept
children for more than a year without transferring them to regular schools.
Norma V. Cantu, Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights for the United States
Department of Education, said in an interview that there were no hard and fast
rules, and that each program would be evaluated on its own merits.

Still, most schools take the one-year cap as a requirement -- and a healthy one.
Some principals said that to keep children longer than a year would deprive them
of opportunities to take courses offered by mainstream high schools or to mix
with native English speakers.

But New York already has two small transitional programs for immigrants in
Manhattan and the Bronx, called Liberty high schools, in which students transfer
to regular schools after six months or a year. Mr. Cortines said he was
determined not to accept a one-year limit.

"I agree that they should be transitional, but I don't believe that you can put
an arbitrary time on it," Mr. Cortines said. Sending a student to a regular
school before he or she is ready "would be to send them to the ranks of the
dropouts," he said. He said he would appeal any Federal decision to impose a
one-year limit and called the Sacramento ruling "a pronouncement from
Washington, and they really don't understand the changing demography of who the
immigrant population is in America."

The Cortines school would be generally more ambitious than the other newcomer
schools, including those in San Francisco, whose school system Mr. Cortines
headed before he came to New York. Most other such programs offer a mix of
classes in English and classes in a student's native language, depending on
their staff and their stand in a long-running national debate about which type
of instruction is better.

Mr. Cortines proposes to offer, in addition to English language instruction,
bilingual education in all major subjects -- math, science and social studies --
in as many as 10 languages. He did, however, acknowledge in an interview that it
would be difficult to find, say, a Bengali-speaking science teacher, and that he
might have to scale back his ambitions.

In the 1990 Sacramento case, Federal investigators wrote that the Office of
Civil Rights had "serious reservations regarding the location of the district
newcomer program at a separate school site."

Although there is increasing interest in newcomer schools, they are largely
uncharted territory. Experts say there are no studies to document whether
immigrant children perform better in separate schools or in classes for speakers
of limited English in mainstream schools.

But anecdotes suggest that many children have good experiences at the schools,
which help them overcome traumatic experiences or educational deficits they
might have suffered in refugee camps or rural villages in their native
countries. Parents appreciate the counseling that many schools provide to help
with jobs, health care and naturalization, a prominent feature of the New York
plan. And education officials say the schools are efficient because they bring
together students who speak the same language, allowing districts to justify
hiring teachers who speak that language.

People familiar with the schools say success depends on whether the schools get
enough resources to be comparable to mainstream schools, on how quickly and
accurately they evaluate the students, and on how much support children get when
they move into mainstream schools.

There are only a handful of newcomer schools, most of them in California, but
their numbers are increasing. Most occupy separate buildings; a few are inside
regular schools. Fort Worth, with large numbers of Vietnamese and Latin
Americans, started a school in 1993 for grades 6 through 12.

Last summer, when thousands of Haitian refugees were arriving in the Miami area,
the Dade County School Board voted to create newcomer schools in the event that
an influx of immigrants forced the school system to absorb more than 100
children a day.

Immigrant advocacy groups wrote Ms. Cantu's office complaining that the Dade
County plan would unfairly segregate children into substandard schools.

Proposals are on the table in Providence, R.I., and Chicago, where officials
said that they, like Mr. Cortines, were hoping not to restrict their students to
one year.

In New York, where the Newcomers School would ease extreme overcrowding in two
Queens high schools, there is support for Mr. Cortines's idea. Most of the
25,000 children added each year to the city's public schools are immigrants. But
there are concerns about aspects of the Chancellor's proposal, which requires
Board of Education approval.

"Having a whole school that is only for limited-English-proficient students does
have the potential for denying the students certain opportunities that are
available in other schools, as well as the chance to mix with native English
speakers," said Luis Reyes, a school board member. "The other concern that I
have is that the program be a full bilingual program. We have to do more as a
school system to attract bilingual teachers."

Peter D. Roos, co-director of Multicultural Education Training and Advocacy in
San Francisco, said that a school on the grand scale that Mr. Cortines is
proposing might actually draw bilingual teachers and other resources away from
regular high schools, shortchanging students at those schools.

But others champion New York's plan as is. They say more time in the school
would give students the long-term bilingual education they might not get in
regular high schools, where there might not be teachers who speak their
languages. Proponents say the diversity of New York's immigrant population means
that one ethnic group would not feel isolated or disadvantaged; the situation
would not be akin to Dade County's proposed school, which would, in effect, have
been all Haitian.

"It doesn't make sense to talk about segregation when you have so many different
languages spoken," said Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York
Immigration Coalition. "And if you've got two schools that are oversubscribed by
70 percent, where else are these children going to be? They'd be in overcrowded
classes in makeshift tents on the high school lawn."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For Elderly Immigrants, a Retirement Plan in U.S.

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1661 words


It was in the chaotic din of a Chinatown garment factory that 74-year-old Ho
Yin-peng discovered a better way to survive than snipping loose threads from
clothing at 5 cents a dress.

Her co-workers told her that even though she lived with her son, she could
qualify for the Federal welfare program known as Supplemental Security Income if
she was over 65 and had been in this country for more than three years.

So after she passed the third anniversary of her residence in the United States
in 1991, she applied and soon began receiving $280 a month, far more than she
made in the factory at $40 a week. She has not worked since.

"It's not enough for living expenses, but its more than when I was working,"
said Mrs. Ho, who now shares a small apartment with a friend in Chinatown.
"Everyone knows about this."

Created in the early 1970's to bolster the incomes of retirees who did not
receive enough in Social Security, the Supplemental Security Income program is
increasingly being sought out by elderly immigrants new to this country.

Unlike regular Social Security, which is a contributory insurance plan based on
how long people worked and how much they made before retirement, S.S.I. is a
welfare program for all citizens or resident immigrants who meet certain
requirements of age, income or disability.

The number of elderly immigrants enrolled in the program has increased fivefold
over the last 12 years. Now, more than a quarter of immigrants over 65 -- and in
some immigrant populations, almost half -- receive S.S.I., at an annual cost of
$2 billion.

By comparison, less than 10 percent of elderly United States citizens are in the
program.

S.S.I. has, in fact, become something akin to a retirement system for elderly
immigrants, who in many cases come from countries that have meager or
nonexistent retirement systems. It is not believed to be the magnet that draws
them here, since most come to join their children or other relatives who moved
here first. But the S.S.I. system, which has become widely known among
immigrants in the United States and abroad, is the one welfare program that
immigrants use more heavily than do native-born Americans. Illegal immigrants
are ineligible.

"The American dream is no longer to start at the bottom and work your way up,"
said Daniel Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform. "It's to transfer your assets to your children and get on S.S.I. as fast
as you can."

But advocates for immigrants counter that the program is necessary to protect
one of the most vulnerable groups in American society, elderly immigrants who
come to join their children and later find that their families will not or
cannot support them.

"I was hoping my children would take care of me when I got old," Mrs. Ho said.
"But they all have their own families. It's the American style."

Under the Republican-backed welfare overhaul under consideration in Washington,
Mrs. Ho and thousands of other immigrants between ages 65 and 75 would lose
their eligibility for S.S.I. But those over 75, who are about half the
immigrants collecting S.S.I., would remain eligible -- an exemption, the
Republicans say, that is based on compassion for the elderly poor.

The growing population of elderly immigrants collecting S.S.I. is partly
explained by the surge in immigration over the past decade. But while
immigration has doubled, the number of elderly immigrants enrolled in the
program has increased fivefold, to 440,000 today from 91,900 in 1982.

Norman S. Matloff, a professor of computer science at University of California
at Davis who did an analysis of census data concerning immigrants receiving
S.S.I. benefits, said a reason may be simply that the benefits are available and
easy to receive.

"Everybody knows that this is free money," Mr. Matloff said. "The knowledge
about this overseas has just mushroomed."

An analysis of 1990 census information conducted for The New York Times by
Andrew Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College, shows that about 20 percent
of the immigrants receiving the supplemental benefits actually live in
households with incomes above $50,000 a year. The national median income for
households of five people, the average size of immigrant households, is $37,000.

The Republican welfare changes, which have passed the House but have not yet
been taken up in the Senate, would exclude only about a third of those elderly
immigrants in households making more than $50,000 a year, Mr. Beveridge's study
found.

The S.S.I. eligibility requirements are for incomes of less than about $450 a
month, depending on the state, and liquid assets of less than $2,000, but the
rules do not take into account the wealth of the applicant's children.

"Someone could be living with Donald Trump and if they don't have a nickel to
their name, they're going to qualify," said Thomas Margenau, a spokesman for the
Social Security Administration.

Most immigrants are sponsored by family members to come to this country. In
theory, their sponsors are financially responsible for themuntil they become
citizens. Their sponsors are required by the Government to sign an affidavit,
promising that the immigrants will not become public charges.

But the affidavits have been ruled legally unenforceable and most immigrants can
apply for welfare after they have lived in the country long enough regardless of
how much their sponsors make.

Until 1994, elderly immigrants could qualify as "permanent resident aliens" and
become eligible for S.S.I. after three years in this country. Government
statistics show that a quarter of them applied within months of passing the
three-year mark. But the growth in the number of applications pushed the Social
Security Administration to change the residency requirement last year to five
years.

Supplemental Security Income was established in 1972 by amendments to the Social
Security Act and took effect in 1974. It replaced an old system of Federal
grants to the states for old-age assistance and aid to the blind and disabled.

Over the years, the number of citizens in the program has declined, dropping by
a half million just since 1982, largely because more people are covered by other
types of retirement incomes. In that same period, the proportion of elderly
immigrants receiving S.S.I. has increased to more than 30 percent from 6
percent.

Mexicans make up the biggest group of immigrants receiving Supplemental Security
Income. But compared with the size of the Mexican immigrant population in the
United States, their usage rate is lower than that of many other nationalities.

Laotians are the most likely to be collecting S.S.I., with nearly two-thirds of
those over 65 enrolled in the program. Among nonrefugee groups, Koreans have the
highest usage rate, with slightly less than half of those over 65 enrolled,
according to the analysis of 1990 census data by Mr. Beveridge.

Advocates for immigrants say it is only natural that more immigrants are relying
on the program, since they generally have worked a shorter time in this country
and are often employed in low-paying factory or service jobs, which leaves them
ineligible for Social Security or receiving only low benefits.

Amelia Jacoma, who is 68, came to the United States from Ecuador in 1957 and
spent three decades working as a seamstress in New York City. She paid her
income taxes and contributed to Social Security, and owned her own home in the
Bronx.

But the most she ever made was $240 a week and, after retiring, her Social
Security check came to just $380 a month.

S.S.I., which provides benefits based on other other income and varies from case
to case, gives her an extra $130 a month -- the difference, she said, between
poverty and survival.

"I worked all my life in this country and that's all I got," she said.

The program also has been savior for many elderly immigrants trapped in the
modern reality of dispersed families and changing traditions.

Mrs. Ho, an ethnic Chinese from the Malaysian city of Melaka, came to the United
States to settle in 1988 when she was 67, in part to help take care of her
daughter's young children.

But as her grandchildren grew older, she said she became more a burden to her
own children.

With her S.S.I. benefits, she was able to move out on her own. Now she pays $100
a month for a small room off Hester Street with just enough space for a bed and
plastic lawn chair, her only furniture. She eats lunch at a nearby senior
citizens' center for 50 cents a meal and cooks a simple dinner each night.

The faded green walls of her room are adorned with calendars of movie stars or
Chinese gods that the restaurants and grocery stores in Chinatown give away. All
her other possessions fit in a few boxes and suitcases at the foot of her bed.

"It's comfortable enough for me here," she said. "If I was in Malaysia, I would
have no money, no home."

Mr. Matloff, whose study included interviews with ethnic Chinese in California,
said he believed that the ease of receiving S.S.I. has helped destroy old
traditions of caring for the aged.

"It's become an easy alternative to working out family difficulties," he said.

Maria Theresa R., a 70-year-old immigrant from Ecuador who refused to be
identified by her full name because she was embarrassed by her plight, said she
was originally sent by her children to America because they did not have the
means to care for her in their homeland any longer.

For a year and a half she lived with a son in the Bronx, but eventually left
after family disputes.

She survives now on $544 in S.S.I. benefits each month and 50-cent meals at a
nearby senior citizens' center in the East Tremont section of the Bronx.

She cannot go back to Ecuador, nor has she anyone in the United States to care
for her. "This is my home," she said as she picked at her plate of rice and
chicken in the center's dining hall. "There is really nothing else for me now."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "ADDING IT UP: On Assistance" lists top nationalities of
noncitizens receiving Supplemental Security Income benefits for the elderly in
1994. Also shown are the numbers of citizens and noncitizens enrolled in the
Supplemental Security Income program for the elderly, during 1982, 1986, 1990,
and 1994. (Source: Social Security Administration) (pg. 26)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For Elderly Immigrants, a Retirement Plan in U.S.

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1662 words


It was in the chaotic din of a Chinatown garment factory that 74-year-old Ho
Yin-peng discovered a better way to survive than snipping loose threads from
clothing at 5 cents a dress.

Her co-workers told her that even though she lived with her son, she could
qualify for the Federal welfare program known as Supplemental Security Income if
she was over 65 and had been in this country for more than three years.

So after she passed the third anniversary of her residence in the United States
in 1991, she applied and soon began receiving $280 a month, far more than she
made in the factory at $40 a week. She has not worked since.

"It's not enough for living expenses, but its more than when I was working,"
said Mrs. Ho, who now shares a small apartment with a friend in Chinatown.
"Everyone knows about this."

Created in the early 1970's to bolster the incomes of retirees who did not
receive enough in Social Security, the Supplemental Security Income program is
increasingly being sought out by elderly immigrants new to this country.

Unlike regular Social Security, which is a contributory insurance plan based on
how long people worked and how much they made before retirement, S.S.I. is a
welfare program for all citizens or resident immigrants who meet certain
requirements of age, income or disability.

The number of elderly immigrants enrolled in the program has increased fivefold
over the last 12 years. Now, more than a quarter of immigrants over 65 -- and in
some immigrant populations, almost half -- receive S.S.I., at an annual cost of
$2 billion.

By comparison, less than 10 percent of elderly United States citizens are in the
program.

S.S.I. has, in fact, become something akin to a retirement system for elderly
immigrants, who in many cases come from countries that have meager or
nonexistent retirement systems. It is not believed to be the magnet that draws
them here, since most come to join their children or other relatives who moved
here first. But the S.S.I. system, which has become widely known among
immigrants in the United States and abroad, is the one welfare program that
immigrants use more heavily than do native-born Americans. Illegal immigrants
are ineligible.

"The American dream is no longer to start at the bottom and work your way up,"
said Daniel Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform. "It's to transfer your assets to your children and get on S.S.I. as fast
as you can."

But advocates for immigrants counter that the program is necessary to protect
one of the most vulnerable groups in American society, elderly immigrants who
come to join their children and later find that their families will not or
cannot support them.

"I was hoping my children would take care of me when I got old," Mrs. Ho said.
"But they all have their own families. It's the American style."

Under the Republican-backed welfare overhaul under consideration in Washington,
Mrs. Ho and thousands of other immigrants between ages 65 and 75 would lose
their eligibility for S.S.I. But those over 75, who are about half the
immigrants collecting S.S.I., would remain eligible -- an exemption, the
Republicans say, that is based on compassion for the elderly poor.

The growing population of elderly immigrants collecting S.S.I. is partly
explained by the surge in immigration over the past decade. But while
immigration has doubled, the number of elderly immigrants enrolled in the
program has increased fivefold, to 440,000 today from 91,900 in 1982.

Norman S. Matloff, a professor of computer science at University of California
at Davis who did an analysis of census data concerning immigrants receiving
S.S.I. benefits, said a reason may be simply that the benefits are available and
easy to receive.

"Everybody knows that this is free money," Mr. Matloff said. "The knowledge
about this overseas has just mushroomed."

An analysis of 1990 census information conducted for The New York Times by
Andrew Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College, shows that about 20 percent
of the immigrants receiving the supplemental benefits actually live in
households with incomes above $50,000 a year. The national median income for
households of five people, the average size of immigrant households, is $37,000.

The Republican welfare changes, which have passed the House but have not yet
been taken up in the Senate, would exclude only about a third of those elderly
immigrants in households making more than $50,000 a year, Mr. Beveridge's study
found.

The S.S.I. eligibility requirements are for incomes of less than about $450 a
month, depending on the state, and liquid assets of less than $2,000, but the
rules do not take into account the wealth of the applicant's children.

"Someone could be living with Donald Trump and if they don't have a nickel to
their name, they're going to qualify," said Thomas Margenau, a spokesman for the
Social Security Administration.

Most immigrants are sponsored by family members to come to this country. In
theory, their sponsors are financially responsible for themuntil they become
citizens. Their sponsors are required by the Government to sign an affidavit,
promising that the immigrants will not become public charges.

But the affidavits have been ruled legally unenforceable and most immigrants can
apply for welfare after they have lived in the country long enough regardless of
how much their sponsors make.

Until 1994, elderly immigrants could qualify as "permanent resident aliens" and
become eligible for S.S.I. after three years in this country. Government
statistics show that a quarter of them applied within months of passing the
three-year mark. But the growth in the number of applications pushed the Social
Security Administration to change the residency requirement last year to five
years.

Supplemental Security Income was established in 1972 by amendments to the Social
Security Act and took effect in 1974. It replaced an old system of Federal
grants to the states for old-age assistance and aid to the blind and disabled.

Over the years, the number of citizens in the program has declined, dropping by
a half million just since 1982, largely because more people are covered by other
types of retirement incomes. In that same period, the proportion of elderly
immigrants receiving S.S.I. has increased to more than 30 percent from 6
percent.

Mexicans make up the biggest group of immigrants receiving Supplemental Security
Income. But compared with the size of the Mexican immigrant population in the
United States, their usage rate is lower than that of many other nationalities.

Laotians are the most likely to be collecting S.S.I., with nearly two-thirds of
those over 65 enrolled in the program. Among nonrefugee groups, Koreans have the
highest usage rate, with slightly less than half of those over 65 enrolled,
according to the analysis of 1990 census data by Mr. Beveridge.

Advocates for immigrants say it is only natural that more immigrants are relying
on the program, since they generally have worked a shorter time in this country
and are often employed in low-paying factory or service jobs, which leaves them
ineligible for Social Security or receiving only low benefits.

Amelia Jacoma, who is 68, came to the United States from Ecuador in 1957 and
spent three decades working as a seamstress in New York City. She paid her
income taxes and contributed to Social Security, and owned her own home in the
Bronx.

But the most she ever made was $240 a week and, after retiring, her Social
Security check came to just $380 a month.

S.S.I., which provides benefits based on other other income and varies from case
to case, gives her an extra $130 a month -- the difference, she said, between
poverty and survival.

"I worked all my life in this country and that's all I got," she said.

The program also has been savior for many elderly immigrants trapped in the
modern reality of dispersed families and changing traditions.

Mrs. Ho, an ethnic Chinese from the Malaysian city of Melaka, came to the United
States to settle in 1988 when she was 67, in part to help take care of her
daughter's young children.

But as her grandchildren grew older, she said she became more a burden to her
own children.

With her S.S.I. benefits, she was able to move out on her own. Now she pays $100
a month for a small room off Hester Street with just enough space for a bed and
plastic lawn chair, her only furniture. She eats lunch at a nearby senior
citizens' center for 50 cents a meal and cooks a simple dinner each night.

The faded green walls of her room are adorned with calendars of movie stars or
Chinese gods that the restaurants and grocery stores in Chinatown give away. All
her other possessions fit in a few boxes and suitcases at the foot of her bed.

"It's comfortable enough for me here," she said. "If I was in Malaysia, I would
have no money, no home."

Mr. Matloff, whose study included interviews with ethnic Chinese in California,
said he believed that the ease of receiving S.S.I. has helped destroy old
traditions of caring for the aged.

"It's become an easy alternative to working out family difficulties," he said.

Maria Theresa R., a 70-year-old immigrant from Ecuador who refused to be
identified by her full name because she was embarrassed by her plight, said she
was originally sent by her children to America because they did not have the
means to care for her in their homeland any longer.

For a year and a half she lived with a son in the Bronx, but eventually left
after family disputes.

She survives now on $544 in S.S.I. benefits each month and 50-cent meals at a
nearby senior citizens' center in the East Tremont section of the Bronx.

She cannot go back to Ecuador, nor has she anyone in the United States to care
for her. "This is my home," she said as she picked at her plate of rice and
chicken in the center's dining hall. "There is really nothing else for me now."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "ADDING IT UP: On Assistance" lists top nationalities of
noncitizens receiving Supplemental Security Income benefits for the elderly in
1994. Also shown are the numbers of citizens and noncitizens enrolled in the
Supplemental Security Income program for the elderly, during 1982, 1986, 1990,
and 1994. (Source: Social Security Administration) (pg. 26)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRATION;
With Affluent Chinese Moving In, A Press War Begins to Heat Up

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section 13NJ;  Page 7;  Column 1;  New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 920 words


It has been a very, very good year for Li Yung and his New Jersey China Times.

On Jan. 1, the Chinese-language weekly published its first issue, with a press
run of 5,000 copies. On April 1, that figure hit 20,000, distributed free at 56
restaurants, banks and supermarkets throughout New Jersey.

"No one thought that we would do so well so fast," Mr. Li said. "But I think it
shows how interested the readers are in community news."

Mr. Li is not alone in his surprise, or, apparently, in his success.

Just a few years ago, New Jersey residents hungry for Chinese-language news had
to drive to New York for papers that paid little, if any, attention to their
home state. Now, they can flip through the likes of Sino Monthly New Jersey, New
Creation Connection, Neo Asian American Times and Mr. Li's New Jersey China
Times.

These publications make no bones about focusing on New Jersey. They solicit
local advertising, report on real estate, education and investment opportunities
and list cultural events. (The Neo Asian American Times is somewhat political,
supporting Taiwan's opposition Democratic Progressive Party.) By contrast, the
New York papers pay more attention to what's happening in China, Taiwan and Hong
Kong than to local news.

This proliferation of Chinese-language publications reflects the speedy growth
of Chinese communities around the state. Between 1980 and 1990, according to the
census, the state's ethnic Chinese population increased from 23,492 to 59,094,
or 152 percent. (Even more strikingly, the number who identified themselves as
Chinese speakers grew from 3,358 in 1980 to 47,334 in 1990.) In Middlesex and
Somerset Counties, the number of Chinese residents more than tripled over the
same period; in Edison, which is fast becoming a hub of suburban Chinese, the
figure climbed from 485 in 1980 to 2,561 in 1990.

For the most part, these are not struggling immigrants; though many are new to
America, they tend to be reasonably well off, and they have come to settle. Some
are professionals who work at Bell Labs or various Taiwanese companies in the
state. Some are former Chinatown or Flushing residents who work in New York City
but want more space and safety.

"In New Jersey, the house is bigger, the education is better, and you don't need
to worry about parking," said Annie Yee, a mortgage broker who recently moved to
Edison after 20 years in Queens. "You don't have to go to New York to eat or
shop. You have everything you need in New Jersey."

When it comes to news, New Jersey's Chinese have several choices.

New Creation Connection of Edison prints about 20,000 copies each week and
distributes them free to restaurants, churches and groceries. Founded in 1991 by
the New Jersey First Chinese Baptist Church of Edison, the 24-page tabloid
contains articles on local business, music and education, as well as short
fiction, international news and a "Practical English" lesson.

"We picked Edison because the Chinese population is growing so fast, and we felt
it would be the next Chinatown," said Micah Wong, the paper's marketing
director.

Sino Monthly New Jersey is an independent magazine published in East Brunswick.
It started in 1991 as a 16-page black-and-white publication with a paid
circulation of 8,000 and a total of 30 ads. In the most recent issue, there were
88 pages in color and 200 ads for a paid circulation of more than 16,000, said
Ivy Lee, the magazine's editor.

The magazine offers special monthly reports on topics like immigration, real
estate and demographics. It also devotes space to entertainment news, business
reports, monthly columns and restaurant reviews.

Mr. Li's New Jersey China Times takes a similar approach. In recent months, the
12-page broadsheet has featured articles on everything from Chinese who plunk
down cash to buy houses to whether complicated or simplified Chinese characters
should be taught in local Chinese schools.

The newspaper is actually produced in Manhattan, but its main offices are in
Edison and Fair Lawn, and its circulation is limited to New Jersey.

Then there's the Neo Asian American Times. The Queens-based weekly, established
in 1991, used to circulate only in New York, but now distributes 30 percent of
its 10,000 print run to New Jersey. Two weeks ago, the 12-page paper switched to
daily publication, combining New York and New Jersey news with international
news from Taiwan's Liberty Times newspaper.

Of course, going beyond Volume 1, No. 1 is not easy. Witness New Hua Monthly, an
Edison-based magazine begun in December 1993 to great fanfare, including
congratulatory notes from then-Governor Jim Florio and Senator Frank Lautenberg.
It folded after three issues.

And there is still stiff competition from established New York dailies such as
World Journal and Sing Tao, not to mention a plethora of trade publications and
community newsletters.

But the New Jersey papers are confident they've found a niche: well-to-do
suburbanites who care more about community events and good schools than homeland
politics.

Readers and advertisers seem to like what they see.

Stephen Tsai is a partner with Wong, Tsai and Fleming, an Edison law firm that
was founded last year and specializes in serving the Chinese community. So far,
his firm has advertised in Sino Monthly New Jersey and World Journal.

"The fact that newspapers are popping up all over the place is a sign of the
tremendous growth of the Asian community," he said. "There's a need for these
publications."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Wang in his bookstore, Bookland International, which
serves the Chinese community in Edison. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 17, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

115 Haitians Seized at Sea

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, April 16


The Coast Guard found 115 Haitians crammed into a secret compartment on a boat
that was stopped early today for not having navigation lights. The Haitians were
behind a false wall in a compartment 20 feet by 6 feet and 6 feet high, the
Coast Guard said. The 65-foot motor boat was spotted about 4 A.M. two miles off
Miami Beach.

One woman was taken to a hospital because of a possible punctured lung. The
others were turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Most
Haitian refugees caught at sea are returned to their homeland.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 19, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
The Immigration Wave: A Plea to Hold It Back

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section C;   Page 17;   Column 2;   Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 975 words



ALIEN NATION
Common Sense About America's Immigration Disaster
 By Peter Brimelow
 327 pages. Random House. $24.

Three years ago, Peter Brimelow, a writer for Forbes magazine and an immigrant
from Britain, wrote a powerful and elegant article, published in National
Review, in which he argued that current American immigration policies were
leading to disaster. For many conservatives Mr. Brimelow's argument was a kind
of heresy, because it contradicted the faith in immigration as an aspect of the
free market. Liberals do not generally read National Review, but many of them
have tended to view immigration as an enriching process, certainly a
humanitarian requirement.

"Alien Nation" is Mr. Brimelow's book-length treatment of this subject. He has
included more data this time around than he did in his National Review article,
and yet some of the force of his original position has been strangely lost in
the book. This is in part because Mr. Brimelow has opted for a choppy polemical
style, with chapters broken up into brief sub-chapters and almost every page in
turn festooned with indented, boldfaced or italicized segments in which Mr.
Brimelow highlights certain points. Mr. Brimelow's personality also comes
through, and it is entirely engaging. But the essay as a whole reads too much
like one of those solicitations you get in the mail urging a contribution to a
political cause.

Still, Mr. Brimelow has made a highly cogent presentation of what is going to be
the benchmark case against immigration as it is currently taking place. Those
who think that the system needs no fixing cannot responsibly hold to that
position any longer unless they take Mr. Brimelow's urgent appeal for change
into account.

His starting point is the Federal legislation in 1965 that, after a pause of
nearly half a century, opened up the gates to the country's third great
post-independence wave of immigration, one that is far larger in absolute
numbers than its predecessors, and one that is conspicuously non-European and
nonwhite in nature. Sometime in the middle of the next century, if current
trends continue unchanged, whites will no longer be a majority, and blacks will
no longer be the largest minority.

The strong racial element in current immigration has made it more than ever
before a delicate subject. It is to Mr. Brimelow's credit that he attacks it
head on, unapologetically.  Among his most telling points is that a certain
sentimental indulgence toward immigration, combined with the fear that to be
opposed to it will be seen as racist, has blinded us to its disastrous
consequences. Mr. Brimelow demonstrates what he sees as the looming danger with
a concept called "the wedge." By 2050, he argues, the total American population
will be nearly 400 million, of whom more than one-third ("a staggering 139
million people") will be post-1970 immigrants and their descendants.

To those of us who have seen neighborhoods revitalized by recent arrivals, and
who have been heartened by the well-publicized success of some groups,
especially the Asians, the obvious question is: what is so threatening about
this wedge? Mr. Brimelow demonstrates (and he is well furnished with statistics)
that by putting the stress on family reunification, rather than job skills, the
country has made immigration a kind of civil right for the inhabitants of a
small number of third world countries. And, he says, the new immigrants are
disproportionately prone to poverty, crime and welfare dependency. In the great
immigrant wave of 1890 to 1920, Mr. Brimelow argues, about one-third returned
home. Largely because of the welfare system today, he says, that has changed:
"The failures are no longer winnowed out. Instead, they are encouraged to stay
-- at the expense of the American taxpayer."

Those most likely to be harmed by the current wave of immigration, moreover, are
American-born blacks, Mr. Brimelow says. Citing the economist Simon Kuznets, he
argues that a major reason for black progress in this century is that
immigration virtually halted between 1920 and 1965. The new wave, it stands to
reason, will drive blacks out of jobs. In addition, the emergence of new racial
minorities -- especially Asian and Hispanic -- will fundamentally alter the
nature of the American nation-state, which has for most of our history been
white, with a strong black minority.  What Mr. Brimelow calls "the new American
Anti-Idea" will produce "a sort of bureaucratically regulated racial spoils
system, rather like Lebanon before its ethnic divisions finally erupted."

Mr. Brimelow does very little on-the-scene reporting, which makes his stress on
statistics seem not only abstract but also detached from the concrete human and
spiritual reality involved in immigration. He is critical of the press, which,
he argues, has given us only the bright side of the picture and left out other
matters, like the fact that 25 percent of the prisoners in Federal
penitentiaries are immigrants. And yet he himself passes rather too quickly over
what the press has perhaps overstressed: the genuinely moving spectacle of
millions of people making better lives for themselves in this country than they
could in the countries they came from. He may also underestimate the force of
assimilation, the eagerness of immigrants to adopt American values as their own.

But Mr. Brimelow also shows that America is not so much a country of immigration
as it is one of "intermittent immigration." The periods where there was almost
no immigration are more characteristic of our history than the briefer periods
when the door was open. The lulls provided time to digest and Americanize the
masses of strange and different newcomers. Mr. Brimelow's argument that without
a lengthy new lull we will be in trouble is too persuasively made to be ignored.


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Brimelow. (S. Valeska/Random House)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Elderly Deserve S.S.I. Benefit

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words


To the Editor:

Your headline "For Elderly Immigrants, a Retirement Plan in U.S." (front page,
April 16) leaves the impression that thousands of immigrants enter the United
States each year for the purpose of obtaining Supplemental Security Income
benefits, adding fuel to the hysteria raging about whether or not immigrants
should receive Government benefits.

The program is not a retirement plan but a means-tested program for the poor
elderly, disabled and blind who meet strict income and savings rules. If a
higher percentage of elderly immigrants receive Supplemental Security Income
benefits than other elderly Americans, we should not blame them or the program,
but should instead celebrate the success of Social Security, the reason so many
elderly Americans don't need to apply for S.S.I. poverty benefits.

Many immigrants who come to this country legally and who meet the requirements
for immigration status have the income of their sponsors "deemed" to them for
five years.

When this period ends, the elderly turn to S.S.I. for assistance. Those who meet
the eligibility requirements and who live with family members tend to receive
low monthly benefits (about $300 a month) because of S.S.I. budgeting rules.

By citing unsubstantiated claims that elderly immigrants are transferring assets
to their children so that they can obtain S.S.I. and that one of five immigrants
receiving benefits live in households with annual incomes above $50,000, you
create an impression that, as one of your sources said, "someone could be living
with Donald Trump and if they don't have a nickel to their name, they're going
to qualify."

Immigrants have come to this country for hundreds of years and have helped it
grow and prosper. Before we start tinkering with public benefits for the very
poor and discourage elderly immigrants who reside here legally to apply for
benefits, we need to decide whether our value system no longer welcomes
immigrants not different from our own ancestors.

SIA ARNASON
ANDREW KOSKI
New York, April 19, 1995

The writers are, respectively, co-director and public policy coordinator,
Institute on Law and Rights of Older Adults, Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter
College.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

FLIGHT FROM CUBA;
Cuba Names Leader For Talks With U.S.

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 174 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, Aug. 30


Cuba has chosen a former Foreign Minister and the current leader of the National
Assembly to lead its delegation at talks with the United States on migration
issues.

A Government statement said Ricardo Alarcon would head Cuba's five-member
delegation to the talks.

Mr. Alarcon was Cuba's chief delegate to the United Nations for years and took
part in talks that led to a 1984 immigration accord between Cuba and the United
States. Cuba contends that the United States did not fulfill its part of the
bargain.

A Government statement issued tonight said that Mr. Alarcon was the best
qualified to deal with what it called the "delicate issue" of emigration, adding
he had broad knowledge of the "fundamental causes" of the recent exodus of
Cubans for the United States, a reference to Havana's contention that the
departure of thousands of people this month has been caused by wider issues like
the American economic embargo.

The United States delegation is to be led by Deputy Assistant Secretary of State
Michael M. Skol.


NAME: Ricardo Alarcon

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 30, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Borders and Barriers -- A special report.;
Black Officers in I.N.S. Push Racial Boundaries

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG with STEPHEN ENGELBERG

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 2690 words


Kellogg Whittick was the pioneer, the first black officer to break into the
senior ranks of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a Federal agency
notorious as a bastion for good old boys. It was 1979, and Mr. Whittick got a
rude welcome as the new district director in Washington: I.N.S. employees
smeared his car with excrement.

Mr. Whittick suffered this hostility silently, hoping that he could carve a path
through what he terms the service's "blatant, invidious racism." But when he
retired in 1983, and for another decade still, not a single black followed him
into the agency's leadership. Even today, only one black holds a senior post --
Equal Employment Opportunity director -- at I.N.S. headquarters.

"The problem," said John J. Washington, 51, who is black and a senior special
agent in Los Angeles, "is that the good old boys still treat this agency like
their clubhouse. And they still don't want to let us into their club."

Fed up, 19 black agents in Los Angeles filed a formal complaint against the
immigration agency, which grew last spring into a class-action on behalf of all
black immigration officers. With about 850 officers, the complaint is the
largest racial discrimination case ever filed against the Federal Government,
and it could well prove to be the costliest. Settlement negotiations are
scheduled to begin in a few weeks.

Agency spokesmen said the issue was a sensitive and serious one for the I.N.S.
"This is not something that's going to be swept under the carpet," said Winona
H. Varnon, the Equal Employment Opportunity director since April. "We have a new
administration under Doris Meissner, the Commissioner, and she has made a
commitment to a fair system of hiring and promotion that is open and neutral.
But I have to be frank. It didn't take a year to make this situation, and it's
not going to take a year to fix it."

In-depth interviews with a dozen black officers and scores of personal histories
in the files of the class-action complaint offer a portrait of broad and deep
frustration for blacks who have tried to make a career anywhere within the
immigration agency.

As black immigration officers tell it, they are consistently denied promotions
for which they are qualified. Excluded socially from a tightly knit corps, they
end up being ignored for the special training and assignments that enhance
careers. They are disciplined, suspended and dismissed more than their white
colleagues. And when they filed Equal Employment Opportunity complaints, they
said, they suffered retaliation.

Mostly, the black officers see a subtle racism, "a racism of exclusion," in Mr.
Whittick's words. But many officers say they feel the sting of overt racism,
when their bosses refer to blacks as "niggers" and "porch monkeys," or their
colleagues make nasty jokes about deporting them to Africa.

In Arizona, one black officer said he felt shamed when his colleagues would not
let him use the employees' restroom and when they superimposed his photograph on
the genitals of the dog in a Border Patrol recruitment poster. In Chicago, a
special agent cringed when his supervisor, correcting his reports, told him that
blacks do not read and write as well as whites. In New Mexico, a special agent
from California said he felt stung when an Equal Employment Opportunity
counselor joined in some hostile teasing, shouting, "Go back to Los Angeles,
Rodney King."

More than six years ago, the I.N.S. openly acknowledged that it had a serious
problem in hiring, promoting and retaining black employees, and it announced a
far-reaching affirmative action plan. But in this instance, by the agency's own
account, the lofty pledges amounted to little.

An internal agency report concluded last year that the affirmative action
program had proved to be an "empty promise," and that the agency had willfully
ignored the problem it had set out to correct. The agency's Equal Employment
Opportunity office was impotent, the report said. And as a result, little had
changed for black employees.

In the past six years, for instance, the number of blacks in the Border Patrol,
the traditional steppingstone to advancement in the I.N.S., has grown to 44 from
28 -- amid a force of 4,000. Fifty years after the Federal Government began to
desegregate its work force, the Border Patrol remains 1 percent black.

The agency's Ms. Varnon said, however, that change was on the horizon. She said
the system for recruitment, hiring and promotion was being overhauled as part of
a new affirmative action plan, one with teeth. She also said the Equal
Employment Opportunity office's budget had been increased to $3.1 million from
$2.1 million for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, a sign, she added, that
discrimination complaints were being taken more seriously.

"We have to fix the system so that whoever's Commissioner, it's fair and
color-blind," Ms. Varnon said.

But many black officers -- who make up 5 percent of the officer corps -- are
skeptical about such good intentions, as is Representative John Conyers Jr.,
Democrat of Michigan. As chairman of the House Government Operations Committee,
Mr. Conyers has been prodding the I.N.S. since 1993 about its failure to promote
blacks.

"There seems to be no urgency on the part of Ms. Meissner to either acknowledge
the problem or do something about it," Mr. Conyers said. "We don't get any
feeling that we're in the last part of the 20th century, and that most of these
kinds of issues have already been resolved in the public sector."

Earlier this year, as the case loomed over the agency, Ms. Meissner promoted
three blacks into management posts in Newark, Detroit and Bangkok. Mr.
Washington, a spokesman for the black officers, called these "banana
promotions." He said they changed little in what the complaint described as a
Federal agency that operates in a time warp, somehow safe from scrutiny, like a
small-town sheriff's department where favoritism, nepotism and racism reign.

The Complaint
Passed Over, But Not Running

Special Agent Norris Edward Potter 3d wore sunglasses on a cloudy day and his
face betrayed little emotion, but he seethed with anger in a recent interview in
Los Angeles.

In 1991, after just three years with the immigration agency, Mr. Potter had
decided to resign. Despite mostly outstanding evaluations, he had been turned
down for 10 promotions in four years and he could see no way to beat a system
that did not really want him to succeed, he said.

When he told his wife, she urged him to stay and fight. "She said, 'What about
your son?' " he related. " 'If you run away from this, what's going to happen
when your son decides to become a special agent?' "

The class-action complaint sprung from that conversation. But as a former
military man, trained to say "Yes, sir," Mr. Potter said he was uncomfortable
with the insubordination inherent in complaining.

"This is embarrassing," he said. "Do you think I want to see Norris Potter v.
Janet Reno on a piece of paper? I'm a soldier, man."

Mr. Potter had spent a decade in the military police before he noticed the
Border Patrol recruitment posters, "those guys all spiffy in their green
uniforms and Smokey the Bear hats."

The only black in his class at the Border Patrol Academy, he said he quickly
sensed a racial hostility that he had never felt in the Army. "One white
administrator straight out told me, 'It's none of my doing, but here's the real
world: Blacks aren't welcome,' " he said. It was 1987.

After Mr. Potter graduated from the academy, he joined the Border Patrol in
Laredo, Tex., and passed his first of two follow-up reviews. Generally,
supervisors administer the follow-up reviews, which are oral tests, and the new
officers pass or fail based on subjective judgment.

For his final exam, Mr. Potter said he came before a panel of "old white guys
with Southern drawls."

"When they saw me, they did a double take," he said. "And then one of them said:
'We want to get one thing straight here. We're all green in here today.' " He
was referring to the color of their uniforms.

Mr. Potter failed. He was kicked out of the Border Patrol. But his academy
training helped him land a job as an I.N.S. criminal investigator in Los
Angeles. In that office, he developed an expertise in ferreting out employers
who hired illegal aliens. That expertise never translated into a promotion, even
though he said he was officially certified for better jobs many times.

Mr. Potter believed that the problem was larger than just his frustration, that
the discrimination was built into the system. So he filed a discrimination
complaint on behalf of 19 black agents in Los Angeles.

And then, as they tell it, their real troubles began. They were more isolated
than ever; their white supervisors would not even say, "Good morning," they
said.

Mr. Potter believes that he was kicked off an elite task force as a direct
result of the complaint, threatened with bad performance ratings and disciplined
for minor infractions that would normally be overlooked.

His wife, who is white, received several anonymous letters signed, "Management,"
which attacked her husband's character, accused him of infidelities and stated
that he was a threat to her and the children.

Special agents carry high-powered weapons, and that made many in the Los Angeles
office nervous when relations between the black and white agents deteriorated.

"Unbeknownst to white management, they had a bloody, dangerous situation on
their hands," Mr. Washington said.

Michael J. Creppy, now the Chief Immigration Judge, said he recognized this
volatility when he visited the office as part of a task force.

"You had these African-American officers believing that they were being
followed, that their families were being followed," Mr. Creppy said in a recent
deposition. "You get into an argument down there where you have these weapons
around, and you got this real tension within the office, and you have a real
explosive situation."

The Pioneers


Crossing Barriers, Going Nowhere

In the 1950's, a few pioneering blacks broke the color bar at the immigration
service. Eager for a place on the civil service ladder, they took low-paying
jobs as clerks, usually in big-city offices.

They did not advance. Reginald D. Ricks, a clerk at Ellis Island in the early
1950's, said he had to appeal to the head of the Democratic Party in New York to
get even a chance at promotion. And when he finally appeared before a promotion
panel, he said, they laughed in his face and denied him the job. As a result, he
earned the insulting moniker, "Officer Ricks."

In 1965, after filing a complaint, Mr. Ricks finally got accepted into the
officer corps, but his bosses refused to send him to the training academy.
"Their excuse was that they were fearful I would not physically survive," said
Mr. Ricks, now 67, who retired early after almost 38 years with the agency. "It
would be hazardous to my health for the reason that I might disappear."

In 1969, Mr. Whittick, who was born in the Panama Canal Zone and fluent in
Spanish, became the first black in the agency's Southwest regional office in Los
Angeles. But the other investigators, he said, did not want to share their
office with him, so he was assigned to a storage closet, which he decorated.
Later, he could not find partners to accompany him into low-income
neighborhoods, so he worked alone, waving at empty cars to give the impression
that he had back-up.

In 1975, Carey James became one of the first blacks to graduate from the Border
Patrol Academy. He spent three years learning the ropes in Douglas, Ariz., then
transferred into another I.N.S. division for what he thought would be a brief,
educational sojourn. After about a year, he made several unsuccessful efforts to
return to the Border Patrol.

He then filed a complaint with the agency's Equal Opportunity Office. Such
actions are supposed to be confidential, but Mr. James, a bearish man with a
gentle demeanor, said it soon became clear that word had leaked out to all of
the Border Patrol's managers.

Over three years, he applied for 151 positions, some at pay grades lower than
what he had already attained. He was turned down even for hardship posts that
others were begging to leave, in places like Blythe, Calif., and Tacna, Ariz.

Finally, Mr. James dropped his discrimination complaint, and only then was he
permitted to rejoin the Border Patrol. A senior agent later told him what he
already knew -- that his formal complaint had put a cloud over his career.

"When I look at people that started out with me, I won't point the finger and
say there's discrimination, but why?" said Mr. James, now an assistant patrol
chief. "They didn't have to put in for 150 positions. Why did I have to? Why did
I have to reflect and ask: Is it me? Is it the system? I had the American Dream
like anyone else: work hard, advance, go forward."

The System


Impartial Process, Partial Choices

More than 2,000 blacks work for the I.N.S., about 12 percent of the agency's
19,000 employees. A large majority type, file and answer phones as members of
the low-paid clerical and support staff.

Blacks hold 5 percent of the positions in the officer corps, which is where
careers in the agency begin. They fill 3.6 percent of the supervisors' slots,
and less than 1 percent of the posts in senior management.

There are no blacks on the senior executive level, three among the 66 district
directors and deputy district directors, and one among the 42 patrol chiefs and
deputy patrol chiefs.

Ms. Meissner, the Commissioner, said last summer that the agency was hampered by
the fact that most entry-level officer jobs lay in the Border Patrol. And, she
said, it is difficult to find blacks willing to work in Southwestern border
towns that have few blacks.

But her Equal Employment Opportunity director said, "I don't share that theory."
Ms. Varnon has planned a recruitment effort for blacks and other minorities at
schools, churches and employment offices in 102 small cities across the country.
Congress has given the agency enough money to hire 700 new Border Patrol agents,
and Ms. Varnon sees this as an opportunity to increase minority representation.

Now, black officers tend be hired into the jobs with the lowest possibilities of
advancement, like the detention division, which seems to make them, as one put
it, "the immigration service's jailers."

And once they become officers, blacks seldom advance into management. "Blacks
can't even get into first-line supervisor positions," said David Ross, their
lawyer.  "There's not a glass ceiling, there's a barbed-wire roadblock."

The I.N.S. has an elaborate system to insure the impartial handling of
promotions to manager, which includes panels of experts who rank applicants
numerically. But it is not as impartial as it appears on paper because the final
choice is always left to the hiring supervisor. And therein lies the rub, the
black officers say: The white bosses often pick their buddies.

Ms. Varnon agrees that the promotion system is one in which managers never have
to account for their choices. It has bred contempt, she said, among I.N.S.
employees. "When people start getting promoted who look alike, the natural
assumption is racism," she said.

Many black officers said that they also felt excluded socially and
professionally by managers who then turned around and blamed them for not being
team players.

Archie L. Graham, a 51-year-old investigator, worked alone for a long time
because he did not feel comfortable laughing at his colleagues' dirty jokes or
participating in their "hanky-pankies."

In the Philadelphia office in the 1980's, Mr. Graham said he felt particularly
uneasy with two agents called "the African killers" because they singled out
black immigrants from Nigeria and Sierra Leone.

"They went out specially for them, and they'd tear up their papers and throw
them away," he said. "I didn't go along with it. I'd say, 'That's not right.'
They'd say: 'You don't like it, go back where you came from. Go back to Africa.
We'll deport you.' "


NAME: Kellogg Whittick

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kellogg Whittick, the first black officer to reach the senior
ranks of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said he encountered
"blatant, invidious racism." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. 26)

Graph: "SNAPSHOT: Lacking Diversity at The I.N.S." shows number of blacks as a
portion of various groups of employees at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. (Source: I.N.S.) (pg. 26)

TYPE: Biography; Special Report

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 23, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

The Body as Evidence;
Refugees' Wounds Bear Witness to Torture, Supporting Claims for Political Asylum

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1363 words


Granville Desousa has an unremarkable scar on his finger, old cuts on his knees,
lesions on his limbs and chronic stomach problems.

The man's body, his doctor says, is evidence. It supports Mr. Desousa's claim
that he was tortured in an underground military jail in Togo, where he says his
captors sliced him with a knife, forced him to kneel for hours on gravel, sleep
in unsanitary bedding that caused a skin disease, and drink water so dirty he
had to filter it through a handkerchief.

"The body is witness to what happened, and often it's the only physical witness
there is in such a case," said Dr. Douglas Shenson, an internist at Montefiore
Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, who opened the Human
Rights Clinic about a year ago.

Was It Torture?

At the clinic, housed in several examining rooms at North Central Bronx
Hospital, Dr. Shenson and residents from adjoining Montefiore not only offer
medical treatment to refugees seeking political asylum but also evaluate their
injuries to see whether they correspond to their descriptions of torture. The
doctors document their findings in affidavits used in Immigration and
Naturalization Service hearings on petitions for political asylum.

There are less than a dozen such clinics in the world, and Dr. Shenson's, in the
Norwood section of the Bronx, is New York's first, human rights advocates say.

Though no one knows whether Dr. Shenson's medical reports have been a deciding
factor in any petition for political asylum, lawyers for several refugees he has
examined credit him with helping them win their cases.

"He helped to save a life, because his work was essential to winning the case,"
said Armen H. Mergian, a lawyer for Waleed Ali, an Iraqi Kurd born and raised in
Kuwait who said he was arrested during the Iraqi invasion and tortured by Iraqis
who doused his feet with gasoline and set them on fire. After the war, he said,
he was ejected from Kuwait because of his Iraqi heritage.

Mr. Ali was granted asylum in April, several weeks after he was examined by Dr.
Shenson.

A co-founder of Doctors of the World, an American humanitarian group associated
with the French organization Medecins du Monde, Dr. Shenson, 38, said he started
the free clinic last spring because there was nowhere for victims of torture to
go for medical care or documentation in New York City.

North Central Bronx Hospital agreed to donate space and supplies, and Dr.
Shenson gets help from a rotating group of Montefiore residents, whom he trains
in the evaluation and treatment of torture victims. They treated 35 patients in
the clinic's first year, many on a continuing basis, and Dr. Shenson says that
lately he has been getting new calls every couple of days.

Stephanie Marks, coordinator of the asylum program for the New York-based
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, said that before the clinic opened it had
been difficult to find doctors with the expertise to examine torture victims.
Previously, she said, most human rights organizations in New York had to rely on
a group of New Jersey doctors who have experience treating torture victims.

Clinics specializing in torture cases have been set up in Minneapolis, Boston
and Chicago, where there are large immigrant populations and doctors with a
special interest in treating them.

"New York has been in desperate need of a program like this," Ms. Marks said.
"We see torture victims on a regular basis."

Refugees From 17 Countries

Down the hall from the examining room where Dr. Shenson prescribed medicine for
Mr. Desousa's stomach ailment on a recent morning, two refugees from Sudan and
Burma were waiting to be evaluated. In all, Dr. Shenson has treated refugees
from 17 countries, including Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Haiti, India
and Iraq. Most were referred by Amnesty International, Catholic Charities, the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and other human rights organizations.

Occasionally, Dr. Shenson said, the stories and the scars do not match, as in
the case of one man with marks too symmetrical to have been inflicted in the
whipping he described.

But most of those he sees, the clinic director said, have been tortured: set on
fire, suspended by ropes, crushed by heavy bars rolled over their thighs, or
beaten on the soles of their feet in a form of torture known as falanga.

Account of Prison and Escape

Mr. Desousa, 30, a photojournalist in Africa, was first seen by Dr. Shenson in
April and granted asylum last month.

In May 1992, Mr. Desousa said, he was traveling with opposition leaders to a
political convention he had intended to cover when soldiers ambushed the group.
He was unharmed, he said, but was arrested later that month after photographs of
the attack, in which four people died, were discovered in his car at a police
checkpoint.

Mr. Desousa said he managed to escape after 14 months in jail when an
intoxicated guard led him outside the prison walls to empty the toilets. He
found refuge with a farmer who hid him for two months and was smuggled out of
the country on a truckload of yams.

In December, on arriving in the United States, he applied for political asylum
and was held at an immigration service detention center at Kennedy International
Airport while his case was pending.

Dr. Shenson regularly visits the detention center, as well as another
immigration service detention center on Varick Street in lower Manhattan, where
he recently visited a Chinese refugee.

Survivor of Golden Venture

The refugee, who wanted to be identified only as Mr. Liu, has been in the Varick
Street center since June 6, 1993, when he swam ashore from the Golden Venture,
the smugglers' steamer that was grounded off Queens. Ten people died fleeing the
ship. Through an interpreter, he spoke on the condition that his full name not
be used because he feared for the safety of his family in China, where he said
he was tortured because he and his wife had a second child in violation of
Chinese population control policy.

He said he was arrested, beaten until he passed out, and forcibly given a
vasectomy without anesthesia. Then doctors who performed the operation charged
him the equivalent of $2.25 to clean the wound, he said, adding that he was also
stabbed with a fountain pen and scalded with boiling water when he refused to
sign a confession.

Mr. Liu, 38, a rice farmer in Fujian Province, said he escaped jail with the
help of a childhood friend who was a guard there, and hid until his family could
borrow enough money to pay smugglers $5,200 for his passage. After he left, he
said, his father and his older brother were jailed in connection with his
escape, and both died shortly after their release.

"I'm sure they were beaten, and I am so sad when I think about my family," he
said. "My wife not only has to worry about me but about the police and the loan
sharks as well."

Dr. Shenson, who brought in a urologist, said a medical examination supported
Mr. Liu's story.

Psychiatric Evaluation

In other cases, because years have elapsed since the injuries were inflicted,
the evidence of torture can be documented only with a psychiatric examination.

A 36-year-old Newark woman, who wanted to be identified only as Jackie because
she feared reprisals against her relatives in Liberia, is also still waiting for
a decision on her petition. She said she was repeatedly harassed and assaulted
because of her relationship with a Government official who rebelled against the
military dictatorship of President Samuel K. Doe. Mr. Doe was slain in 1990.

Between 1985 and 1989, she said, she was arrested six times. She said she was
forced at gunpoint to strip and stand naked and perfectly still for two hours in
front of a crowd, and raped by four men in uniform who went to her home late one
night.

A doctor at the Human Rights clinic found no physical evidence of the rape,
which she said occurred in 1985, but did cite psychological symptoms consistent
with her claim.

"The way I see it, documentation is preventive medicine," Dr. Shenson said, "to
prevent them from going back where they came from and having it happen again."

NAME: Granville Desousa

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Granville Desousa, right, who says that he was tortured in an
underground military jail in Togo, being examined by Dr. Douglas Shenson, left,
an internist at Montefiore Medical Center, who opened a human rights clinic last
year. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Rev. Joseph P. Fitzpatrick, 82, Fordham Migration Expert, Dies

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 9;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 529 words


The Rev. Joseph P. Fitzpatrick, a Fordham University professor who taught
generations of sociologists and earned renown for his studies of immigration,
died on Wednesday in the Jesuit infirmary on Fordham's Rose Hill campus in the
Bronx. He was 82.

The cause of death was cardiac arrest, according to the Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare,
the president of Fordham University.

An expert on Latin American and Puerto Rican immigration, particularly the
influx from Puerto Rico to New York City after World War II, Father Fitzpatrick
spoke out forcefully for acceptance of newcomers and for tolerance and respect.

After a study of Puerto Ricans in six Roman Catholic parishes in New York, he
reported: "I found that 25 percent of all the Puerto Rican marriages involved
people of noticeably different shades of color. It is my own hope that they will
make explicit the principles of human brotherhood, of universal respect for men
and women, that have been implicit in their culture. If they do, they will have
brought a priceless contribution to the life of the mainland."

Father Fitzpatrick stood against any who equated Puerto Ricans with welfare
recipients and Puerto Rican youngsters with juvenile delinquency. In a 1959
speech, he reminded his audience of the shared experience of America's
immigrants.

"As children of immigrants ourselves," he said, "if we reflect on the experience
of our own people, we should be best prepared not to make the mistake of judging
the Puerto Ricans in the unjust way in which our people were judged themselves."

Father O'Hare said, "He did a tremendous job explaining the new immigrants to
the old immigrants."

Father Fitzpatrick served on many boards and committees, including those of the
Puerto Rican Family Institute and the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund.

In 1978 he received the Puerto Rican Man of the Year Award during the annual San
Juan Fiesta. And he held honorary degrees from the Catholic University of Puerto
Rico, Fordham, John Jay College, Loyola University of Chicago and Manhattan
College.

Father Fitzpatrick wrote many articles and was the author or editor of eight
books, including "Puerto Rican Americans: The Meaning of Migration to the
Mainland" (Prentice-Hall) and "One Church, Many Cultures: The Challenge of
Diversity" (Sheed & Ward).

Father Fitzpatrick, who was born in Bayonne, N.J., entered the Society of Jesus
in 1930 and was ordained a priest in 1943. He held a bachelor's degree from
Woodstock College in Woodstock, Md., a master's from Fordham, a licentiate in
sacred theology from Woodstock and a doctorate in sociology from Harvard
University.

His work in the 1930's with the Catholic labor movement and the opportunities
afforded workers evolved into his interest in new immigrants. In 1949, after
directing the Xavier Institute of Industrial Relations in New York City, he
joined the faculty of Fordham, where he founded the university's independent
department of sociology and anthropology in 1959 and served as its first
chairman until 1964. He was named professor emeritus in 1983.

He is survived by three brothers, Cyril, Francis and the Rev. Vincent
Fitzpatrick.


NAME: Joseph P. Fitzpatrick

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 28, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Halting Immigration Won't Help Welfare

SECTION: Section A;  Page 32;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 279 words


To the Editor:

Your April 19 book review of Peter Brimelow's "Alien Nation" is misleading, as
is the book itself.

First, the largest number of immigrants from any one country into the United
States are Canadians.

Second, the largest pool of illegal immigrants comes not from Asia or Latin
America, but from Europe. Of all legal immigrants eligible for United States
citizenship in 1994, Canadians only became citizens at a rate of 15 percent,
while Vietnamese had a 90 percent rate and Chinese 65 percent.

This in particular calls into question Mr. Brimelow's belief that nonwhite
immigrants lack the will to adopt American values. One can only conclude that
Mr. Brimelow's bias against nonwhite immigrants is founded in his own
xenophobia.

In his comparison of recent immigration and welfare dependence with the
1890-1920's immigration movement and lack of a welfare system, Mr. Brimelow
misses the point. While the argument that welfare is at the root of America's
immigration problem is perhaps valid, the conclusion that therefore we should
halt all immigration is not. The problem is welfare, not immigration.

The halting of immigration after the "second wave" in the late 1800's came
largely from the Chinese Exclusion Acts, which barred most immigrants from Asia.
Our Government repealed those laws on Oct. 22, 1943, with good reason -- they
were wrong. Federal legislation lowered the barriers further in 1965, thus
increasing immigration to America.

What seems to concern Mr. Brimelow most is that in this "third wave" of
immigration, many (but not most) immigrants to America are nonwhite.

KEVIN M. FAULKNER
Carrollton, Tex., April 21, 1995

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 2, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Terrorism Bill Would Punish Lawful Acts

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 337 words


To the Editor:

Re "Life and Liberty" (Op-Ed, April 28): Representative Charles E. Schumer
portrays the omnibus counterterrorism bill that he has introduced as a "middle
ground" response to terrorism.

In fact, his bill would criminalize constitutionally protected First Amendment
activities of citizens and immigrants, authorize spying by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation on political groups, and allow deportations based on secret
evidence.

Mr. Schumer defends the use of secret evidence against immigrants by arguing
that aliens "do not -- and should not -- have the same constitutional rights as
citizens." The Supreme Court has stated that the due-process clause does not
"acknowledge any distinctions between citizens and resident aliens."

Every time the Immigration and Naturalization Service has tried to use secret
evidence against immigrants living here, the courts ruled it violated due
process. As Justice Felix Frankfurter once said, "Secrecy is not congenial to
truth-seeking."

Another, even more troubling provision of the bill not mentioned by Mr. Schumer
would give the President unfettered authority to blacklist any organization in
the world as "terrorist," and would make it a crime, punishable by 10 years in
prison and a $50,000 fine, for anyone -- citizen or immigrant -- to support the
lawful acts of that group.

This is guilt by association, and violates the First Amendment, which the
Supreme Court has interpreted to guarantee the right to support the lawful
activities of a group that engages in lawful and unlawful acts.

If this provision passes, the F.B.I. will be authorized to investigate political
solidarity groups on suspicion that they are providing humanitarian aid to
organizations the President disfavors. And citizens will face jail terms for
doing nothing more than sending medical supplies to a hospital. If this is
"middle ground," I shudder to see what the extremists are offering.

DAVID COLE
Prof., Georgetown U. Law Center
Washington, April 28, 1995

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
20 Criminals Face Deportation

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 71 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


In a weeklong sweep that ended yesterday, the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service picked up 20 people convicted of committing serious
crimes in New Jersey. Because they were found guilty of drug-related felonies or
violent crimes, the aliens will appear before an immigration judge, who will
determine whether they will be deported.

Seven of the 20 have been living in the United States illegally.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

New Equity on Cuban Refugees

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 369 words


The Clinton Administration struck the right humanitarian balance yesterday when
it announced that most of the remaining Cubans at Guantanamo Bay Naval Station
would be allowed to enter the United States. By doing this, and by declaring
that nearly all Cubans who flee to the United States in the future will be
returned home, the White House has taken a significant step toward a more
sensible relationship with the Castro regime. It marks the end of the double
standard under which Cuban immigrants were given preferential treatment over
others who tried to reach American shores.

From now on, Cubans who try to enter the United States illegally will be treated
like any other illegal immigrants. They will be returned home if they fail to
qualify for political asylum. They will be allowed to apply in Havana for
refugee status and eventual immigration. State Department officials say they are
satisfied that those returned will not suffer discrimination. American consular
officials will be allowed to monitor their treatment.

It was clearly in the Administration's interest to move the Cubans. Violent
incidents had broken out and the Pentagon was spending $1 million a day to
maintain the Guantanamo camp.

State Department officials estimate that around 15,000 more Cubans now housed at
Guantanamo will be eligible to enter the United States. Some with criminal
histories or other undesirable characteristics will be excluded. Those entering
from Guantanamo will be folded into the quota of 20,000 per year agreed upon
last summer. The 15,000 more allowed in from Guantanamo will be counted toward a
three-year total of 60,000, so as not to swamp those who are applying from
inside Cuba. Applications will also be processed separately so that the
Guantanamo group will not push back the applications from inside Cuba.

If Cuban cooperation continues and the new arrangement proves successful, the
White House should look for other ways to move toward more normal relations. The
Administration also needs to redouble its efforts to place the Haitian children
who remain at Guantanamo. Once that is accomplished, an era of imbalance in the
treatment of Caribbean refugees can finally be closed.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 4, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A First Step on Cuba?;
Americans Say the Accord on Immigration Might Be Followed by Other Agreements

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A;   Page 8;   Column 1;   Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3


The Clinton Administration's new policy on Cuban immigration, the product of the
highest level of American-Cuban cooperation in more than a decade, could signal
a new level of engagement between the two countries.

Moreover, the new immigration policy -- made possible by an agreement secretly
negotiated by senior diplomats from the two countries and announced on Tuesday
-- could be followed by engagement on other areas of mutual interest, like the
fight against narcotics or environmental problems, American officials said.

At the least, the Administration's decision to admit the 21,000 Cubans being
held at Guantanamo Bay Naval Station and to send future "boat people" back to
Cuba is expected to have immediate major benefits for both Governments.

For the Clinton Administration, the new policy will head off rioting at the base
and prevent a surge of boat people like the one last summer, American officials
say. For Fidel Castro, it will spare him the embarrassment over the boat people,
who have scared off European and Latin investors and tourists. The Cuban leader
is also happy to see Guantanamo emptied of 21,000 Cubans, these officials said,
because the presence of thousands of angry anti-Castro refugees there was viewed
as a security threat.

The new immigration policy may also indicate a new pragmatic approach to Cuba in
which Washington will sometimes be willing to offend Cuban-American groups --
which condemned the decision to repatriate future boat people -- when it is
convinced it is pursuing the wisest policy.

Administration officials say they have not written off the Cuban-Americans or
Florida's 25 electoral votes in the 1996 Presidental election. Rather, they
insist, they were selecting the policy with the best chance of keeping the
immigration situation from exploding this summer.

To handle this delicate subject, the Administration secretly sent Under
Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff, the third-ranking official in the State
Department, to talks with Ricardo Alarcon, the chairman of Cuba's National
Assembly. It was the highest-level meeting of American and Cuban officials since
United States diplomats maneuvered to stop the Mariel boatlift from Cuba in
1980.

Cuban-American groups said they were outraged that the Administration did not
consult with them. They also expressed alarm that the cooperation exhibited in
sealing the accord could portend a full normalization of relations with Cuba.

Senior Administration officials deny that the immigration agreement is the first
step toward normalizing relations. "It's nothing more than one of several
agreements we've reached with Cuba on immigration," said a White House official.

The policy could also pave the way for the Administration to roll back some of
the sanctions imposed on Cuba last August to punish Mr. Castro for not cutting
off the flow of boat people last summer.

The steps under consideration, Administration officials said, include making it
easier for scientists, artists and academics to travel between the two countries
and relaxing restrictions that prevent many Cuban-Americans from visiting
relatives in Cuba. Senior Administration officials insisted these steps would
not weaken the three-decade-old trade embargo against Cuba and are not intended
to reward Havana.

"We want to take steps that we believe will lead to the evolution to democracy
in Cuba," a senior Administration official said.

But some Republicans in Congress scoffed at the notion that the measures will
cause Mr. Castro to take substantial steps toward democracy. Others held
strategy sessions today to devise ways of countering the new policy. One
proposal would forbid the Defense Department from using money to repatriate
political refugees from Communist countries. Also under consideration is a
proposal to accelerate approval of legislation to tighten sanctions on Cuba.

"Senator Helms thinks it's very important that Congress reassert that its policy
is to isolate Castro and not cooperate with him," said Mark Thiessen, a
spokesman for Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who is chairman
of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

The Administration argues that any further opening to increase the flow of ideas
to Cuba is nothing more than carrying out the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992, which
Bill Clinton endorsed as a presidential candidate. The act tightened the
economic embargo but also outlined steps to increase telecommunications ties and
the flow of ideas between the two countries.

Representative Robert Torricelli, the New Jersey Democrat who sponsored the act,
said increasing ties between Cubans and Americans is a certain way to undermine
Mr. Castro. "The opening up of telecommunications provided probably greater
problems for Castro than economic pressure," he said. "It doesn't help Castro to
have Cubans-Americans talking at night to relatives in Cuba about their quality
of life and plans for the future."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Europe's Muslim Population: Frustrated, Poor and Divided

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2218 words

DATELINE: MARSEILLES, France


In the streets rising from Marseilles's old port, couscous is easier to find
than croissants. Cockney neighborhoods in London are now bazaars for Muslims
from Bangladesh. Muezzins call Turks to prayer from new minarets in Cologne.

With 10 million to 13 million Muslims living in Western Europe, conservative and
far-right politicians, including some voices in the French presidential
campaign, have appealed to prejudice against the Muslim presence.

"France must firmly oppose clandestine immigration," Jacques Chirac, the
conservative French presidential candidate, said recently. "Too often the laws
of the republic are openly flouted."

Americans would find many of the European slogans familiar: Legal and illegal
immigrants are taking your jobs, ruining the neighborhood, hurting the schools,
increasing your taxes, swelling the welfare rolls, making the streets unsafe.
And some politicians play on Europeans' fears of terrorism rising from the
Muslims in their midst.

But five weeks of interviews in France, Germany, Britain and the Netherlands,
where the largest concentrations of Muslims from Asia, Turkey and North Africa
live, reveal a far more complex portrait.

Scores of interviews with Muslim immigrants who came to Western Europe to work
in the 1960's, and with their children who were raised in Europe, depict a
population that is divided and traumatized, weakened by unemployment and
humiliated by dependence on social welfare.

The interviews described a Muslim population stymied by cultural values it does
not share, having done little to integrate over the years. Many in the older
generation, now largely retired or unemployed, appear disconnected from the
societies they live in. Rather, they are trying to reconnect with the one they
left behind, watching television programs broadcast by satellite from their
native lands.

Adding to the cultural dissonance, their sons and daughters are no longer
connected to Muslim tradition, many seeking to adopt the views and values of
European society. In fact, most Muslims in Europe are not political or even
particularly religious -- a silent majority who want simply to carry out their
lives as best they can.

Still, the anxiety about Muslims has been raised to the level of geopolitics.
This year the Secretary General of NATO, Willy Claes of Belgium, pronounced
militant Islam as important a strategic threat today as the Soviet Union was
before Communism imploded in 1989.

"At the moment, I'd say the fantasy part of the perception of militant Islam as
a menace in Europe is greater than the reality," said Francois Burgat, an expert
on militant Islam at the National Center for Scientific Research at
Aix-en-Provence, France.

The fears, however exaggerated, have been fed by the arrest in Europe of scores
of Muslim militants, mostly from North Africa, on charges of stockpiling weapons
and explosives for use back home.

Islam's recent and highly visible presence in Europe has run into resistance,
analysts say, for many reasons: bigotry, the religious zeal of some Muslim
immigrants, the inability of some new arrivals to adapt to a dominant European
culture, the alienation that is common among Muslim youths.


Divided
Opposing Values Generate Tensions

In Heerlen, a Dutch town of 35,000 near the German border, Sheik Ahmed Ali
Saroukh fidgeted with a cup of tea in a grimy factory that was transformed seven
years ago into Masjid Al Nour, the Mosque of Light, as he pondered how to turn
the town into a center of Islam.

The preacher, who came to Herleen about five years ago from Morocco, wants to
put up a minaret on the building, topped by a loudspeaker to broadcast the call
to prayer five times a day, starting at dawn.

He advocates that Dutch women who are teachers in Heerlen wear a veil in schools
when teaching Muslim children and that boys be segregated from girls. He also
wants the local hospital to build a mosque for the handful of Muslim patients
who end up there and serve them meat prepared under Islamic regulations. There
are about 750,000 Muslims in the Netherlands, out of a total population of 15
million.

"The fact that they allow us to have mosques does not mean they love us," Sheik
Saroukh said, stroking his graying beard. "On the contrary, they fear us. The
proof is they are fighting us every step of the way as we try to claim our
rights. They have different values from us. The Dutch man and his wife work.
They raise dogs, not children. We want our women to raise children and stay
protected at home."

While Sheik Saroukh attributed the failure to achieve his goals to Dutch
discrimination, his principal obstacle is Heerlen's deeply divided population of
2,500 Muslims from Morocco, Turkey and some Arab countries, many poorly educated
and unemployed, heavily dependent on the generous Dutch welfare system.

The sheik's mosque attracts a minority of older-generation Moroccans. But
whether it is a small Muslim community in nearby Aachen, Germany, or a large one
like the estimated 150,000 largely North African Muslims in Marseilles, France,
religious militancy has widened the generational divide.

Mohammad el-Jashi, 32, a Moroccan mechanic technician who lives in Venlo, the
Netherlands, wants to become part of Dutch society.

"Sometimes militants here ask for ridiculous things, like segregated schooling,"
he said. "We didn't have that in Morocco. I went to a mixed school until I left
at 15 to join my father. My heart remains in Morocco, but my head says we stay
here where my family is better off."

And in Heerlen, a breakaway group of Muslims established their own mosque in
space lent by a liberal Christian missionary center a few blocks away on
Putgraaf Street. There, a 32-year-old Palestinian named Khalil Shahine was
contemptuous of Sheik Saroukh.

"Before conquering Europe for Islam, which is a hope, we should concentrate on
building up our weak, illiterate societies, our people, with education and
knowledge," Mr. Shahine said.

Mostapha Dalouj, 36, a physicist by training who accepted a job as social worker
in Venlo after learning Dutch but failing to land a job in his area of
expertise, said that repeated rejection was pushing him to avoid assimilation
into Dutch ways.

"I came by choice from Morocco, equipped with a fair idea of Western societies,"
he said. "But until now I can't understand what they mean by integration. I want
to be a Muslim living in Holland. But that does not mean I want to melt
completely in this society and disappear, which is what the Dutch want. When I
say that I speak to my children in Arabic, they answer: you are a racist. I am
just trying to teach them some of the tradition."

Amizian El Hussein, 51, an unskilled Moroccan laborer, came to the Netherlands
three decades ago. "I don't know if we changed or the Dutch have changed," he
said.  "When I came here I didn't think much of religion. Like most who came
here, I was illiterate, but the living was good and there was no friction. They
treated us well, and we behaved better than the young generation now.

"I now find myself praying regularly," he added. "My children have had problems
in school. Some have dropped out. So now, when I look back, I can't blame it on
the Dutch really, but it is true they have become resentful of foreigners and we
are not doing as well as we used to."

Integrated
A Job Can Make All the Difference

Leila Yehiawi, 36, a sociologist in Marseilles, is a daughter of an illiterate
Algerian father who is now retired from working as a laborer. She is part of the
second generation that has emerged as the heart of Europe's Muslim communities.

Unlike many of her generation, she is highly educated and successful. Fluent in
French, which she speaks with a native Marseilles accent, Ms. Yehiawi considers
herself well integrated but deeply committed to the North African immigrants who
did not make the transition into French society.

She works as a teacher and counselor at Lycee Jacques Raynaud, a vocational
training school whose 250 students are largely Muslims who dropped out of other
schools.

"My students accuse me of being a traitor because the image I reflect is one of
success in an atmosphere of failure," she said. "Many of these kids come from
homes where both parents are unemployed. They are lost as second-class citizens
to whom France is inaccessible. Some adopt Islam as an exhibitionist factor to
signal discontent, but, in reality, they are yearning to be equal citizens.
Their problem is idleness and deprivation."

But of her own eight brothers and sisters, only two have jobs. "This high rate
of unemployment is new, and it is the problem facing our communities -- not
Islam, not militancy and not what is happening in Algeria," she said. "Work is
the backbone of integration. The lack of it leaves a fertile ground for
exploitation by fundamentalists."

Salah-Eddine Bariki, a 43-year-old Algerian who works at Radio Gazelle, a local
station broadcasting ethnic programs in Marseilles for minorities, said it was
absurd that Muslim communities could be the bedrock of an Islamic revolt.

There are an estimated 150,000 Muslims in Marseilles, with 43 places of worship.
But a recent survey of foreigners living in France by the National Institute of
Demographic Studies, which polled 13,000 people over eight months, found that 68
percent of those from Algeria considered themselves to have no religion.

Only 10 percent said they practiced Islam regularly, and 22 percent
occasionally. Half of the men and a quarter of the women between 18 and 25 said
they were involved in a relationship with a French-born person, and 87 percent
of those born to Algerian parents considered French their mother tongue.

The problem, Mr. Bariki said, is not Islamic militancy but unemployment, in a
country where more than 12 percent of all workers are jobless, with far more
than that unemployed among the immigrants.

Hans Korz, a 58-year-old Dutch coordinator of welfare and rehabilitation
consultant for the government in Venlo, said the same was true in the
Netherlands, where unemployment is about 8 percent.

"Among immigrant youths, largely Turks and Moroccans, it is 60 percent for those
between 17 and 25," he said. "The problem is not social, cultural or
ideological. It is economic in the first place."

Many Moroccan immigrants, however, say that part of the problem lies in the
resistance of Dutch society to foreigners who want to become part of it.

Feared
A Few Militants Fuel Suspicions

Despite lack of evidence that militants have made significant inroads, some
officials believe that Europe is in danger of being taken over by a wave of
fundamentalism.

Patrick Lalande, a Paris prosecutor who specializes in terrorist affairs, said
such thinking dominates French and other European government circles. Indeed,
over the last year France, Germany and Belgium have arrested or expelled close
to 200 Islamic militants on charges of subversion and arms trafficking.

The most important activity by such militants is logistical support -- buying
weapons or sending faxes on behalf of armed groups in Algeria and
fundamentalists battling the Governments of Tunisia, Egypt, Jordan and countries
in the Persian Gulf region.

Members of one such group, the Algerian Fraternity in France, which included
Moroccans, Algerians, Tunisians and one Egyptian fundamentalist, were arrested
in France in July. Some members were found near the French-Spanish border loaded
with arms and military uniforms on their way to Algeria. But most of those
expelled were thrown out for nonmilitary activities like fundamentalist
propaganda.

"We are facing a sort of Islamist international assault made up of networks of
militants with connections to fundamentalist countries including the Sudan,
Afghanistan and Iran," Mr. Lalande said. He said the militants' focus was not
France or Europe, adding, "I think their main objective is to take over North
Africa."

One way in which France has tried to cope with its estimated five million
Muslims, the largest population in Europe, is to encourage what it calls "French
Islam" -- promoting, through progressive Muslim preachers born in France, a
modern, secular outlook for the religion.

It is still a modest effort, and far from successful. The French-appointed imam
of the mosque of Paris, Dalil Boubaker, often says there is no contradiction
between Islam and living in a secular society.

This approach has yet to prove convincing to orthodox believers. On the other
hand, Muslim militants have yet to prove they can attract a significant
following.

Sheik Mohammad Abelhadi Doudi is a staunch supporter of the Islamic Salvation
Front, which is battling to establish an Islamic state in Algeria, and
administers a mosque in Marseilles. He says that after more than a decade of
trying, his militant version of Islam is simply not enough to win adherents who
are unemployed, speak French and are exposed to "temptations" of Western life.

"If I give a young man a Koranic verse, does it solve his problems?" he said.
"No. I have been doing this for 14 years, but it's like sowing the sea. Even if
there are fruits, they are small and bitter. Islam cannot breathe freely in the
West."

NEXT: Western Europeans react to Muslims in their midst.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Wary Strangers -- First of two articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: France has promoted a new version of Islam among its five
million Muslims, the largest Muslim population in Europe. This mosque is one of
the 43 in which many of the 150,000 Muslims in Marseilles worship; A Muslim
student works in the metal shop at Lycee Jacques Raynaud, a vocational school
with 250 Muslims in Marseilles. "Work is the backbone of integration," said
Leila Yehiawi, who teaches there. (Photographs by Gary Matoso for The New York
Times) (pg. A12)
; Chart/Map: "WHERE THEY ARE: Main Muslim Enclaves"

FRANCE -- 5 MILLION

An estimated 5 million Muslims, mostly from North Africa, out of a total
population of 57 million, mainly concentrated in Paris, Lyons and Marseilles.

GERMANY -- 2 MILLION

About 1.9 million Turks and Kurds, the great majority of them Muslim, and about
250,000 Bosnian refugees, out of a total population of 80 million. Mainly
concentrated in Berlin, Cologne, Frankfurt, Hamburg and munich.

BRITAIN -- 1 MILLION

About 1 million Muslims, 775,000 of them from India, Pakistan or Bangladesh,
mainly in London, Birmingham and Bradford, out of total population of 58
million. There are also communities of Egyptions, Iraquis, Moroccans,
Palestinians and Yemenis in London. (pg. A12)


TYPE: Series  ; GREAT BRITAIN;

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 6, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Cubans Found at Sea May Test New U.S. Policy

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 5


A group of 13 Cubans picked up at sea this week is becoming the first test of
the Clinton Administration's stern new policy intended to halt the flight of
refugees from Cuba in rafts.

In announcing the new policy on Tuesday, Attorney General Janet Reno said that
Cubans intercepted at sea will be taken to Cuba, where United States consular
officials will help them apply to immigrate through proper channels. "Cubans
must know that the only way to come to the United States is by applying in
Cuba," she said.

But if the 13 Cuban men found by a cruise ship this week claim they face
immediate persecution in Cuba, their cases may illuminate Ms. Reno's assurance
that "persons who claim a genuine need for protection which they believe cannot
be satisfied by applying at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana will be
examined before return."

Although the new policy was meant to stave off an influx of Cuban refugees, a
Justice Department spokeswoman, Ana Cobian, said today that "if prior to going
to Havana they express a fear of persecution," the Cubans will be interviewed by
Immigration and Naturalization Service agents aboard a Coast Guard ship.

"If they find that there is an appropriate fear, then the person will not be
returned to Havana," she said.

All Cuban rafters would have the opportunity to avoid repatriation, but the
Government expects that few will come forward, and that the promise of political
asylum will not create an exodus from Cuba, an immigration official said.

The official said that to determine which Cubans should not be returned to
Havana, the Immigration Service will use its normal standards for political
asylum, which include fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality
or membership in a particular social group.

The cruise ship Majesty of the Seas encountered the 13 men adrift late Wednesday
night south of Cuba, said Jill Oren of Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 6, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Europeans Struggle to Balance Old Ways With New Muslim Immigrants

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2201 words

DATELINE: PARIS, May 5


Michel Gourdin, a French baker in the northern Paris suburb of
Garges-les-Gonesse, remembers the day a year ago when gangs of unemployed North
African Muslim youths wrecked his shop in a riot.

One gang member, he said, had been killed by a rival Asian group, and the North
Africans, believing that the French police had let the suspected killer go,
attacked the local precinct house and then all the French-owned businesses in
the neighborhood.

"What I don't understand," Mr. Gourdin said, "is that some of them are involved
in hard-core gang robberies and drugs. The police know who they are, but they
don't do anything. I think they are afraid of provoking an even bigger explosion
here if they do."

Garges is a working-class town of 45,000 people with housing projects built for
refugees from France's colonial wars in North Africa. Today it has been
transformed, like other cities throughout Europe, by Muslim immigrant families
who suffer from the same problems of unemployment, high crime and bewildering
social change that affect the Europeans who also live there.

Europe's effort to integrate its minority of 10 million to 13 million Muslims is
in crisis. The crisis is more than a profound cultural conflict. It is one with
grave echoes of racism, fundamentalism and fears of terrorism, and whether
Europe succeeds or fails could have important lessons for the United States,
with its own large, new Muslim presence.

But for Europe, so far, many of the signs are troubling.

"The sad fact is that interaction is very difficult and rare," said Ian
Hastings, a Briton who grew up in India and who has chosen to live in the
cultural and ethnic mix that East London has become today.

From the British National Party in London's East End to Jean-Marie Le Pen's
National Front in Marseilles, racist far-right politicians openly appeal to
white fears in the parts of Europe where local populations are being steadily
replaced by immigrants.

Mr. Le Pen, a candidate in the first round of the French presidential elections
last month, won 15 percent of the vote nationwide, his strongest showing in two
decades. A young Moroccan man drowned after skinheads who the police say were
attending a Le Pen rally here on Monday pushed him into the Seine.

On Thursday night, unidentified people sprayed anti-Islamic graffiti on the
walls of the Grand Mosque of Paris and defaced the entrance with black tar.

Government crackdowns on legal and illegal immigration in European countries
have been prompted in part by the fear of right-wing demagoguery if the influx
is not brought under control. Such moves have helped steal the thunder from the
far-rightists in Britain and Germany.

Though modern urban crime and chronic high unemployment do not discriminate
between Muslims and Christians in the poor European neighborhoods where the
local and immigrant populations coexist, they do contribute to rising tensions.

Interviews in France, Britain and Germany, three Western European countries with
heavy concentrations of Muslims in urban neighborhoods, show a range of
attitudes toward Muslims of various cultural and ethnic backgrounds. It is
estimated that there are five million Muslims in France, one million in Britain
and two million in Germany.

The French View
Sharing Problems, Not the Blame

In Aulnay-sous-Bois, a residential sprawl north of Paris, Communist and
Socialist-dominated governments over the years built housing projects intended
for local French low-income families. Most of these apartments are now occupied
by Muslim immigrants from Algeria.

One of the few remaining ethnic French residents of one project is Yves
Hiestand, a 48-year-old accountant who has been unable to work for the last two
years because of intestinal cancer. He opened the door to the stairwell on the
12th floor the other day and wrinkled his nose in disgust.

"Drug addicts," he said, pointing to discarded plastic syringes on the concrete
steps and to a bloodstain on the yellow stuccoed wall. "All North Africans," he
said. "The police don't even care."

He paused as his next-door neighbor, a North African woman wearing a head
covering, passed on the way to the graffiti-covered elevator. "She asked me to
clear the addicts out of the stairwell this morning, but I refused," he said,
"If I say anything to them they just call me a racist."

The French-owned stores on the ground floor of Mr. Hiestand's building have, one
by one, been bought out by North African owners who cater to their clientele
with signs in Arabic. One French butcher remains.

He borrows the butcher's car because Mr. Hiestand can no longer afford one of
his own on a disability payment that leaves him a little more than $600 a month
to support himself and his two school-age sons, Yann and Rick.

"It's not safe to ride the buses, and taxis won't even come in here after dark,"
he said. "It's like being a prisoner in your own country."

Mr. Hiestand blames French social-welfare and immigration policies for creating
the situation, and he supports Mr. Le Pen's far-right movement. On the walls of
his sparsely furnished three-room apartment he keeps a small arsenal of guns and
knives and a collection of military memorabilia from his days as a paratrooper
in Senegal.

In Aulnay, Mr. Le Pen won 20 percent of the vote, but he came in ahead of all
other candidates in more than a score of cities from Marseilles to Metz, Colmar
and Dreux on a platform promising to send three million of immigrants back where
they came from to make room for three million unemployed French workers.

Such arguments may make little sense, but they appeal to racism. In fact,
Islamic immigrants are among the hardest hit by France's 12.2 percent
unemployment rate, with joblessness in many North African neighborhoods running
at about 40 percent.

The British View
Harmony Depends On a Balanced Mix

Unemployment is just as big a problem in the Brick Lane neighborhood of the
Tower Hamlets section of East London, once the center of the Cockney world.
Today the street signs are in Bengali and English.

A total of 161,000 people live here, 37,000 of them -- 23 percent -- from
Bangladesh, with a smattering of black African and Caribbean immigrants. The
rest, the English, tend to call all the other groups "blacks."

"I was born in the East End -- I live here because I belong here," said Eileen
Whitmarsh, a 58-year-old resident who lives 10 minutes from Brick Lane in a city
housing project on Ellsworth Street. "I can't say we like what's going on now --
the indigenous people feel like second-class citizens," she said. "They feel as
if the outsiders are getting preference."

Local city government is not permitted to build subsidized housing, she said,
but makes public land available to private housing associations only if they
promise to build plenty of five- and six-bedroom apartments.

"That is clearly for Asians," she said. "If there's a mosque to be built,
someone always finds the money and the land for that, too."

Mrs. Whitmarsh works with Asian children in a school for the mentally
handicapped, and says she has become friends with many Bengladeshi and Pakistani
families.

"People are people," she said, "but now the English people who have lived here
all their lives are being displaced by immigrants who are taking over."

Mr. Hastings, the Briton who grew up in India, came here 15 years ago and now
lives in one of the buildings put up on land made available by the Tower Hamlets
city council. A teacher-trainee, he works hard at getting the Asians and the
English to live together.

"My eldest daughter has been going to a Church of England school with a mix of
students," Mr. Hastings said. "But now she has to go to the next level and it's
95 percent Bengladeshi, and that is a problem. We've opted for a central London
school that tends to be more mixed, but it means a 40-minute daily train ride
each day for my daughter."

The anti-immigration British National Party has been accused of egging on
skinheads in the area, who have clashed with Asian gangs. Early last year, with
tensions running high, newspapers predicted that local government elections in
May would produce strong majorities for the party, but it was defeated, even
losing the majority it had held in the Millwall district.

An election to fill a vacancy in the Weavers ward of Tower Hamlets at the end of
February confirmed the trend with a victory by the opposition Labor Party
candidate, Mohammed Ali; David King, the British National Party candidate, won
16 percent.

"The people in this area have a long history of fighting racism," said Pola
Manzilla Uddin, an emigre from Bangladesh who has been a Labor Party councilor
in Tower Hamlets for six years.

"It's always been a neighborhood full of immigrants -- the Jews and the Irish
came before us, but we have a different skin color, we stand out and we'll be
here longer than those groups were," she said. "Our children are the ones who
are going to determine whether we live in a racist society for the next 50
years, or live in a more balanced, caring community."

Unemployment in Tower Hamlets last year ran close to 27 percent, two and a half
times the national average. In Bradford, a manufacturing city 200 miles north of
London, the jobless rate approaches 50 percent in some Pakistani neighborhoods,
said Ralph Berry, a local councilor. There are 45,000 Pakistanis in the city, a
ninth of the population.

Mr. Berry's living room, high on a hill in a mostly white neighborhood in
Bradford's southwest, overlooks the Grange School, where 80 percent of the 1,000
students are Asian. "One child from this area goes to that school, which was
built for it," he said.

The Grange school welcomes visitors with English, Urdu and Hindi greetings on
the door, and its motto is "achieving together." Richard Thompson, the
principal, said he saw his primary mission as preparing young Britons of
whatever race or color for the society they live in now, not the one they came
from.

"Some of my female students want to wear the veil, and they can if they feel
they need to," he said. "I could stamp on it, but it isn't important. The
important thing is for these British Muslims to be equipped with an education
that allows them to live useful lives here," he said.

The German View
Far Right Fuels Fundamentalism

Two fundamentalist mosques, both in the predominantly Catholic, Rhineland city
of Cologne, have been making headway in the Turkish Islamic population in
Germany. The Turks have long been among the most secularized populations of the
Islamic world.

The more radical of the two mosques, known by its Turkish initials I.C.C.B.,
runs an Islamic cultural and shopping center on the Niehler Kirchweg, a
residential street in the Nippes section of Cologne.

A green Islamic flag flies above it, and on holidays the smell of barbecued lamb
rises up to the fifth-floor apartment of Jurgen Kerstin and his wife, Regine,
who live with their daughter in the building next door. Nippes is home to about
111,000 people, 12,000 of them Turks.

"We've always had Turkish neighbors, and we've always gotten along with them,"
Mrs. Kerstin said. "But these people are different -- the women always wear
veils now, and they come on weekends to attend the Koran school."

In the Nippes city hall, Vural Emre, who came from Turkey 33 years ago to work
in the Ford plant in Cologne and has since become a German citizen active in the
Social Democratic Party, said he thought he knew why such movements had taken
root.

Turks who had felt safe living in Germany suddenly felt dangerously exposed when
right-wing German radicals, protesting a wave of foreign immigrants seeking
asylum in Germany, began firebombing Turkish homes in late 1992, he said. More
than 20 Turks and other foreign immigrants died in such attacks between then and
the end of 1993.

The attacks declined after the German Parliament changed the Constitution in
mid-1993 to make it harder to claim asylum. German far-right parties advocating
the expulsion of foreigners failed at the polls in national elections last
October.

But there are still problems, however petty.

Bernhard Henrici, the head of the Nippes district council, took a visitor up to
his 15th-floor office, with a panoramic view from the Rhine to the Eifel hills
to the west.

"Look around and try to count how many satellite dishes you see on the houses
down below -- all of them are tuned to channels from Turkey," he said. Mr. Emre
retorted, "Yes, and all of them had to sue their German landlords to get
permission to put the dishes up."

The little three-story houses that Ford helped build to house him and the German
workers at its plant in Nippes have since been neglected. Mr. Emre says the only
German neighbors he has left on the Konigsbergerstrasse are widows like Maria
Karbath.

Mrs. Karbath, 80, said she does not mind that the only grocery store in the
neighborhood is run and staffed by Turks and carries Turkish staples.

"If I got sick and needed help, I know that I could call on any one of my
neighbors and they'd take care of me," she said. "I'd rather depend on my
Turkish friends than on the Germans."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Wary Strangers: Second of two articles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yves Hiestand, a 48-year-old accountant, lives in
Aulnay-sous-Bois in a housing project occupied mostly by Algerian immigrants. He
complains the area is not safe: "It's like being a prisoner in your own
country." (Gary Matoso/Contact Press Images, for The New York Times)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 7, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Many Cubans Don't Share Havana's Pride in Pact With U.S.

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 20;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, May 6


For days now, the sea has been calm and the sky clear along the waterfront and
beaches that stretch for miles here. It is just the sort of weather that for
more than 30 years has beckoned Cubans to board rafts and try to make their way
across the Straits of Florida to seek political asylum.

But with the door to the United States now suddenly closed to migrants as a
result of the immigration agreement that the United States and Cuban Governments
announced on Tuesday, only fishermen, strolling couples and the unemployed are
congregating at Havana's seaside promenades.

"Nobody is going to be going anywhere now," said one of those staring out at the
sea, a young man with no job who gave his name as Gerardo Aviles and his age as
20. "There is no point in even trying to leave if you know the American Coast
Guard is only going to hand you back over."

The Cuban Government has repeatedly stressed that point on television and in
newspaper reports about the agreement. It has also described the accord as a
major turnabout in United States policy and a triumph of Cuban diplomacy that
obliges Washington to stop treating departing Cubans as refugees fleeing
political oppression.

Last summer, when more than 30,000 people took to the seas, President Fidel
Castro argued that the flow of people was no different than that from Mexico or
many other third world countries: people leaving economic difficulties in search
of a better life in a more prosperous place. This week's agreement, Cuban
officials said, shows that the Clinton Administration now agrees.

"This agreement places migratory relations with Cuba at exactly the same level
as migratory relations with other Latin American countries and other places,"
Ricardo Alarcon, president of Cuba's National Assembly and the chief
representative in the talks with the United States, said shortly after the
accord was made public. "In sum, this involves applying the same rules and
procedures applicable to immigrants from other nations."

In an interview here, Cuba's Deputy Minister of Foreign Relations, Fernando
Remirez, described United States policy toward Cuba as having shifted "180
degrees, undergoing a radical change" as a result of the immigration agreement.
He said the accord could pave the way for direct bilateral talks on other
issues, suggesting that some sort of cooperation in the war against drug
trafficking, whether formalized or not, was a particularly promising area.

Mr. Alarcon and other officials have predicted that Mr. Clinton will soon lift
the sanctions on travel and remittances that were imposed last August at the
height of the refugee crisis. As Mr. Remirez put it, Cuban-Americans have
already found ways to get around the restrictions, which have therefore lost
their usefulness.

"These measures are going to be lifted at any moment," Mr. Alarcon said. "The
situation of conflict that led to the implementation of these measures is
increasingly distant."

Reaction to the accord on Cuban dissidents has been mixed. Elizardo Sanchez
Santa Cruz, director of the Commission for Human Rights and National
Reconciliation, described the measure as "on balance positive" because it will
discourage "people desperate to leave" from risking their lives at sea, but he
also expressed doubt about the Cuba's willingness to abide by the it.

"I am worried that there is no independent system to supervise the
implementation of this agreement, and would like to see representatives of the
United Nations or the International Red Cross involved," he said.

Mr. Remirez, however, said Cuba had a history of "rigorously abiding by all
international agreements it has signed" with Washington and others. He pointed
to the agreement that led to the end of the conflict in Angola and Namibia.

Another dissident leader, who spoke on condition he not be identified, said the
accord would prove to be a valuable recruiting tool, a notion that has also been
advanced by some diplomats here. The new situation is likely to encourage
disgruntled Cubans to "channel their efforts into a greater willingness to work
in Cuba, rather than just getting out of the island," said one.

But other diplomats said the agreement created a situation more complicated than
either the United States or Cuba was willing to admit. "Yes, both sides have rid
themselves of an unwanted and unwelcome problem," said one. "But there are also
risks, especially for Cuba."

Cuba has said it will soon begin laying off hundreds of thousands of workers
because of the economic crisis that began with the collapse of the Soviet bloc.
With shortages of electricity, food and fuel looming again, there is concern
that without the "safety valve" of immigration to the United States, outbreaks
of discontent such as those that sparked last summer's crisis could recur.

"I hope that all of this encourages the Cuban Government to accelerate the pace
of economic reforms," one European diplomat said. "They seem to think that the
worst of the economic crisis is over, but they could be wrong, and if they are,
the prospects for this country are too grim to contemplate."

                             --------------------


13 Refugees Returned

MIAMI, May 6 (AP) -- The Coast Guard ferried 13 refugees back toward Cuba today
as angry exiles planned civil disobedience to protest President Clinton's
reversal of 35 years of refugee policy.

A Coast Guard cutter transferred the refugees from a Caribbean cruise ship just
before midnight on Friday, but the Guard disclosed few details about they were
being taken.

"We really, truly don't know," said Lieut. Comdr. Pat Philbin, chief of Coast
Guard media in Washington. "We don't know which port we're going to. The details
are being worked out as we speak."

The refugees would be the first to be repatriated under the policy that has
angered Cuba's exile community, whose leaders met today to map a response that
some said could include civil disobedience.

The Coast Guard picked up the 13 men from the Majesty of the Seas cruise ship,
whose crew found them adrift in two boats south of Little Cayman Island late
Wednesday.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Cuba shows the location of Havana.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 7, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

'Alien Nation'

SECTION: Section 7;  Page 47;  Column 1;  Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 254 words


To the Editor:

I appreciated Nicholas Lemann's civil review of my "Alien Nation: Common Sense
About America's Immigration Disaster" (April 16), since like many intellectuals
he obviously finds the subject distressing to contemplate.

However, his gibe that "judging from a couple of asides, Mr. Brimelow doesn't
consider Jews to meet his definition of 'white' " is a dangerous misfire. One
such "aside" is apparently my reporting that some Jewish organizations played a
role in the 1965 Immigration Act. But this is simply a fact -- as it is also a
fact, reported by me but not by Mr. Lemann, that Jews are prominent among
Americans now calling for a cutback (notably Daniel Stein, head of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform). Another "aside" is my description
of the Clinton Administration as a "black-Hispanic-Jewish-minority white"
coalition. Again, this is simply a fact, as the merest glance at exit poll data
will show. Perhaps Mr. Lemann thinks I should have said "non-Jewish white," but
technically I should have said "non-Hispanic white" too; I consistently refrain
from inflicting such long-winded qualifications on the reader when the meaning
is clear from the context.

Elsewhere, Mr. Lemann refers to "the amazing absence of euphemism and
disingenuousness" in my book. I believe that plain speaking is necessary if the
extraordinary facts about immigration are to be faced -- and that it is worth
the risk that Mr. Lemann's gibe inadvertently illustrates.

PETER BRIMELOW
New York

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 8, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Policy a 'Betrayal,' Cuban Exiles Protest

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section A;   Page 13;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1209 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 7


The anger is unmistakable. In news conferences, on picket lines and in caravans,
groups of Cuban exiles have been lashing out at the United States for
negotiating with Cuba and then deciding to send back all future illegal refugees
leaving the island.

At a demonstration on Thursday, one sign read: "Bay of Pigs, Part II."

"The betrayal continues," said Jose Miro Torra, a veteran of the Bay of Pigs,
the 1961 failed invasion of Cuba. Mr. Torra said that exile groups were planning
a strike that he said would "paralyze" Miami and a march in Washington to
"recover the dignity of the Cuban people, which has been trampled on."

But if the loudest voices heard in reaction to the American policy reversal were
familiar, coming from conservatives for whom any deals with Fidel Castro amount
to treason and the repatriation of Cubans to murder, there is also a softer but
steady rumble from Cuban Americans who agree to talk to Cuba, who hope
negotiations go beyond immigration issues to normalization of relations, who
call the hard line against Castro a failure.

They include people like Nati Morales, 28, a mixed-media artist born in
Philadelphia of Cuban parents who went to the island for the first time last
summer to bring pain killers to an older relative who had fallen and broken her
hip. On her visit, she says, hardly anyone talked about the political situation
or even mentioned Fidel Castro. They were just hungry, she said.

"If this is the means to an end and if the end is to end Castro's dictatorship,
then it's great," Ms. Morales, who lives in Miami, said of the Clinton
Administration's new policy on Cuban refugees. "If that's the dead end, then
that's pathetic and in line with previous policies in that it doesn't do
anything."

Cubans in the United States speak with one voice on certain points, like
opposition to Mr. Castro and Communist rule and support for human rights groups
on the island, opinion surveys show. But the spectrum of views widen
significantly on what to do to quicken the pace of bringing democracy to Cuba.

A Florida International University poll last month of 1,500 Cubans in Florida's
Dade County and in Union City, N.J., found that a strong majority -- 63 percent
of respondents in Dade County and 79 percent in Union City -- favored
negotiations to facilitate peaceful democratic change in Cuba. But the same poll
found that more than half also favored military action by the exile community
and even an American invasion of Cuba.

Researchers said that although seemingly contradictory, the answers reflect an
openness to consider a variety of options, preferably a stick-and-carrot
approach. They said that age, time in exile and even location had been factors
in the responses. Those most likely to support negotiated solutions were
younger, had arrived since the 1970's and lived in New Jersey, where more
Democrats were found, despite a Republican majority among respondents. There is
a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percent for the Dade County sample and plus
or minus 4 percent for the Union City sample..

The differences in opinion were in evidence last week when Attorney General
Janet Reno announced that while most of the 21,000 Cuban refugees held in camps
at the American naval base in Guantanamo Bay would be allowed into the country,
those leaving the island illegally from now on would be intercepted and returned
to Cuba.

The decisions came after meetings with Cuban Government officials in order to
control a migration characterized by periodic massive waves of Cubans -- more
than 30,000 last summer alone -- leaving for Florida in rafts and boats. The
United States would still grant 20,000 visas to Cubans each year.

While news of the release of the Guantanamo refugees was widely welcomed, the
policy of intercepting rafters sparked a furious reaction in some quarters. The
Cuban American National Foundation, the leading conservative exile organization,
immediately withdrew 15,000 sponsors it had recruited to take over resettlement
expenses for the Guantanamo refugees, saying the Federal Government should pay
for a decision it made without consulting exiles.

A few hundred people protested at the Port of Miami today, sporadically
disrupting traffic. City Manager Cesar Odio defended the acts of civil
disobedience, comparing Fidel Castro with Hitler.

Brothers to the Rescue, a volunteer pilot group that spots rafters for the Coast
Guard, says it will no longer report sightings unless the refugees themselves
consent.

"If the Coast Guard picks you up it is possible that you would be returned to
Cuban authorities," reads a flier to be dropped to the refugees, or rafters. "If
you want us to alert the Coast Guard, wave your arms. If not, stay motionless
when we fly by again."

Some experts said the new policy cuts through the heart of an exile community
that identifies the evils of the Castro Government with a sense of urgency in
leaving the island. Many would never buy into the idea that worsening economic
conditions is what has driven many of the rafters to the seas, they say.

"It's really a difficult situation for the hard line in the exile community,"
said Max Castro, a sociologist with the University of Miami's North-South Center
who came here from Cuba as a child. "They only had one ally in the world and
that was the United States."

But almost as quickly, a national coalition of Cuban groups called the
Cuban-American National Alliance said it would take over efforts to find
sponsors and refugee assistance. And in interviews since the Administration
chipped away at the special status Cubans have enjoyed for three decades as
political refugees, many Cuban Americans say they see the policy changes as
positive.

Alfredo G. Duran, a Miami lawyer, former chairman of the state Democratic Party,
is a member of the board of the Cuban Committee for Democracy, a coalition of
"moderate and progressive" business executives, academicians and other
professionals who favor talks with Cuba.

"If they give the 20,000 visas, which has never happened, the policy establishes
an orderly immigration process that prevents more deaths near Florida," Mr.
Duran said. In the long run, he said, "it internalizes the opposition in Cuba."

"Now the regime's opponents will have to solve the nation's problems
internally," he said.

Many Cuban-Americans said the Administration should next rescind restrictions
imposed last year on travel and cash remittances to Cuba, then move toward
easing the trade embargo, to allow exports of food and medicine and commercial
and cultural exchanges that they say would force Cuba to change quicker than
punitive measures would.

A widespread concern is whether the Cuban Government can be trusted not to take
reprisals against the repatriated, and whether those with valid cases of
persecution would be given political asylum. Ms. Reno said that persons with "a
genuine need for protection" would be "examined before return."

The first 13 Cubans to test the policy were picked up at sea late Wednesday by a
cruise ship and were turned over to the Coast Guard late Friday night. After
more than 30 years of unconditional welcome in the United States, most Cubans
here find repatriations hard to stomach.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuban-Americans blocked the entrance to the Port of Miami for
about an hour yesterday in a protest against the Federal Government's policy on
Cuban refugees. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 8, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Fairness for Refugees

SECTION: Section A;   Page 18;   Column 5;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words


To the Editor:

"New Equity for Cuban Refugees," your May 3 editorial applauding equal treatment
for Cuban refugees, may be unduly optimistic.

The joint statement by the United States and Cuba assures vaguely that actions
taken with respect to Cubans intercepted at sea by the United States will
satisfy "international obligations."

The statement of the Attorney General promises, without elaboration, "measures"
to examine the protection "needs" of intercepted Cubans prior to compulsory
return.

High seas programs to intercept and return Haitian and Chinese asylum seekers
have repeatedly exposed the unreliability of summary shipboard interviews.

The details of implementation will be crucial. Under international standards,
there must be a fair hearing of a claim by a refugee for protection from
persecution before he or she can be returned.

The United States Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, may provide a viable place
of temporary stay for this purpose. "Equity" must not be achieved at the expense
of fairness.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director of Migration Programs
Open Society Institute
New York, May 3, 1995

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 13, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Let Muslims in Europe Tell Their Own Story

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 284 words


To the Editor:

A May 6 news article on European Muslim immigrants stated that failure or
success of European immigration policies "could have important lessons for the
United States, with its own large, new Muslim presence."

While you identified the Muslim immigrants of Europe as North Africans in
France, Bengals in Britain, Turks in Germany, you did not explain what this "new
Muslim presence" in America means and which ethnic groups it involves.

The situation of Muslim immigrants in Europe is perhaps incomparable with that
of Muslims in America, in the same way the colonial legacy of Europe has no
equivalent in American history. Most North African immigrants did not invade
France, but were shipped from North Africa to Parisian suburbs in the 1960's to
fill jobs the French consider cheap and filthy.

Now that unemployment is rising among the French, Muslim immigrants are subject
to political bargaining in which their voices are never heard. When they are not
threatened with expulsion, they are asked to accept blindly the French policy of
assimilation, which remains vague, hardly supported by concrete cultural and
social projects.

Worse, to the French, their food is smelly, their languages are repulsive and
their mosques harbor fundamentalists.

In America, food, language and worship are reflections of a multicultural
society. I have not heard Americans complaining of Chinese, Indian and Caribbean
food. Neither have I seen Americans repelled by signs in Chinese or Hebrew.

Had you included interviews with European Muslim immigrants, they might have
outbalanced the racist statements by Europeans you interviewed.

 EL MOKHTAR GHAMBOU
New York, May 8, 1995

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 14, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World: The Refugee Deal;
Clinton and Castro Buy Some Time

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1025 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


THE sight of United States Coast Guard vessels sailing into a Cuban harbor to
hand boat people back to Cuban authorities last week encouraged speculation that
the Western Hemisphere's two closest enemies may soon be examining additional
forms of cooperation.

Certainly Cuban exile groups fear that prospect. But such talk may be much too
premature.

Consider what was really accomplished in the deal over refugees that was
announced May 2: Fidel Castro accepted a big restraint on his ability to unnerve
the United States (unleashing a tide of disgruntled Cubans was one of the few
weapons still left in his quiver), but in doing so he took the pressure off
President Clinton to go much further any time soon.

With an election year looming and the immigration issue now apparently settled
for the moment, the Administration has little incentive to seek a full or
immediate normalization of relations. Indeed, American officials have said a
broad rapprochement, including any easing of the 33-year-old economic embargo,
depends on Cuba taking basic steps to open up its political system. And this is
something Mr. Castro has repeatedly indicated he will not do.




Keep Waiting

"Unless you see Fidel release a large number of political prisoners or begin a
real dialogue with the external opposition, I don't think you are going to see
any significant movement on Washington's side," a Latin American diplomat here
predicted. That may not exclude some tinkering around the edges of the
relationship, such as reducing restrictions on travel or on cultural and
educational exchanges. But Cuban officials seem resigned to waiting -- at least
until Mr. Clinton wins a second term -- for more fundamental changes.

By jettisoning a policy of preferential treatment for Cuban refugees that had
been in place for more than 30 years, Mr. Clinton essentially wrote off any
prospect of winning the Cuban-American vote in Florida next year, but he was
never their favorite anyway. Francisco J. Hernandez, president of the
influential Cuban-American National Foundation, described Tuesday's return of
the first rafters to Cuba as "a day of infamy for the United States," and other
Cuban exiles have been sporadically blocking highways and streets in Miami to
protest the decision.

But the deal announced May 2 may nevertheless bring political gain for Mr.
Clinton in Florida, the nation's fourth most populous state, with 14 million
people and 25 electoral votes. Many white and black voters have long expressed
alarm at the Hispanic influx, and presumably they will welcome any reduction in
the flow and influence of Cubans. Thus, the President's action was applauded
both by conservative talk-show hosts and by editorials in virtually all the
state's mainstream newspapers.

For their part, Cuban officials have an obvious interest in fortifying Mr.
Clinton's position; they want to avoid a Republican victory in 1996 that could
bring a return of the confrontational tone that marked relations during the
Reagan years. When reporters suggested to one top Cuban official, Ricardo
Alarcon, that the Clinton Administration had gained more from the immigration
agreement than Cuba, he replied that "it wouldn't bother me if many people in
the United States want to look at it that way."

Of course, with the Republicans now in control of Congress, efforts are already
under way to block any further opening. A proposal popularly known as the
Helms-Burton bill would penalize foreign governments, companies and individuals
who do business with Cuba by excluding them and their products from the United
States. It would also allow Americans to sue foreigners who have invested here
in properties the Cuban Government confiscated from Americans.




Fearing a Compromise

Officially, the Clinton Administration opposes the legislation on ground that it
could conflict with broader United States interests. But Cuban officials and
diplomats here worry that Mr. Clinton could end up agreeing to a diluted version
of it.

In the meantime, the Helms-Burton bill is providing Mr. Castro with a splendid
opportunity for a propaganda offensive -- so much so that some diplomats here
suspect the Communist Party leadership would really prefer to see the proposal
become law. Through public hearings being held in factories and schools and
broadcast on Cuban television, the Government has instilled fear that hordes of
exiles would return to a post-Castro Cuba to reclaim old houses and businesses
and displace those who live and work there now. The bill might also, diplomats
here say, provide him with a pretext to renege on the immigration accord if he
feels he needs to do so.




Deflecting Attention

To some extent, the mobilization campaign against the Helms-Burton bill has also
enabled the Cuban Government to deflect attention from its own economic
difficulties. The country is just finishing another disappointing sugar harvest
amid continuing widespread shortages of food and basic consumer goods.

Such problems have encouraged some American officials and lawmakers to conclude
that Cuba is vulnerable to increased economic pressure. But Cubans have learned
to live with scarcities, and in some other important respects the situation here
is not as grim as it was a year ago, at the start of a long hot summer that saw
more than 30,000 Cubans take to the seas in flimsy rafts. Thanks to tourism,
foreign investment and remittances from Cuban-Americans, Cuba has more foreign
exchange, which increases the availability of gasoline, electricity and basic
items like rice and beans.

As a result, the Cuban Government seems more likely than ever to adhere to its
traditional formulation: that it wants better relations with the United States,
but not at the cost of its independence or sovereignty. "There is a feeling
here, whether merited or not, that they have hit bottom and come up a little
bit, that they now have some breathing space," said a diplomat who represents a
country generally critical of Mr. Castro. "That gives them somewhat greater
confidence in dealing with a whole range of issues."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Would-be Cuban refugees aboard the U.S. Coast Guard cutter
Durable as it returns them to the island. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 16, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban-Americans Protest White House Policies

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 53 words


Scores of Cuban-Americans blocked the New Jersey side of the Lincoln Tunnel at
rush hour yesterday evening, then marched through Union City to protest the
Clinton Administration's policies on Cuban immigration. A Union City officer
tried to clear protesters from Kennedy Boulevard. (Keith Meyers/The New York
Times)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 17, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

IN PERFORMANCE: THEATER:

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

SECTION: Section C;  Page 14;  Column 3;  Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 314 words



Eager, Hopeful Immigrants,
Each With Faith and a Story
'Coming Through'
American Place Theater

The five performers in "Coming Through," Wynn Handman's commemorative look at
the international waiting room that was Ellis Island in the 1920's, exude a
feeling of obsessive idealism that gives a definite ring of conviction to lines
like, "Coming to America is my only ambition in life; there is no other."

The work, at the American Place Theater, where Mr. Handman is the artistic
director, has been adapted from interviews recorded for the Ellis Island Oral
History Project. For many refugees, the path to America was anything but a
straight line, and "Coming Through" is at its best when its characters talk
about the circuitous, and in some cases horrific, routes that brought them here.

The play's most compelling character, an Armenian played by David Warren,
describes the terrifying odyssey, through several countries and a gantlet of
unspeakable atrocities, he experienced as a young boy. Throughout, he was asked
to disguise both his sex and nationality, and Mr. Warren brings a quality of
wondering detachment to these recollections that is far more poignant than
tears.

In the evening's one real coup de theater, Mara Stephens, who plays a
13-year-old Polish girl, re-emerges as the card-playing, joke-telling, feisty
(and fascinatingly xenophobic) old American woman the girl became.

The scene reminds us that the stories on which "Coming Through" is based were
told long after the events themselves, and that they have doubtless been shaped
by the mythology that retrospect, and repeated tellings, can confer. But there's
not much room for such contemplation here. Despite descriptions of privation,
this is basically an upbeat anthem of a play, suggesting a classroom project
that is as simple and wide-eyed as the naifs it portrays.   BEN BRANTLEY

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 17, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Refugee's Unlikely Defender;
Colonel Fights His Own System for Detained Haitian

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1629 words


Sony Eskite, a Haitian refugee, sat in a plastic chair in a locked, windowless,
blue room and shook a sheaf of photographs from an envelope onto a card table.

At a dozen other tables, aliens from Guyana, Senegal, Colombia and Panama sat
across from loved ones as a guard, wearing latex gloves, silently circled the
visiting room at the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center on
Varick Street in Manhattan.

Outwardly, the only thing that distinguished Mr. Eskite (pronounced es-KEET)
from the other detainees was the color of his coveralls. They wore orange. He
wore white, indicating that he worked in the kitchen, microwaving precooked
meals for $1 a day while he waited to learn if he would be deported.

But what sets him apart from probably every detainee in immigration custody
across the country is that Mr. Eskite, a 36-year-old fisherman from southern
Haiti, has a United States Army colonel fighting to set him free.

Mr. Eskite, who has been in immigration custody for three years at various
locations, held up a snapshot of his unlikely defender, Col. Stephen P. Kinder.
The man in the picture was every inch the career officer -- over six feet,
ramrod straight and wearing the red beret of the Army's XVIII Airborne Corps.


 The colonel and the refugee are a strange pair -- one from South Jersey, the
other from provincial Leogane; one a decorated officer, the other an ex-convict.
Their friendship was forged of mutual need in the heat and tensions of a refugee
camp at the American Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and has developed since
through visits, letters and collect calls from immigration jail to a suburb of
Washington. Indeed, Colonel Kinder has become something of a crusader for Mr.
Eskite, which has been an uncomfortable role for the colonel.

"I've always tried to help people," Colonel Kinder, 47, said in an interview at
a Reston, Va., branch of the Defense Information Systems Agency. "But I've never
done this kind of thing before. I don't want to put myself against the
government. I'm a product of the government."

When their paths first crossed in the fall of 1992, Colonel Kinder had assumed
command of the tent city for Haitian refugees in Guantanamo Bay, where Mr.
Eskite had been stuck since he was plucked from a leaky sailboat 10 months
earlier. Mr. Eskite quickly became a valued interpreter and mediator, helping
Colonel Kinder build trust among the frustrated detainees and helping defuse a
series of potentially violent incidents.

"Sony let me understand how the Haitians felt, who to watch out for, who was the
most upset," Colonel Kinder said. "He was kind of my eyes and ears."

Mr. Eskite also told the colonel about a legal dilemma that trapped him in a
maddening kind of immigration purgatory, long after every other detainee among
the tens of thousands who fled Haiti in late 1991 by sea had been released or
sent back home. He had been approved to enter the United States by immigration
officials who said he had a legitimate fear of persecution in his homeland. But
they barred him from seeking asylum because he had been convicted and served 10
months for selling $30 worth of cocaine in Florida in 1986.

The colonel promised in Guantanamo that he would do what he could, and he has
kept his word. For two and a half years, Colonel Kinder has conducted a one-man
campaign to clear the record of his Haitian friend. He has written letters to
the Governor of Florida and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, flown
twice to Tallahassee to urge the state to pardon Mr. Eskite on the old drug
conviction, and accepted $60 collect phone calls from Mr. Eskite at odd hours.

In testimony at the first of two clemency hearings in Florida, Colonel Kinder
spoke of Mr. Eskite's contribution at the refugee camp.

"There were a couple of cases in particular where I'm sure a life would have
been lost if Sony didn't grab me," he said. "There was one military policeman
who was kind of rough with the Haitians and they were going to get him. Sony
advised me of that and I was able to get him out of the camp."

Colonel Kinder concluded with the strongest compliment an officer can give. "I
would take him as a soldier in the Army," he said. "He was a soldier for me
while I was down there."

Colonel Kinder's hope was that a pardon, by erasing the one black mark on Mr.
Eskite's record, would allow him finally to seek asylum. And against all odds,
Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida did grant Mr. Eskite clemency last December.

But the I.N.S. has stuck with its position that, pardon or no pardon, the drug
conviction permanently bars Mr. Eskite from a life in the United States. His
deportation has been delayed by the American Civil Liberties Union, which has
challenged the immigration ruling in Federal court in Brooklyn, where the case
is now before Judge Sterling Johnson Jr.

Mr. Eskite spends his days with about 80 other men in a ward in which the only
sunlight is dimmed by frosted, mesh-covered window panes. The inmates at Varick
Street lack a basic amenity provided all but the most hardened prisoners in the
criminal corrections system -- outdoor exercise.

"I need air," Mr. Eskite said. He smiled in a hollow way as he calculated that
he had been incarcerated four times longer as a refugee than as a convict.
"Sometimes, I'm laughing," he said, "but it's not me. I just laugh like that,
but my heart does not laugh."

Colonel Kinder said: "In America, we shouldn't treat people like this. I swore
to defend the Constitution of the United States; that's what I do for a living.
But I just don't think this is fair. Do we have anybody who's spent that much
time in incarceration for that minor of a crime? I doubt it."

Leogane, the coastal town where Mr. Eskite grew up, was a stronghold of support
for President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. So when his fragile presidency was toppled
in September 1991, the military bore down on the community. Less than a week
after the coup, Mr. Eskite was stopped by a truckload of soldiers whose path was
blocked by a smoldering barricade left by protesters. They forced him to use his
bare hands to haul away the still-burning debris, he said. Mr. Eskite bears
scars that he said came from those embers.

In October, Mr. Eskite went into hiding after soldiers searched for him
following his participation in a pro-democracy demonstration. Finally, in late
November he boarded a sailboat and ended up at Guantanamo.

By late 1992, the number of detainees there had shrunk from thousands to fewer
than 270. The remaining population consisted almost entirely of people who had
tested positive for H.I.V., the AIDS virus, or their relatives; they had been
determined to be legitimate candidates for asylum but were held in Cuba due to
the H.I.V. The only exception was Mr. Eskite, whose criminal conviction lumped
him in a similar limbo. Many of the detainees were convinced that the H.I.V.
tests were a ploy to keep them imprisoned. Mr. Eskite helped Colonel Kinder
convince them that the tests and the medication prescribed by the camp doctors
were legitimate, the colonel said.

Now, long after all 38,000 Haitians who took to the sea in 1991, including those
with H.I.V., have either been sent back to Haiti or released, Mr. Eskite alone
remains in custody.

The only changes in Mr. Eskite's life over the last 40 months have been moves
from one detention center to another. After Guantanamo Bay came Krome Avenue, a
bleak facility on the edge of the Everglades. In November 1993, he was flown to
New York.

That flight provides the best indication of Mr. Eskite's character, his
supporters say. He was placed unescorted on an airplane in Miami, with the
expectation that immigration officers would meet him as he disembarked at John
F. Kennedy Airport.

The two officers were late. Mr. Eskite wandered Kennedy Airport for 40 minutes,
Judith Rabinovitz, a lawyer for the A.C.L.U., said. He had every opportunity to
disappear. Rather than flee, he called one of his lawyers, then sat and waited
until the officials finally arrived and drove him to 201 Varick Street, she
said, adding, "What more indication do they want that this guy isn't a flight
risk?"

Nonetheless, on April 13, Michael Hart, assistant district director for
detention and deportation for the New York District of the I.N.S., denied a
request that Mr. Eskite be released on bail pending the resolution of his case.

Mr. Hart and other immigration officials declined to be interviewed about Mr.
Eskite while the case remains active.

Mr. Eskite's lawyers -- and the colonel -- are baffled by the agency's
obstinacy. "We are not saying that by virtue of his pardon they're compelled to
grant asylum to Sony Eskite," said Douglas W. Baruch, one of his lawyers. "All
we're saying is that he should have the opportunity to apply for asylum. That's
all. We want to get him onto the playing field -- and definitely out of Varick
Street."

If he is returned to Haiti, Mr. Eskite faces an uncertain future, said William
O'Neill, a New York lawyer who has made more than a dozen trips to Haiti to
investigate human rights abuses. "Leogane is still a very dicey area," he said.
"There are still people connected with the military who are circulating. If I
were him I would still be afraid."

If he is finally deported, however, Colonel Kinder has offered to help his
Haitian friend yet again. In the envelope Mr. Eskite keeps at Varick Street,
along with the photographs, there is a kind of i.o.u. from the colonel.

"If you have to go back to Haiti, I will provide you a letter which will help
you get a job working with the Americans," the note says. With their protection,
"You should be able to be with your family without the terror and abuse which
existed before."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Col. Stephen P. Kinder of the United States Army has befriended
a detained Haitian refugee.; Sony Eskite is in immigration limbo: approved to
enter the United States but then barred from seeking asylum because of a drug
conviction. (pg. B1); Sony Eskite, a Haitian, has an American colonel on his
side. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 19, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Legislators Denounce U.S. Policy on Cuba and Russia

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 18


The Clinton Administration's foreign policy came under sharp criticism on two
fronts in Congress today.

Senate Republicans lambasted it for not being tough enough toward Russia, while
several House Democrats joined their Republican colleagues in attacking new
policies on Cuban immigration.

At a Senate hearing, Secretary of State Warren Christopher was criticized for
not pressing Russia harder to drop its plans to sell nuclear reactors to Iran,
while at a House hearing, Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff was denounced
for carrying on secret talks with Cuba that led to the new policy -- to send
future Cuban boat people back to their country.

It was the first time since Republicans captured control of Congress last
November that their differences with the Administration on foreign policy
exploded in such a strident way. Democrats and Republicans alike acknowledged
that the sharp differences pointed to a growing breakdown in foreign policy
cooperation between Congress and the White House.

Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and chairman of the Senate
Foreign Operations Subcommittee, faulted Mr. Christopher and the rest of
President Clinton's foreign policy team for not winning concessions from Russia
to halt the war in Chechnya and stop the Iranian reactor project.

"Russia is paying no price for moving forward on its nuclear sale to Iran," Mr.
McConnell told Mr. Christopher at a hearing where they squared off over whether
last week's meeting in Moscow between President Clinton and President Boris N.
Yeltsin was a success.

And at a hearing of the House Subcommittee on Western Hemispheric Affairs,
Representatives Robert G. Torricelli and Robert Menendez, both Democrats from
New Jersey, which has a large Cuban-American population, joined the Republicans
in demanding that the Administration reverse its policy of sending Cuban boat
people back home.

The House hearing -- the first opportunity for the Administration to defend its
new policy -- was like a tag-team wrestling match, with one lawmaker after
another jumping on the Administration's decision to send back Cubans who are
stopped at sea while seeking to flee.

"This is an outrage and shame to the reputation of the United States as a beacon
of freedom, and it is undignified of our role as a world leader," said
Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican.

Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican who heads the subcommittee,
called the new policy "a tragic mistake," while Representative Christopher H.
Smith, a New Jersey Republican, called it "a nightmare" analogous to throwing
escaping Germans back over the Berlin Wall.

Probably the toughest remarks came from Jorge Mas Canosa, chairman of the
Cuban-American National Foundation and perhaps the most influential
Cuban-American. Testifying after Mr. Tarnoff, he described the new policy as an
"indefensible and morally bankrupt collaboration with the criminal regime of
Fidel Castro," and said it would strengthen Mr. Castro's hand while undermining
Cuban dissidents.

When given the chance, Mr. Christopher and Mr. Tarnoff patiently said in
separate hearing rooms that the Administration's policies strengthened national
interests.

Mr. Christopher said the Administration was pressing Russia to drop the reactor
project, but he noted that Russia cannot be pushed around.

He acknowledged that President Clinton's meeting with President Yeltsin did not
achieve "everything we want on nuclear matters with Iran," but he added, "We
made important progress." He also noted that Mr. Yeltsin had agreed not to sell
Iran conventional weapons or equipment to enrich uranium.

For his part, Mr. Tarnoff said the new policy toward Cuba advanced two goals. By
granting entry to 21,000 Cubans being held at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Station,
the Administration was reducing the chances of rioting there this summer. And by
deciding to return future boat people to Cuba, the Administration was seeking to
prevent another mass exodus of boat people, like the one last August when more
than 32,000 Cubans set to sea.

A half-dozen lawmakers asserted that the Administration was wrong to trust Mr.
Castro's promises not to punish boat people whom the Coast Guard returned to
Cuba.

But Mr. Tarnoff said the Administration was not trusting Mr. Castro, but was
confident that officials at the American Interests Section in Havana would keep
close tabs on repatriated boat people to determine whether Cuba was taking
reprisals against them. He said the Administration has no evidence that Mr.
Castro has sought to punish thousands of Cubans who have applied for refugee
status at the interests section in Havana.

The Administration got strong support from one Democrat, Representative Matthew
G. Martinez of California, who said the Administration was merely adopting the
same immigration policy toward Cuba that it has adopted toward migrants from
Mexico and other countries.

In another sign of growing tensions between Congress and the Administration,
Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader, said he would introduce a bill next month
to lift the Bosnian arms embargo unilaterally -- a move President Clinton
opposes.

"It seems to me that everything's falling apart," Mr. Dole said. "It seems to me
that the time has come for a total review of our policy."

During his testimony today, Mr. Christopher also disclosed that the United
States would postpone a shipment of 50,000 tons of oil due in North Korea this
October unless the North insures that diversions of such oil would be stopped.

Under an agreement signed last October, the United States pledged to provide
North Korea with oil until two light-water reactors are built in the North. In
exchange for the reactors, the North Koreans vowed to shut down their
weapons-related nuclear program.

The oil is supposed to be used for heating and electricity, but Mr. Christopher
said some oil had been diverted to make iron and steel, though not for military
use.

Mr. Christopher made the announcement a day before American and North Korean
diplomats are to meet in Malaysia to resolve a dispute in which the North has
threatened to restart its nuclear program if the United States continues to
insist that the promised light-water reactors be designed and built by South
Korea.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a break in the first Congressional hearing on the
Administration's new Cuba policy, the Cuban-American leader, Jorge Mas Canosa,
wiped perspiration from his face after fielding questions from reporters. (Amy
Toensing for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 20, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Court Backs Government In Detention Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 27;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 739 words


Two days after a Federal court in Pennsylvania ruled the immigration service had
wrongly held the passengers of a freighter, the Golden Venture, for nearly two
years, an appellate court in Manhattan decided yesterday that the Government was
within its rights not only to detain the smuggled immigrants, but also to deny
them political asylum based on their opposition to China's policy of restricting
families to one child.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that China's
one-child policy, which refugee advocates say is pursued through the use of
forced sterilizations and abortions, does not constitute political persecution.

The appellate decision effectively ends the long and contentious legal battle
that has been waged in this country over China's one-child policy, which over
the last five years had been used by thousands of Chinese to win political
asylum.

"The legal battle is somewhat over," said Niall Lenihan, the lawyer who
represents the passenger from the Golden Venture, Zhang Xinchang, whose case was
decided yesterday. Mr. Zhang is being held in lower Manhattan. "The Second
Circuit's decision has closed the door on those who hoped to seek protection in
this country from China's policy," Mr. Lenihan said.

He said the Fourth Circuit Court in Richmond had recently reached a similar
decision in another Chinese case. With two appellate courts supporting the
Government's position, he said he saw little chance of the policy's being
overturned.

"It's now in the political arena," he said.

The appellate ruling provides a boost to the Clinton Administration's strategy
of holding smuggled Chinese immigrants until the resolution of their cases as a
way of deterring others.

The United States Attorney's office in Manhattan did not respond to a telephone
call requesting comment.

The decision yesterday also dealt a blow to the chance that some passengers from
the Golden Venture being held in the York County Prison in Pennsylvania could be
released.

On Wednesday a Federal district court in Harrisburg ruled that the passengers
had the right to request release on bond.

The decision from Judge Sylvia Rambo hinged on a subtle distinction in
immigration law between illegal immigrants who are caught as they attempt to
cross into the United States and those who have actually entered the country.

Once inside the United States, illegal immigrants have the right to request
release on bond; those caught outside the country have no such right.

Judge Rambo's decision had buoyed the supporters of the smuggled Chinese
immigrants, who had hoped that the passengers would finally be free after two
years of jail, even though they would still face new deportation hearings.

The Second Circuit Court, however, ruled that the passengers had never actually
entered the country, in the legal sense.

The court determined that they could have claimed entry only if they had reached
land.

"United States immigration law is designed to regulate the travel of human
beings, whose habitat is land, not the comings and goings of fish or birds," the
court panel wrote. "Zhang, therefore, was not physically present until he came
to the beach."

In addition, the court ruled that Mr. Zhang did not formally enter the country
because the Golden Venture and its passengers were monitored by Federal
authorities for most of the time that they were in United States territorial
waters.

Lory Rosenberg, a lawyer with the American Immigration Law Foundation who worked
on the Pennsylvania case for the Golden Venture passengers, said she believed
yesterday's decision went against common sense and legal precedent.

She said that a person's physical presence is determined simply by whether a
person has crossed into United States territory, whether the boundary line is
over air, land or sea.

"No case has made that distinction between land and water," she said. "This is
just inconsistent with previous cases."

She added that she believed that the passengers were clearly outside the control
of the Government since immigration agents did not appear on the scene until
many passengers had already reached shore.

While the Second Circuit Court's decision does not directly affect the prisoners
in Pennsylvania, which is outside the New York court's jurisdiction, lawyers
conceded that the Manhattan-based court is one of the most influential in the
country.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 21, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba Accord Presents Chance to Lift Embargo

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 14;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 116 words


To the Editor:

Re "From Here to Cuba" (Op-Ed, May 17), encouraging President Clinton to build
on the momentum of the immigration agreement: There are two steps he should now
take.

(1) Lift the sanctions imposed during the immigration crisis. This would ease
the unconstitutional travel restrictions and allow Cuban-Americans to send
remittances to family.

(2) Remove food and medicines from the embargo. Denying people food and
medicines is cruel.

Mr. Clinton incurred Cuban-American wrath with the agreement. He might as well
go all the way and bring United States policy out of its cold-war freeze.

MEDEA BENJAMIN
Director, Global Exchange
San Francisco, May 17, 1995

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 4, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

COPING;
Dose of Vitality From 'The Other America'

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 1;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 822 words


ON the Union Square subway platform, a Zimbabwean opened his duffel bag to show
us watches and flashlights. He picked them up in Brooklyn, he said, and was on
his way to sell them in the Bronx. In a richly insincere voice that recalled
childhood visits to Jewish clothing stores on the Lower East Side, he told us
that he was practically giving the flashlights. Such a good deal.

"That man is a red-blood corpuscle," said Joel Millman, once we were on the
train to the Bronx. "Immigrants are pumping oxygen and money into the city. They
do jobs no one wants to do, they create markets that weren't there, they're
replacing older immigrant groups."

Mr. Millman, an old friend, is writing a book for Viking Penguin about the
impact of immigration. He may call it "The Other Americans," an homage to and an
update of Michael Harrington's 1962 classic on poverty in the midst of plenty.
Mr. Millman is finding wealth and hope in poor neighborhoods. He took me on a
tour of his thesis.

If the Zimbabwean is a corpuscle, Heinz Vieluf is a transfusion. He is the son
of a German wurst maker who migrated to the Dominican Republic, married, and
founded Cibao Meat Products in New York. The father's portrait hangs in the
office of the plant on St. Ann's Avenue. The brass plate reads: Don Siegfried
Vieluf, Fundador.

Heinz, 36, was educated in prep schools, married a Dominican and lives in
Rockland Country with his three children. The 8,200-square-foot plant employs
25, mostly Dominicans (many at the minimum wage, no union or benefits), and
grinds out between 50,000 and 85,000 pounds a week of spiced meats under various
brand names to appeal to different ethnic and age groups; Dominicans like it
hotter than Italians, said Mr. Vieluf, all people prefer less spice as they grow
older. He is alert to the subtle differences between Mexican and Colombian taste
buds (so far, Ecuadorians and Peruvians will buy sausages aimed at the Colombian
market), and to the nuances of the job market.

"Ten years ago, I'd lose five employees every couple of months," he said. "They
could make a lot more money dealing drugs. Now there's a big pool of unemployed,
and a lot of dead drug dealers."

Outside, in a gray drizzle, there were no yellow cabs, but we found a licensed
old Ford cruising illegally. For $6, which he said he would not share with the
dispatcher, the Dominican driver took us to a section of Bathgate that may
someday be Golden Krust City. Lowell Hawthorne, who came from Jamaica in 1981
with his entrepeneur father and eight of his 10 siblings, is expanding their
bakery and pattie factory, and opening retail outlets.

"If Taco Bell can do it, so can Golden Krust," said Mr. Hawthorne, 35, who
attended Lehman College and has the immigrant go-getter's disdain for those on
welfare. "It would be degrading to go home and tell people you are getting food
stamps."

With the help of a saving cooperative, called a "su-su," Mr. Hawthorne bought a
$19,000 home in the Bronx 14 years ago. He has since moved his wife and four
children to Rockland County.

The Golden Krust plant has 68 workers, mostly Jamaicans, making seven types of
patties; older Jamaicans, he says, need that "ding" on their tongues, younger
Jamaicans and Americans prefer milder hits.

It was raining harder, and we couldn't find even an illegally cruising cab, so
we got into an unlicensed jitney driven by a Nigerian who recommended a new
African Restaurant (that was its name) at 1987 University Avenue. The place was
packed with Africans and Mr. Millman, his enthusiasm fueled, talked about the
optimism and sense of community that immigrants bring, an essential for American
progress. The manager, Mohammed Abdullay, a Ghanian, came out of the kitchen for
compliments on the kingfish, the cow's feet and the okra stew.

We worked off lunch ducking into store-front hair-braiding salons. The African
women inside were wary; hair-braiding, sometimes done on house calls, is a
booming ghetto business that often operates without the burdens of taxes,
licenses or inspections.

At a warehouse on Jerome Avenue, Felipe Chavez opened a can of the Del Carmen
brand tender cactus in brine imported by his cousin, Felix Sanchez, who came to
New York from Mexico 20 years ago and sold tortillas in Brooklyn, door to door.
Mr. Sanchez expanded to supply bodegas and on this day was off preparing to
confront Gruma, the Mexican tortilla empire, in a battle for the New York
market.

Mr. Millman threw himself at the day's first yellow cab, fresh from the garage
en route to Manhattan. The driver refused to tell his story, so Mr. Millman
described his latest find, a Senegalese who stripped off the European-style
clothing from dark-skinned dolls she bought from China and re-dressed them in
African fashions she sewed herself from kente cloth. The dolls sold so well on
125th Street that she sent 50 to Dakar to test-market them on American tourists.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              402 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION REVIEW;
Tracing the Routes Of the Irish in America

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section C;  Page 18;  Column 5;  Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 618 words


Happy groups of immigrants to America are all alike; every unhappy group is
unhappy in its own way. "Out of Ireland," Paul Wagner's evocative two-hour
history of almost two centuries of Irish immigration, captures the lows and
highs of an emigration that depleted the population of the home country as it
enriched the United States.

Moving back and forth between Ireland and America, the program finds its way
into the lives of a few of the millions of Irish Roman Catholics who made the
journey, most of them in the years after the terrible potato famine of the
1840's. The destruction of their subsistence crop seemed the final blow after
centuries of political repression and economic exploitation by Protestant
landowners under the protection of the British. An Irish historian sings: "She's
the most distressful country/that ever yet was seen./For they're hangin' men and
women/For the wearin' of the green." From 1845 to 1860, two million people
emigrated (or, as many of them felt, went into exile) and their departure, along
with the deaths from hunger and disease, reduced Ireland's population by a
third.

The immigrants focused on here seem to have been selected mainly for their
talent as letter writers, which works just fine. The Irish nation cannot be
entirely composed of natural stylists, but you wouldn't know it from these
resonant passages, read in zesty brogues by Liam Neeson, Brenda Fricker, Aidan
Quinn and Gabriel Byrne, and accompanied by energetically fiddled home-grown
melodies and rich old photographs from Ireland and America. Now and then Mick
Moloney, a folklorist, delivers a song, including a rouser about everybody in
America being named Kelly.

The language is so fresh that it makes the routine narration, spoken by Kelly
McGillis as if she were competing in an enunciation contest, seem even flatter
than it is. Unfortunately, Mr. Wagner does not write as well as he directs,
despite his claim to an Irish grandmother.

As is pointed out more than once tonight, many of the immigrants found
themselves paving the roads they had dreamed were made of gold. Irishmen became
cheap labor for the toughest jobs of an expanding nation: building bridges,
railroads and skyscrapers; digging canals, and cutting lumber. In a time of
capitalism unconstrained, Ireland's shanties were replaced by America's slums
and the newcomers had to endure the sort of discrimination that earlier
immigrants have a way of extending to the latest batch of strangers.

The invigorating influence of the Irish-Americans on the Roman Catholic church,
the emerging labor unions, the Democratic Party and big-city politics are duly
noted. Particular attention is paid to Richard O'Gorman, who started out as a
radical nationalist in Dublin and was Americanized as a Tammany big shot at the
time of the Tweed ring. A sharp observer as well as an adroit player in the New
York City political game, he wrote home that "our countrymen have their share"
in what he called "the headquarters of political corruption." He died a judge.

Needless to say, the Irish, who made up the first of the great 19th-century
migrations of huddled masses from Europe to America, have, like most of the
others, prospered. This spirited appreciation ends with a telling statistic:
fewer than 10 percent of these immigrants, much though they cherished memories
of home, returned to Ireland. Instead they sent hundreds of millions of dollars
back, to bring others to come and make it in America.


OUT OF IRELAND
 PBS, tonight at 9
 (Channel 13 in New York)

Produced by Paul Wagner and Ellen Casey Wagner; directed by Mr. Wagner; written
by Mr. Wagner and Kerby Miller; narrated by Kelly McGillis.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In "Out of Ireland," on PBS tonight, policemen in Charlestown,
Mass. (Bostonian Society/PBS)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              403 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Common Sense on Immigration

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 14;   Column 1;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 727 words


A bipartisan Federal commission proposed last week that the United States slash
legal immigration by one-third and virtually close the nation's borders to
"extended" family members of American citizens. President Clinton swiftly
embraced the report. But after representatives of Asian and Hispanic immigrants
complained bitterly, the President's press secretary volunteered that perhaps
the White House had not carefully considered all the issues.

The press secretary spoke the truth. The White House seems to have reacted
before deliberating carefully on an issue that begs for deft handling.
Immigration, along with affirmative action, promises to become an incendiary
issue in the 1996 elections. It plays to racial fears. It plays to economic
fears of workers whose wages have stagnated for two decades. The President can
easily embrace the commission's basic policy thrust: admit more skilled, and
fewer unskilled, workers. But he should hesitate before endorsing its proposal
to reduce immigration levels and impose a "fee" on employers who hire foreign
professionals.

The emotional issues aside, immigration is a tough subject to get right because
so little is known about its economic impact. Historically, the United States
has been enriched by a steady influx of energetic and ambitious immigrants. But
no one knows whether current levels, about 900,000 a year, are too low or too
high. There are, however, disturbing trends. Twenty years ago, immigrants and
those born in America were equally educated and earned equivalent wages. Since
then, the percentage of immigrants who have dropped out of high school has risen
and their wages fallen. In the 1970's, immigrants collected relatively little
welfare; now they depend on welfare more than the native born do.

Since the early 1970's, the gap between the earnings of college graduates and
high school dropout has risen by more than 50 percent. Experts disagree, but
many believe that low-skilled immigrants have driven down the earnings of
low-wage native-born workers who compete for the same jobs. A study by Prof.
George Borjas of the University of California estimates that perhaps a third of
the increased inequality can be traced to immigration.

The commission would lower annual immigration from 900,000 to 550,000. It would
reserve 400,000 slots for members of an American citizen's nuclear family
(primarily young children and spouses). But it would end the current law's
preferential treatment of siblings and other extended-family members -- a
provision that has inflamed Asian-American and Hispanic families.

The commission would reserve 100,000 slots for workers who receive job offers
from American employers -- a drop from current levels but high enough, the
commission believes, to accommodate employer demand. But, in a change from
current law, few of these job-based slots would be allocated to workers who lack
a college degree.

The logic of the plan is clear. For humanitarian reasons, immigration slots
would first go to members of a nuclear family. All other slots would be
restricted to skilled workers. The total would bring immigration back down to
the levels of the early 1980's. These proposals are defensible.

But they come at a cost of shutting out brothers, sisters, adult children and
others whom America has often welcomed. Thus Congress will be obliged to raise
and debate alternatives. Congress could create additional slots for family
unification, but choose among the applicants on the basis of skills they would
bring to the work force. That could unite families, recruit skilled workers and
protect the nation's low-wage employees.

Some of the commission's ideas are hard to defend. It would, for example, tax
employers who recruit skilled foreign workers and make the employer pay them
above-market wages. That idea runs counter to the goals of bringing valuable
skills to the economy and closing the earnings gap between high-paid and
low-paid workers.

The forthcoming debate on immigration will take surprising turns. The ordinarily
unified Republicans are deeply split -- with Senator Alan Simpson and Gov. Pete
Wilson urging restrictions while the House majority leader, Dick Armey, urges
the opposite. The commission has provided some reasonable words on a deeply
sensitive issue. But they are surely not the final words.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              404 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Workers File Lawsuit, Charging Bias

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 10


More than a dozen Hispanic agents have filed a Federal suit accusing the
Immigration and Naturalization Service of discrimination so widespread that it
impedes their careers and interrupts their daily work.

A supervisory special agent for the immigration service, Jesus Quintanar, is the
lead plaintiff in the complaint, brought in Washington on Friday.

"Quintanar was denied promotions and training because of his race," the
complaint says, "was retaliated against because of his race, has been denied the
same grade level and pay scale as Anglo employees with the same or less
experience and has been subject to a racially hostile work environment."

Thirteen other Hispanic agents, whose names were not disclosed, are also
plaintiffs. Among them are a Border Patrol agent in Laredo, Tex., and a senior
special agent in Long Beach, Calif.

And the complaint says 40 additional Hispanic agents want to be included if it
is certified as a class-action lawsuit.

Peter Schey of Los Angeles, a lawyer for the agents, said such certification
could produce the largest race discrimination suit ever against the Federal
Government, involving up to 25,000 employees.

"Our complaint is not that the service doesn't hire a representative number of
Hispanics," Mr. Schey said. "It's that too many of them are hired to sweep the
floor and shuffle paper."

An I.N.S. spokesman, Rico Cabrera, said that with the issue now in court, the
immigration service would not comment. But the agency provided figures showing
that 601 I.N.S. supervisory jobs became available in 1994 and that 255 were
filled by members of minority groups.

The immigration service has often been a target of lawsuits by human rights
groups, which contend that agents frequently treat Hispanic immigrants caught
crossing illegally at the border with undue harshness.

Now the complaint by the Hispanic agents contends that many of the agency's
white employees display racist attitudes toward Hispanic people in general.

The suit seeks corrective measures including a nondiscriminatory promotion and
training system nationwide and improved training on race relations, as well as
compensatory damages.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              405 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 12, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Plans Wider Links With Cubans

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A;     Page 9;     Column 1;     Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1033 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


Once the furor over new rules on Cuban immigration dies down, the Clinton
Administration plans to make an important shift in policy by announcing expanded
contacts between Americans and Cubans as a way of undermining Fidel Castro.

Officials are quick to say that they plan to continue to isolate Mr. Castro and
maintain the economic sanctions of the last 30 years, which the White House
actually toughened last summer. But they contend that the fall of Communism in
Eastern Europe demonstrated the value of increased contacts in the form of, for
example, educational exchanges.

So far, they have held off out of concern that Cuban-American groups and
Congressional Republicans would criticize the increased contacts as moves toward
normalizing relations with Havana.

Among the many steps under consideration are allowing American news
organizations to open bureaus in Cuba, funneling money and fax machines to Cuban
human rights activists, and arranging exchanges of American and Cuban clerics,
students, academics and artists.

"Eastern European officials told us that these tools made a real difference in
bringing down Communism," said a senior policy maker.

Some of President Clinton's foreign policy advisers were pressing to announce
the moves early last month when the Administration announced it would send boat
people seeking refuge here back to Cuba. Many Cuban-American groups, especially
the powerful Cuban-American National Foundation, condemned the change as a
concession and a step toward normalization.

Senator Bob Graham, the Florida Democrat who is probably the Administration's
chief adviser on Cuba, has warned against actions that might be construed as
steps toward normalization until the anger dies down among Cuban-Americans.

"If a better climate gets created in two to three months -- that's about how
long we think it will take -- then we have a moral obligation to take further
steps to help people on the island push for democracy," a senior State
Department official said.

Administration officials say the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 embraced two
strategies to weaken Mr. Castro: tightening the trade embargo and increasing
contacts among people of the two countries. The philosophy was that a greater
flow of Western ideas to Cuba would speed Cubans' embrace of democracy.

"There is a strong sense in the Administration that we should be more aggressive
in advancing the aims of the Cuban Democracy Act," said a top Administration
policy maker on Cuba.

Senator Graham had told the Administration that the timing should turn in part
on whether Havana fulfills its pledge to avoid reprisals against boat people
sent back to Cuba. If there are reprisals, the reasoning goes, that will provide
ammunition to critics who say the Administration was misguided and naive to
trust Havana's promises.

"If there are credible stories of people repatriated being beaten up or worse,
it will weaken the Administration's hand," Mr. Graham said.

Administration officials acknowledge they are wary that announcing increased
contacts might widen the schism with the Cuban-American National Foundation. But
they say that many Cuban-Americans, upset that their relatives are trapped on
the Communist island, are lobbying for increased contacts as a way of breathing
intellectual fresh air into Cuba.

Officials say they have been considering the new policy for months, and Cuba's
recent decision to release its two most prominent political prisoners could help
the Administration make this decision.

Responding to pleas from the United States and France, Mr. Castro freed the two
prisoners 10 days ago in what was widely viewed as an effort to earn good will
with Washington. The two, Rolando Indamiro Restano Diaz and Sebastian Arcos
Bergnes, had been held more than three years on charges of seeking to subvert
the Cuban state.

Officials said there was no link to whether Cuba hands over Robert L. Vesco, the
fugitive financier arrested last week.

Judging from its recent remarks, the Cuban-American National Foundation does not
trust the Administration to increase contacts in a way that turns up the heat on
Havana.

"If such steps are pursued with the original intention -- to force open Cuban
society -- and are used in an offensive way against Castro, then it's something
we endorse," said Jose Cardenas, director of the foundation's Washington office.
"But we worry that with this Administration, it will just mean Cubans and
Americans sit around and have coffee, the Americans spend hard currency in Cuba
and then everyone goes home. We can't be very excited about that."

Some Cuban-Americans say Castro might resent the moves and try to block some of
them.
 Having defied the foundation's influential president, Jorge Mas Canosa, on
immigration policy, the Administration seems less daunted about defying him
again, partly because he is raising money for the Republican Party. Moreover,
the Administration dismisses Mr. Mas's claim to speak for all Cuban-Americans
since polls show that almost half the Cubn-Americans in Florida support the new
immigration policy.

Another indicator of coming changes was the selection last month of Richard
Nuccio, known as a pragmatist open to expanded contacts, as the President's
special adviser on Cuba.

Several of the Administration's policy makers on Cuba say allowing American
newspapers or networks to open bureaus in Havana should be a priority because it
would -- at least in theory -- advance democracy and help focus attention on
Cuba's human rights violations. But Representative Dan Burton, the Indiana
Republican who heads the House Subcommittee on Western Hemispheric Affairs, says
such a move would only prop up Castro with hard currency.

Representative Robert G. Torricelli, the New Jersey Democrat who wrote the Cuban
Democracy Act, asserts that the Administration should have allowed news bureaus
in Havana months ago.

"If Castro gains $7 million in foreign exchange from having newspapers and
networks in Havana, that's money I'd welcome him to receive," he said. "These
news bureaus will make it impossible for Castro to harass human rights people
the way he has in the past."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              406 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 8, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

An Exile's Empire: A special report.;
With Voice of Cuban-Americans A Would-Be Successor to Castro

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 3264 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 4


In any debate about American policy toward Cuba, few figures loom larger than
Jorge Mas Canosa, considered by many in both countries to be a principal
architect of the hostile, uncompromising approach toward Fidel Castro that
guided Washington until the Clinton Administration announced on Tuesday that it
had reached an agreement with Havana on immigration.

Mr. Mas, a 55-year-old construction entrepreneur, came to Miami 35 years ago as
a penniless refugee and has amassed not only a net worth of more than $80
million but also immense political power. Fourteen years after setting up the
Cuban American National Foundation at the behest of the Reagan Administration,
he is arguably the most influential of the nation's 1.5 million Cuban-Americans.

He has shaped the content of United States Government broadcasts to Cuba, has
held unprecedented control over a Government-financed resettlement program for
Cuban refugees, and, through three administrations, has found an open door both
at the White House and on Capitol Hill.

When President Clinton announced reprisals against President Castro at the
height of the Cuban refugee crisis last summer, Mr. Mas, a Republican, was quick
to claim credit for the tough new stance. But when the Administration announced
that Cuban boat people would henceforth be returned, it appeared to undermine
Mr. Mas's position with the White House.

Administration officials involved in the decision to alter the immigration
policy said they had consulted with only two outside people, Senator Bob Graham
of Florida and Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida, both Democrats. They said they had
not talked to Mr. Mas -- or any other Cuban-American leader -- because they
feared that Cuban-Americans would mobilize to block the decision.

Ultimately, it may have come down to Presidential politics. One official said
that relations with Mr. Mas had always been edgy and that the White House was
dubious about his support in 1996.

After the announcement, Mr. Mas realigned himself with his party and pulled his
group out of a Government refugee program. Mr. Mas's political influence remains
strong, especially with a Republican majority in Congress. Mr. Mas has been
pushing for legislation to tighten the three-decade-old American embargo of
Cuba, and he has found an ardent ally in Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina,
the new Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman.

At an emotional rally here on April 17 to commemorate the 34th anniversary of
the Bay of Pigs invasion, Senator Helms heaped praise on Mr. Mas and the
foundation and, with Mr. Mas at his side, endorsed their call for a naval
blockade of Cuba.

"I'm going to do everything I can to make sure the United States stands with
you," Senator Helms said.

Mr. Mas is a bulldog of a man whose explosive temper has plunged him into
several lawsuits, including a libel case he lost to an estranged younger
brother. He is often spotted at football and baseball games or sipping cafe
Cubano and soaking up the adulation of fellow exiles in Little Havana.

Mr. Mas founded a construction company, now called MasTec, that made him a
fortune laying telephone cable. Before that, he served in the United States Army
and worked as a milkman, stevedore, shoe salesman and dishwasher.

Mr. Mas's Mercedes, with bodyguards, is often seen in the southwest Miami
suburbs, where he lives in a walled compound. He presides over an empire that
includes the foundation, claiming 50,000 members, and a political action
committee that has donated more than $1 million to Congressional and
Presidential candidates of both parties in little more than a decade.

Anticipating Mr. Castro's fall, Mr. Mas has built a power base that resembles a
government in exile, to the point of bestowing medals on visiting heads of
state, warning foreign governments that they will be punished if they trade with
Cuba and writing a new Cuban constitution. Through the foundation, he also runs
a commission, with some of America's largest corporations as members, that has
drawn up a plan to overhaul the Cuban economy once Mr. Castro goes.

He is also on a first-name basis with Latin American presidents and, through the
foundation, has even sponsored a visit to Miami by Russian President Boris
Yeltsin.

Mr. Clinton, as a candidate in 1992, sought Mr. Mas's blessing by arranging to
have lunch with him at a restaurant in Little Havana. Both Ronald Reagan and
George Bush have also paid tribute to him.

"I salute Jorge Mas," President Bush told several hundred Republicans at a
$1,000-a-plate dinner here during the 1992 campaign. Mr. Bush called Mr. Mas, a
Bay of Pigs veteran and the son of a Cuban army veterinarian, the living
embodiment of Cuban immigrants' success.

Ultimately, however, Mr. Mas is said to have grander ambitions. In both
Washington and Miami, it is widely assumed that he will be satisfied with
nothing less than replacing Mr. Castro as Cuba's paramount leader.

"Jorge Mas Canosa is a man of enormous ambition who makes no secret of his
desire to become the next Cuban president," a study published in 1993 by the
Strategic Studies Institute of the United States Army War College concluded. "In
many respects, Mas is a capitalist mirror image of Fidel Castro: demagogic,
intolerant, dictatorial, with an enormous ego and a propensity for delivering
'thundering speeches,' exuding 'hatred and intransigence.' "

In recent years, human rights groups like Human Rights Watch/Americas, based in
Washington, have criticized Mr. Mas and the foundation for what they call
"attempts to discredit" critics and opponents. In 1992, after Mr. Mas accused
The Miami Herald of harboring Castro sympathizers, Human Rights Watch/Americas
issued a report blaming "the dominant intransigent forces in Miami's Cuban exile
community" for efforts to silence and intimidate opponents.

In 1989, after Federal Treasury agents raided the home of Ramon Cernuda, a Miami
book publisher who represents Cuban dissidents critical of foundation leaders
and policies, Mr. Mas was quick to take credit for the raid and to warn other
exiles of the dangers of opposing him.

"In effect, we are responsible for this and other investigations that I hope
will materialize," he boasted on a Spanish-language radio station loyal to the
foundation. He also warned that he was "going to continue trying to get an
investigation of Cernuda and 20 other Cernudas who are here in Miami." He added,
"In other words, the holiday is over for these people and Cernuda."

During the same radio interview, Mr. Mas also said he had "taken steps with
Congress, the Executive Branch and the Treasury Department" to get them to move
against his rivals. In the next year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
raided Mr. Cernuda's offices, the Internal Revenue Service audited his personal
and business tax returns, and state labor inspectors investigated his business.

Mr. Mas did not respond to numerous requests for an interview to discuss his
activities and plans. Last month, Jose Cardenas, a foundation representative in
Washington, said that no official of the foundation would consent to an
interview with The New York Times because the group regards the newspaper's
coverage of Cuban affairs since the 1950's as sympathetic to Mr. Castro.


The Rise
A Briar Patch Of Broadcasting

Although Mr. Mas founded the Cuban American National Foundation late in 1980,
the group achieved its first big political coup only in 1985, when the Reagan
Administration, at Mr. Mas's urging, established Radio Marti, named for Jose
Marti, the father of Cuban independence.

The idea was to provide Cuba's 11 million people with an alternative to
President Castro's version of the news, even though many Cubans could already
listen to commercial Spanish-language stations broadcasting from Miami. Five
years later, TV Marti went on the air.

Radio Marti built a sizable audience in Cuba, but TV Marti did not. Because of
global communications agreements, TV Marti broadcasts only from 3:30 A.M. to 8
A.M. and is completely jammed by Cuba. Even so, the United States has spent more
than $238 million to keep the stations going, and efforts to reduce Federal
support as part of budget-cutting efforts have largely failed. This year the two
stations have requested an additional $26 million.

The Office of Cuba Broadcasting, a division of the Voice of America, runs the
two Marti stations. It is supervised by a nine-member advisory board that Mr.
Mas has led since 1986, when Mr. Reagan appointed him chairman. Current and
former employees said Mr. Mas had often influenced the tone and content of
broadcasts, the employment of station personnel and decisions to award contracts
to consultants.

Radio and TV Marti are required to adhere to the same Federal guidelines of
fairness as the Voice of America. But many current and former employees, as well
as academic experts on Cuba and rival Cuban exile groups here, say Mr. Mas has
systematically ignored those regulations and used the stations to advance his
own political agenda.

"The pattern has been disastrous," said Ernesto F. Betancourt, who was director
of Radio Marti from its inception until early in 1990, when he clashed with Mr.
Mas over programming and resigned, saying he had been forced out. In an
interview, Mr. Betancourt contended that the collapse of governments in Eastern
Europe in 1989 had led Mr. Mas and other foundation leaders to expect a similar
upheaval in Cuba.

"At that time, a basic change took place in the behavior of the Cuban American
National Foundation," Mr. Betancourt maintained. "Their goal was no longer
limited to the liberation of Cuba. Instead, the foundation became a political
organization whose goal was to take power after Fidel Castro."

A General Accounting Office study of TV Marti released in 1992 concluded that
the station's coverage "lacked balance and did not meet established Voice of
America standards." The authors expressed concern "about the extent of TV
Marti's coverage of the Cuban American National Foundation."

Early last year, an Advisory Panel on Radio and TV Marti commissioned by
Congress recommended that the board Mr. Mas leads not become involved in daily
operations and that its members be rotated every three years. Those
recommendations have not been implemented.

The board voted recently to move the stations from Washington to Miami. Critics
contend that such a move would make it easy for Mr. Mas to influence the
stations even if he eventually surrendered his post.

Asked about Mr. Mas's role, Penn Kemble, deputy director of the United States
Information Agency, which includes the Voice of America, said in a telephone
interview: "It's doing the job right now and looking to the future that
interests us, rather than expending ourselves in debates about rights and wrongs
in the past."

Radio and TV Marti have been "something of a briar patch," he said, adding, "I
don't doubt mistakes have been made and that there have been problems in the
past.  But there's also been some very impressive work done."

"Jorge cuts a wide swath," Mr. Kemble said. "He's a remarkable character, and he
really played a huge role in getting these things started. I've no doubt there
are things he has done that have been faulted, but there are also people who are
envious of him or who have a disagreement with him and will challenge him for
illicit influence or illegal conduct of one kind or another. He's a gigantic
figure, and he's going to generate a lot of dispute."


The Power
Favoring Friends For Their Support

In Washington, the Cuban American National Foundation exerts its influence
through its lobbying arm, the Cuban American Foundation. Both foundations, in
turn, are linked through their overlapping leadership to the Free Cuba Political
Action Committee Inc. The president of that group, Domingo Moreira, a Miami
seafood importer, is a member of the executive board of the Cuban American
National Foundation and has been a business partner of Mr. Mas.

According to Federal Election Commission records, the Free Cuba PAC and its
predecessor, the National Coalition for a Free Cuba Inc., have contributed more
than $1 million to candidates for President, the Senate and the House of
Representatives in little more than a decade.

In addition, Mr. Moreira said in a 1992 interview, the directors and trustees of
the parent foundation have contributed "probably triple that amount" under their
own names. Currently, the foundation lists 126 directors and trustees.

In the Free Cuba PAC's most recent F.E.C. reports, it reported giving more than
$175,000 in 1993 and 1995 to both parties' candidates for Congress, with many
donations going to members of the Congressional committees that deal with
foreign relations and communications.

"Our philosophy is that we contribute to those who are friends of the Cuban
cause and those opposing enemies of the Cuban cause," Francisco J. Hernandez,
president of the foundation, said in an interview in 1992. "We do not care if
they are Democrats or Republicans, liberals or conservatives."


The Plan
First the Carrot, Then the Stick

Encouraged by signs of Mr. Castro's vulnerability, the foundation began to
recruit American companies in 1991 to join what it called a blue-ribbon
commission to "establish a blueprint for a free-market economy in a post-Castro
Cuba."

Mr. Mas said the group, advised by the investment firm Lazard Freres and with
Malcolm S. Forbes Jr. as its honorary president, would provide the guidelines by
which Cuba's future leaders "would deal with issues essential to the rebuilding
of the economy." The group's prospectus said it would focus on subjects like
selling off Cuba's state-owned enterprises to private investors, including
American companies.

In asking some of the nation's largest companies to join, the foundation
explained that an initial membership fee of $25,000 or more would entitle them
to "studies of fundamental reform guidelines." But a senior Fortune 500
executive, who spoke on the condition that neither he nor his company be
identified, said he had doubts about the venture.

"The way it was presented to us," he said, recalling a meeting of Mr. Mas with
the company's directors, "was that these guys were going to be the leaders of
Cuba when Castro goes down and that we would be in their good graces by being
part of this committee. That was the pitch, and though it was initially
presented in the most patriotic of terms, it made us extremely uncomfortable."

Mr. Hernandez said last fall that "about 40" companies had joined. He and other
officials and members said the group included companies specializing in tourism
and communications, like Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines Ltd. and Bell South, as
well as hotels, airlines, car rental companies and "tobacco interests."

"We want to help the Cuban community here in their efforts to move Mr. Castro
out, and then, being a cruise line, we would like to see Cuba open," said Peter
G. Whelpton, executive vice president for hotel operations for Royal Caribbean.

"We felt the foundation is the strongest, most level-headed and best-funded
group, with a solid and reasonable legal and economic platform with which to
move forward when the time comes."

American companies are currently prohibited from doing business in Cuba, and Mr.
Mas has warned foreign firms that have already invested on the island that they
may face the seizure of their assets in Cuba when Mr. Castro falls.

The companies now doing business in Cuba "are well aware of the risk they took,"
Mr. Mas said at a transportation convention in Fort Lauderdale on Feb. 20. "They
should not expect to profit."


The Tactics
Once Thwarted, A Step Back

After the Cuban refugee crisis last summer, the foundation sought to revive one
of its most controversial ventures, the resettlement of refugees, formerly
carried out through its Cuban Exodus Relief Fund.

Almost from its inception, the foundation has run refugee programs. At first,
the effort was modest, with the costs borne by members and supporters. But in
1988, the Reagan Administration said the group could bring in up to 4,000 Cubans
a year from third countries.

The foundation promised to pay all the costs of resettling the refugees. "It is
the first time that the American taxpayers don't have to pay for social services
of new refugees," Mr. Mas said when the first group arrived in September 1988.

Three years later, however, the foundation's Cuban Exodus Relief Fund was
certified as a "voluntary agency," entitling it to $588 in Federal support for
each refugee it brought in. In addition, the Office of Refugee Resettlement of
the Department of Health and Human Services authorized $1.7 million for 2,000
more Cuban refugees under another Cuban Exodus Relief Fund program.

The foundation's refugee resettlement program came under fire from other exile
groups, nonpartisan refugee-resettlement agencies and experts on Cuba, who
called the special treatment accorded the foundation highly unusual and
irregular.

"I do not know of any other political organization in the United States that has
ever received this kind of privilege," said Wayne Smith, the State Department's
senior representative in Havana during the Carter and Reagan Administrations.
"It is one they have clearly used to their advantage, saying to people, 'We can
get your uncle in Madrid to the U.S. and, oh, by the way, you do support the
foundation, don't you?' "

In 1991, the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services
investigated the Cuban Exodus Relief Fund and concluded that "it appears the
role of the foundation consists only in processing the refugees till they arrive
at the airport." The agency said newly arriving Cubans had reported that "they
have not received any orientation concerning the community or the health care
system" and "no assistance was received in obtaining job training or employment
from the C.A.N.F."

Although the state agency urged that the foundation's program be audited, no
audit was ever performed. When the report was made public, foundation officials
protested vehemently, and Nancy Kelly Wittenberg, the director of the state's
refugee program, was asked by the Governor's staff for what she called "a letter
of clarification."

"The State of Florida applauds the tremendous contribution made by the Cuban
American National Foundation in their humanitarian role of uniting families
separated for years by a Communist dictator," Ms. Wittenberg wrote. "The State
of Florida supports the C.A.N.F. program and desires a relationship of mutual
cooperation with the foundation."

By 1993, the Cuban Exodus Relief Fund had brought more than 9,500 Cuban refugees
to the United States from countries other than Cuba. That year, following budget
cutbacks and complaints by other refugee-resettlement groups, Federal financing
was withdrawn. Early last year, the foundation stopped accepting applications
for resettlement.

After last summer's exodus of Cuban refugees, the foundation was unable to
revive its resettlement effort. It then joined other community and exile groups
in a program that has sponsored several thousand Guantanamo rafters for
resettlement. But on Tuesday, the foundation withdrew its promise to raise
millions of dollars to help resettle the remaining 20,000 refugees.

Speaking of the Clinton Administration, Mr. Mas said at a news conference here:
"They made this policy alone. Let them now solve the problems of Guantanamo
alone."

NAME: Jorge Mas Canosa

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Once a penniless refugee, Jorge Mas Canosa has become rich in
both business and political terms, helping to shape the policy of three
Administrations toward Cuba. (Jose Lopez/The New York Times)(pg. A12)

TYPE: Biography; Special Report

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              407 of 407 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 12, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Union Fights Visas For 2 Orchestras

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section C;     Page 11;     Column 5;     Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words


To the old question of how to get to Carnegie Hall, there's a new answer: Call
Peter Tiboris.

In what has become a veritable rite of spring, the conductor and presenter rents
the 57th Street hall and fills it with college and community choruses from the
hinterlands who are happy to pay their own way and then some for the privilege.

But an unusual spat over his booking of two Eastern European orchestras has
pitted Mr. Tiboris's Mid-America Productions against Local 802 of the American
Federation of Musicians. The issue is whether the two ensembles conducted by Mr.
Tiboris -- the Bohuslav Martinu Philharmonic from the Czech Republic and the
State Philharmonic of Bialystok, Poland -- have the standing to qualify for
entry under immigration exemptions for cultural exchange.

The union says that they are little more than accompanying "pit" orchestras that
turn Carnegie Hall into "a cultural sweatshop," and that they are paid about
$1.35 an hour.

Mr. Tiboris maintains that the Czech musicians earned between $45 and $50 an
hour.

Mr. Tiboris, on tour in Greece, contended in a telephone interview that the
union misunderstood the fee structure and failed to factor in the musicians'
regular salaries, which he said he did not know. He also called the union's
dismissal of the orchestras as backup groups "quite outside the bounds of
musical correctness."

As far as the Czech orchestra goes, the issue is largely moot. The ensemble
arrived on May 2, played seven engagements -- five with choruses and two on its
own, of which six were at Carnegie Hall and one in Montclair, N.J. -- and left
on May 29. (Two performances reviewed by critics of The New York Times drew
mixed to negative notices.) Efforts to reach the orchestra by telephone in the
Czech Republic last week were unsuccessful.

The Bialystok orchestra is to arrive on June 28 for a week of performances in
Carnegie Hall, in Damrosch Park and in Milwaukee.

The dispute began last fall after Mid-America applied to the Immigration Service
for a visa for the Czech orchestra and advised the musicians' federation,
according to normal procedure.

Under the immigration law, P-1 work visas can be issued to athletes or
entertainment groups so long as they are "internationally recognized as
outstanding in the discipline" and are "coming to perform services which require
an internationally recognized entertainment group or athletic team."

Last Nov. 21, an assistant to Mark Tully Massagli, president of the American
Federation of Musicians, wrote to Mid-America to agree that "the evidence
presented clearly establishes that the group in question is recognized
internationally as being an outstanding performer in the classical field." The
letter said the union had no objection to the visa.

But members of Local 802, who are frequently at odds with their parent union,
were furious. The federation's secretary-treasurer, Stephen R. Sprague, wrote a
letter in May to the Immigration Service asserting that misrepresentations had
misled the union into believing that the orchestras were main attractions. Mr.
Sprague declined to take a call on the matter last week. An aide said he was
busy preparing for the coming federation convention in Las Vegas, Nev.

Also asking the Immigration Service for a review based on the union's complaint
was Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, Democrat of Manhattan. But in a letter the
Congressman received last week, the agency said it had examined the case and
found insufficient basis to reverse its approval.

Local 802 meanwhile distributed leaflets outside Carnegie Hall saying it
supported foreign ensembles as main attractions but not as groups brought "for
the purpose of enriching promoters who undercut the hard-won wages of local
musicians." The flyers listed Mid-America's phone numbers and urged people to
complain. Another leaflet accused Mr. Tiboris of being driven by greed.

Jennifer Wada, a spokeswoman for Carnegie Hall, said that it was the first time
such an issue had arisen but that the concert hall had no involvement, having
leased out the premises to Mr. Tiboris.

The union said it arrived at its estimate of $1.35 an hour by multiplying
Mid-America's figure of $2,000 per concert by the number of concerts and
dividing that figure by hours of performance and rehearsal time and the number
of players. By contrast, it said, union scale, or minimum, averaged $134.15 plus
benefits per concert, and $26.20 for each hour of rehearsal time.

Mr. Tiboris said he paid $18,500 to rent the hall for each concert. He said the
66 Czech musicians had their plane fare and rooms and breakfast (both orchestras
stayed at the West Side Y.M.C.A.) paid for and were given $30 a day to cover
their other expenses. He said the union erred by taking the $2,000 figure as the
musicians' pay when actually it was the amount paid to the administration of the
orchestra. With the addition of per diems and regular pay, which he could not
specify, he said, the visiting musicians were making $45 to $50 an hour.

Ron Sell, a French-horn player with the American Symphony Orchestra, said he did
not blame Mr. Tiboris for seeking cost-cutting measures when the concert
business hit a downturn several years ago. But he also said that a Beethoven
performance in May by the Bohuslav Martinu orchestra was one of the worst he had
ever witnessed.

"It was terrible," he said. "I wanted to dive under my seat."

Mid-America is known for assembling choruses from around the country to sing in
mammoth concerts at Carnegie Hall. Over the last five years, the 47-year-old Mr.
Tiboris said, he has staged 38, and more than a dozen others with youth
orchestras.

He said travel arrangements were made by Tzell Travel, an agency in the same
building as Mid-America at 70 West 36th Street. He and Tzell's owner, Barry
Liben, said the two companies were separate, with offices on different floors.
But former employees of Mid-America who spoke only on condition of anonymity
said that they had at times worked out of Tzell's office and that Mid-America
had used Tzell's postage meter to send mail. "If I want to help a client, why
not?" said Mr. Liben, who declined to discuss the matter further.

Galen Marshall, conductor of the Masterworks Chorale of San Mateo, Calif., said
his group was "happy as can be" with the two trips and performances Mr. Tiboris
had arranged for them in recent years. "I expect Peter made plenty," he said.
"But I say to those who ask: 'It's like a cruise. Don't get involved trying to
break down who's getting what.' "

NAME: Peter Tiboris

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Tiboris (Steve J. Sherman)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
