
                               1 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Pressure Grows on Congress for Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 440 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Supreme Court's decision on the Arizona immigration law - and
President Obama's reaction to it - appeared to put the onus on Congress to act
on what Republicans and Democrats agree is a broken immigration system.


The Supreme Court's decision on Monday on the Arizona immigration law - and
President Obama's reaction to it - appeared to put the onus on Congress to act
on what Republicans and Democrats agree is a broken immigration system.

Mr. Obama issued a statement calling on Congress to enact immigration reform
just hours after the court handed down its 5-to-3 decision.

"A patchwork of state laws is not a solution to our broken immigration system -
it's part of the problem," the president said.

Since the collapse in 2007 of the last Senate efforts to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws, little has stirred on the issue on Capitol Hill. The parties
are at loggerheads, not only on the substance of immigration law changes but
also on how to approach it.

The elements of an overhaul are broadly agreed on: tougher border security and
stronger enforcement of laws prohibiting the hiring of undocumented workers,
looser rules on visas for highly skilled or educated immigrants, a guest-worker
program for sectors like agriculture that are plagued by labor shortages, and
some response to the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the country.

Democratic leaders maintain that any changes must be done comprehensively. If
business interests get what they want on educated immigrants and guest workers,
for instance, Democrats fear that a key Republican constituency will be lost
when it comes to less popular measures, like providing some path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants.

Most Republicans say they want to toughen border security first, and they refuse
to move forward with other measures until they are satisfied that the borders
are all but sealed.

But that stalemate may be weakening. Last month, four senators - two Democrats
and two Republicans - introduced legislation to overhaul the rules on visas for
highly skilled workers. Both Democrats, Mark Warner of Virginia and Chris Coons
of Delaware, said they were prepared to move forward without a comprehensive
immigration effort. Meanwhile, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Republican
rising star, has been seeking bipartisan support for legislation allowing some
young illegal immigrants to stay in the country and work legally if they were
brought in as children, a measure many Republicans have derisively labeled
"amnesty."

Despite those stirrings, there is virtually no chance immigration legislation
will pass Congress this year, regardless of the Supreme Court's entreaties.


     ·    Arlen Specter to Teach at Law School
     ·    Could Lame Duck Be a Big Win for Obama Agenda?
     ·    Flood of Campaign Cash Becomes the Issue
     ·    Suit Seeks to Double Size of House
     ·    Democrats Outline Campaign Finance Bill


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: 25 Arrested Off Coast In Suspected Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By NOAH GILBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WEST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 97 words


In a joint operation, federal law enforcement officials on Monday morning
arrested 25 people suspected of human smuggling on a fishing boat off the coast
of Southern California, the authorities announced. The United States Coast Guard
was notified by Border Patrol agents of a vessel approaching the shore near
Rancho Palos Verdes in Los Angeles County around 5 a.m. The type of vessel
seized, known as a panga, has been increasingly used by smugglers to move drugs
along the California coast; last week, a member of the Coast Guard was killed
while trying to board a similar vessel.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/11/us/california-25-arrested-off-coast-in-suspect
ed-smuggling-case.html

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Campaign Trail, Obama and Romney React to the Justices' Decision

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL and HELENE COOPER; Ashley Parker contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 868 words


The Supreme Court's decision on Arizona's strict immigration law gave President
Obama another shot at energizing Latino voters, while Mitt Romney defended
states' aggressive efforts to fight illegal immigration.

For Mr. Obama, both parts of the court's split decision -- striking down most of
the law while letting stand the most controversial provision, which critics have
dubbed ''show me your papers'' -- have the potential to encourage
get-out-the-vote efforts. He appealed to voters worried about racial profiling,
given that the provision of the law the court let stand requires police offers
to check for proof of legal residence.

''No American should ever live under a cloud of suspicion just because of what
they look like,'' Mr. Obama said.

Mr. Romney, who was visiting Arizona for a fund-raising event, used the ruling
to appeal to conservatives concerned about border security.

''I believe that each state has the duty -- and the right -- to secure our
borders and preserve the rule of law, particularly when the federal government
has failed to meet its responsibilities,'' he said in a statement.

Mr. Romney is trying to retain the base of his party that supports cracking down
on illegal immigrants while appealing to Hispanics in swing states like
Colorado, Florida and Virginia.

After a Republican primary race in which the rhetoric focused on securing the
border and what Mr. Romney called ''self-deportation,'' the presumptive
Republican nominee attempted to change his tone last week at a national
gathering of Latino elected and appointed officials. He pledged to raise quotas
on green cards and support a path to legal status for young immigrants who serve
in the military.

His outreach efforts came after an order by Mr. Obama to lift deportation
threats for a much larger group of illegal immigrants, including those pursuing
college.

Some Republican strategists feared that Mr. Romney's gesture was too little, too
late.

''I think Romney made a huge mistake by avoiding immigration for so long, and
then Obama showed up and raised the stakes,'' said Ana Navarro, an adviser to
Senator John McCain on Hispanic issues during his 2008 bid for the presidency.
''Between Obama's immigration policy announcement two weeks ago and this Arizona
law decision, the base is much more energized than they were five months ago.''

In a sign that some national Republicans want to see more bridges built on
immigration, Crossroads GPS, an independent advocacy group co-founded by Karl
Rove, announced its support on Monday for a bipartisan bill in Congress that
would let foreign-born students in technology and science stay and work in the
country.

But a prominent view in the Romney campaign is that he has no need to further
court Hispanics on immigration. A new survey from Gallup on Monday showed that
Latino voters ranked immigration only fifth in importance, behind health care
and a host of economic concerns.

Mr. Obama's message on Monday seemed directed at Hispanics who have lived in
fear of the law, vowing to ''continue to use every federal resource to protect
the safety and civil rights of all Americans,'' a politically significant aside
that could help him at the voting booth in November, Latino leaders said.

''You may not be doing anything wrong, but depending on the color of your skin,
you can be pulled over,'' said Anna Tovar, an Arizona state legislator from a
district outside Phoenix that is 80 percent Hispanic. ''It's absolutely
ridiculous.''

While many Democrats nationwide say they are not sure whether Mr. Obama has a
chance to win Arizona, traditionally a Republican stronghold, Ms. Tovar said the
Supreme Court decision could help him.

It could also bolster his chances in other Western states with large Hispanic
populations like Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada.

''One of the consequences of this is it puts the Romney camp into a more
Midwestern strategy, looking at states like Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania and
Wisconsin, and trying to win there instead of in places like Colorado, Arizona
and New Mexico,'' said Dario V. Moreno, a political scientist at Florida
International University.

At his fund-raiser in Phoenix, Mr. Romney attacked the president for what he
said was a lack of leadership on immigration and repeatedly called the court's
decision ''a muddle.''

''I would have preferred to see the Supreme Court give more latitude to the
states, not less,'' he said.

The Romney campaign's attitude, though, seemed to be that this too shall pass.
One adviser on Hispanic issues said he expected the advantage to Mr. Obama to
last a day or so, until an even weightier Supreme Court ruling, on the
president's health care law, lands later this week.

The Romney campaign chartered a plane big enough for the traveling press corps
so that reporters would be on hand this week for Mr. Romney's reaction to the
Supreme Court's ruling in that highly charged case.

But on Monday, when reporters asked repeatedly if Mr. Romney would discuss the
immigration ruling, his traveling press secretary, Rick Gorka, said, ''Probably
not.''

Asked why Mr. Romney chartered a plane to comment on one court ruling but not
another, Mr. Gorka replied, ''We were very clear that this was about
Obamacare.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama in Durham, N.H., on Monday at the start of a
two-day campaign swing, and Rick Gorka, Mitt Romney's traveling press secretary,
speaking to reporters on a chartered plane. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW
YORK TIMES
 MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday

Rubio Calls Obama's Dream Act Move a 'Short-Term Fix'

BYLINE: GERRY MULLANY

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 448 words



HIGHLIGHT: Marco Rubio also faults the Arizona immigration law now before the
Supreme Court.


Senator Marco Rubio had been trying to put together his own version of a Dream
Act bill that would pass muster in Congress, but President Obama's executive
order effectively derailed that effort. And on Sunday, Mr. Rubio took issue with
the president's actions, calling it "a short-term fix to a long-term problem."

Appearing on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," Mr. Rubio, Republican of
Florida, criticized the president's move, suggesting it would only fuel illegal
immigration. "We can't do anything that encourages illegal immigration in the
future," he said. "People are frustrated our immigration laws are not being
enforced."

Mr. Obama's order, while not granting any permanent legal status, clears the way
for young illegal immigrants who meet certain criteria to work legally and
obtain driver's licenses and many other documents they have lacked.

Mr. Rubio warned of the consequences. "The Dream Act is too broad," he said. "It
could lead to these kids bringing in multiple relatives."

Part of Mr. Rubio's original proposed compromise would have provided
nonimmigrant visas to young illegal immigrants brought into the country by a
certain date if they had graduated from high school and had no criminal record.
Once the visas were secured, these immigrants would be able to work, get an
education and decide on their own whether to begin the standard process to
become citizens.

At the core of Mr. Rubio's original proposal was a plan to grant some students
currently residing in the U.S. illegally a path to citizenship. The compromise
would have granted students who are the children of illegal immigrants a new
kind of nonimmigrant visa that would have let them live in this country legally
for a period of time. This would have allowed them to work, drive and pay taxes
without fear of deportation. Mr. Rubio also favored granting nonimmigrant visas
to the graduates of colleges and trade schools, enabling them to stay here and
work. Notably, green cards would not have been issued to these children, thus
denying them permanent residency.

In his interview Sunday, Mr. Rubio also took issue with the Arizona immigration
law that the Supreme Court is expected to rule on this week. The law gives the
police broad power to detain anyone suspected of being in the country illegally.

Mr. Rubio acknowledged that Arizona had "a right to pass that bill." But, he
added, "I don't think it's a national model, and I don't think other states
should follow suit."

During the Republican nominating contest, Mitt Romney had suggested that the
Arizona law was "a model" for other states, although the Romney campaign has
insisted that he was talking about an employer verification system.


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Immigrant Rights Groups Unhappy With Supreme Court's Mixed Decision

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON

LENGTH: 1212 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigrant rights groups expressed unhappiness over the Supreme
Court's mixed ruling on Arizona's immigration law.


Immigrant rights groups said they worried that the Supreme Court's decision on
Monday allowing a key provision in Arizona's tough immigration law to stand
would lead to racial profiling, as Gov. Jan Brewer described the decision as "a
victory for the rule of law."

Supreme Court has upheld what Arizonans knew all along - states have a right and
responsibility to protect their citizens. A proud day!

- Jan Brewer (@GovBrewer)25 Jun 12

"It is also a victory for the 10th Amendment and all Americans who believe in
the inherent right and responsibility of states to defend their citizens," said
Ms. Brewer, whose administration defended the law.

As my colleagues Adam Liptak and John H. Cushman Jr.report, the Supreme Court
rejected provisions of the law that would have required immigrants to register
with the federal government and would have made it a state crime for immigrants
to hold jobs without proper documents.

In the 5-to-3 ruling, the court also struck down part of the law that would have
allowed the police to arrest those suspected of being in the country illegally,
without a warrant. But the court ruled in favor of a key provision enabling the
state to require the police to check the immigration status of people they
detain.

#SCOTUS #SB1070 ruling allows enforcement of law that codifies racial profiling.
-@anoorani. http://t.co/aoRzxsz3 #immigration

- Ali Noorani (@anoorani)25 Jun 12

Ali Noorani, executive director of theNational Immigration Forum, calledthe
provision that the Supreme Court allowed "the pointy end of the sword of the
Arizona immigration law."

"Just as the nation is inching closer to a consensus on the need for solutions
on immigration, the Supreme Court is dividing the nation," he said.

In Arizona, Puente Arizona, an immigration rights group, said its members would
continue to fight the state law, known as S.B. 1070. The group is also calling
on the Obama administration, which fought the state law in court, to limit
access of Arizona's law enforcement officers to data and resources of the
federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

BREAKING: TELL THE PRESIDENT TO STOP #SB1070. http://t.co/Beoi5FZK #justice4az
CUT OFF ARIZONA'S ACCESS TO ICE

- Puente Arizona (@PuenteAZ)25 Jun 12

We never had faith in the #SCOTUS case. We have faith in our people
http://t.co/w3WL8hrW WE WILL NOT COMPLY #sb1070 #justice4az

- Puente Arizona (@PuenteAZ)25 Jun 12

In an interview,  the group's leader, Carlos Garcia, said the ruling paved the
way for "racial profiling" statewide.

"It's what we lived under Sheriff Joe Arpaio, and now it's expanded to the whole
state," he said, referring to the controversial Maricopa County sheriff, who is
known for his outspoken stance against illegal immigration and crackdowns on
illegal immigrants. "Sheriff Arpaio has been vindicated and allowed to continue
his abuse and racial profiling."

On Monday, Mr. Arpaio  said on a local television station, KNXV, that "this is a
good section that's been upheld."

"I would have liked to see where we would have the authority to arrest illegal
aliens just by being here illegally and book them into our jails, but that's not
going to happen," he said about one of the provisions in the law that was
rejected. "But I think this sends a message that we will be involved in
enforcing the illegal alien laws and our police officers will be able to at
least try to determine if they're in this country illegally."

Attorney General Thomas Horne saidthe state won the "big one" of the provisions
challenged.

In Arizona, The East Valley Tribune gathered
comments from people on both sides of the debate.

Todd Landfried, a spokesman for Arizona Employers for Immigration Reform, said,
"We hope that this important decision will discourage states from considering
state-level immigration laws and push Congress to directly address the issue of
immigration reform expeditiously in a practical and positive manner that helps
our businesses, economy and country succeed and grow while ensuring our nation's
security."

Caroline Isaacs, director of the American Friends Service Committee's Tucson
office, saw the Supreme Court's decision as upholding the "worst part of this
mean-spirited law, even as it overturns other sections. In effect, it legalizes
racial profiling. How can law enforcement know a person's immigration status
simply by looking at them? Most troubling is this decision undermines the moral
fiber of the U.S. Constitution, and can be used by other states to enact laws
that also enable racial profiling."

Greg Stanton, the mayor of Phoenix, said the decision "is a stark reminder of
the need for Congress to act immediately on comprehensive immigration reform. It
also reminds us that our State Legislature should stop focusing on divisive
issues and instead spend their time on job creation and smart economic
development for the state of Arizona."

The ruling prompted rallies and protests at the Capitol, with Puente Arizona
urging its members also to show up outside federal immigration offices later on
Monday.

The altar of hope by @PromiseArizona #SB1070 vigil at #AZ Capitol. #justice4az
#respeto http://t.co/LG3kbfSl

- Adios Arpaio (@AdiosArpaio)25 Jun 12

Anti SB 1070 rally at Capitol http://t.co/juDpAuW2

- maryjpitzl (@maryjpitzl)25 Jun 12

In the last two years, five other states  - Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South
Carolina and Utah - have adopted variations on Arizona's law. Parts of those
laws also were on pause pending the outcome of the Supreme Court case.

Supreme Court Decision on Arizona Immigration Law (PDF)
Supreme Court Decision on Arizona Immigration Law (Text)

Civil rights groups that separately challenged the law over concerns that it
would lead to rights abuses said their lawsuits would go on.

Even with the limitations that the Supreme Court put on Arizona, the immigration
status check will lead to racial profiling and discrimination,said Anthony D.
Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.

"We are not done in Arizona and will continue the battle against discriminatory
laws like these that encourage racial profiling and undermine the constitutional
guarantee of equal protection," Mr. Romero said. "Be it in the courts or in
state legislatures, we will aggressively take on these laws and blunt the
effects of this miscarriage of justice. When local police can stop and detain
anyone they perceive as 'foreign' because of their skin color, their accent or
their surname, it is a watershed moment for civil rights."

Ms. Brewer also said in her statement that she was confident that Arizona's law
enforcement officers would apply this law in an "even-handed manner."

"I know the state of Arizona and its law enforcement officers are up to the
task," she said. "The case for S.B. 1070 has always been about our support for
the rule of law. That means every law, including those against both illegal
immigration and racial profiling. Law enforcement will be held accountable
should this statute be misused in a fashion that violates an individual's civil
rights."


     ·    Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions
     ·    Nebraska Rocker Fights Immigration Laws
     ·    In Miss USA Contest, a Novel Twist
     ·    Obama's Decision on Immigration Is Met With Joy, Anger and Skepticism
     ·    Day Three: Supreme Court Hearings on Health Care


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Romney Silent on Court's Immigration Ruling

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 590 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney is ready to talk about health care, but not the Supreme
Court's split decision on Arizona's immigration law.


PHOENIX - Mitt Romney's campaign chartered a private plane this week to have his
traveling press corps nearby when the Supreme Court issues its decision on
President Obama's health care law.

But when the Supreme Court ruled on Arizona's tough immigration law Monday
morning, invalidating part of it, Mr. Romney was less eager to expound on the
particulars.

Shortly after that decision was issued, Mr. Romney's campaign released a short
statement criticizing President Obama for having "failed to provide any
leadership on immigration."

"I believe that each state has the duty - and the right - to secure our borders
and preserve the rule of law, particularly when the federal government has
failed to meet its responsibilities," Mr. Romney said in the statement. "As
Candidate Obama, he promised to present an immigration plan during his first
year in office. But four years later, we are still waiting."

But when reporters on the chartered plane asked Rick Gorka, Mr. Romney's
traveling press secretary, if the candidate would  discuss the specifics of the
court's ruling and offer a more detailed statement, Mr. Gorka said it was
unlikely.

"Probably not," he said. "The governor's been pretty clear on his stance on
immigration."

But in his statement, Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, did not
comment on the provisions of the 2010 Arizona immigration law that the court
struck down, nor did he express support for the one provision the court upheld
- what critics call the "show me your papers" provision, which requires state
law enforcement officials to determine the immigration status of anyone they
stop or arrest if they suspect the person might be in the country illegally.

When asked why Mr. Romney had chartered a plane for the express purpose of
commenting on some of the court's rulings (see: health care), but not others
(see: immigration), Mr. Gorka explained, "We were very clear that this was about
Obamacare."

Mr. Gorka later held a seven-minute briefing with reporters on the topic, but
again offered almost no specifics, refusing to address what Mr. Romney thinks of
the court's decision or what Mr. Romney thinks of the Arizona immigration law.

"The governor supports the rights of states - that's all we're going to say on
this issue," Mr. Gorka said.

Mr. Romney is trying to thread something of a needle on immigration now that he
has secured his party's nomination. During the early nominating contests, he
took a hard-line stance on the topic, encouraging illegal immigrants to
"self-deport" and saying he would veto the Dream Act, which would provide a path
to citizenship for illegal immigrants who were brought into the country at a
young age and went on to attend college.

But as he pivots to the general election, he has begun softening his tone in an
attempt to woo Hispanic voters, who are crucial voting blocs in many swing
states like Colorado, Florida, Nevada and Virginia. Mr. Romney's challenge is to
appeal to Hispanic voters, while not seeming to shift from the immigration
positions he took during the primary contests, which could alienate his
conservative base and put him at risk to charges of flip-flopping.

Mr. Romney also steered clear of the Arizona law in a major speech to Hispanic
leaders Thursday in Lake Buena Vista, Fla.


     ·    Supreme Court Could Pose New Challenge for Romney on Immigration
     ·    In Florida, Obama Assails Republicans Over Immigration Policy
     ·    Romney Touts a Book, but Reads It Selectively
     ·    2008: Court Alters Campaign Landscape
     ·    Pressure Grows on Congress for Immigration Overhaul


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Scalia Cites Obama Immigration Policy in Dissent on Arizona Law

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 325 words



HIGHLIGHT: Justice Antonin Scalia made a foray into the realm of political
combat on Monday, citing President Obama's recent decision to stop enforcement
of deportation against some illegal immigrants in a statement of dissent from
his colleagues who struck down parts of Arizona's immigration law.


3:32 p.m. | Updated Justice Antonin Scalia made a foray into the realm of
political combat on Monday, citing President Obama's recent decision to stop
enforcement of deportation against some illegal immigrants in a biting statement
of dissent (a summary of which can be found here) from his colleagues who struck
down parts of Arizona's immigration law.

Diving into a discussion of current events, Justice Scalia said the president's
enforcement action called into question the majority's decision that Arizona's
immigration statutes contradict federal law. He said Arizona was justified in
pursuing its own efforts to protect its borders because "federal officials have
been unable to remedy the problem, and indeed have recently shown that they are
simply unwilling to do so."

"The president has said that the new program is 'the right thing to do' in light
of Congress's failure to pass the Administration's proposed revision of the
immigration laws," he wrote. "Perhaps it is, though Arizona may not think so.
But to say, as the Court does, that Arizona contradicts federal law by enforcing
applications of federal immigration law that the President declines to enforce
boggles the mind."

Issuing bench statements along with opinions is not particularly rare. But the
idea of a justice citing current events that occurred after a case was argued is
not an everyday occurrence.

In this case, Justice Scalia was explicit about the timing.

"After this case was argued and while it was under consideration, the secretary
of Homeland Security announced a program exempting from immigration enforcement
some 1.4 million illegal immigrants," Justice Scalia said.

Some critics pointed out that Justice Scalia asserted that the president's new
enforcement policy would affect "1.4 million illegal immigrants." In fact, the
government estimates that the policy would stop deportations affecting about
800,000 immigrants.

A Summary of Justice Scalia's Bench Statement

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Obama and Romney React to Court's Immigration Decision

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 787 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama and Mitt Romney reacted to the Supreme Court's
decision to strike down parts of a tough Arizona immigration law.


The rivals for the presidency reacted swiftly on Monday to the Supreme Court's
decision to strike down parts of Arizona's aggressive immigration laws while
letting a controversial provision stand.

President Obama said the decision to stop enforcement of parts of the Arizona
law underscored the need for comprehensive immigration reform by the federal
government. But he said he remained concerned about a provision that requires
the police to check the status of people they suspect may be in the country
illegally.

"I remain concerned about the practical impact of the remaining provision of the
Arizona law that requires local law enforcement officials to check the
immigration status of anyone they even suspect to be here illegally," Mr. Obama
said. "No American should ever live under a cloud of suspicion just because of
what they look like."

Mitt Romney issued a brief statement saying he supported aggressive efforts by
states to fight illegal immigration.

"I believe that each state has the duty - and the right - to secure our borders
and preserve the rule of law, particularly when the federal government has
failed to meet its responsibilities," Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican
nominee, said in a written statement.

Neither candidate chose to make remarks on camera. Mr. Obama was traveling to
New Hampshire and Boston for campaign events on Monday. Mr. Romney was
campaigning in the West, including a fund-raising stop in Arizona.

In his statement, Mr. Obama vowed to "work with anyone in Congress" to make
progress on comprehensive immigration reform. But he said that in the meantime
he would "continue to use every federal resource," a reference to the
deportation policy he announced two weeks ago.

Under that policy, some immigrants who were brought illegally to the country as
children will not be deported.

Last week, Mr. Romney avoided any mention of the Arizona law during an
appearance before Latino public officials in Florida. On Monday, he also steered
clear of commenting on the details of the court's decision.

In his statement, Mr. Romney said that the ruling "underscores the need for a
president who will lead on this critical issue and work in a bipartisan fashion
to pursue a national immigration strategy. President Obama has failed to provide
any leadership on immigration. This represents yet another broken promise by
this president."

But he did not say whether he thought the court had erred in invalidating parts
of the state's law. Nor did he express specific support for the Arizona
provisions that the court upheld.

Hours after the Supreme Court ruling, Mr. Romney was flying to Arizona to appear
at a fund-raising luncheon at the Scottsdale Plaza Resort. He was not scheduled
to make any public appearances during his brief visit to Arizona on Monday. The
timing of his visit to Arizona was coincidental, an aide said.

But the politics are tricky for him.

More specific expressions of support for the law's controversial provisions
would be likely to undermine his efforts to increase support among Latinos. But
if Mr. Romney distances himself from the Arizona law, he runs the risk of
alienating conservative Tea Party supporters who back aggressive enforcement.

During the Republican primary, Mr. Romney said he would have withdrawn the
federal government's lawsuits against the Arizona law, an indication of broad
support for the controversial provisions that angered Hispanics.

Now that the court has overturned several of those provisions, Mr. Romney may be
under pressure to explain why he would have disagreed with the court and let
them stand.

And in the days ahead, he will probably be pressed on whether he agrees with the
court's decision to uphold the provision on checks of immigration status.

As he courts Hispanic voters ahead of the election in November, Mr. Romney is
eager to portray the president as having failed on the issue of immigration.

"As candidate Obama, he promised to present an immigration plan during his first
year in office," Mr. Romney said in his statement. "But four years later, we are
still waiting."

In making that case, Mr. Romney is getting help from the Republican National
Committee, which issued a statement echoing the one from Mr. Romney's campaign.

"In the absence of presidential leadership, states have acted on their own to
serve their people and enforce the law, but the issue cannot fully be resolved
with a president unwilling to keep his promises," said Reince Priebus, the
chairman of the R.N.C. "This decision makes that job even more difficult."

But Mr. Romney starts with an electoral deficit - most polls show Mr. Obama well
ahead among Latino voters, especially in critical swing states like Virginia,
Colorado, Nevada and Florida.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Deferrals Put Employers of Immigrants in a Bind

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 896 words


Manuel Cunha has been fighting for three decades to persuade the federal
government to provide more legal immigrant workers for farmers in California's
verdant San Joaquin Valley. So he was initially excited when President Obama
announced in June that he would suspend the deportations of hundreds of
thousands of young illegal immigrants.

But after reading the program's fine print, Mr. Cunha is telling the growers and
small-business owners he organizes to proceed with caution.

Immigrants applying for two-year deportation deferrals can ask employers to
verify their job status as one way to meet a requirement showing that they have
lived for at least five years in the United States. But employers who agree to
those requests could be acknowledging that they knowingly hired an unauthorized
worker -- a violation of federal law. Mr. Cunha fears that the enforcement
authorities could one day use the information in their files to prosecute the
employers.

The Department of Homeland Security ''is not friendly at all to us,'' said Mr.
Cunha, the president of the Nisei Farmers League, which is based in Fresno,
Calif. ''We have seen agriculture being audited and targeted. For the workers,
after two years this program could end. And then the agency could go after the
employers for hiring illegal aliens.''

Mr. Cunha said the message from Obama administration officials was ''Just trust
me.'' His reply: ''No, no, there is no more trust.''

The minefield for employers is one of the hazards that have appeared in the
deferred deportation program since the agency in charge, Citizenship and
Immigration Services, began receiving applications on Aug. 15. In the first
month, the agency, which is part of the Homeland Security Department, logged in
more than 82,000 applications, a figure that officials say shows that the
program is advancing at a fast pace.

But with more than 1.2 million young immigrants estimated to be immediately
eligible, some immigrant organizations say the application numbers are lower
than they expected, in part because of unexpected pitfalls.

To qualify, illegal immigrants must have been under 31 years old on June 15,
when Mr. Obama announced the program. They must show that they came to the
United States before they were 16, have been here for at least five years and
were in the country on June 15. They must also be enrolled in school or have a
high school diploma or be honorably discharged from the military, and pass
criminal background checks.

If approved, immigrants are granted what is officially known as deferred action,
and separately they receive legal work permits. But they do not gain any legal
immigration status.

A particularly tricky dilemma is facing farmers and other businesses nationwide
that rely on low-wage labor. Many young immigrants work part time to help pay
for college. Others are working after dropping out of college, unable to get
tuition discounts or financial aid because of their status. According to the
Migration Policy Institute, a research group, about 740,000 immigrants eligible
for deferment are in the work force.

''If you have actual knowledge that an employee is not authorized to work, you
can't employ them,'' said Greg Siskind, an immigration lawyer in Memphis who has
advised businesses on how to respond to job verification requests.

A lot depends on how an employee poses the question, said Tamar Jacoby, the
president of ImmigrationWorks USA, an organization of small businesses that
employ immigrants. Those who ask for verification for deportation deferrals are
admitting to being unauthorized workers. They might eventually obtain a permit
to work legally, but in the meantime, the employer might have to fire them, Ms.
Jacoby said.

The immigration agency issued new guidelines this month confirming that
businesses could provide verification for deferred deportation applicants. This
information will not be shared with the enforcement authorities ''unless there
is evidence of egregious violations of criminal statutes or widespread abuses,''
the guidelines say.

Peter Boogaard, a Department of Homeland Security spokesman, said the agency is
seeking to focus enforcement resources on threats to public safety. He said
officials would investigate if workers' applications pointed to ''widespread
patterns and practices of unlawful hiring'' or ''abusive employers who are
violating other criminal laws.''

Neither Ms. Jacoby nor Mr. Cunha was comforted. ''That's a safety net with a lot
of holes in it,'' Ms. Jacoby said. She urges advocates to tell applicants not to
mention the deferment program when asking for job verification.

The immigration service also clarified a section of the application that had
asked immigrants to list Social Security numbers they had used. It is common for
them to use fake Social Security numbers, or sometimes real numbers belonging to
another person. On an official application, such numbers could be evidence of
fraud or even identity theft.

The form is asking only for numbers ''that were officially issued to you by the
Social Security Administration,'' the new guidelines say.

Department of Homeland Security officials ''are not conferring immunity on
anyone,'' an administration official said. ''But they are not interested in
using this as a way to identify one-off cases where some individual may have
violated some federal law in an employment relationship.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/26/us/immigrant-deportation-deferrals-put-employe
rs-in-a-bind.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Manuel Cunha, left, updating Matt Melkonian, a farmer, in
Sanger, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Setback for Rogue Immigration Laws

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 424 words


A federal appeals court in Atlanta on Monday properly blocked several provisions
of immigration laws in Alabama and Georgia, saying they violated constitutional
rights and undermined federal law. The rulings were huge setbacks for the
repellent idea that states can bypass federal authority over immigration and
create their own schemes to harass and expel undocumented residents.The rejected
provisions were parts of two laws -- H.B. 56 in Alabama and H.B. 87 in Georgia
-- that sponsors had openly acknowledged were designed to root out and punish
illegal immigrants, making it impossible for them to live there. The United
States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, following a recent Supreme Court
ruling on Arizona's sweeping immigration law, found that the statutes had
unlawfully intruded on the carefully drawn system of federal immigration laws.

Among the sections enjoined was the one making it a felony in Alabama for the
undocumented to register car license plates or to get driver's, business or
commercial licenses. Alabama may withhold such licenses, the court said, but it
cannot turn applicants into felons because filing such applications is not a
crime under federal law.

The court likewise rejected Georgia's effort to criminalize transporting and
harboring illegal immigrants and to make it illegal to ''induce or entice'' them
to enter the state -- a crime that has no parallel in federal law. It also
blocked Section 28 of Alabama's law, which requires schools to collect
information about students' immigration status. The court sensibly said this
would deter children from entering school, violating the Supreme Court's 1982
ruling in Plyler v. Doe that guarantees all children the right to an elementary
education.

The court, however, upheld the sections of laws in both states that allow police
officers to check the immigration papers of people they stop -- provisions that
invite racial profiling. But as the Supreme Court did in its Arizona ruling, it
left open the possibility of future challenges on civil-rights or due-process
grounds.

Monday's rulings were a welcome repudiation of bad laws. But the legal battle --
court by court, state by state -- has been messy, slow and expensive. When
Republicans in Congress killed a comprehensive immigration overhaul five years
ago, they did more than crush the hopes of millions of people hoping to become
legal residents. They set the stage for an ugly mess, with states rushing to
erect their own rogue laws, which then have to be dismantled by the courts piece
by piece.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/22/opinion/setback-for-rogue-immigration-laws-in-
georgia-and-alabama.html

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Choice)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Immigration Policy Offers Relief for Students Facing Deportation

BYLINE: ARIHA SETALVAD

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 296 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's immigration policy has led to an intense debate
among politicians and provided relief for many students who faced deportation.


Monday's Supreme Court ruling on Arizona's immigration law reminded us of
President Obama's recent executive action that allowed hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants to remain in the United States if they came as children. Many
of these young men and women are currently attending college in the country.

Mr. Obama's action has led to an intense debate among politicians and provided
relief for many students who faced deportation.

In "Obama to Permit Young Migrants to Remain in U.S.," Julia Preston and John H.
Cushman write:

They are Americans in their heart, in their minds, in every single way but one:
on paper," President Obama said in announcing the new policy in the White House
Rose Garden on Friday. He said he was taking "a temporary stopgap measure" that
would "lift the shadow of deportation from these young people" and make
immigration policy "more fair, more efficient and more just."

Under the change, the Department of Homeland Security will no longer initiate
the deportation of illegal immigrants who came to the United States before age
16, have lived here for at least five years, and are in school, are high school
graduates or are military veterans in good standing. The immigrants must also be
not more than 30 and have clean criminal records.

Young people, who have been highly visible and vocal activists despite their
undocumented status, have been calling on Mr. Obama for more than a year to stop
deporting them and allow them to work. Many of them were elated and relieved on
Friday.

"People are just breaking down and crying for joy when they find out what the
president did," said Lorella Praeli, a leader of the United We Dream Network,
the largest coalition of illegal immigrant students.


     ·    Arizona Immigration Law Affects Some College Decisions


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Arizona, a Struggle Continues

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 465 words


The Supreme Court ruling on Arizona's immigration law shredded the law's radical
premise -- that a state can write its own foreign policy, impose its own
criminal punishments on the undocumented, set its own enforcement priorities and
oblige the federal government to go along. That should be the final warning to
Arizona and copycat states like Alabama: stop concocting criminal dragnets for
civil violators. It's not your job and you can't do it.

But the ruling has not ended the struggle for civil rights in immigrant
communities, or the fear on the ground, especially among Latinos. Far from it.
It poses serious challenges to the Obama administration, responsible
law-enforcement officials and immigrant advocates to keep up efforts to limit
the damage when legislatures and police officers -- not just in Arizona -- run
amok.

The court did not strike down Section 2(B) of the law, which requires police
officers to check the immigration status of people they stop and suspect are
here illegally. ''There is basic uncertainty about what the law means and how it
will be enforced,'' the court ruled, saying there was no reason -- yet -- to
assume that officers who enforce that part of the law will do so in an
unconstitutional way.

The wait-and-see stance ignores the harsh reality of life in Arizona, where
unlawful arrests and racial profiling are the aim of the state's poisoned
immigration politics.

For years, law officers like Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County have built
their reputations on the harassment and humiliation of Latinos, through
neighborhood sweeps and mass arrests, targeting people who fit a profile --
speaking Spanish, wearing certain clothes or shoes or behaving in a furtive
manner. The sheriff's actions have led to countless civil-rights complaints, a
federal investigation and lawsuits. A suit by the American Civil Liberties Union
goes to court this month. A civil-rights challenge to the Arizona law continues
in federal court as well.

The fatal flaw in ''papers, please'' laws is that racial profiling is built in.
It is impossible for an officer to know what an illegal immigrant looks like, or
to reach conclusions about immigration status without discriminating based on
how someone speaks or looks. The court all but invited challenges to Section
2(B) on those grounds when it goes into effect, which may be as early as this
month.

The Obama administration needn't wait to sever ties with Arizona's immigration
enforcers, ending the programs that make local officers immigration deputies.
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano -- an Arizonan who was an early
enabler of Sheriff Arpaio -- can do a lot to make sure that the noxious intent
of Arizona's law is reversed on the ground, where the pain and injustice of
profiling are most keenly felt.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 7, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Immigration Law Survives Ruling

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 772 words


TUCSON -- A decision by a federal judge on Wednesday paved the way for the most
controversial section of Arizona's sweeping immigration legislation, requiring
the authorities to verify the status of people who they suspect are in the
country illegally, to finally take effect.

In denying a request by a coalition of civil rights groups to bar the provision,
commonly referred to as ''show me your papers,'' Judge Susan Bolton of United
States District Court in Phoenix adopted the same wait-and-see approach
suggested by the Supreme Court in June, saying that the measure could be
challenged ''as interpreted and applied after it goes into effect.''

The decision, though, does not end the legal battles that have enmeshed the
measure and other portions of the law for more than two years, challenging their
validity and constitutionality all the way to the Supreme Court.

For law enforcement agencies that had taken a more benign approach to
immigration enforcement, it poses a quandary, forcing them to balance
conflicting obligations of going after illegal immigrants while keeping them on
their side.

''All this does is amplify a problem that already existed,'' which is
establishing trust among people already reluctant to cooperate with the
authorities, Sheriff Clarence W. Dupnik of Pima County said in an interview from
his office here.

Hoping to validate concerns raised by the Supreme Court in its ruling, the civil
rights groups presented several examples to bolster the argument that traffic
stops and detentions would inevitably grow longer as a result of efforts by law
enforcement officers to verify a person's immigration status. The groups also
used statements made by some state legislators -- who spoke of illegal
immigrants and Mexicans or, more generally, Hispanics, as one and the same -- to
prove that the immigration bill they passed was inherently discriminatory, a
violation of the 14th Amendment's equal-protection clause.

Judge Bolton dismissed the first contention and seemed to have ignored their
other claim. She made no mention of it in her order, which ran 12 pages and
quoted extensively from the Supreme Court's ruling, as well as lower courts'
rulings on similar immigration laws challenged in other states.

She did, however, give the plaintiffs one measure of victory by ordering the
state to stop enforcing an aspect of its immigration law that makes it a crime
to harbor or transport illegal immigrants. She employed the same rationale used
by the courts in Alabama and Georgia to block similar provisions, arguing that
states cannot impose rules in areas already regulated by federal immigration
laws.

Gov. Jan Brewer's staff was still weighing Thursday whether to appeal the order,
but the governor still hailed Judge Bolton's ruling, saying that it put the
state ''one step closer to implementing the core provision'' of its immigration
law.

Cecillia Wang, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants'
Rights Project, which is part of the civil rights coalition, said the judge
''really missed an opportunity'' to prevent the types of abuses she and others
have claimed are already happening in places like Maricopa County, where Sheriff
Joe Arpaio and his deputies have been vigorously using other state laws to go
after illegal immigrants.

Judge Bolton's order, Ms. Wang added, ''puts the burden of defending
constitutional rights on the victims of abuse by police and sheriff's offices in
Arizona.'' Carlos Garcia, executive director of Puente, an advocacy group in
Phoenix, said the ruling ''will only expand the human rights crisis in Arizona''
and the police will no longer be able to ''protect and serve'' Latinos, ''only
racially profile them.''

Sheriff Dupnik said his deputies were trained to ''use common sense and good
judgment'' before they stop, detain or question a suspect. ''This law,'' he went
on, ''makes it no different.''

Lawsuits by the Justice Department and a similar roster of civil rights
organizations that appeared before Judge Bolton were already challenging Sheriff
Arpaio's methods and intentions, saying they were intended to single out Latinos
for enforcement actions.

In 2010, Judge Bolton issued a preliminary injunction against the
show-me-your-papers provision. The injunction is still in place, though on
Wednesday she gave the department and the State of Arizona 10 days to formally
request its dismissal.

PHOTO: Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona at the United States Supreme Court in April
during judicial debate over Arizona's immigration law. A federal judge Wednesday
let stand a key provision of the law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/07/us/key-element-of-arizona-immigration-law-surv
ives-ruling.html

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            June 20, 2012 Wednesday

Supreme Court Could Pose New Challenge for Romney on Immigration

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 861 words



HIGHLIGHT: With the Supreme Court expected to rule as soon as Thursday on
Arizona's immigration law, Mr. Romney faces a delicate political situation.


As Mitt Romney sought support among conservatives in his party's primary races
this year, he pledged to back an immigration law in Arizona that has drawn a
fierce legal challenge from President Obama and the federal government.

"The right course for America is to drop these lawsuits against Arizona and
other states that are trying to do the job Barack Obama isn't doing," Mr. Romney
said during a debate in Arizona in February. "And I will drop those lawsuits on
Day 1."

But now, with a Supreme Court decision expected as soon as Thursday that will
decide the constitutionality of the Arizona law, Mr. Romney, the  presumptive
Republican presidential nominee, faces a delicate political situation.

He and Mr. Obama are both competing for support among Latino voters, a
constituency that could be decisive in important swing states like Colorado,
Nevada, Florida and Virginia.

If Mr. Romney continues to side with Arizona's Republican governor, Jan Brewer,
and the state's lawmakers who back tougher immigration laws, he runs the risk of
deepening the rift between Hispanics and his party. But if he abandons his
tough-on-illegals rhetoric, he could provide ammunition to conservative critics
who have long doubted his commitment to their causes.

When the decision comes later this week or next, it will be the second time in
about a week that Mr. Romney will be confronted with a choice about whether to
moderate his primary-season statements about immigration.

On Sunday, Mr. Romney hedged in his reaction to Mr. Obama's new policy to stop
deporting illegal immigrants who arrived in the United States as children and
have no criminal record. A Bloomberg survey released on Tuesday found that
likely voters and independents supported Mr. Obama's new policy by a margin of
two-to-one.

Asked about it on CBS's "Face the Nation" program, Mr. Romney steered clear of
the tougher language he used earlier this year to describe such policies. During
the primaries, he said he would veto the "Dream Act," which provides a path to
citizenship for the illegal immigrant youth.

He repeatedly declined to say whether he would reverse Mr. Obama's new
deportation policy while he worked toward a more permanent solution.

"Well, it would be overtaken by events if you will, by virtue of my putting in
place a long-term solution, with legislation which creates law that relates to
these individuals such that they know what their setting is going to be, not
just for the term of a president but on a permanent basis," Mr. Romney said.

Coming on the heels of the administration's new policy, the court's decision on
the Arizona law is likely to increase pressure on Mr. Romney to be more
definitive about his positions on the immigration.

The Arizona law requires state officials to determine the immigration status of
people they stop or arrest if officials have reason to believe they might be in
the country illegally. It also allows the police to make an arrest without a
warrant if they have probable cause to believe that a person is deportable.

The federal government sued, saying the statute conflicted with federal
immigration laws and policies. Critics said it amounted to unnecessary
profiling, but for much of the year Mr. Romney left little doubt of where he
stood.

"I support the Arizona law by recognizing what Arizona has done - underscored
the failure of the federal government to do its job," Mr. Romney said on the
Christian Broadcasting Network last September.

Some of Mr. Romney's allies, including Kris W. Kobach, the secretary of state in
Kansas, have embraced the Arizona law and said they believe Mr. Romney does,
too. Mr. Kobach told CBS News's Political Hotsheet this year that "Arizona has
become a model at what the U.S. should be doing at the federal level."

But top aides to Mr. Romney have said they recognize the need for him to reach
out to Hispanic voters. Surveys suggest that Mr. Romney trails Mr. Obama among
Hispanics by as much as 40 percentage points.

The question is how - and when - Mr. Romney does that outreach.

It could easily begin in the next few days. On Thursday, Mr. Romney is scheduled
to deliver a major address at a conference of Latino public officials in
Florida. The next day, Mr. Obama is scheduled to speak to the same group.

Mr. Romney could use the opportunity to elaborate on his immigration views,
offering a fuller response to Mr. Obama's latest deportation policies. And if
the court has issued its Arizona ruling (they usually are released by 10 a.m.
Eastern Time), he may be pressed to talk about it in his speech.

Less clear than the timing, though, is how Mr. Romney will balance the political
imperatives.

Democrats have said for weeks they expect him to "Etch A Sketch" his hard-line
views on immigration, a reference to comments by an aide to Mr. Romney earlier
this year. Conservatives have said they expect Mr. Romney to hold firm to the
views he stated forcefully during the primary campaign.

Sooner or later, he will have to choose.


     ·    The Latino Vote, California and Immigration
     ·    2008: Democrats Face User-Generated Debate
     ·    2008: Court Alters Campaign Landscape
     ·    2008: Romney Thrills, Worries Mormons
     ·    Arizona Governor Meets With Obama


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Arizona's Immigration Law and Mandatory Life Terms

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 499 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what happened at the Supreme Court today.


Still no ruling on health care, but the Supreme Court did hand down two
important decisions this morning. The justices struck down most of Arizona's
immigration law , with the backing of Chief Justice John Roberts Jr., and
prohibited mandatory life terms without parole for juvenile offenders.

Starting with the parole case: The ruling said that such mandatory sentencing
schemes violate the 8th Amendment because they do not allow for consideration of
"an offender's age and the wealth of characteristics and circumstances attendant
to it." Those, it said, include "immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to
appreciate risks and consequences," as well as the juvenile's "family and home
environment." It is unconstitutional to prohibit a court from considering the
individual circumstances of a case.

This logic seems unassailable to me-but it was a five-four decision. Justice
Samuel Alito was so incensed that he read his dissent from the bench.

The Arizona ruling was more muddied. The justices struck down three provisions:
That it's a state crime to be in the country without proper authorization, a
state crime for an undocumented worker to apply for a job or to work in Arizona,
and that state law enforcement officials can arrest a person who is in the
United States legally, but who the police believe may have committed a
deportable offense -without a warrant.

In each of those cases, the majority said those powers rest with the federal
government, not with Arizona lawmakers.

But it refused to overturn the most controversial section of the Arizona law,
which requires the police to check the immigration status of people they detain
before releasing them. The Supreme Court said a lower court had erred in
blocking this law, because there is no evidence yet that its enforcement would
pre-empt federal law.

Arguing the pre-emption case against that part of the Arizona statute was always
a weak approach. The real problem with the "papers please" law is the risk of
racial profiling, which would be a violation of the civil rights of those
detained - and could lead to lawful residents being harassed and even jailed by
the authorities. Given Arizona's history on these matters (Joe Arpaio ) I have
little doubt that will happen. But at least today's ruling left open the
possibility that the one surviving part of the Arizona law could be brought back
to court if it is enforced unconstitutionally.

Among all the quick reactions to the Arizona ruling, I found Mitt Romney's most
disappointing. He blamed President Obama, saying that the ruling was somehow a
result of his lack of "leadership on immigration." That's just silly. The
stalemate on immigration is as much, if not more, the fault of hard line
Republicans than that of Mr. Obama. Remember, just a few weeks ago, during the
G.O.P. primaries, Mr. Romney was one of those hard line Republicans.



     ·    U.S. v. Arpaio
     ·    The Arizona Show
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Health
     ·    Yes, Racial Profiling Is Illegal
     ·    Whatever Happens, I Will Have Reacted Already


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

TimesCast Politics: Justices Rule on Immigration

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 21 words



HIGHLIGHT: A look at the decision, the politics and the impact on the border as
the Supreme Court blocks parts of Arizona's immigration law.


A look at the decision, the politics and the impact on the border as the Supreme
Court blocks parts of Arizona's immigration law.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

The Early Word: Split

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 213 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at
what's happening in Washington.


Today's Times


     ·    The Supreme Court delivered a mixed decision on Arizona's immigration
          law, upholding the centerpiece, what critics have called the "show me
          your papers" provision, but blocking others on the grounds that they
          interfere with the federal government's role in setting immigration
          policy, Adam Liptak reports.



     ·    The decision on Arizona's strict immigration law had political
          implications, with President Obama trying to appeal to voters worried
          about racial profiling and Mitt Romney hoping to reach conservatives
          concerned about border security, Trip Gabriel writes.



     ·    The Supreme Court declined to have another look at its 2010 Citizens
          United ruling, reversing a decision by the Montana Supreme Court that
          limited independent political spending by corporations, Adam Liptak
          reports.


Around the Web


     ·    Condoleezza Rice, the former secretary of state, is fund-raising for a
          "super PAC" that aims to help conservative women seeking federal
          office, The Hill reports.


Happenings in Washington


     ·    Dr. Jill Biden will deliver the keynote address to nearly 200 recent
          college graduates and their families at the D.C. College Access
          Program graduation celebration.



     ·    The Early Word: Polarized
     ·    The Early Word: Guinea Pig
     ·    The Early Word: Now and Then
     ·    The Early Word: Cited
     ·    The Early Word: One Step Forward


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

TimesCast Politics: Court Decisions

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 44 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Romney campaign's reaction on immigration. | What the health care
ruling could mean for consumers. | Rangel faces a primary challenge.


Michael Barbaro discusses the Romney campaign's reaction on immigration,
Fernanda Santos reports on reaction in Arizona to the Supreme Court's ruling on
the state's immigration law, and Katie Thomas breaks down what the health care
ruling could mean for consumers.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

Opinion Report: An O.K. Transport Bill

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 93 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



Pakistan's army continues its double game - accepting money from the Americans
while enabling the Afghan Taliban.

The Supreme Court's ruling on Arizona's immigration law has not ended the
struggle for civil rights in immigrant communities.

There is something unrelentingly analog about summer camp.

Congress approved on Friday afternoon a serviceable transportation bill.


     ·    Republican Reactions to the Arizona Decision
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Court Rulings
     ·    Arizona's Immigration Law and Mandatory Life Terms
     ·    Opinion Report: Fleeting Expletives
     ·    Romney's Immigration Speech


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

For Hispanics, A Court Decision Won't Root Out Profiling

BYLINE: LUISITA LOPEZ TORREGROSA

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 508 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigration activists hoping that the U.S. Supreme Court would strike
down a controversial Arizona law were generally heartened by the court's ruling
on Monday. But supporters of the law, known as S.B. 1070, also celebrated,
saying a core provision of the legislation had been upheld.


NEW YORK - For millions of Latinos who sought to get rid of Arizona's infamous
and draconian immigration law, the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling on Monday brought
some relief - but not a full reprieve.

It's no wonder that hours after the ruling was disclosed, many of us were still
confused. Who won, who lost? Well, it's a mixed bag.

The controversial Arizona law, which has been tied up in the courts since its
enactment two years ago, was intended to crack down on illegal immigration close
to the porous drug-riddled Arizona-Mexico border while pushing illegal
immigrants to pack up and go back home. The law, known as S.B. 1070, was aimed
at what Arizona conservatives saw as the futility of federal  immigration
policy, which for years has run in circles, mostly in political cycles.

The Supreme Court decision was long awaited, much discussed and feared. In the
end, the court gave the law's opponents a three-fourths victory. It struck down
parts of the law that 1) made it a crime for illegal immigrants to seek work or
hold jobs, and 2) permitted no-warrant arrests  of people suspected by the state
and local police of committing crimes that could lead to their deportation.

The court also struck down a third provision, finding that Arizona had tried to
create a state law enforcement structure that overlapped the federal system and
interfered with congressional authority over the nation's borders. In other
words, the court told Arizona to butt out and let the federal government run
immigration policy.

But here's the rub. The court upheld for now the most controversial part of the
law: It let stand a widely debated provision that directs Arizona law enforcers
to check the immigration status of people they suspect of lacking documents
showing that they are in the United States legally.

President Obama and other opponents of the Arizona law said they were pleased
but worried that the surviving key provision might lead to violations of civil
rights of Americans. He called on Arizona not to enforce the surviving
provision. But Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican who is reviled  in parts
of America, declared that Arizona was "vindicated by the highest court of the
land. It upheld the heart of the law."

Put simply, that key provision means that an individual who may "look" like an
illegal immigrant could be stopped and questioned, his papers demanded.  Latinos
call this racial profiling. So does Mr. Obama and immigration-reform advocates,
civil rights champions  and human rights activists.

But the reality is this: Racial profiling goes on in this country all the time.
These biases are ingrained in the society, and people are judged and defined by
color, hair, speech accent, clothing and physical appearance. That millions of
immigrants - those who work in obscurity, live humbly and rarely join the
American mainstream - are easy marks for racial profilers can hardly be
surprising.

It's deplorable, of course, but to root out that sort of toxic prejudice and
ignorance will take more than a Supreme Court decision.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Death in the Desert

BYLINE: By ANANDA ROSE.

Ananda Rose is the author of ''Showdown in the Sonoran Desert: Religion, Law,
and the Immigration Controversy.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 869 words


Watertown, Mass.

NO matter how the Supreme Court rules this month in Arizona v. United States,
which will determine the fate of Arizona's aggressive illegal immigration law,
the national conversation about illegal immigration has shifted. As recent data
from the Pew Hispanic Center and the United States Border Patrol indicate,
illegal immigration is on the wane, with arrests of migrants trying to cross the
United States-Mexico border at a 40-year low and with net migration to the
United States at a standstill -- and perhaps even reversing direction. In the
eyes of many, this is cause for celebration: no more straining the resources of
border states while migrants risk life and limb for a shot at a better life.

But this rosy image of ''success'' ignores the larger, sobering picture of which
migrant death and suffering is still very much a part. To see this, all you need
to do is visit the southwest desert of Arizona, where migrants crossing into the
United States continue to perish in tragic numbers. While it's true that illegal
immigration numbers are down overall, migrants are dying in the desert at the
same rate that they have been for years (roughly between 150 and 250 deaths a
year), according to statistics compiled by the Arizona Recovered Human Remains
Project and the human rights group No More Deaths. In the past 10 years alone,
some 2,000 migrants -- men, women, children and the elderly -- have died this
way.

Why does this number remain so disturbingly high? Because of the ''funnel
effect'' created by the militarization of the United States-Mexico border:
hundreds of miles of physical barriers, high-tech infrastructure, highway
checkpoints and other security enhancements have combined to reroute migrants
away from highly trafficked and relatively safe urban crossing zones and into
remote and perilous stretches of scorching, waterless desert. Fewer migrants may
be crossing, but those that do face more treacherous journeys.

During months of research about immigration in southern Arizona, I heard many
tales of death and suffering in the desert.

Consider the all-too-typical story of Josue Ernesto Oliva-Serrano. A Honduran
illegal immigrant living in Oklahoma with his American wife and their two
children, Mr. Serrano was deported last year following his involvement in a
minor traffic accident. (An illegal immigrant does not automatically become a
United States citizen when he marries an American.) In September, he perished in
Arizona in a desperate attempt to be reunited with his family. He had paid a
coyote, or smuggler, to take him from Honduras to the United States-Mexico
border, where he joined up with a group of roughly 20 other migrants to enter
the United States through the desolate and searing terrain of the Tohono O'odham
American Indian reservation in southern Arizona.

According to accounts from the other migrants, the coyote told Mr. Serrano that
Phoenix was only a day's walk away (when in fact it was four days under the best
of conditions) and that the two gallons of water he was carrying would suffice.
The temperatures soared to triple digits the day the group set out. They ran out
of water within hours and resorted to drinking water from cattle ponds. Mr.
Serrano soon fell ill. He succumbed to the heat, a victim of hyperthermia and
dehydration, the most common causes of migrant death. His mummified remains were
found many days later by Tohono O'odham tribal members whom Mr. Serrano's wife
had contacted to help locate her husband.

Or consider the plight of female migrants. Many suffer atrocious abuses at the
hands of their smugglers: they are robbed, sexually assaulted or simply
abandoned in the desert. When I was in Arizona, I spoke with a man known as
Sundog, the caretaker (and sole resident) of a ghost town named Ruby located in
the mountainous area northwest of the city of Nogales. One afternoon, Sundog
said, he saw a woman fleeing down a hilltop in his direction, screaming wildly.
Close on her heels was the woman's smuggler, who had already raped her friend
and was coming after her.

Another story: On Christmas Day last year, several volunteers from one of
Tucson's humanitarian aid groups came across a woman with broken ribs and a
punctured lung during one of their desert runs. She was still alive; she had
managed to fight off her coyote when he tried to rape her. ''The question is not
if a female migrant will be raped,'' Shura Wallin, an aid worker in Arizona,
told me, ''but when and how often. Things are getting so much worse here.''

When it comes to illegal immigration, low numbers are one way to measure
success. Another is in terms of death and human heartbreak. If you spend even
just a day in southern Arizona talking to aid workers, or across the border at a
migrant shelter in Mexico teeming with recent deportees, or with Border Patrol
agents (who have their own sad tales to tell), the numbers begin to look
different. They look different in light of the corpses on gurneys, the empty
water jugs littering the desert, the children who have lost their fathers, the
crosses hanging on the United States-Mexico border wall that bear the names of
the dead -- or the crosses that simply say desconocido: ''unknown.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Arizona, Confusion on Ruling on Migrants

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 793 words


PHOENIX -- In the place where it all began, there was confusion and
consternation on Monday at the United States Supreme Court's unanimous decision
to uphold the most controversial portion of Arizona's contentious immigration
law, the part that requires law enforcement officers to check the immigration
status of people in custody who they suspect are in the country illegally.

Many legislators, activists and Latinos here had expected that part of the
ruling to go exactly the way it did. What they did not expect was for the court,
at the same time, to place so many limits on police powers.

Under the ruling, the police cannot hold illegal immigrants in local jails
merely because of their status or prohibit them from seeking employment in
Arizona, drawing clear lines between state and federal jurisdiction over
immigration enforcement.

So there was also surprise and a measured sense of victory from all sides over
the mixed decision, as well as questions about what could happen next.

During a news conference at the State Capitol here, Gov. Jan Brewer, a
Republican who fervently championed the law, chose to overlook the rulings
against the law, saying ''the heart'' of the law, known as SB 1070, ''has proven
to be constitutional'' and the state's authority to ''protect its people'' from
the dangers of illegal immigration had been upheld.

''Arizona did not ask for this,'' Governor Brewer said, ''but we're here today
because the federal government has failed the American people'' by failing to
secure the Mexican border.

On a patch of grass just outside the Capitol, Senator Steve M. Gallardo, a
Democrat, said the Supreme Court had sent the governor ''a loud message,''
telling her she had gone too far in trying to expand her reach into ''an issue
that is clearly a federal issue.''

Lost in the middle were people like Honorio Hernandez, 35, and Jorge Martinez,
49. They are Mexican immigrants living here under different circumstances -- Mr.
Hernandez is a legal resident, Mr. Martinez is not -- but both are nonetheless
troubled by the prospect of facing the police.

''Will they be able to stop me because I look the way I look?'' Mr. Hernandez
asked as he stepped outside Ranch Market on North 16th Street, a mecca for
Hispanic goods.

''Before, I could get stopped and get a ticket for driving without a license,''
said Mr. Martinez, nearby. ''Now, they're going to ask for my papers. Then,
what?''

In affirming federal jurisdiction over immigration, the Supreme Court ruled that
it is up to federal -- not state -- authorities to arrest immigrants if being
here illegally is their only offense. So on Monday at the office of Puente, an
advocacy group here, workers spent hours urging supporters to join a protest
outside the federal immigration offices later in the day. It was a marked shift
for an organization whose main target had been Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa
County, who has waged a relentless crackdown against Latinos. In the wake of
Monday's ruling, officers with the Department of Homeland Security in Arizona
are being reminded to focus on serious criminals and repeat offenders when
pursuing deportation, part of a push by the Obama administration to ease the
impact of tough enforcement in immigrant communities.

The administration also revoked on Monday an agreement allowing certain Arizona
law enforcement officers to enforce federal immigration laws.

Meanwhile, throughout the state, in an effort to avoid claims of racial
profiling, police officers and sheriff deputies are being trained -- through an
updated version of a video made in 2010, when Governor Brewer signed SB 1070
into law -- to understand what are considered reasonable signs that a person
might be an illegal immigrant.

A lack of government-issued identification, a foreign vehicle registration or an
inability to provide a residential address are among the objective causes for
suspicion listed in the video. Others are more subjective, like a person's
''unexplained nervousness or inability to make eye contact,'' ''dress'' or
''significant difficulty communicating in English.''

The police chief here, Daniel Garcia, said his department has gone beyond the
training, posting messages to the community online and offering additional
training to its officers ''in a manner to ensure equal justice under the law is
provided to every person irrespective of race, color or national origin.''

Chief Garcia went on, ''I want the citizens of Phoenix to have a voice and that
includes everyone, all individuals.''

Some people here were still skeptical, though. Rosario Perez, 46, a Mexican
immigrant and legal resident who was also shopping at Ranch Market on Monday,
said she carries her Social Security card wherever she goes because ''Yo soy
morena'' -- ''I'm brown.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Splits Immigration Law Verdicts; Upholds Hotly Debated Centerpiece, 8-0

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK; John H. Cushman Jr. contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words


WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court on Monday delivered a split decision on
Arizona's tough 2010 immigration law, upholding its most hotly debated provision
but blocking others on the grounds that they interfered with the federal
government's role in setting immigration policy.

The court unanimously sustained the law's centerpiece, the one critics have
called its ''show me your papers'' provision, though they left the door open to
further challenges. The provision requires state law enforcement officials to
determine the immigration status of anyone they stop or arrest if they have
reason to suspect that the individual might be in the country illegally.

The justices parted ways on three other provisions, with the majority rejecting
measures that would have subjected illegal immigrants to criminal penalties for
activities like seeking work.

The ruling is likely to set the ground rules for the immigration debate, with
supporters of the Arizona law pushing for ''show me your papers'' provisions in
more states and opponents trying to overturn criminal sanctions for illegal
immigrants.

Writing for the majority, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said, ''Arizona may have
understandable frustrations with the problems caused by illegal immigration
while that process continues, but the state may not pursue policies that
undermine federal law.''

Justice Antonin Scalia summarized his dissent from the bench, a rare move that
indicated his deep disagreement. Rarer still, he criticized a policy that was
not before the court: President Obama's recent announcement that his
administration would not deport many illegal immigrants who came to the United
States as children.

Justice Scalia's point was a narrow one -- that the states should have the right
to make immigration policy if the federal government is not enforcing its own
policies -- but it continued a charged back and forth between the conservative
justices and Mr. Obama. In his 2010 State of the Union address, Mr. Obama
criticized the court's Citizens United campaign finance ruling, which the court
reiterated in a separate ruling on Monday.

The court also announced that it was extending its term until Thursday,
signaling that it would issue its much-anticipated ruling on Mr. Obama's health
care law then.

Both Mr. Obama and Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee,
quickly responded to the immigration ruling. Mr. Romney -- traveling, by
coincidence, in Arizona -- said in a brief statement that states had the right
and the duty to secure their borders.

Mr. Obama emphasized his concern that the remaining provision could lead to
racial profiling, an issue that the court may yet consider in a future case.
''No American should ever live under a cloud of suspicion just because of what
they look like,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement, adding that he was ''pleased''
about the parts that were struck down.

In her own statement, Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, said she
welcomed the decision to uphold what she called the heart of the law. The
decision, she said, was a ''victory for the rule of law'' and for ''the inherent
right and responsibility of states to defend their citizens.''

Still, the ruling was a partial rebuke to state officials who had argued that
they were entitled to supplement federal efforts to address illegal immigration.

The Obama administration argued that federal immigration law trumped -- or
pre-empted, in legal jargon -- the state's efforts. Last year, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, blocked the four
provisions on those grounds, including the one the Supreme Court upheld.

In its challenge, the administration did not argue that it violated
equal-protection principles. At the Supreme Court argument in April, Solicitor
General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. acknowledged that the federal case was not based
on racial or ethnic profiling.

In the majority opinion, Justice Kennedy wrote that the ruling did not foreclose
other ''constitutional challenges to the law as interpreted and applied after it
goes into effect.''

Meanwhile, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said on Monday that the federal
government would ''continue to vigorously enforce federal prohibitions against
racial and ethnic discrimination.''

Five other states have enacted tough measures to stem illegal immigration, more
or less patterned after the Arizona law: Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South
Carolina and Utah. But most states avoided creating new crimes for immigration
violations, as Arizona did in two provisions that were struck down.

Lower courts have stayed the carrying out of parts of those laws, and they will
now revisit those decisions.

In upholding the requirement that the police ask to see people's papers, the
court emphasized that state law enforcement officials already possessed the
discretion to ask about immigration status. The Arizona law merely makes that
inquiry mandatory if the police have reason to suspect a person is an illegal
immigrant.

In a concurring opinion, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. called the administration's
attack on the provision ''quite remarkable.''

''The United States suggests,'' he wrote, ''that a state law may be pre-empted,
not because it conflicts with a federal statute or regulation, but because it is
inconsistent with a federal agency's current enforcement priorities.''

Justice Kennedy added that the state law contained safeguards, including ones
instructing officials not to consider race or national origin unless already
permitted by law.

Further restricting the sweep of the majority opinion, Justice Kennedy wrote
that ''detaining individuals solely to verify their immigration status would
raise constitutional concerns.'' The decision left open, he said, ''whether
reasonable suspicion of illegal entry or other immigration crime would be a
legitimate basis for prolonging a detention, or whether this too would be
pre-empted by federal law.''

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G.
Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor joined Justice Kennedy's majority opinion. Justice
Elena Kagan disqualified herself from the case, Arizona v. United States, No.
11-182, presumably because she had worked on it as the solicitor general.

Had the case ended in a 4-to-4 tie, the appeals court's ruling blocking all four
aspects of the Arizona law would have stood.

Three justices dissented in part, each writing separately and only for himself.
Justices Scalia and Clarence Thomas said they would have sustained all three of
the blocked provisions. Justice Alito would have sustained two of them while
overturning one that makes it a crime under state law for immigrants to fail to
register with the federal government.

The two other provisions blocked by the majority were one making it a crime for
illegal immigrants to work or to try find work and another allowing the police
to arrest people without warrants if they have probable cause to believe they
have done things that would make them deportable under federal law.

Scholars who have followed the work of the court for decades said they could not
recall an instance similar to Justice Scalia's commentary on a political dispute
outside the record of the case under consideration.

''After this case was argued and while it was under consideration,'' Justice
Scalia said in his written dissent, ''the secretary of homeland security
announced a program exempting from immigration enforcement some 1.4 million
illegal immigrants.'' This month, the Obama administration said it would let
younger immigrants -- the administration estimates the number at 800,000 -- who
came to the United States as children avoid deportation and receive working
papers as long as they are not over the age of 30 and have clean criminal
records, among other conditions.

''The president said at a news conference that the new program is 'the right
thing to do' in light of Congress's failure to pass the administration's
proposed revision of the Immigration Act,'' Justice Scalia went on. ''Perhaps it
is, though Arizona may not think so. But to say, as the court does, that Arizona
contradicts federal law by enforcing applications of the Immigration Act that
the president declines to enforce boggles the mind.''

He added that Arizona and other states should not be left helpless before the
''evil effects of illegal immigration.''

Justice Kennedy responded that ''federal law makes a single sovereign
responsible for maintaining a comprehensive and unified system to keep track of
aliens within the nation's borders.''

''The national government has significant power to regulate immigration,'' he
wrote. ''The sound exercise of national power over immigration depends on the
nation's meeting its responsibility to base its laws on a political will
informed by searching, thoughtful, rational civic discourse.''

The Supreme Court signaled it would issue a health care law ruling on Thursday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People waited in line on Monday to enter the Supreme Court, in
anticipation of rulings on Arizona's immigration law and President Obama's
health care overhaul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A13)  MAP: SIMILAR LAWS IN OTHER STATES:  States that have enacted measures
patterned after the Arizona law or introduced similar bills that have not been
enacted.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Challenge to a Brutal Anti-Latino Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 504 words


As Sheriff Joe Arpaio went on trial in Arizona this week for discriminating
against Latinos and for usurping federal authority with his sweeping roundups of
undocumented immigrants, a coalition of individuals and groups brought a related
action in another federal court. The action asks the court to block enforcement
of Section 2(B) of S.B. 1070, the notorious Arizona law that compels all law
enforcement agencies in the state to copy and carry out the Arpaio model of
harassment and humiliation.

The Supreme Court rejected the premise of S.B. 1070 last month on grounds that
making foreign policy -- of which immigration law is a part -- is a federal
responsibility. But it upheld the law's ''show me your papers'' section
requiring officers to check the immigration status of anyone they stop, arrest
or detain on another basis if the officer has a ''reasonable suspicion'' the
person is in the country illegally. Justice Anthony Kennedy's majority opinion
said the court could not assume it would be applied in ways that conflicted with
federal law until it took effect -- as it did after the ruling.

The motion to enjoin Section 2(B) ''involves additional claims, evidence, and
irreparable injuries beyond what the Supreme Court had before it.'' The
challenge explains harms so obvious and unconstitutional that the judge does not
need extensive proof of the section's impact to block it. The Legislature
''explicitly intended Section 2(B) to codify the practices'' of Mr. Arpaio, the
motion says, even after his powers had been restricted by earlier investigations
into and challenges to his racial profiling. The practices the suit refers to
include extended stops and detentions of Latinos to verify their status or for
other immigration-related purposes. Public comments from law enforcement
officials leave little doubt they intend to use these tactics.

These practices are pre-empted by federal law and violate the Constitution's
Fourth Amendment, which bars unreasonable searches and seizures, because of the
prolonged time involved in stops and detentions. They further violate the equal
protection clause because of the section's discriminatory intent. The motion
says: ''Discriminatory animus permeated the sequence of events leading up to the
passage of S.B. 1070, informed legislators' views of the law, and ultimately
suffused the entire legislation with anti-Latino and anti-Mexican bias.''

The plaintiffs are also asking the court to enjoin another Arizona law, which
turns alleged violations of a federal anti-harboring law into a state crime. The
federal law prohibits bringing undocumented immigrants into the United States,
or shielding them. Courts have enjoined similar laws in Georgia, Alabama and
South Carolina since, like Arizona's, they were clearly pre-empted by federal
law.

Until both Arizona laws are blocked, the harms facing the plaintiffs are severe
and terrifying -- what Mr. Arpaio has inflicted on too many Latinos, and what
the Arizona Legislature intended to inflict on far too many more.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Court Gives Mixed Rulings On Checks of Immigration Status

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS;

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 170 words


Part of Alabama's immigration law that ordered public schools to check the
citizenship status of new students was ruled unconstitutional on Monday by a
federal appeals court that also said the police in that state and Georgia can
demand papers from criminal suspects they have detained. The 11th Circuit Court
of Appeals ruled that the Alabama schools provision wrongly singles out children
who are in the country illegally. Alabama was the only state that passed such a
requirement, and the 11th Circuit previously had blocked that part of the law
from being enforced. The panel did leave in place part of the injunction
blocking a section of the Georgia law that allows for the prosecution of certain
individuals who knowingly harbor or transport an illegal immigrant during the
commission of a crime. Both private groups and the Obama administration filed
lawsuits to block the law, considered the toughest in the country. The decisions
follow a United States Supreme Court ruling upholding parts of a similar Arizona
law.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/21/us/alabama-court-gives-mixed-rulings-on-immigr
ation-checks.html

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Appeals Court Draws Boundaries on Alabama's Immigration Law

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON and JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 901 words


When Alabama's immigration law was passed in the spring of 2011, it was the
boldest test yet of the doctrine of self-deportation. If the state put up legal
obstacles to nearly every aspect of illegal immigrants' lives, as a chief
sponsor of the law put it at the time, it would ''make their lives difficult and
they will deport themselves.''While other states had levied sanctions against
employers and empowered the police to check for citizenship status, Alabama's
law staked out new territory, shutting off access for those in the state
illegally to virtually every facet of regulated life, from water utilities to
rental agreements to dog tags.

In the year since the law went into effect, that new territory has significantly
shrunk.

On Monday, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit issued three
decisions that assessed Alabama's law as well as a similar law in Georgia. The
findings did not dramatically change the reality on the ground, for the most
part continuing to block provisions already on hold, and even allowing two
sections currently blocked to go into effect.

But the findings were the first broad determinations by an appeals court since
the Supreme Court's decision in June on an immigration enforcement law in
Arizona. And while the judges applied the Supreme Court's ruling, they also went
considerably beyond it, blocking statutes in Alabama and Georgia that the
highest court had not directly considered.

On the Alabama law, the appeals court struck down many of the measures that had
gone furthest in making the everyday lives of illegal immigrants so difficult.

''It put pretty serious limitations on what states can do,'' said Mary Bauer,
the legal director of the Southern Poverty Law Center, which has been a leader
in lawsuits against the state. ''They certainly can't do it in this wholesale
way that Alabama tried to do.''

The law had sought to render any contract with an illegal immigrant
unenforceable, to make it a state crime for such immigrants to apply for jobs
and to make the ''willful failure'' of an immigrant to carry legal documents at
all times a crime as well. Among its most hotly debated provisions, the law
required public schools to verify the immigration status of students and their
parents at the time of enrollment, and to keep a tally of children in the school
system who are here illegally.

In striking down those provisions, the judges drew on the Supreme Court's ruling
on the Arizona law but also cited a wider range of high court decisions
concerning the balance between states and the federal government on immigration.

''We are convinced that Alabama has crafted a calculated policy of expulsion,
seeking to make the lives of unlawfully present aliens so difficult as to force
them to retreat from the state,'' the judges wrote. They concluded that policy
was in direct conflict with federal law.

Significantly, the court in Atlanta, which is not known as especially liberal,
found that Alabama's statute requiring schools to keep a record of illegal
immigrants was a violation of equal protection guarantees, without referring to
Arizona. That decision was the harbinger of a new phase of arguments over
immigration, which will focus more on the civil rights impact of state action
and less on conflicts between state and federal authority.

Lawyers and activists who had helped Alabama and Georgia to craft their laws
were sharply critical of many parts of Monday's ruling.

''Given what's been going on it's hard to understand what recourse states are
left with if they want to cooperate in enforcement of our immigration laws,''
said Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which has drawn up templates for many state laws.

The backers of the law did have some victories to claim in the rulings.

Echoing the Supreme Court, which upheld Arizona's measure authorizing the police
to inquire about immigration status, the judges allowed similar though even
tougher provisions in Alabama's law. The appeals court also lifted a hold on a
provision that made it a crime for illegal immigrants to obtain certain
licenses, like car tags or professional licenses.

The judges said they allowed that provision to go into effect because the
Alabama legislature itself had significantly narrowed its scope this summer,
restricting its application from practically every government activity,
including pet tags, to six specific licenses, some of which were already
forbidden for illegal immigrants anyway.

While some of the law's staunchest backers have expressed dismay about the
whittling away of the law, other Alabama lawmakers said this was simply part of
the process of finding out what would stand.

''The sponsors of this bill were very clear that they wanted to push the
envelope, that they did want to test the law,'' said State Senator Bryan Taylor
of Alabama, a Republican.

He said that the provisions of the law that have gone either unchallenged or
have been upheld, such as obligating police to check for immigration status,
were the parts he had most strongly supported. Some other parts of the law,
which made it an outlier compared with other states, Senator Taylor said he had
little confidence would survive anyway.

''I was ultimately comfortable voting for the bill knowing some of the
provisions I objected to would be blocked, but also knowing that provisions I
supported would be left in there,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/22/us/appeals-court-limits-alabamas-immigration-l
aw.html

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (At War)

                              July 9, 2012 Monday

Trafficked Into Tragedy: Abuse of Immigrant Workers in Afghanistan and Iraq

BYLINE: SHREEYA SINHA

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 380 words



HIGHLIGHT: A report highlights the trafficking and abuse of foreign workers on
military bases in Iraq and Afghanistan.


On every military base in Iraq and Afghanistan exists an economy sustained by
immigrant workers. For transportation, construction, food services, security and
more, the United States government relies on 174,000 laborers, 70,000 of them
recruited from developing countries like Nepal, India, the Philippines and
Uganda.

But not all of these workers voluntarily leave home to serve alongside the
United States military. According to a report released in June by the American
Civil Liberties Union and the Lowenstein Clinic at Yale Law School, many of
these workers are tricked into working for American contractors and
subcontractors who abuse them with "impunity" and subject them to grueling
hours, meager wages, confinement and deadly working conditions.

In 2004, Buddhi Prasad Gurung and 12 other men from a village in Nepal were
promised jobs in a luxury hotel in Jordan. Instead, they were sent to Iraq to
work for a United States government subcontractor and, en route, were kidnapped
by insurgents. Twelve men were executed "in the single largest set of executions
of foreign captives by Iraqi insurgents."

Mr. Gurung survived the attack but said he had not been permitted to go home for
15 more months, according to a lawsuit against the subcontractor, Daoud &
Partners, and the primary contractor, KBR.

In 2011, The New Yorker's Sarah Stillman documented Fijian beauticians who
suffered from the same deceptive practices. "For the first time in American
history, private-contractor losses are now on a par with those of U.S. troops in
both war zones, amounting to 53 percent of reported fatalities in the first six
months of 2010," she wrote.

The United States has a zero-tolerance policy toward human trafficking, but the
report says existing measures -- prevention, investigation and prosecution --
are failing to curb the entrapment and abuse of foreign workers.

"Accountability exists in theory but not in practice: to date, the U.S.
government has yet to fine or prosecute a single contractor for trafficking- or
labor-related offenses," the report states.


     ·    Out of War, a Symphony
     ·    U.S. Navy Program to Study How Troops Use Intuition
     ·    Mao's Rockets and Modern War, Part III
     ·    Combat Injuries Can Change Lives in Surprising Ways
     ·    For Soldiers, the End of the Mail Means the End of the War


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fight Over Immigrant Firings

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and STEVEN YACCINO

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1513 words


MILWAUKEE -- On May 27, about 150 workers from Palermo's Pizza factory here,
representing three-fourths of its production workers, met to sign a petition
saying they wanted to unionize. They say they gave the petition to management
two days later.

Around the same time, Palermo's delivered letters to 89 immigrant workers,
asking them to provide documentation verifying that they had the right to work
in the United States. Ten days later, almost all of them were fired.

Labor organizers assert that Palermo's, one of the nation's largest producers of
frozen pizza, was trying to snuff out a unionization drive in its infancy. The
company says it was merely responding to warnings it had received from federal
immigration authorities to fire unauthorized workers or face hefty fines.

Scores of Palermo's workers have been on strike since June 1 to protest this
immigration crackdown, as well as what they say were poor wages and working
conditions. Day after day, the strikers picket outside the factory, often in
90-degree heat, chanting, ''No justice, no pizza.'' Labor unions across the
nation have rallied behind them and called for a boycott of Palermo's products.

At a time when labor leaders see immigrants as a group ripe for unionization,
the conflict highlights how difficult it can be to organize workplaces that
include unauthorized workers, who are entitled to certain labor protections
despite working illegally.

The fight also demonstrates how the Obama administration's campaign to toughen
immigration enforcement in workplaces can increase employers' leverage to derail
unionization efforts.

After several labor leaders complained that the enforcement action at Palermo's
was undermining a unionization effort, United States Immigration and Customs
Enforcement announced on June 7 that it was staying the enforcement, the first
time it has ever suspended a crackdown that way, according to immigration
experts. Although the agency's move might have been too late to help the fired
Palermo's workers, labor experts say the government's change of heart might
affect future efforts to unionize immigrants.

''There has been a history of the federal government not understanding how its
enforcement can undermine union organizing drives,'' said Janice Fine, a labor
relations professor at Rutgers. ''There is no question that this is a new
moment.''

Amid strong public support for more immigration enforcement, the Obama
administration has stepped up pressure on employers to dismiss or avoid hiring
illegal immigrants. During President Obama's tenure, federal inspectors have
audited 8,079 companies suspected of hiring unauthorized workers, leading to
tens of thousands of immigrant workers quitting or being fired.

Labor leaders say companies often taken advantage of workers' illegal status to
violate wage and safety laws or otherwise exploit them. When immigrant workers
band together to protest or seek to unionize, union leaders say, companies
sometimes invite in immigration officials to deliberately undercut them.

Unions cite enforcement actions at Smithfield's huge pork processing plant in
Tar Heel, N.C., and the Agriprocessors meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa, as
examples, although both employers denied that they had asked immigration
enforcers to intervene.

Still, unions have had some success organizing industries that employ many
illegal immigrants, like janitorial companies, poultry plants and carwashes.

There is some irony in the Palermo's dispute -- a company that boasts that it
was founded by immigrants finds itself in battle with its immigrant employees.

Palermo's executives say their company is an inspiring, up-by-the-bootstraps
story: Gaspare and Zina Fallucca, husband and wife immigrants from Sicily,
founded a small Italian bakery on Milwaukee's east side in 1964 that has since
blossomed into a company that produces millions of pizzas yearly.

But dozens of Latino immigrants employed by the company assert that the couple's
descendants, who now run the company, paid and treated them so poorly that it
prevented them from realizing their own American dream.

''It's simple why we're on strike: We want better pay and benefits, a safer work
environment, and we want to be listened to on the job,'' said Orlando Sosa, a
Palermo's worker since 2002. ''What we really want is to be able to work hard to
achieve our dreams.''

Palermo's managers insist that it is they who are the victims of injustice. They
say they face a boycott and a barrage of invective merely because they carried
out their legal obligation to terminate unauthorized workers.

''We were put in an impossible situation,'' said Palermo's marketing director,
Chris Dresselhuys. ''ICE said these people can't work in the United States
unless they prove otherwise.''

He said Palermo's fired the workers reluctantly, pointing to letters from the
agency saying the company could face criminal penalties and fines for each
unauthorized worker it employed.

Voces de la Frontera, an immigrant workers' center based in Milwaukee that is
working with the United Steelworkers to unionize the Palermo's workers, has
asked the National Labor Relations Board to rule that Palermo's illegally
intimidated and retaliated against employees for seeking to unionize.

''This wasn't really about immigration enforcement -- it's all about
union-busting,'' said Christine Neumann-Ortiz, Voces' executive director.

After Palermo's turned down the workers' request for union recognition, the
N.L.R.B. called for a vote to determine whether a majority of Palermo's workers
wanted a union.

The election was originally scheduled for July 6, but it has been delayed twice.
Initially, the vote was put off because the United Food and Commercial Workers
Union, irked that the workers were seeking to join the steelworkers, pushed
successfully to be put on the ballot as well. The labor board then ordered a
further delay to weigh Voces' claim that Palermo's had illegally intimidated
workers, making a fair election impossible.

Ana Avendano, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s director of immigration affairs, said ICE's
suspension of its enforcement action was the first time it had made such a move.
She said it was consistent with a December 2011 agreement that ICE signed with
the Department of Labor, promising to refrain from work site enforcement that
interfered with labor disputes or wage investigations.

Despite ICE's letter on June 7 staying enforcement, the very next day Palermo's
sent out more than 80 termination letters to workers suspected of being illegal
immigrants. Mr. Dresselhuys said ICE's letter was ambiguous and the company
feared criminal penalties unless it acted. ''Without any sort of clarity, what's
a little company like us supposed to do?'' he asked.

Mr. Dresselhuys said ICE first contacted Palermo's in February 2011, expressing
concerns that some employees were unauthorized. Palermo's officials said the
agency followed up with a letter on May 10 of this year urging them to tell
around 90 immigrant workers to reverify their work status or face termination.

Palermo's officials says Voces manipulated the situation to make the company
look as if it were retaliating against the union drive. They said Voces rushed
to get workers to sign the pro-union petition in late May when the group saw
that an immigration crackdown was imminent.

Voces ''has manufactured the controversy where none existed in a shameful
attempt to manipulate our employees into hurting the company,'' the company said
in a statement.

But Voces said the workers -- with complaints about low pay, callous managers
and injuries on the job -- decided back in November that they wanted to
unionize. For months, the group said, it held talks with the steelworkers and
A.F.L.-C.I.O. about how to proceed.

Voces has now asked the N.L.R.B. for an unusual remedy: to order Palermo's to
reinstate the fired immigrants, at least until ICE decides to ''un-suspend'' its
enforcement action. Voces said the fired workers' immigration status had not
been definitively determined because of the ICE suspension.

The group hopes a union election can be held soon afterward, before ICE resumes
enforcement, with the union's chances of winning greatly enhanced because many
union-friendly employees will be back at work.

Palermo's is trying to move on. It has hired dozens of replacement workers, 28
of them refugees from Myanmar, to keep the factory running during the strike.

The company says it would be awkward and illegal to rehire the fired immigrants.
The Supreme Court has ruled that the N.L.R.B. cannot order reinstatement or back
pay for illegal immigrants who were improperly fired for seeking to unionize.

Palermo's maintains that it is an unusually good employer, providing health,
dental and vision coverage, disability insurance, free meals and a 3 percent
contribution to 401(k)'s.

But Esperanza Garza, a production line worker on strike, said she earned just
$9.30 an hour after 10 years. She said the health insurance was hard to afford,
many workers got hurt and managers often belittled workers.

''We want something better,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters this month outside the Palermo's Pizza factory in
Milwaukee, where workers have been on strike since June 1. (B1)
  Palermo's denies strikers' claims, saying it acted after immigration officials
threatened to fine it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFFREY PHELPS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Latitude)

                             July 12, 2012 Thursday

Out of Africa

BYLINE: DAYO OLOPADE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 721 words



HIGHLIGHT: Kenya has decided to issue fewer work permits to foreign workers in
an attempt to boost employment for young Kenyans. This won't work.


NAIROBI - I live in the most cosmopolitan city in East Africa. Here, going about
one's daily business, it's easy to cross paths with Ugandans, Tanzanians,
Rwandans, Sudanese, Somalis, Ethiopian and Eritreans. Add to that a dollop of
Nigerians, Ghanaians, Cameroonians and Congolese, not to mention Europeans,
Americans and Indians, and you have a dynamic mix of skills and histories in one
unusual place.

But as of this week, the international flavor of Nairobi - as well as the
economic progress of Kenya at large - is suddenly in peril.

Kenya just slapped age and salary restrictions on the issuing of work permits to
foreign nationals. Permission to work will be given only to those foreigners
over the age of 35 making more than $24,000 annually. There will also be a cap
at the high end of the income scale: foreign medical, accounting, engineering,
legal and real-estate professionals are banned from coming to Kenya outright.

The announcement, made recently by the immigration minister, Otieno Kajwang, is
a halfhearted attempt to shore up employment figures that are admittedly dismal
for Kenyan youth, even those with university degrees. Sixty-five percent of
young Kenyans, or some 10 million people, are without work. Fewer foreign
workers means more local jobs, the protectionist logic goes.

The new policy could  particularly affect the flow of low-wage Asian immigrants
to Kenya and neighboring countries. At present, Chinese and Indian nationals
hold a combined 14,000 Kenyan work permits, and can be seen driving steamrollers
and managing restaurants far into the hinterlands. Though the new  measures are
thin gruel compared with the wholesale expulsion of Asians from East Africa in
1972, the sentiment behind them is similar.

"We do not want to create little India, little Pakistan and little China in
Kenya," wrote one commentator in  Business Daily, the top local business paper.

This is a step in the wrong direction. Kenya has issued about 26,000 work
permits to foreigners since 2007 - hardly enough jobs to employ the millions of
young Kenyans who lack work. The policy may keep out young Somalis, who are seen
as undesirable in the wake of repeated bombings by the extremist Somali-based
group Al Shabaab. But it will not penalize the growing body of well-heeled,
older workers circling over the region's new oil finds. And it'll hobble many of
the private-sector ventures that effectively create jobs and services for
Kenyans, either directly or through secondary means.

The biggest employers of expatriates in Kenya are Nestlé, Safaricom, East
African Breweries and Bharti Airtel - companies with a mix of foreign and
homegrown corporate components that supplement local labor with specialized
foreign talent. Add to the pile regional players like Unilever, PZ Cussons and
Bidco, and smaller, development-focused firms like Juhudi Kilimo, the
microfinance arm of the K-Rep Bank. Each offers value-added services essential
to replacing imports, developing a service and manufacturing base, improving
agricultural output and weaning Kenya off the tourism teat.

What's more, I'd wager that even expatriate-heavy firms are doing more to employ
Kenyans than the members of Kenya's Parliament: Legislators may have helped
improve education here, but they have spent more creative energy trying to avoid
national taxes.

So why the blanket persecution? The cynic in me sees this as a ploy from Nyayo
House, Kenya's infamous immigration agency. It is widely known as a cartel that
routinely extorts foreign firms in exchange for granting them access to Kenya's
workforce. Properly enforced, the old law was sufficient to protect low-wage
jobs. Imposing yet more requirements will create more avenues for rent-seeking -
as well as an incentive for even more parties to go around the law.

A chief irony of this is that Kenya usually is the voice of anti-protectionism
in the East African Community, a regional organization of five states that seeks
to integrate its members' currency and labor laws to promote regional growth.
Kenyan negotiators have been assuring less powerful members of the organization
that having no fences is what makes good neighbors.

They're forgetting that works two ways.


     ·    Inside Out Is Upside Down
     ·    When the Lights Go Out
     ·    The Survivors of Spain's Rush to Ruin
     ·    Sex in This City
     ·    The Possum Ate My Cable


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Economix)

                              July 20, 2012 Friday

Bring Your Questions on Skilled Immigrants

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 162 words



HIGHLIGHT: Send us questions for Brookings Institution scholars about H-1B visas
and their effects on the economy and American skilled workers.


Are more skilled immigrants good for the economy? Do they lower American
workers' wages? Where are they most in demand?

Now's your chance to ask scholars from the Brookings Institution these and other
questions about skilled immigrants. Neil G. Ruiz, Jill H. Wilson and Shyamali
Choudhury released a report this week about the geography of H-1B visas, which
allow employers to hire foreigners to work in specialty occupations on a
temporary basis.

Demand for H-1B workers varies by region, as you can see from the map above. But
across the country, openings for science, technology, engineering and
mathematics (or STEM) occupations account for nearly two-thirds of requests for
H-1B workers.

Submit your questions in the comment box below.


     ·    Answers to Your Questions on the Foreclosure Crisis, Part II
     ·    Answers to Your Questions on the Foreclosure Crisis
     ·    Bring Your Questions on the Foreclosure Crisis
     ·    Grade Inflation: Your Questions Answered
     ·    Answers on Europe's Debt Crisis, Part 3


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Economix)

                            July 25, 2012 Wednesday

Answers to Your Questions on Skilled Immigration

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1679 words



HIGHLIGHT: Scholars from the Brookings Institution answer reader-submitted
questions about H-1B visas.


7/26/12 | Updated

Last week we asked you to submit questions about skilled immigrants and in
particular the H-1B visa program they often work under. Responses from Neil G.
Ruiz, Jill H. Wilson and Shyamali Choudhury, who recently wrote about this topic
for the Brookings Institution, are shown below.

Q.


- Chris, Ellicott City, Md.

A.

Under the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1990, employers hiring H-1B workers
are required to pay the average wage (or higher) for the occupation and
geographical area for which they are hiring. In addition, employers are
forbidden to pay H-1B workers less than they pay other workers with similar
skills and qualifications.

A 2008 United States government study found that 13 percent of H-1B petitions
included some type of fraud, and an additional 7 percent had technical
violations. Over all, almost 4 percent of petitions were found to be in
violation of the prevailing wage requirement.

Fraud was found to be more prevalent among smaller, less established companies
and among occupations in accounting, human resources, business analysis, sales,
and advertising. Negotiations are currently under way in Congress to beef up
H-1B fraud prevention.


Q.


-  rational expectations, Westchester, N.Y.

A.

Our report did not look specifically at the impact of high-skilled foreign
workers on employment, so we will defer to the work of others in this answer.

William Kerr at Harvard Business School has shown the connection between
high-skilled immigration and innovation.  His paper demonstrates that
inventions, as measured by the number of patents filed, have increased because
of contributions of foreign inventors admitted through programs like the H-1B
visa program.  It is unclear if there is a direct connection to job creation,
but breakthrough patents could have the effect of creating more jobs.

A study by Madeline Zavodny shows that even during the tough economic times of
the last few years, immigration on the whole has not hurt the job prospects of
native-born Americans and that high-skilled immigrants are correlated with an
increase in jobs for natives.

On the other hand, an A.F.L.-C.I.O. study by Paul Almeida argues that programs
like the H-1B visa incentivize the displacement of native workers because
employers may prefer foreign workers for their lower cost and exploitability.
Ron Hira at the Rochester Institute of Technology assertsthat H-1B workers are
not complements but are direct substitutes for American workers.

We recognize the concerns and limitations of both sides of this debate.  The
challenge for policy makers is to figure how to meet the demand for high-skilled
workers by developing an immigration policy that allows the United States to
continue to attract the foreign workers that it needs, while at the same time
educating and training American workers for these jobs in the near future.

Q.


- Angela, CA

A.

The demand for H-1B immigrant workers is not just a high-tech Silicon Valley
story; rather it is a story of American employers across the country, in metro
areas large and small, requesting high-skilled workers in a variety of
occupations. This includes American manufacturers searching for specific skills
in America's heartland.

Although our research shows that San Jose, Calif., home to Silicon Valley, is
the No. 1 metropolitan area in demand for H-1B workers relative to its work
force size, Columbus, Ind., ranks second.

This is driven mostly by Cummins Inc., an advanced manufacturer specializing in
clean technologies for automotive engines headquartered there.  The company has
experienced exponential growth over the past several years, even during the
recession, and most of its requests for H-1B workers are for engineers.

Other metro areas in the Midwest have a high demand for STEM H-1B workers.  For
instance, in Bloomington, Ill., 94.8 percent of all H-1B requests are for STEM
occupations, the highest share of all metro areas in the country. These are
driven by companies like Patni Americas Inc., which provides
information-technology services for State Farm.

Columbus, Ind., ranks second for STEM share (88.8 percent) and No. 3 is Peoria,
Ill., where the heavy equipment maker Caterpillar is headquartered.  Midwestern
metros like these are looking to the H-1B visa program to build a skilled labor
force.

Q.


- Austin AI, Austin, TX

A.

Outsourcing is the result of many interrelated factors.  United States
immigration policy can play a role by making it difficult for American employers
to hire foreigners to work here; some companies work around these restrictions
by moving operations to a country where it is easier to bring in foreign
workers.

Currently, employers who want to hire an H-1B worker are not required to perform
labor market tests to ensure there are no available American workers, but only
attest that no American worker has been displaced at their company as a result.
This oversight process facilitates speedy H-1B approvals but relies on
post-admission site visits to detect fraud and abuse.

In 2010 in an effort to discourage H-1B dependence, President Obama signed a law
adding $2,000 to the fees that employers are required to pay for an H-1B visa if
the employer has at least 50 employees in the United States and more than half
of them are in H-1B or L-1 nonimmigrant status.

These and other H-1B visa fees, paid by employers, are used to fund technical
skills training and STEM education (at the K-12 and postsecondary levels) in
American communities in an effort to train our existing work force to do the
jobs that H-1Bs are currently hired to do, as well as help finance fraud
prevention and detection.

Q.


- John Gary, Boulder Colo.

A.

The years of education demanded by the average American  job is growing, and the
educational level of American workers has fallen behind to some extent.
However, there is disagreement about the existence of a shortage of science,
technology, engineering and mathematics workers in the United States.

Some argue that the American educational system lacks rigor in these fields and
that American students lack the interest or ability to pursue these occupations
to the extent that our companies need them.  Others argue that we are in fact
graduating enough students in STEM every year but that they are being diverted
to work in other fields.  Meanwhile, American companies that report having
trouble finding qualified workers among the existing work force are using the
H-1B program to fill job openings.

Q.


-  Highly Skilled, NY

A.

H-1B visas are temporary worker visas filed by employers, but they are also
dual-intent - meaning that with employer sponsorship, these visas can be
converted into green cards for legal permanent residency.  One significant
concern of this structure is that workers on H-1B visas cannot leave their
employer while waiting for green-card sponsorship, which can be over a decade
for those coming from countries with significant backlogs, because of green-card
quotas.

The point-based systems of other countries, including Canada, Australia and
Britain, consider economic and business needs when admitting immigrants, and
would represent a significant departure from the current United States emphasis
on family reunification.  Current gridlock in Congress makes the possibility of
such systemic reform unlikely in the near future, but smaller reforms are
gaining ground.

In an important step toward reducing the green-card backlog, the Fairness for
High-Skilled Immigrants Act of 2011, which passed the House in November, is
active again after Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, lifted his
hold on the legislation last week.

Q.


- Banty, Upstate New York

A.

When applying for an H-1B visa, all employers submit a Labor Condition
Application (LCA) stating compliance with prevailing wage, strike and lockout
regulation, and notice of intent to hire an H-1B worker.  However, only H-1B
dependent employers (generally defined as 15+ percent of an organization on H-1B
visas) are required to provide a labor market attestation to verify that no
American workers are displaced before hiring an H-1B worker.  As a result, some
argue that the LCA process is a relatively weak screening mechanism.  The
current system relies on post-issuance enforcement through government site
visits to employer locations to verify identities, job descriptions, and
salaries of H-1B workers.

In general, the existence of a labor shortage in STEM fields is not established,
and there is research both in support of, and against, this possibility.

Q.


- endorendil, Belgium

A.

The brain-drain issue is a significant concern for many countries that want to
retain their own educated professionals for their labor market needs.  But many
countries see the value of sending their citizens to get trained in American
universities so that they return with higher skills.

For example, the Brazilian president set up a scholarship program to send
Brazil's best undergraduate students for a year to study at American
universities in science, technology, engineering and mathematics  programs.
Most nations understand that a skilled work force is essential to economic
growth.  A balance of international immigration policies, educational quality
and migration trends plays a large part in determining where high-skilled
workers get their education and use their skills.

To train the American work force for highly technical occupations, the fees
charged to employers requesting H-1B visas are distributed by the Employment and
Training Administration of the Department of Labor and the National Science
Foundation to local areas.  This provides an opportunity for the existing work
force to upgrade their skills so that they can be hired for jobs that employers
seek through the H-1B visa program.  These H-1B visa fee programs are one method
for providing short- and long-term training so that American employers do not
have to rely on hiring high-skilled foreigners.


     ·    Bring Your Questions on Skilled Immigrants
     ·    What We're Reading: Democratic Optimism
     ·    Paying for Innovation
     ·    Children of Immigrants Study More
     ·    Where Manufacturing Is Gaining


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

A Republican Platform Line Friendly to Immigrants

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 511 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Texas business owner has been campaigning to have Republicans
soften their stance on immigration.


It was no surprise that the Republicans declared their intention to strictly
crack down on illegal immigration in their platform, which was released last
week.

But one line was added to the text that went counter to the calls for strict
verification and expanded by states: It called for "a legal and reliable source
of foreign labor where needed through a new guest worker program."

And Brad Bailey, a Texas Republican who owns two seafood restaurants in suburbs
of Houston, was satisfied to see it there.

Mr. Bailey, 39, is not a delegate at the convention in Tampa, Fla., but he has
been roaming the hallways there since last week, striding up to delegates to
convince them that the party should be on record supporting new access for
employers to legal foreign labor. He is a nonstop advocate for the immigration
plank that Texas Republicans wrote into their state platform after contentious
meetings in June, which includes a temporary foreign worker program.

"We are a border state and we have the same problem as Arizona, but we addressed
it totally differently than Arizona," Mr. Bailey said, referring to polarizing
enforcement laws passed in that state.

Mr. Bailey admits he is rowing against his party's tide this year. But he is
among a number of Republicans, many of them farmers or small-business owners,
who are urging party leaders to recognize that some employers still have a hard
time filling low-paying jobs despite high unemployment.

He also wants the party to take the edge off its rhetoric against illegal
immigrants. "Jan Brewer and Joe Arpaio are hijacking the issue and damaging the
Republican party brand," Mr. Bailey said, referring to Arizona's governor and
the hard-line sheriff of Maricopa County. "We need to stop the hatred language
and fix this problem."

Mr. Bailey said he started his personal campaign to change the party's approach
after Latino workers in one of his restaurants -- longtime legal employees --
asked him last year why he was a Republican. "They don't like Hispanics," the
workers said of the party.

He said Kris Kobach, the secretary of state of Kansas who wrote several
enforcement amendments that were added to the convention platform, did not
understand the needs of employers in labor-intensive businesses.

"I sign the front of the paychecks, he signs the back," Mr. Bailey said.

In Tampa, Mr. Bailey found a sympathetic hearing from several delegates,
including Sue Sharkey, a Colorado state official, who came to the meetings with
her own proposal for a guest worker program run entirely by the private sector.
Ms. Sharkey said she offered the language that was eventually adopted in the
final text of the platform.

The party's candidate, Mitt Romney, has said little recently on immigration,
generally avoiding an issue that divides the party and has distanced it from
Latino voters. Mr. Bailey said he was hoping for leadership on the issue from
Representative Paul D. Ryan, Mr. Romney's running mate, who co-sponsored a
Democratic proposal in Congress two years ago to give legal status to immigrant
farmworkers.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Economix)

                            October 19, 2012 Friday

Immigration and American Jobs

BYLINE: EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1128 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rather than displacing native workers, the availability of cheap
immigrant labor can help create jobs for Americans as well, researchers have
concluded.


Of all the economic dynamics buffeting the American middle class, immigration
might seem the easiest to explain: as millions of poor immigrants from Latin
America poured illegally into the country seeking work, the conventional wisdom
goes, they competed with more expensive American workers, displacing them from
their jobs and undercutting their wages.

This understanding of immigration helped propel a vast increase in the Border
Patrol's budget over the last two decades to stop immigrants on their way in. It
was the rationale for proposals to build a long, tall fence along the southern
border. President Obama, who in 2008 said he would push for a law that would
grant many of these immigrants legal access to jobs in the United States,
instead deported a record number of immigrants working here illegally.

But this explanation of the impact of immigration is mostly wrong.

For years, economists have been poring through job market statistics looking for
evidence that immigrants undercut less-educated Americans in the labor market.
The most recent empirical studies conclude that the impact is slight: they
confirm earlier findings that immigration on the whole has not led to fewer jobs
for American workers. More significantly, they suggest that immigrants have had,
at most, a smallnegativeimpact on the wages of Americans who compete with them
most directly, those with a high school degree or less.

Meanwhile, the research has found that immigrants - including the poor,
uneducated ones coming from south of the border -- have a big positive impact on
the economy over the long run, bolstering the profitability of American firms,
reducing the prices of some products and services by providing employers with a
new labor source and creating more opportunities for investment and jobs.
Giovanni Peri, an economist at the University of California at Davis, estimated
that the wave of immigrants that entered the United States from 1990 to 2007
increased national income per worker by about $5,400 a year on average, in 2007
dollars. He also concluded that the wave had a small positive impact on the
average wage of American workers, by lifting the overall economy. If immigrants
hurt anyone, it was the previous cohort of immigrants, with whom they most
directly compete in the labor market.

These conclusions may seem to fly in the face of the laws of supply and demand.
But they are not quite so odd. They can become obvious, in fact, once we take
into account the response of American companies, and workers, to the inflows of
cheap foreign labor.

The belief that immigration would simply displace American workers relies on the
assumption that employers would do nothing but replace their costly domestic
labor force with cheap imports. But that's not typically what happens. For one
thing, immigrants and domestic workers are not identical. Even the
least-educated Americans are likely to be more fluent in English - better at
talking with bosses or communicating with customers. When a contractor in Fresno
expands into roofing, it will not just need a bunch of cheap immigrant roofers.
It will also need an American supervisor and maybe an extra clerk.

Faced with a new, different pool of workers, companies often invest to reap the
higher profits that the labor allows. Contractors, for instance, will be able to
take on projects that would not have been profitable paying higher wages to
domestic workers - like the roofing example in Fresno. This provides new
opportunities for immigrants and for more highly paid domestic workers alike.

Mr. Peri and Chad Sparber of Colgate University found that American workers in
states with large shares of less-educated immigrants gravitate toward
occupations like cashiers and bank tellers, waiters or sales floor clerks, which
require more communications skills. Foreigners, in turn, stick to manual tasks
and physical labor. By encouraging this specialization and capital investment,
immigration contributes to productivity growth.

In other words, immigration can produce domestic jobs. Restaurants are much less
common in Norway than the United States because Norway lacks the cheap labor -
making a dinner out in Oslo prohibitively expensive. In many New York
restaurants, the American waiters and hosts owe their jobs to the underpaid
illegal immigrants in the kitchen, whose low wages allow the restaurant to
exist. The vast agricultural industry in the Central Valley of California might
not exist without cheap immigrant farm workers who make it profitable.

There are victims of immigration. Immigrants can displace domestic workers -
before business investment starts rising and creating new jobs.  This is
particularly notable in economic downturns, when demand and business investment
are depressed. Some displaced workers may not be able to fit in the reconfigured
labor market, even if new investments kick in and the economy as a whole
benefits. A 50-year-old American janitor with no high school degree may find it
hard to make the transition to another job when immigrants move into the
building maintenance business.

This dynamic potentially causes a small negative impact on the wages of
less-skilled workers - but it's also possible that this impact is positive. A
study by Mr. Peri and Gianmarco Ottaviano of Bocconi University in Milan
concluded that the immigration wave into the United States from 1990 to 2006
changed the wages of American workers with no high school degree by somewhere
from minus 0.1 percent to plus 0.6 percent.

But over the long term, most less-skilled American workers are likely to
benefit. Immigrant workers, in fact, may help their American peers resist the
forces of globalization and technological progress that have been walloping the
American middle class.

Those nostalgic for strawberry fields harvested by well-paid Americans ignore
the fact that without the cheap foreigners, there might not be American
strawberry fields. Chances are, it would be cheaper to import the strawberries.
When the bracero program ended in the 1960s, tomato growers in California
responded to the sudden shortage of Mexican immigrant farm workers by deploying
a new mechanical harvester and a tomato that could be cut by machine.

These days, the problem of low-wage immigration seems academic. Since the
financial crisis in 2009, poor immigrants from Latin America have been mostly
leaving the United States, unable to find a decent job here. American workers
might want them back.  "If some firms don't expand because this labor isn't
there," Mr. Peri says, "they will create less jobs for native workers."


     ·    Health Care and Romney's Taxes
     ·    Romney's Tax Rate, Compared
     ·    Who Pays and Who Takes
     ·    Behind the 'People Who Pay No Income Tax'
     ·    Mitt Romney, Carried Interest and Capital Gains


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Undocumented Diner

BYLINE: By CHUCK KLOSTERMAN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 967 words


I learned that a local business, which I patronize perhaps twice a month for
lunch, has been in trouble for employing undocumented workers. I'm not sure what
to think of the ethics of that, though the illegality is clear. I'm wondering
whether I have any ethical obligation as a citizen and customer to stop going
there. LAURIE HURSHMAN, NEW HAVEN, CONN.

It's true that employing undocumented workers is illegal, and it's possible you
don't wish to be involved with any organization that breaks the law. But this
kind of law operates outside the boundaries of traditional ethics. Obviously,
this is not true for all laws: if murder were somehow legalized, killing
innocent people would still be morally wrong, based on an ingrained belief in
the sanctity of human life. But this is a different kind of statute. If the laws
governing undocumented workers were suddenly reversed, it would be seen merely
as a policy change. Some people would agree with the modification and others
would not, but both sides of the argument would be almost entirely political.
Undocumented workers take potential jobs from U.S. citizens, but who is to say
citizenship is a moral justification for employment?

Undocumented workers don't always contribute to the tax base, but they also put
themselves in a precarious, unprotected position where they can be underpaid in
cash, to the nefarious benefit of the employer. An illegal immigrant can't
legally work at a restaurant to support his family, but his 16-year-old son can,
if he happened to be born here. There are contradictions on both sides. You
admit you're ''not sure what to think'' about this restaurant's employment
practice, which is an acceptable way to feel about an issue that lacks a
straightforward moral answer; you're aware of the illegality, but those laws
apply only to the owner and the workers (not the consumer). So if you can't
personally isolate why it's ethically wrong, there's no reason to stop eating
there.

But let's take this further. Let's say you thought about this problem deeply and
came to the conclusion that it was unethical for restaurants to employ
undocumented workers. This prompts one of the more difficult questions in modern
living: Is it wrong to contribute -- in any way -- to businesses or
organizations that contradict your ethical beliefs? There is a mode of thinking
that insists that it is and that living ethically requires us to assess every
day-to-day decision through the prism of its impact on the wider world. But what
that entails in a practical sense is pretty unreasonable, unless ''living
ethically'' is the only thing you care about. To do so would paralyze every
moment of every day and consume you entirely. For example, let's say you view
military drone strikes as unethical (an issue far graver than restaurant
employees). The U.S. government regularly conducts drone strikes. Does this mean
that you should not support any business that pays federal taxes (and thereby
provides support for military activities)? Does it mean you should not pay
income tax because that makes you part of the problem? Does it mean you need to
consider every single extension of the government, weigh their ethical merits
against your own and then decide whether you still support the idea of living in
America? These are all interesting questions to ask yourself while eating at
this restaurant.

THE (POLITICAL) BOSS

Can I politically disagree with an artist and still love the art? I'm a
conservative person who happens to love Bruce Springsteen apart from the
political causes he champions. Is an artist ethically just in rejecting a fan
for not supporting him politically? Am I a fool for supporting an artist who
would personally reject me over my political beliefs? JAMIE McINTYRE, BRAINTREE,
MASS.

Artists have no ethical responsibility to reflect -- or even consider -- the
views of their fan base. This is one-way, mediated entertainment: Springsteen
makes music and creates a persona, and you get to decide if that product is
something you want in your life. And since the only tangible relationship you
have with Springsteen is his music, there's no problem with your seemingly
contradictory support. How you experience and interpret his work is your choice
(the artist can instruct otherwise, but he can't enforce that instruction once
his art enters the public sphere). A performer can stop a song from being
co-opted by a politician, but he can't demand that consumers dislike that
politician.

As for Springsteen's hypothetical rejection of you and your belief system:
that's a strange thing to worry about. For one thing, he might not reject you at
all (he'd likely disagree with your opinions, but that's not the same thing).
And -- more important -- it would not matter if he did. His music doesn't reject
you. Besides, an artist's political expression is not a contract with the
audience. In the liner notes of Nirvana's 1992 release ''Incesticide,'' Kurt
Cobain outlined the type of person he did not want buying his music. It was the
most direct attempt at fan rejection imaginable. Yet even that message could be
read only if the shrink-wrapped CD was purchased and opened. The only people he
could ''reject'' were those who had already bought his work, so his request was
ultimately symbolic. It was a way to say, ''This is how I look at the world, so
listen with that worldview in mind.'' When Springsteen talks about politics,
he's doing the same thing. Now, perhaps you don't want to be a fan of anyone who
doesn't mirror your political biases. That's your prerogative. But that suggests
you're interested in something other than music.

E-mail queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them to the Ethicist, The New
York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a
daytime phone number.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/09/magazine/undocumented-diner.html

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

Obama's Decision on Immigration Is Met With Joy, Anger and Skepticism

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON

LENGTH: 1832 words



HIGHLIGHT: While supporters cheer the Obama administration's new immigration
policy, opponents say the president is improperly bypassing Congress and playing
election year politics.


Updated, 6:10 p.m. As my colleagues Julia Preston and John H. Cushman Jr.
report, an Obama administration policy announced Friday morning will halt the
deportation of illegal immigrants who came to the United States as children and
allow them to obtain work permits.

In remarks about the new policy, President Obama said it would help hundreds of
thousands of young people, but he acknowledged that it was not "a permanent
fix."

The policy is similar to the so-called Dream Act, an immigration measure that
was designed to offer a path toward citizenship for certain young illegal
immigrants but was blocked by Congress in 2010.

The reaction to the announcement was mixed, with young immigrants hailing the
decision, Democratic political leaders heaping praise on the president, and
opponents and some Republicans harshly criticizing him for bypassing Congress.

Then, of course, many people on both sides of the debate noted the timing of the
announcement, coming just months before the November election as both Mr. Obama
and Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, are vying for the Latino
vote.

Speaking after a campaign event in Milford, N.H., Mr. Romney criticized the
policy change, saying it would make it more difficult "to reach a long-term
solution" for dealing with the fate of young people who are in the United States
"through no fault of their own."

He said that he would like to see legislation that deals with this issue. As
president, Mr. Romney said he would provide a "long-term solution that provides
certainty and clarity."

Shortly after The Associated Press broke the news this morning, lawmakers,
advocates and ordinary people turned to Twitter to voice their reaction.

From @joseiswriting and @defineamerican: " AMERICA EMBRACES 1 MILLION DREAMS "
#immigration #dreamact #p2 #ri4a

- americasvoice (@americasvoice)15 Jun 12

Thank you #Obama you made my life!!!:D #DreamAct

- Alejandro Solis (@alex856pbg)15 Jun 12

Administrative DREAM Act blatantly ignores the rule of law that is the
foundation of our democracy. http://t.co/YB8r7AiD

- Lamar Smith (@LamarSmithTX21)15 Jun 12

MT "@michaeljmartin2: Obama in lowest ebb, Dream Act already failed, granting
amnesty not in powers #unconstitutional http://t.co/LdHxCfQI"

- FAIR (@FAIRImmigration)15 Jun 12

For nearly 2yrs we've told the President 'Yes You Can' prevent the deportation
of #DREAMers. Today I'm overjoyed & proud that he has acted.

- Luis V. Gutierrez (@LuisGutierrez)15 Jun 12

In a statement, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg praised the move.

Today the Obama Admin took a step towards breaking the Washington logjam on
#immigration that has hamstrung our economy http://t.co/LY2b7lyf

- NYC Mayor's Office (@NYCMayorsOffice)15 Jun 12

With its action today, the Obama administration is making a significant portion
of the Dream Act a reality. Ending deportations of innocent young people who
have the potential to drive tomorrow's economy is long overdue, as are many
common-sense reforms needed to center our immigration policy around our economic
needs. We have a system that is choking our economic growth by chasing away the
entrepreneurs who can create jobs and the talented people businesses need to
succeed and grow. Smart immigration policy protects our borders while ensuring
America remains the destination for all those willing to work hard and dream
big.

Moving major issues requires action, not rhetoric, and today, the administration
took a step toward breaking the Washington logjam on immigration that has
hamstrung our economy and made America less competitive in the global
marketplace.

Jose Antonio Vargas, the award-winning reporter who revealed in The New York
Times last year that he had hidden his status as an illegal immigrant and who
wrote the cover story this week in Time magazine, titled "Not Legal, Not
Leaving," praised the policy change. Since he left The Washington Post last
year, Mr. Vargas created an advocacy organization called Define American.

America embraces 1 million dreams: @defineamerican http://t.co/KAboNsBC
#WeAreAmericans #immigration #DREAMAct @TIME

- Jose Antonio Vargas (@joseiswriting)15 Jun 12

He also noted that he would not be covered under the policy.

This won't apply to me--I'm past the age limit of 30 and under. I'm 31. But this
is HUGE HUGE HUGE. #sohappy #WeAreAmericans @Time

- Jose Antonio Vargas (@joseiswriting)15 Jun 12

The policy, which is effective immediately, will apply to people who are under
30 years old, arrived in the country before turning 16 and have lived in the
United States for five years. They must also have no criminal record, have
earned a high school diploma and remained in school or served in the military.

In Congress, the measure received mixed reaction, with Representative Nancy
Pelosi, Democrat of California and the former House speaker, using the
announcement to remind voters that the Democrat-led House approved the Dream Act
in 2010 before it failed in the Senate.

Strongly support President's decision to stop deporting DREAM Act kids.
Democratic-led House passed DREAM in 2010. GOP still obstructing.

- Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi)15 Jun 12

Particular attention was being paid to the response from Senator Marco Rubio,
Republican of Florida, who has spoken out on immigration issues and is close to
the Romney campaign.

He said in a statement that he was concerned Mr. Obama's approach was a
short-term answer to a "long-term problem" that might make it difficult to find
a permanent solution. His response was echoed by Mr. Romney later in the day.

There is broad support for the idea that we should figure out a way to help kids
who are undocumented through no fault of their own, but there is also broad
consensus that it should be done in a way that does not encourage illegal
immigration in the future. This is a difficult balance to strike, one that this
new policy, imposed by executive order, will make harder to achieve in the long
run.

Today's announcement will be welcome news for many of these kids desperate for
an answer, but it is a short-term answer to a long-term problem. And by once
again ignoring the Constitution and going around Congress, this short-term
policy will make it harder to find a balanced and responsible long-term one.

Proud to stand with @BarackObama's landmark decision to protect young #DREAMers
& make us achieve a more perfect union. #DREAMact

- Rep. Mike Honda (@RepMikeHonda)15 Jun 12

Today's announcement will give tens of thousands of #DREAMers the chance to come
out of the shadows #DREAMAct

- Senator Dick Durbin (@SenatorDurbin)15 Jun 12

On his Facebook page, Representative Allen West, Republican of Florida, harshly
criticized the decision, saying the president had overreached.

This is yet another example of executive branch overreach. We have a legislative
process that ensures representative governance by the consent of the American
people. This action should be crafted into legislation, debated in committee and
brought before the House and Senate for vote, with accordance of our
Constitutional Republic way.  Secretary Napolitano is an unelected
administrative bureaucrat who does not have the right to make governing
decisions for this country.

It is apparent that the goal of the Obama administration is not to govern, but
rule by edict. This again is a reflection of the desperation of President Obama
and his liberal progressive disciples as November draws nearer. I find it ironic
that Secretary Napolitano would not assist our State of Florida with ensuring
the integrity of the voting process but she can make a unilateral decision about
who can reside in America.

Furthermore, where are the details about how the American economy is going to
handle this influx of people, who will without a doubt now be guaranteed
services and be competing with Americans for jobs?  These are the kind of
details that are to be hammered out during the legislative process, and appear
to be completely overlooked by this Administration as usual.

Mr. West's remarks prompted a flurry of comments, in agreement with his
statement. Some expressed concern that allowing work permits for young people
who arrived in this country illegally would take away jobs from veterans and
returning members of the Armed Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"Tell me they're not taking work away from our returning troops?" one commenter
posted. "What is he thinking.....votes? 800,000 work permits and our
unemployment will increase."

Across the country, the decision was met with rallies by supporters and
skepticism by others, including elected officials.

In Arizona, Gov. Jan Brewer, who was criticized for her support of a law
allowing police officers to detain people they suspect of being in the country
illegally, characterized Mr. Obama's announcement as "blatant political
pandering by a president desperate to shore up his political base."

Ms. Brewer went on, "It's no coincidence that this sweeping policy change was
announced less than five months before a presidential election." She also
described the announcement as a "pre-emptive strike against the U.S. Supreme
Court and its decision on S.B.1070," the immigration law whose constitutionality
the Obama administration challenged all the way to the nation's highest court.

"He says it's temporary, but we all know better," Ms. Brewer said, then added
moments later, "We need to keep our focus upon securing the border."

In Washington, a crowd gathered outside the White House as Mr. Obama made his
remarks.

So many students here at #DREAMers rally @whitehouse talking about their
futures! #lgbt #P2 http://t.co/LuXkVVOd

- Rea Carey (@rea_carey)15 Jun 12

In Los Angeles, a group of young people had organized a rally Friday morning
calling for changes to the immigration law. The rally soon became a celebration
when word spread about the news, announced Friday by Janet Napolitano, the
Homeland Security secretary.

By afternoon, some of Mr. Obama's supporters in Chicago and across the country
were suggesting that people affected by the ruling should volunteer for his
re-election effort.

ok #DREAMers time for you to start registering people to vote & campaigning for
Obama!

- Monica (@Avenew)15 Jun 12

And advocates for changes in immigration law reminded supporters that the job is
not over.

We are very happy but we are still fighting #WeAreAmericans

- ADAC (@TheADAC)15 Jun 12

Today the students are being protected, but we have to fix the system for their
families & for the country once and for all. #DREAMers #p2

- Luis V. Gutierrez (@LuisGutierrez)15 Jun 12

Your thoughts on the policy change? Links to reaction we should include? Please
leave your comment here.


An earlier version of this post misspelled the name of Republican senator
representing Florida. He is Marco Rubio, not Marc Rubio.


     ·    Suicide Attack Follow Obama's Afghanistan Visit
     ·    Video of Obama's Address From Afghanistan
     ·    Day Two: Updates on the Supreme Court Hearings on the Health Care Law
     ·    Iran Offers U.S. Tiny Replica of Lost Drone
     ·    Video of Remarks by Aung San Suu Kyi and Obama on Myanmar


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

While Seeking Support, Obama Faces a Frustrated Hispanic Electorate

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 994 words


As President Obama heads into the main stretch of his re-election campaign, his
immigration policies have produced few gains among Latinos, whose votes could be
crucial for him in November.

The Department of Homeland Security reported last week that only about 4,400
deportations of illegal immigrants had been halted nationwide under a major
initiative started a year ago.

In a strategic shift, immigration authorities had said they would focus on
deporting criminals and people who cheated the visa system, while sparing
illegal immigrants with clean records. But after an administration review of
more than 288,000 deportation cases before the immigration courts, the total
suspended by prosecutors so far is less than 2 percent.

That is not the only policy that has been a jarring disappointment for Latinos.
Mr. Obama, who easily won a majority of their votes in 2008, promised to move in
his first year to overhaul the immigration system and to give legal status to
illegal immigrants.

As it becomes clear that Mr. Obama faces a tight race against the presumed
Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, pressure is building for him to do something
more for Latinos.

Early in his term, Mr. Obama put a stop to raids in factories and fields that
snared many illegal immigrants who were working to support families. But quiet
inspections of employers' hiring records have accelerated, forcing many
thousands of unauthorized workers to leave their jobs.

The Department of Homeland Security has aggressively expanded a fingerprinting
program, which vastly increases the chances for an illegal immigrant to be
detained, even for minor offenses like traffic violations.

In January, administration officials announced a measure that would make it
easier for Americans who are married to illegal immigrants to gain legal
residence for their spouses. Although it awakened great hopes -- there are
hundreds of thousands of couples in that situation -- the measure is making its
way through the bureaucracy and will probably not take effect before November.

At the same time, Mr. Obama's record on deportations has not been matched since
the 1950s, with nearly 400,000 foreigners removed in each year of his term.

''People are saying, 'What gives?' '' said Clarissa Martinez de Castro, director
of immigration issues for the National Council of La Raza, or N.C.L.R., the
nation's largest Latino civil rights organization. ''Immigration is deeply
personal for many of our voters, and there is disillusionment out there.''

Hispanics tend to have low rates of voter registration. Polls show that they
place a higher priority on jobs and education than on immigration. But many
Hispanic immigrants have family or friends who are here illegally.

Despite his immigration results, Mr. Obama enjoys a wide lead over Mr. Romney
among Hispanics. A recent Gallup poll, based on nationwide telephone interviews
conducted from May 14 to June 3, found that Hispanic voters favored Mr. Obama
over Mr. Romney by 67 percent to 26 percent. In the 2008 and 2010 elections,
Latinos mobilized late but in large numbers against Republicans who took a hard
line against immigration, handing victories to Mr. Obama and other Democrats in
closely contested states.

This year, Mr. Obama's supporters are warning, it may be much harder to prompt
that late turnout, even though many Latinos have been dismayed by attacks on
illegal immigrants by Mr. Romney and other candidates in the Republican
presidential primary race.

''There is ambivalence about the president, where there really should be none,''
said Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant
Rights of Los Angeles.

During Mr. Obama's first two years, he leaned hard on enforcement, seeking to
build credibility with Republicans to attract their votes for an immigration
overhaul. But with the economy lagging and millions of Americans out of jobs,
Republicans backed away from proposals that would aid illegal immigrants. In
2010, they rebuffed a bid by Mr. Obama to pass the Dream Act, a bill to give
legal status to students who are illegal immigrants.

Since then, the administration has tried to soften the impact of deportations on
communities by focusing on expelling criminals. But the effect has been limited.

''I do believe the administration has the right intention, prioritizing
deportations,'' Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, a leading Democrat on
immigration issues, said after seeing the low figures from the deportations
review. ''But these abysmal numbers raise serious questions about whether the
Department of Homeland Security is making that vision a reality.''

The White House defends its programs for Latinos, saying they go far beyond
immigration. On Saturday, senior administration officials gathered in Arlington,
Va., for the latest in a series of town-hall-style meetings the White House
organized with local Hispanic leaders to discuss jobs, education and health, as
well as immigration. Also, Cecilia Munoz, the White House domestic policy
council director, has made it clear that the administration will try to blame
Republicans for Mr. Obama's failure to pass his immigration overhaul.

Democratic leaders are saying that is not enough. Mr. Menendez called on the
administration to expand the reviews to stop deportations of many more
immigrants who are close relatives of citizens. Senator Charles E. Schumer, a
New York Democrat who is the chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, said prosecutors should give work permits to immigrants who are
allowed to remain here under their case reviews.

Students who would be eligible for legal status under the Dream Act are
demanding that Mr. Obama grant them a general reprieve from deportation. One
group of students staged a sit-in protest last week at the Obama campaign office
in Denver.

Latino leaders are worried. Ms. Martinez de Castro said, ''Our immigration
policy cannot continue to be at war with our beliefs and our needs.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Audience members listened to President Obama speak in El Paso
last year about his push for an immigration overhaul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES
DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Chorus of Protest, New Tune on Deportations

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1168 words


President Obama decided last week on a major policy shift to stop deportations
of young illegal immigrants after administration officials saw that he was
losing the initiative to Republicans on an issue he had long championed and that
he was alienating the Latino voters who may be pivotal to his re-election bid.

In recent weeks, the White House faced intense pressure from some of its closest
allies -- their voices often raised in frustration -- to provide some relief for
immigrant communities. The urging came from Harry Reid of Nevada and Richard J.
Durbin of Illinois, the top two Democrats in the Senate, and the Hispanic caucus
in the House of Representatives, as well as Latino and immigrant leaders across
the country.

Bleak figures reported early this month by the Department of Homeland Security
showed that a yearlong program designed to shift enforcement away from illegal
immigrants who pose no security risk was not producing results, with only about
500 young students nationwide spared from deportation.

And last week, students without immigration papers started a campaign of sit-ins
and hunger strikes at Obama campaign offices in more than a dozen cities, saying
that despite his promises, the president was continuing to deport immigrants
like them.

After three years of record deportation numbers and cautious moves on other
immigration policies, Mr. Obama finally used his executive authority in a
sweeping way that surprised even his supporters, ending deportations for at
least 800,000 immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally when
they were children.

The announcement on Friday of the new policy prompted a wave of elation among
illegal immigrant students, and praise and sighs of relief from Democrats and
Latino leaders. Angry Republicans accused Mr. Obama of overstepping his legal
bounds to avoid consulting with Congress and started to regroup, recognizing
that the president had regained his momentum on immigration.

An important change, administration officials said, came from the Homeland
Security secretary, Janet Napolitano, who approached the White House in mid-May
with a plan to use existing laws to lift the threat of deportation for large
numbers of illegal immigrant students.

After pressing tough enforcement since the beginning of the administration, Ms.
Napolitano had been increasingly criticized by Latino and immigrant advocates
who said she seemed to be thwarting the president's policies. Since his first
campaign in 2008, Mr. Obama had pledged his support for legislation known as the
Dream Act, a proposal before Congress that would provide a path to legal status
for illegal immigrant students.

Ms. Napolitano's shift helped ease rising impatience at the White House with her
department. A big stumbling block, White House officials said, was resistance
from career staff members and enforcement agents at Immigration and Customs
Enforcement to a policy adopted a year ago. It required them to use
prosecutorial discretion in picking and choosing among illegal immigrants facing
deportation. It was the first time immigration officers had been asked to make
such judgments as a regular practice.

The National ICE Council, a union that represents deportation agents,
outspokenly questioned the policy, saying that its members had not been
consulted and that they faced serious risks in distinguishing among immigrants
who had violated the law.

White House officials were dismayed by the results of a review, initiated in
November, of more than 411,000 deportation cases before the nation's immigration
courts. By this month, prosecutors had halted the deportation of only 593
illegal immigrant students.

''Everyone was surprised by how modest the results were,'' said a senior White
House official, who was not authorized to speak publicly.

At the same time, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Republican whose star is
rapidly rising in his party, was close to introducing his own bill to help
illegal immigrant students by giving them a temporary status, something quite
similar to what White House officials had in mind. They feared Mr. Rubio's
proposal would pre-empt the president, making it appear he did not want to work
with Republicans.

The White House was also awaiting a ruling from the Supreme Court, expected any
day, on the administration's lawsuit against Arizona over a tough state
immigration enforcement law. Campaign officials feared an adverse decision could
leave Mr. Obama empty-handed when he tried to mobilize Latino voters for the
November election.

A big concern for Mr. Obama, White House officials said, was whether he had
legal authority to offer relief to so many immigrants. In recent weeks, the
White House counsel, Kathryn Ruemmler, and Homeland Security lawyers pored over
the law and concluded they were on firm ground. The main point, the officials
said, was that the policy would have to be carried out case by case -- meaning
the workload for the immigration bureaucracy would be huge.

The White House was less concerned about whether it would be circumventing
Congress and enraging Republicans. ''Look, every time we sneeze in the direction
of an immigrant, someone says it's amnesty,'' the official said.

Under the policy, officials are to exercise discretion in deferring deportations
of immigrants who qualify for two years. A grant of deferred action, as it is
formally known, allows immigrants to apply for work permits. To be eligible,
they must be 30 or younger and have come to the United States before they were
16. They must be in school or high school graduates or military veterans, with
no criminal records.

Mr. Obama was hearing often from exasperated Democratic lawmakers. Senator
Durbin, who first introduced the Dream Act 11 years ago, said he advised the
president recently that he would not be able to muster enough votes in the
Senate to pass the bill before the November election. In a vote in late 2010,
the Dream Act was blocked by Republicans in the Senate.

''Meanwhile,'' Mr. Durbin said, ''we were getting calls every week saying that
young people were being deported. We would jump in and save them. But there was
anger and uncertainty and fear among them.''

Mr. Durbin said he had urged Mr. Obama to ''to do something much more
sweeping.'' Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, a leading Hispanic Democrat,
also prodded the White House.

The Democratic leaders' message found a sympathetic hearing from Cecilia Munoz,
a former immigration reform advocate who is a senior White House adviser to Mr.
Obama.

In the end, the policy shift came quickly, White House officials said, with Mr.
Obama making his choice early last week, leaving officials scrambling to prepare
the logistics in time for his announcement on Friday.

The White House agreed that Ms. Napolitano would make the initial statements.
Later Mr. Obama went before the news cameras in the White House Rose Garden.

''As long as I'm president, I will not give up on this issue,'' Mr. Obama vowed,
calling it ''the right thing to do.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama announcing his decision last week to stop
deporting young illegal immigrants. At least 800,000 immigrants may be affected
by the new policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Dissent By Scalia Is Criticized As Political

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 636 words


When Justice Antonin Scalia read aloud from his dissent in the Arizona
immigration case on Monday, including an attack on President Obama's recent
decision not to deport many illegal immigrants who arrived here as children, it
raised some eyebrows. Mr. Obama's policy was announced two months after the case
had been heard.

But Monday was a busy day at the Supreme Court, and Justice Scalia's contention
that the administration was refusing to enforce the nation's immigration laws
was only briefly noted as analysts pored over the meaning of his colleagues'
striking down of key elements of the Arizona law and their ruling on juvenile
sentencing.

In the days since, however, the discussion has mushroomed. Commentators from
across the political spectrum have been saying that Justice Scalia, who is the
most senior as well as, hands down, the funniest, most acerbic and most
politically incorrect of the justices, went too far.

''Illegal immigration is a campaign issue. It wouldn't surprise me if Justice
Scalia's opinion were quoted in campaign ads,'' Judge Richard A. Posner, a
prominent federal appeals court judge, wrote Wednesday in the online journal
Slate. Judge Posner, who sits on the United States Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, is a famously conservative but also contrarian
jurist who has criticized Justice Scalia's focus on pure constitutional
originalism as naive and unrealistic.

Still, his critique this time was noteworthy for its political specificity, and
it was only part of a much larger discussion of Justice Scalia's in-your-face
style as the term comes to a dramatic conclusion on Thursday with a decision on
Mr. Obama's health care law, a ruling with at least as many political
implications as the immigration decision.

The Washington Post assailed Justice Scalia in an editorial that appeared online
on Wednesday, saying he was endangering his legacy and the court's legitimacy.
E. J. Dionne, a Post columnist, called for his resignation.

Others weighed in.

''With all due respect, the man has a tin ear,'' said Paul Horwitz, a professor
of law at the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa. ''When he loses on a hot-button
issue, he sometimes blows his opportunity to be as persuasive as he could be.''

Justice Scalia in his dissent asked, ''Must Arizona's ability to protect its
borders yield to the reality that Congress has provided inadequate funding for
federal enforcement -- or, even worse, to the Executive's unwise targeting of
that funding?''

He then complained about the Obama administration's plan to exempt about 1.4
million illegal immigrants not over 30 and asserted that the court's statement
that Arizona contradicted federal law by enforcing applications of the
Immigration Act ''that the president declines to enforce boggles the mind.''

In addition, he cited immigration laws from the days of slavery, something else
that shocked commentators.

''He jumped the shark here,'' said Gabriel J. Chin, a law professor at the
University of California, Davis. ''Harkening back to the 'good old days' of the
law of slavery impeaches his position. He practically cited Dred Scott. The
whole thing was intemperate, a screed.''

Jeffrey Toobin, who writes about the Supreme Court for The New Yorker, noted in
a blog post on Tuesday that the last days of the court's session ''rarely show
off the justices to great advantage. Like other mortals, they have put off doing
their hardest work, so only the most controversial cases remain.''

He said the Arizona decision was sufficiently split that both sides were able to
claim victory, meaning perhaps that a reasonable compromise had been reached. He
then added: ''That was not how Scalia saw it. After 25 years on the court,
Scalia has earned a reputation for engaging in splenetic hyperbole -- but he
outdid himself this time.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Justice Antonin Scalia (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Show Me Your Papers

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1289 words


THE Arizona law requiring police to check the immigration status of anyone they
suspect of being in the country illegally -- a statute tentatively blessed last
week by the Supreme Court -- is an invitation to abuse. It is all too likely to
be used, as the court itself seemed to fear, to intimidate and demean people
with the wrong accent or skin tone, thus delivering a
get-out-the-humiliated-Hispanic-vote bonus to President Obama. The less likely
alternative is that it will be applied more like the random T.S.A. searches at
airports, thus infuriating Arizonans across the board.

While we wait for this to play out, let's turn our attention to another aspect
of the so-called ''show me your papers'' law: Show me WHAT papers? What
documents are you supposed to have always on hand to convince police that you
are legit?

Welcome to an American paradox. This country, unlike many other developed
democracies, does not require a national identification card, because the same
electorate that is so afraid America is being overrun by illegal aliens also
fears that we are one short step away from becoming a police state.

I've suggested before that, as part of any comprehensive reform of our senseless
immigration laws, Americans should master their anxieties about a national
identification card. The Arizona controversy reinforces my conviction.

This is not a peripheral issue. The reason Arizona and other states have
deputized police as amateur immigration agents -- and contemplated making
enforcers out of school principals, emergency-room nurses and other civil
servants -- is that we have failed so utterly to fortify the most obvious line
of defense. No, not the Mexican border. Employers. Jobs are, after all, the main
magnet for illegal immigration. If we had a reliable way for employers to check
the legal status of prospective workers, and held them strictly accountable for
doing so, we would not feel the need for all these secondary checkpoints.

What we have now is a laughably ineffective program called E-Verify, in which
employers send information supplied by job applicants to be matched against
databases in the Social Security Administration or the Department of Homeland
Security. The most extensive study of this program, published in 2009, found it
to be so easy to fool the system with stolen or fraudulent documents that more
than half of the unauthorized job applicants got a green light.

In the absence of a credible federal system, frustrated states are improvising
their own controls. For example, in many states you now have to prove U.S.
citizenship or legal residency to get a driver's license. This is presumably
what most Arizonans will show police if they are challenged under the ''show
me'' law. But by transforming a driver's license into a kind of internal
passport, Arizona and states with similar laws have created a different problem.
Illegal immigrants don't stop driving; they just drive unlicensed, untested and
uninsured.

I understand that the idea of a national ID comes with some chilling history,
which is why it has been opposed by activists on the right and left -- by the
libertarian Cato Institute and the A.C.L.U., by People for the American Way and
the American Conservative Union. Opponents associate national identification
cards with the Nazi roundups, the racial sorting of apartheid South Africa, the
evils of the Soviet empire. Civil rights groups see in a national ID --
especially one that might be required for admission to the voting booth -- a
shadow of the poll taxes and literacy tests used to deter black voters in the
Jim Crow South. More recently, accounts of flawed watch-list databases and
rampant identity theft feed fears for our privacy. The most potent argument
against an ID is that the government -- or some hacker -- might access your
information and use it to mess with your life.

''The one thing we know with certainty about databases is that they grow,'' said
Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center,
which includes national ID cards on its list of threats. The official urge to
amass and use information, he told me, ''takes on a life of its own.''

But on the subject of privacy, we are an ambivalent nation. Americans --
especially younger Americans, who swim in a sea of shared information -- are
casual to the point of recklessness about what we put online.

The trick, and I won't pretend it's always easy, is to distinguish the
reasonable and constructive from the invasive and excessive. We want the sales
clerk at the Gap to know our credit card is good, but not to have access to our
whole credit history. We want our doctors to share our health histories with one
another, but probably not with our employers. We may or may not want retailers
to know what kind of books we read, what kind of car we drive, where we are
thinking of traveling. We may or may not want those who follow us on the Web to
know our real-time location, or our real name.

So imagine that you wanted to design an ID that would effectively control
illegal hiring without stirring fears of Big Brother. It would be a
single-purpose document, containing only the information that establishes you
are eligible to work here. As passports are required for traveling abroad, as
library cards are required for checking out books, the ID would be required for
starting a job. I'd apply it to future hires only, to avoid forcing employers to
be part of a national witch hunt.

You might start with the Social Security card. You would issue a plastic
version, and in it you would embed a chip containing biometric information: a
fingerprint, an eye scan or a digital photo. The employer would swipe the card
and match it to the real you. Unlike your present Social Security card, the new
version would be useless to a thief because it would contain your unique
identifier. The information would not need to go into a database.

The Government Printing Office already embeds biometric information in passports
-- 75 million of them so far -- and a slew of other documents, such as
border-crossing smart cards for Americans who commute to Mexico or Canada, and
security passes for the F.B.I. And one major employer is already rolling out a
system of biometric IDs for all its millions of workers and contractors: the
federal government. This is not exotic technology. I just stayed in a hotel in
Barcelona that uses a fingerprint reader in place of a room key.

There would be a significant cost to set up and maintain the system, though it's
reasonable to assume that some of that money could be recouped through modest
fees and fines on violators.

This will not satisfy those who fear that any such mandate is potentially ''a
tool for social control,'' as Chris Calabrese of the A.C.L.U. put it. But the
only way to completely eliminate the risks of a connected world is to burn your
documents, throw away your cellphone, cancel your Internet service and live off
the grid.

As it happens, the proposal I described is already on the table. Senators
Charles Schumer and Lindsey Graham included it in their menu for comprehensive
immigration reform in 2010. For obvious reasons, they didn't call it a national
ID. They called it an ''enhanced Social Security card.''

Like just about everything else, immigration reform is stuck in the mangle of
election-year partisanship. And if Congress ever does revert to the business of
solving problems, there should be many parts to a humane, sensible immigration
bill -- including expanded legal immigration and a path to citizenship for many
of those already here. But a fraud-proof, limited-use national identification
card is an essential part of the package.

Then the Arizona police can go back to doing their real jobs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICHOLAS BLECHMAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Divided by Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2826 words


THE outpouring was intense this summer when President Obama announced that his
administration would temporarily stop deporting many illegal immigrants who came
to the United States as children. On Aug. 15, thousands of young immigrants
flooded churches and community centers to apply for deferral.

Then, for many, came the hard news that they were not eligible.

Now, friends, siblings and spouses who for years shared the same precarious
status find themselves on opposite sides of a divide, one preparing for lawful
work or access to student loans, the other bracing for the tap of an immigration
official.

Mr. Obama ordered the policy change using his executive authority, after
legislation he supported known as the Dream Act -- which would have given legal
status to young immigrants -- stalled in Congress. The new policy applies to
immigrants 30 and under who came to the United States before they turned 16, and
who meet other conditions; it allows them to work and avoid deportation for two
years, but with no green cards or path to citizenship. As many as 1.7 million
people could be eligible, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan
research organization; another 2.7 million illegal immigrants age 30 and under
are not covered.

In some cases, the difference between being eligible for work or deportation is
just a couple of months.

That difference divides people like Nelly and Alex Cruz, siblings who came from
Honduras six years ago without their parents. Mr. Cruz, who was 12 then, may now
be able to begin a new life, free from the fears that have hung over him; but
his sister was 18 when they came. For Ms. Cruz, who has been under a final order
of removal since 2010, the threat is real -- in its first three years, the Obama
administration deported 1.1 million illegal immigrants, more than any
presidential administration since the 1950s.

It also divides Boni and Gilda, a married couple who are raising their son,
David, in East Harlem. Boni, who is 28, is eligible; but Gilda is 32, which
makes her two years too old for deferral. She is afraid of being deported --
picked up in a raid and separated from her son or husband. The couple asked to
be identified only by their first names for fear of calling attention to her
status.

And Yohan Garcia and Monica Sibri, college students who met as volunteers in
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office. After graduation, Mr. Garcia, who is
eligible for deferred action, wants to go into politics; but Ms. Sibri, who came
from Ecuador two months after her 16th birthday, said she would have to leave
the country ''because there's nothing else I can do without my papers.''

All six had stories about life as an illegal immigrant and the changes that the
new policy will or will not make in their lives. Mr. Garcia said he began his
journey in this country with a gun pointed at his head; the Cruz siblings said
they began theirs in the custody of border patrols in Texas. None has any
certainty about how long the reprieve, which is hotly contested by many
Republicans, might last.

The Siblings

The first hurdle, said Alex Cruz, 18, was getting here. On a recent afternoon,
Mr. Cruz unwound after work in the small walk-up apartment in Borough Park,
Brooklyn, that he shares with his sister Nelly, her boyfriend, the couple's
2-month-old baby and the boyfriend's brother. A mattress was tipped on its side
to create space for a living room. Ms. Cruz, 24, dandled the baby, Brandon, and
offered juice. She looked sleepless. The elevated D train rumbled by.

Six years ago, when street gangs and a lack of opportunity drove the siblings
out of Choluteca, Honduras, they boarded a series of buses that took them
through Mexico to the Rio Grande, she said. All through Mexico, Ms. Cruz feared
she might be raped; it had happened to friends who had crossed illegally, she
said. ''We just kind of made our way,'' Mr. Cruz said. At the border, they said,
they joined a large group to swim across the river, carrying only what they
could hold in their pockets.

Almost immediately after they emerged from the river, they were picked up by the
United States Border Patrol and taken to a holding facility in Hidalgo, Tex. --
cold and terrified in an unfamiliar country where they did not speak the
language, they said.

''It was worse than being in jail,'' Ms. Cruz said in Spanish, her brother
acting as interpreter. ''You couldn't tell if it was day or night. The space was
little, and it was cold. People entered and left, kids, women. They say that
this country is for opportunities, but in reality, you find your own
opportunities. It's really hard.''

Border agents bused some of the Mexicans back across the border immediately,
they said. But for the Cruz siblings, the agents began formal removal
proceedings, assigned them a court date and allowed them to continue by bus to
New York, where their mother was living legally as an immigrant of temporary
protected status, which allowed her to work but not to sponsor family members.

She sent them to a man they knew only as Father Bob, who helped them petition
for asylum. From 2006 to 2010, Father Bob -- Robert Vitaglione, a driven priest
who represented tens of thousands of immigrants in court, acting in lieu of a
lawyer, until the court barred him last year because of some glaring mistakes --
pleaded their case, but in 2010, the court ordered them to be deported. They
were buying time, but it was running out.

In the meantime, their mother moved them to Goshen, Ind., where she had found a
job in a factory. Mr. Cruz went to high school and made new friends, but as an
illegal immigrant, he felt a distance between himself and his classmates. ''You
start to see that you don't have papers in high school,'' he said. ''Most of
your friends get their drivers' licenses, and I didn't. They start getting jobs,
and I didn't.''

For the first time, the siblings split up. Ms. Cruz, who was too old for high
school, returned to New York, where work was easier without papers, and got a
job in a recycling center for cellphone parts, earning $5 or $6 an hour, below
minimum wage.

''They take advantage of us because we are Latinos,'' she said, meaning because
they are illegal immigrants. When Mr. Cruz finished high school this spring, he
returned to New York to join his sister. He, too, wanted to work, and that was
not possible in Goshen.

Had they been legal, he said, they would have all stayed together in Indiana,
where the cost of living is lower. But he needed to earn money for college. In
Brooklyn, he found work delivering fish, at $10 an hour.

When he heard about Mr. Obama's program, he said, he was both surprised and
ecstatic. The program expands an earlier order to allow what is called
prosecutorial discretion for illegal immigrants who have not committed crimes,
and to focus ''resources on individuals who pose a danger to national security
or a risk to public safety, including immigrants convicted of crimes, recent
border crossers and repeat immigration law offenders,'' said Peter Boogaard, a
spokesman for the Homeland Security Department. Such discretion does not include
a work permit, however. For Mr. Cruz, the deferral means a chance to continue
his education, an opportunity that no one in his family has had, he said. ''I
will quit my job, apply for a loan and go to college.'' One study, by the New
York Immigration Coalition, an immigrant advocacy group, found that a legal work
permit increases income by about 40 percent.

But as the program's details came out, the siblings realized that Ms. Cruz was
not eligible. For her, the policy offers no protection.

Their situation is common, said Allan Wernick, director of Citizenship Now!, an
immigrant legal assistance program at the City University of New York.
''Everybody who is eligible knows someone who isn't, whether a friend or a
family member,'' he said. ''We're getting a lot of inquiries from people hoping
it's flexible, but it's not flexible.''

Now, Ms. Cruz said, they might be split up again, this time through the
president's program. When her brother gets papers, she said, she will be the
only one without them, and living under a deportation order.

''When the day comes that Immigration comes to find me, I won't know what to do
with my kid, to leave him or take him,'' she said. ''He was born here. It's not
his fault that his mother is an immigrant.'' Her boyfriend, who came illegally
from Mexico at age 18, is in the same situation.

A senior immigration official said her defiance of the final removal order would
weigh against her in consideration of prosecutorial discretion, but that her
child would be considered a factor in her favor, because deporting her would
cause a hardship to an American citizen. The uncertainty worried her.

''Before, I had a lot of dreams, but now I don't know,'' she said. ''Before, I
would like to become a teacher or a stockbroker. Before, I didn't know how the
system works in this country, but now that I know, it's really hard. Those were
just my dreams.''

If she were deported, would her brother follow her back to Honduras? He thought
about it. ''No,'' he said, sheepishly. ''There's nothing there. But I would help
her.''

She turned to him. ''At least for two years he will be safe,'' she said. ''But
not me.''

The Friends

They met at the Mayor's Office of Adult Education, volunteering because they
were ineligible for paid internships or jobs. Neither knew the other's
immigration status. ''I never wanted to ask Monica,'' said Yohan Garcia, 25,
''but I was guessing she was one.''

For Monica Sibri, 20, immigration status was never something she talked about.
''I didn't think it was necessary,'' she said. Then one day, some of her friends
started saying that illegal immigrants did not belong here, she said. Ms. Sibri
listened but did not say anything at first, absorbing her friends' comments like
a blow. ''I realized this was something that was keeping us apart,'' she said.
''I opened myself to them. I said, 'Listen, this is me.' ''

A spokeswoman for Mayor Bloomberg said that by executive order, city employees
do not ask people about their immigration status. Volunteer work does not
require work authorization.

The two friends are alike in many ways: They are ambitious, serious and drawn to
political discussions on Facebook. Both are in college, studying political
science -- Mr. Garcia at Hunter College, Ms. Sibri at the College of Staten
Island. Mr. Garcia came from Mexico at 15, through what he said was a harrowing
seven-day hike across the Arizona desert, during which his group was robbed at
gunpoint. Ms. Sibri said she was 16, and still a sheltered private-school
student, when she came from Ecuador in a crossing that she described as ''like a
vacation for us.'' Both struggled to learn English. Both thought they were the
only person they knew without papers.

But the difference in their ages when they immigrated -- he at 15, she at 16 --
means a sharp distinction in the way they approach their futures now.

Ms. Sibri first heard about the president's deferred-action program through Mr.
Garcia, who wrote about it on his Facebook page. They started asking each other
questions, mainly about immigration policy. She was thrilled by the news. She
was volunteering at both the mayor's office and a pharmacy, while her parents
paid for her education -- her mother by cleaning houses, her father by working
in the kitchen of an Italian restaurant. With work authorization under the
program, she could contribute to the family expenses.

''The first thing I did was tell my parents about it,'' she said. ''They were
excited. Then we realized it didn't apply.'' She had entered the United States
too late. The news was crushing, she said. ''Sometimes the only thing that
relieves the pain is to cry.''

For Mr. Garcia, who is still gathering documents for his application, the new
law may allow him to pursue jobs now closed to him, he said. He had gotten
offers from the mayor's office, the labor union Local 32BJ and City Councilman
Ydanis Rodriguez, but had to decline them all because of his status. Instead, he
worked the overnight shift at a 24-hour bagel shop in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.

''When I got offered a job at 32BJ and couldn't take it because of my
immigration status, I felt like crying,'' he said. ''I thought, no matter what I
do, I was never going to get one of these job opportunities. Even though you
were volunteering, giving your time, the city or the state or the country wasn't
giving you anything back. You were just a number on the side that didn't
count.'' But now, he said, all that has changed. ''Deferred action is going to
make us feel we're a part of society.''

For Ms. Sibri, though, the law's limits seemed arbitrary.

''A politician on the news said the people who come after they turn 16 are
capable of understanding what they're doing. I didn't know. That little detail
about the age really bothers me.''

The painful part, she said, comes when she thinks about life after graduation.
Without a deferral, she will not be eligible for lawful work. So she has come to
a hard decision. Her only future, she said, was to return to Ecuador.

''I told my parents, and they're absolutely not happy about it,'' she said.
''They spent a lot of money thinking they're going to give me a better future
here. I'm really scared of what I'm going to do over there, because I'll be
starting at zero.''

The Married Couple

Boni and Gilda came to New York separately from the same town in Puebla, Mexico.
When they met again at a party here, she was surprised, Gilda said. Boni, four
years her junior, had been so young the last time she saw him back in Puebla. On
a recent morning, in the office of a neighbor from East Harlem, she laughed
thinking of their first meeting. ''I remembered him much smaller,'' she said
through an interpreter.

He worked in a restaurant kitchen; she worked at a jewelry factory. They started
dating and married, and she gave birth to their son, David, six years ago. In
recent years, Boni has started paying taxes, in hopes that some form of amnesty
will become available.

They spoke uneasily of their status under the new policy.

When it was first announced, both thought they were ineligible. Gilda, 32, was
too old; Boni did not think he had the proper documents -- a common problem for
many immigrants, especially from rural areas, said Chung-Wha Hong, executive
director of the New York Immigration Coalition. She added, ''We're hearing more
and more about scammers trying to take advantage of these people,'' she said.

A neighbor who works at the coalition told Boni how he could apply using
affidavits to prove his dates of residence.

''It's going to open a lot of doors,'' he said. ''I always wanted to open a
business, but because of the papers situation, I always think I'm not going to
be able to do it. But if I qualify and can get this, it's going to be more easy
for me to one day open a business or start going back to school, apply for some
financial aid. Or prepare for something in life.''

In Mexico, he had stopped his education after middle school, when school was no
longer free. In New York, he finished high school but could not afford college.
Now, he said, that might be possible.

''We both wish we could be eligible for deferred action,'' he said. ''One of us
is living in fear; we're still in fear that we'll be separated.''

For Gilda, all focus now is on raising her son. David plays soccer and takes
swimming lessons, and recently took a test to qualify for gifted and talented
programs, missing by three points. ''We'll try again,'' Boni said.

''I am afraid of being separated, hearing about raids, in case there's a raid in
the workplace,'' Gilda said. ''I think about my child, and what it would be for
us to get separated. Or what if they get me while I'm with my child? My husband
says not to worry, but it's something I'm afraid of.''

And if Gilda is arrested by immigration officers, what would they do then? It
was too much to think about, she said.

''We haven't had that conversation,'' she said. ''It's a scary thing.''

PHOTOS: POLICY SHIFT: After the Dream Act stalled in Congress, President Obama
issued an executive order giving some immigrants the chance to work and avoid
deportation for two years. The policy, which applies to those who entered the
country before the age of 16, has divided some families. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES; KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1); DREAMS
DEFERRED: Alex Cruz, above left, who immigrated illegally from Honduras six
years ago at 18, is eligible for a deferral, but his sister Nelly, 24, on his
right, is not. Yohan Garcia, 20, at left, who came to the United States from
Mexico at 15, may also be eligible, but his friend Monica Sibri, 20, on his
right, who came from Ecuador at 16, does not qualify. David, 6, below, plays
soccer in Central Park with his father, Boni, who is eligible; his mother,
Gilda, is not. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/09/nyregion/divided-by-immigration-policy.html

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Debating Illegal Immigration and Charitable Giving

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 944 words


In ''Divided by Immigration Policy,'' on the cover of last Sunday's Metropolitan
section, John Leland profiled friends and families split by President Obama's
recent executive order that gave some illegal immigrants who came to the country
before age 16 the chance to avoid deportation for two years. Commenters on
NYTimes.com debated the policy and whether illegal immigrants deserved sympathy.
Readers also discussed Ginia Bellafante's Big City column, which questioned
whether increased charitable giving could replace cuts to government social
services, as some Republican have argued. A selection of comments is below.

Sad stories, but surely these people, who were mostly teenagers when they came
here, understood the concept of ''illegal'' before they got here. They came
anyway and now expect us to ignore our laws. There are 23 million Americans
unemployed or underemployed; we simply can't provide for the entire world. We
need to reduce even legal immigration and deport all illegal aliens that we can
find. We just can't afford to be so lackadaisical in enforcing our laws: Our own
people need those jobs.

Chakotay,

Texas

It is understandable that Americans are wary of more immigrants in the U.S. job
market. But, honestly, if you're unemployed, what job did you apply for that an
immigrant ''stole'' from you or a family member? Just list one example. Please
remember that economic migrants would not come to the U.S. if they were not
being hired. Perhaps the scapegoats for your angry rants should be U.S.
employers, instead.

K,

TX

You've hit the nail on the head. Very few people reading the NYT online have
probably lost a job to an illegal immigrant. Unfortunately, that doesn't mean
the problem doesn't exist. It's just that it exists among those most NYT readers
are probably not familiar with.

People with high-school diplomas who used to do construction -- union
construction -- for example. It is now pretty much impossible for someone paying
union wages to submit a winning bid in the U.S. Almost all are predicated on the
use of illegal immigrant labor.

Siobhan,

New York

You call them illegals, but this group came when they were minors at the behest
of responsible adults. Also this concept of illegal immigrant is fairly new. It
is clear to me that rigid immigration rules with no hope for earning citizenship
just create more inequality -- i.e. creating an underclass. This hurts all of
us. I think it is very appropriate -- and very American -- to push against that
injustice and that these young people are very American already.

Abbit,

nyc

The Limits of Charity

We need to redefine charitable donation. Charity is giving without the
expectation of some kind of return to someone in need. Philanthropy is giving to
institutions that promote excellence and culture. Giving to your church is
supporting your faith, tithing.

This is why we cannot abdicate the safety net to the kindness of strangers. It
is not sustainable. People need food every day, they need health care, they need
shelter. It is not a fashion, a mood, or a whim for a socialite who lacks basic
empathy and is driven by ego.

I work with a social-service organization, and we will need to increase our
donations by about 12 percent per year to sustain our costs and the increased
demand. Yet, the old people who gave to groups like us because this is what you
did are dying. We now have to compete with the fashionable charities and we have
to sell ourselves as an investment.

It is imperative to sustain the safety net. This is a crisis. The dystopia is
here, it is not some indie film.

Stellaa,

Santa Rosa, Ca

Unfortunately, government social services are out of control, with grants in the
form of welfare, food stamps, WIC, housing, etc., going to able-bodied people
who did not want to work even when jobs were available, who have babies for the
income and perks, and file millions of false disability claims. I am quite happy
to have people give to charitable causes. I feel incredibly ripped-off by many
of the people that the government supports.

California doctor,

California

As a middle-class taxpayer, I resent having to take up the slack caused by the
wealthy's ''charitable'' deductions for their gifts to their universities, art
leagues and velodromes on public park lands where I used to go picnicking. I
can't afford to send my kids to their university, attend the gala opening of the
museum's newly acquired collection in its newly constructed wing, and the
Schwinn I bought at Sears eight years ago doesn't ''fit'' well at the velodrome.
I guess I'd rather see the truly public services, facilities or assistance that
taxes on these ''charitable deductions'' should have bought. To do that, the law
will have to be changed, but guess who ''owns'' the lawmakers.

Bob Walton,

Severn, MD

For those of us who work in social services, there definitely is a feeling of
disappointment when we see large amounts of ''charitable'' giving going to
institutions of great wealth, like many museums and universities. But it is hard
to criticize those who are willingly giving away their own money to causes they
believe in.

David Nocenti,

New York, New York

The nonprofit sector in the U.S. is unique in its size and reach. It
historically funds and runs all manner of programs that are almost entirely
funded by government in most other countries. Their Yale Universities, their
museums and their social-service programs are almost entirely funded by
government. The amount of contributions going to activities that help the less
fortunate is substantial.

Mr. Independent,

CT

PHOTO: DREAM ACT: Alex Cruz, 18, entered the United States illegally.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

URL:

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Los Angeles to Cease Transferring Immigrants

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 520 words


LOS ANGELES -- The police in this city will soon stop turning over illegal
immigrants arrested for low-level crimes to federal immigration officials for
deportation, Police Chief Charlie Beck announced on Thursday.

At a news conference, Chief Beck said he hoped to put in place a set of
protocols by the start of next year, under which the Los Angeles police will no
longer honor requests from federal agencies to detain illegal immigrants who are
arrested for nonviolent offenses like driving without a license, illegal vending
or being drunk in public unless they were part of a street gang or had a
criminal record.

The announcement was the biggest and potentially most controversial step yet for
Chief Beck, who has been in his post since 2009, into the highly politicized
waters of immigration enforcement. Under Secure Communities, a federal program
that began in 2008, local law enforcement agencies share with federal
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials the fingerprints of everyone they
arrest.

But Chief Beck said the program had impeded efforts to keep the city safe by
eroding trust between the Police Department and the communities in Los Angeles.

''Community trust is extremely important to effective policing,'' he said. ''So
it's my intent, by issuing this change in procedures, that we gain this trust
back.''

The new policy was welcomed by immigrant rights advocates, who were still
stinging from Gov. Jerry Brown's decision just a few days earlier to veto a
bill, known as the Trust Act, that would have prohibited local law enforcement
officials from detaining illegal immigrants for deportation if they have not
been charged with serious or violent crimes.

''This is more evidence that the Secure Communities program is incredibly flawed
and, from our perspective, cruel,'' said Angelica Salas, executive director of
the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles.

In response to Mr. Beck's announcement, officials from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement reiterated that the agency had reformed its own policies in recent
years to focus resources on "criminals, recent border crossers and repeat
immigration law violators."

''The federal government alone sets these priorities and places detainers on
individuals arrested on criminal charges to ensure that dangerous criminal
aliens and other priority individuals are not released from prisons and jails
into our communities,'' said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, in a prepared statement.

Chief Beck said the city attorney had told him that carrying out detention
requests from federal immigration officials was not mandatory and that the
decision to detain a suspect was still up to the Police Department.

But the Obama administration is pushing back against officials in Cook County,
Ill., who last year adopted an ordinance that sharply limited local police
cooperation with federal immigration agents.

Chief Beck said the department planned in the coming months to list the offenses
for which illegal immigrants will not be detained. The police commission, a
civilian board, must approve the policy.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/05/us/los-angeles-police-to-revise-immigrant-dete
ntion-policy.html

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charlie Beck

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

The Great Immigration Reform Mirage

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1026 words



HIGHLIGHT: There are populists in both parties whose hostility to illegal
immigration will make any agreement much harder to reach than elites on both
sides realize.


In a breakfast interview with Bloomberg View on Monday, Jeb Bush, the former
governor of Florida, expressed general disappointment with the Republican
Party's rightward drift since his brother left the White House in 2009. He also
cited a specific place where his party needs to return to the center: The issue
of immigration reform. According to Bush, Mitt Romney's focus on border
enforcement has placed him "in a box" and limited his appeal to Hispanic voters.

Similarly, in a piece in this week's New Yorker on President Obama's potential
second-term agenda, Ryan Lizza reported that many White House aides believe that
comprehensive immigration reform offers the president his best chance of
"achieving a major piece of domestic legislation in his second term." If Obama
wins re-election narrowly while Romney runs poorly among Hispanics, the White
House theory runs, Republican leaders will feel that they have a strong
political incentive to accept some kind of path to citizenship for the nation's
illegal immigrant population.

To the extent that Republican lawmakers are influenced by the conventional
wisdom of the city they inhabit, then this theory might be correct. But there's
a reason the push for some sort of amnesty or earned legalization for illegal
immigrants failed repeatedly under George W. Bush, and a reason it wasn't much
of a priority for Democrats during their Obama-era window of Beltway dominance.
At the grass-roots level of both parties, the politics of the issue are simply
more fraught, and the advantages of the pro-legalization position less obvious,
than the elite consensus tends to assume.

That consensus is founded on two indisputable realities: First, that the
Hispanic share of the electorate is increasing as America's Anglo majority
diminishes and disappears, and second, that Hispanics as a bloc are more likely
to favor liberal immigration policies than other voters.

But it's also founded on three unwarranted leaps. The first leap takes the
projected demographics of America in 2050 and reads them back onto the politics
of America in 2012. The reality is that 2050 is still two generations away, and
today the Hispanic vote is expanding much more slowly than many pundits have
assumed, in part because Hispanic voter participation lags behind that of other
groups.

Sean Trende of RealClearPolitics, for instance, has cited exit poll data showing
the Hispanic share of the electorate at 8.2 percent in 2004, 7.9 percent in
2006, 8.4 percent amid the Obama wave of 2008, and then back to 8 percent in
2010. This short-term fluctuation doesn't mean that Republicans don't need to
win more Hispanic votes in the long run, or that frank xenophobia can't rebound
on them in the short term. But it suggests that the party's political problem is
less inevitably urgent than many analysts suggest.

The second leap assumes that Hispanics are essentially single-issue voters,
focused narrowly on immigration and primed to switch coalitions based on appeals
to ethnic solidarity. The reality, as I've written before, is that Hispanics are
like most voters: Pocketbook issues often trump social and cultural concerns
(especially with unemployment as high as it is), and a party's overall brand
matters more than its stance on a single issue. A more moderate Republican
candidate will usually win more Hispanic votes - but only in the same way that a
more moderate Republican candidate will usually win more votes in general.

The Hispanic community is also more internally divided on immigration than the
elite consensus assumes. As you might expect from a large and demographically
diverse population, there are Hispanic voters who oppose any kind of amnesty
outright, and Hispanics who swing back and forth (again, like many Americans)
depending on how poll questions are phrased. Even on an issue as controversial
and racially charged as Arizona's recent immigration law, a Quinnipiac poll from
earlier this year found Hispanics almost evenly divided: 49 percent opposed the
law, but 47 percent supported it. This suggests that Republicans who take
moderately restrictionist positions - for instance, by emphasizing their support
for legal immigration while advocating tougher enforcement on the border, as
Romney has been doing - aren't necessarily forfeiting the Hispanic vote by doing
so.

The third leap is the idea that immigration is a wedge issue that only divides
Republicans - by pitting moderates like Bush and business interests against the
right's populists. The reality is that the Democratic coalition is almost as
easily divided by the issue: Many working-class Democrats, white and
African-American alike, are skeptical of immigration for the same reason that
they're skeptical of free trade agreements - because both tend to expose them to
competition from cheaper foreign labor - and there's a streak of
anti-immigration populism running through the Democratic Party's rank and file
in many regions of the country.

These Democratic divisions were a significant reason the Bush-era push for
comprehensive immigration reform foundered repeatedly. It wasn't just that
conservative Republicans rebelled against the White House-led effort to create a
path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. It was that the Democratic
leadership wasn't eager to deliver the votes for a measure that could split
their own party along lines of race and class.

What was true in Bush's second term will probably be true in a hypothetical
second Obama term as well. There might be a bipartisan coalition for a
relatively limited measure like the Dream Act, which provides a path to
citizenship for college graduates who were brought to America as minors. But if
Jeb Bush Republicans and Obama Democrats try to fast track a more comprehensive
bill, they will be reminded that there are other sorts of Republicans and
Democrats, and that bipartisanship cuts both ways. Even if the president wins
re-election, the populist coalition that opposes amnesty may still be as large
as - if not larger than -  the elite coalition that supports it.


     ·    A Look at the Numbers
     ·    Down With Religion?
     ·    Political Dividends
     ·    Believing in Obama
     ·    Things That Really Matter


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

A Breakthrough on Immigration Policy

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 402 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Obama administration will stop deporting young people who
immigrated here with their parents.


Expect Republicans and other hardliners on immigration (the few who are not
Republicans) to go berserk over this one: The administration has announced that
it will stop deporting many illegal immigrants who came to the United States
before they turned 16.

Somewhat like the Dream Act, this policy will apply to people no more than 30
years old at the time of the administrative action, who have lived here for five
years, do not have criminal records and have earned a high school diploma,
remained in school or served in the military. This isn't amnesty that will
necessarily result in citizenship, but  "deferred action" that only lasts for up
to two years, plus extensions. Hundreds of thousands of people fit the criteria,
but who knows how many will come forward, since the risk is that they will
finish college, or a term in the military, and then get kicked out of the
country if and when a future administration changes course.

It's a sensible, obvious, non-threatening bit of immigration policy reform,
which recognizes that young undocumented immigrants had no choice but to travel
here with their parents. It's also a nod to the fact that America was built on
the aspirations of immigrants seeking to give their children a better life.
That's why my grandmother, grandfather and father came here - none of them
legally.

But Republicans in Congress have stonewalled similar legislation and they're not
going to like Mr. Obama's move today. The administration itself had resisted
this measure, but came around after young immigrant activists held protests and
lobbied Congress and sent Mr. Obama a letter signed by more than 90
immigration-law professors outlining basically what was announced today. (We
can't, of course, rule out the possibility that Mr. Obama's campaign polling
shows this would be a good move with some voting blocs.)

In the long term we need comprehensive reform-smarter border control and
workplace enforcement, with a better guest-worker program and a smoother path to
citizenship -but that's not happening any time soon.



This post originally stated that the administration's policy is restricted to
people who are under 30 years old. Actually, it applies to people who were no
more than 30 years old--younger than 31--when the policy was changed.


     ·    Opinion Report: Rove's 'Social Welfare' Group
     ·    Shhh, Don't Mention Immigration
     ·    The Arizona Show
     ·    Kobach and Romney
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Health


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

A Graduation and a Dream for Young Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: ADESHINA EMMANUEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 458 words



HIGHLIGHT: A ceremony at a church near the Capitol and the Supreme Court urged
for the passage of the Dream Act to help young people whose parents entered the
country illegally.


With caps, gowns and a message for lawmakers, more than 350 young illegal
immigrants from 13 states gathered in a District of Columbia church Tuesday for
a "graduation ceremony," to urge the passing of the Dream Act and to recognize
young people whose prospects were stunted because their families entered this
country illegally.

Graduation events like the one at the Lutheran Church of the Reformation near
the Capitol and the Supreme Court have been held around the country, including
in the nation's capital, for years.

However, the timing of this year's event gave it special significance. A day
earlier, the Supreme Court sustained what critics call the "show me your
papers," provision of Arizona's stringent immigration law. Less than two weeks
ago, President Obama issued an executive action that cleared the way for
hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants to work and obtain driver's
licenses and many other documents they have lacked.  It does not, however, grant
them permanent legal status.

David Zambrano, 22, attended the ceremony and criticized the court's decision to
uphold the provision of the Arizona law requiring state law enforcement
officials to determine the immigration status of anyone they stop or arrest if
they suspect the person is in the country illegally. He said that such checks
had "already been playing out in our local communities."

"Our police have been profiling all the time regardless of the decision," said
Mr. Zambrano, a Florida resident with an associate degree, who entered the
country from Venezuela in 2003 on a six-month tourist visa.  "We feel like the
decision is really enforcement through attrition that the anti-immigrants are
always out pushing, to scare our communities to move."

Many of the young people, like Juan Carlos Guevara, 22, an illegal Mexican
immigrant living in Georgia, expressed hope and apprehension about whether the
new policy would allow him to stay in the United States, while others felt
uncertain about the two-year deferment.

Michael Wilker, the pastor of the church where the graduation took place, said
he has had parishioners at other churches in California and Long Island who also
didn't have an opportunity to become full participating citizens in this nation.
"To see them here today breaks my heart because I'm so sad that our country is
so unjust and unfair to them," he said as his voice cracked with emotion.

He said the Supreme Court ruling is another reason the country needs fair and
comprehensive immigration reform, and added that Mr. Obama's deferment action
has set a clock going, but not served any long-term issues.

"We have two years that he's granted some of these dreamers," Mr. Wilker said.
"But we've got to get this thing sorted out."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday

Self-Deportation

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 444 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Republican Party thinks it's possible, and desirable, to force 11
million undocumented immigrants to leave the country by making them miserable.


The Republican platform drafting committee has adopted the "self-deportation"
immigration "solution" that Mitt Romney embraced during the primaries. This is
the idea that it is not only possible to force 11 million undocumented
immigrants to leave the country by making them miserable, but also
desirable--presumably because Americans are itching to get back to farm labor,
domestic and restaurant work, small-scale entrepreneurship and other
backbreaking, minimal-wage jobs that illegal immigrants have stolen from them.

"If you really want to create a job tomorrow, you can remove an illegal alien
today," said the delegate Kris Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state who wrote
Arizona's "self-deportation" immigration law and carbon copies in other states,
and successfully offered several amendments to the platform.

This view does not allow for the complexity of the immigration mess, it does not
accept the value of assimilating workers whom the economy and country need, or
the possibility of turning anyone, ever, into future Americans. It simply says:
Get out. And take your American kids with you.

The platform calls for the federal government to force businesses in every state
to use the E-Verify electronic database to check the immigration status of new
hires. It calls for a double-walled fence along the Mexican border, and an end
to federal lawsuits challenging state immigration laws. (Despite rampant
concerns about racial profiling and other civil-rights abuses in states such as
Arizona and Alabama, the Department of Justice would be told to stay out;
nothing to see there.)

It's all standard-issue, short-sighted dogma. (Who's paying for that 2,000-mile
fence, Mr. Kobach?)

But at least there was some dissent before the drafting committee adopted the
plank. Kip Kempton, a delegate from Arizona, opposed Mr. Kobach's E-Verify
amendment, clearly laying out the dissonance between the G.O.P.'s gospel of
limited government and its resurgent nativism.

Making E-Verify mandatory, Mr. Kempton said, "Increases the size, scope and
reach of government; it's an additional cost to business, it's a hidden tax, as
we've been presented here; and it submits us to a bloated government and it
hinders business success, and it puts the onus of law enforcement squarely on
the shoulders of small-businessmen. It's just an additional weight that I don't
want to deal with."

If his party gets its way, he'll just have to deal with it.

Here's the debate on C-SPAN. See Day 2, Part 3. Mr. Kobach talks about E-Verify
starting at about minute 57.


     ·    Kobach and Romney
     ·    Opinion Report: Wyoming Wolves
     ·    Opinion Report: Voting in Ohio
     ·    The Spanish Campaign
     ·    Joe Arpaio's American Dream


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

Mitt Romney's Secret Plan

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 751 words



HIGHLIGHT: At a Univision forum on Wednesday night, Mr. Romney refused to
clarify his position on immigration reform.


Mitt Romney has a miraculous secret plan to fix immigration for good. It is
miraculous because it somehow doesn't involve deportation, even though 11
million people are living in the United States outside the law, and also because
it will permanently solve a problem that has defied solution for two and a half
decades.

It is secret because Mr. Romney won't tell us what it is.

I long ago gave up trying to figure out what Mr. Romney means or believes when
he moves his mouth about immigration. But at a forum in Miami on Wednesday night
sponsored by Univision, the hosts, Jorge Ramos and Maria Elena Salinas, did
their very best to get clear answers out of him. They failed.

They asked Mr. Romney repeatedly what he would do about the 1.7 million
so-called Dreamers, immigrant students who would gain legalization under the
Dream Act - a bill that has not passed Congress and that Mr. Romney has promised
to veto. Would he repeal Mr. Obama's decision to halt their deportations? And
what about the rest of the undocumented population?

Mr. Romney would not answer - not in any way that made sense. Here are excerpts
of the exchange. (The questions were asked in Spanish and are translated here.
Mr. Romney, of course, spoke in English.)

A. Now, for those that are already here and that are undocumented, that were
brought here by their parents and therefore are illegal aliens in this country,
my view is that we should put in a place a permanent solution. What the
president did was take no action when he had a Democrat House and Senate, even
though he said he would, then he put in place something he called a stop-gap
measure. Temporary. These kids deserve something better than temporary. [ ]

Q. But, with all due respect, your reluctance to provide details on a permanent
solution has created maybe a perception that you are kind of evading the
question. What would you tell Hispanic voters right now regarding this important
issue? All the Dreamers want to know: If you become president, are you going to
deport them or not? Yes or no.

A. Well, we're not going to - we're not going to round up people around the
country and deport them. That's not - I said my primary campaign time and,
again, we're not going to round up 12 million people that include the kids and
the parents, and have everyone deported. Our system isn't to deport people.  [ ]

Q. So that's your answer? You're going to allow them to stay?

A. I'm not going to be rounding people up and deporting them from the country.
We're going to put in place a permanent solution and, unlike the president, when
I am president I will actually do what I promise. I will put in an immigration
reform plan that solves this issue.

Q. What you said is not very clear. On January 26 you told me that you were in
favor of self-deportation. In a debate in the primary on February 22 you said
that you thought that the Arizona model was a model to follow. Should the United
States follow Arizona's immigration laws? And in that same response from when
you told me that self-deportation will be a solution, do you think that we're
going to self-deport 11 million undocumented immigrants? Are you going to deport
them or not? I'm not that clear.

I'm not that clear either. Because deportation, not legalization, is the central
immigration position that Mr. Romney has put forth in this campaign. It is the
bedrock principle guiding Mr. Romney's immigration advisor Kris Kobach, who
wrote the radical enforcement laws adopted by Arizona, the state Mr. Romney
praised as a model for the nation, and other copy-cat states. These laws seek to
make it impossible for illegal immigrants to survive and much, much easier for
the police to round them up. While Mr. Romney talks in vague terms about perhaps
exempting a fraction of the undocumented population from the national purge -
members of the military, some students maybe - he has never backed away from his
supporters on the hard-right for whom mass legalization is unthinkable.

So if you're not going to give 11 million people a way to legalize, which Mr.
Romney has never said he would do, and you're not going to deport them, but you
support Arizona-style laws that try to make sure immigrants cannot work, drive,
go to school or otherwise survive, then   what?

There is only way not to be baffled or exasperated by Mr. Romney's words. It is
to conclude that his plan does not exist.


     ·    The G.O.P.'s Message to Latino Voters
     ·    Romney's Immigration Speech
     ·    Shhh, Don't Mention Immigration
     ·    Kobach and Romney
     ·    Self-Deportation


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           September 28, 2012 Friday

The 'Illegal' Trap

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1103 words



HIGHLIGHT: Is the term 'illegal' immigrant improper, or useful?


A vigorous discussion is taking place online about the word "illegal" as an
adjective for certain immigrants. An immigrant activist named Jose Antonio
Vargas, a former reporter, is urging news organizations like The New York Times
to stop using it. He says the word is inaccurate, improper and demeaning.

The Times's public editor, Margaret Sullivan (an independent voice who writes
about The Times but is not part of its news or opinion operations), has been
looking into this, interviewing editors and reporters and soliciting readers'
opinions. She says she will weigh in soon.

I figured I should, too, because I have thought about "illegal" a lot (I write
immigration editorials). Five years ago I wrote an Editorial Observer called
"What Part of 'Illegal' Don't You Understand?" explaining why I didn't like the
word, but used it anyway. Not surprisingly, the article didn't settle the
debate. It's still going around, in circles.

Those who agree with Mr. Vargas say "illegal" should be banned because it
suggests that "illegal immigrants" are criminals, which often isn't true. No
human being is illegal, they say.

Those who disagree say Mr. Vargas is trying to whitewash the truth. Words like
"undocumented" ignore the fact that the people so described have broken the law.

As so often happens in the immigration debate, these people end up talking past
one other.  (Look at the comments on Ms. Sullivan's blog, and the ones that I
expect will attach to this post.)

I'm in roughly the same spot I was in five years ago: I use "illegal" somewhat
interchangeably with "undocumented," recognizing that both words are imperfect.
I also use "unauthorized," which is unfamiliar and a little clunky, but has a
distinct advantage: while it acknowledges the unlawfulness of someone's
immigration status, it also recognizes that this status can be fixed.

This is where "illegal" causes the most trouble, and where I find myself
empathizing with Mr. Vargas. What bothers both of us is the way "illegal" in
"illegal immigrant" defines an entire person, not merely  an unlawful act. It
taints everything that person does, and suggests an irreparable offense.   How
do you legalize an illegal person?

This is  what many people can't get their heads around, and why the simple act
of legalization through punishment and reparation - paying a fine and back
taxes, getting to the back of the citizenship line - is unthinkable to them.

And if immigrants are "illegal," then it follows that they don't deserve legal
protections. You can do anything you want to them - abuse them, insult and
berate them, arrest and detain them, split up their families - because their
"illegality" severs them from any rights. That's the argument used in Arizona
and Alabama, and it has the advantage of being easy to understand.

As one of my immigration-activist sources says, it's very hard to fight for
civil rights and fair treatment for "illegal immigrants" because you can never
complete the sentence "Illegal immigrants should ."

Of course they shouldn't - they're illegal!

The word  turns 11 million people into a suspect class of quasi-criminals. It is
a class-action adjective. It is the reason the country has not yet passed
sweeping immigration reform, which in theory should be an easy thing to do -
it's a simple reordering of the labor market with the labor supply. How many
visas do we need? Let's get them. How many people work off the books and owe
back taxes? Let's bring them out of the shadows and allow them to earn legal
status-- by meeting reasonable conditions, like learning English and waiting
until the legal immigration backlogs are cleared.  You deal with lawbreakers as
you always do - by giving them a chance for restitution, with penalties, fines
and other punishments that are proportional to the offense. You recognize that
the vast majority of "illegal immigrants" had no criminal intent, but are
aspiring workers who have a critically important place in  the economy and
society at large, as employees, entrepreneurs, taxpayers, parents - and as
Americans-to-be.

Here's what's so frustrating: The word I find necessary is also one that is
powerfully useful - for the reasons above - to the many passionate participants
in the immigration debate who don't want any "illegals" to ever become "legal."

These are the people who hate pressing "1" for English. They are the
anti-immigration groups like the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
Numbers USA and the Center for Immigration Studies, created by a
zero-population-growth zealot named John Tanton. Those groups have distanced
themselves from their founder's xenophobia, but are pursuing his dream of lower
immigration rates and increased deportation, and staunchly oppose any and all
legalization programs, which they deride as "amnesty for illegals."

And then there are the racists, who see "illegal immigrant" as shorthand for
"Latino." For them "illegal" is a perfect slur, because it cloaks their bigotry
with the sheen of virtue. People who hate immigrants can fling "illegal" as
viciously and effectively as the N-word - and I have heard them do this at
rallies on street corners in Phoenix- and yet when they do, they do so
indignantly, taking great offense if anyone suggests their words were motivated
not by scrupulosity about the law, but by hatred.

All the while, people like me keep trying to use "illegal immigrant"
dispassionately, to describe someone from another country who enters this one
without permission, who has no legal right to be here, no documents conferring
authorized status, whose presence poses a challenge to the economy and society.

The United States has absorbed wave upon wave of people who fit that exact
definition. The first ones wore big black shoes and buckles on their hats. We
mark their arrival every year with a celebration of America's first great
immigrant amnesty, also called "Thanksgiving."

Maybe Mr. Vargas and others will succeed in driving out "illegal." It won't be
the first time a word has  become defunct through misuse or changing times. Many
a well-meaning person has innocently used words like "Negro" and "retarded," for
example, and one is long gone, the other (I hope) is on the way out.

But a change in usage won't necessarily change hearts. As the linguist and
former senator S.I. Hayakawa used to say, the word is not the thing, the map is
not the territory, the symbol is not the thing symbolized. "You don't change the
word, you change the attitude," Mr. Hayakawa said.


     ·    Chicago, the Next Anti-Arizona
     ·    Opinion Report: Foreign Aid
     ·    Gov. Brown Should Sign the Trust Act
     ·    Mitt Romney's Secret Plan
     ·    The UndocuBus


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday

Obama Expresses Confidence in Early Action on Immigration

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 559 words



HIGHLIGHT: With a parade of Republican leaders coming forward recently in favor
of comprehensive immigration legislation, President Obama said he was "very
confident" he could pass a bill early in his second term.


With a parade of Republican leaders coming forward in recent days in favor of
comprehensive immigration legislation, President Obama said in his first news
conference since his re-election that he was "very confident" he could pass a
bill early in his second term.

"We need to seize the moment," Mr. Obama said, clearly savoring the strong
endorsement he received from Latino voters, who favored him by 71 percent to 27
percent over Mitt Romney. The president said members of his staff had already
started conversations with lawmakers in Congress, and he expected to see a bill
introduced "very soon after my inauguration."

Mr. Obama made clear he intends to push for broad-scope legislation that would
include a program to give legal status to an estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants in the country, including more than 1.2 million young immigrants
brought here as children, who would be eligible under a separate bill known as
the Dream Act. Mr. Obama said he also wanted to strengthen border security,
punish employers who systematically hire unauthorized workers, and make visas
available for farm workers and immigrants working in science and technology.

In a clue to where the president might be ready to compromise,  Mr. Obama said
he would offer the larger group of illegal immigrants "a path to legal status,"
without saying it would lead to citizenship. Many Republicans who might support
legalization next year have opposed it in the past, saying they feared it could
unleash a surge of new immigration by family members of illegal immigrants who
became citizens.

When Mr. Obama spoke of the young undocumented immigrants, however,  he said,
"We should give them every opportunity to earn their citizenship."

Republican senators who have called this week for a new approach by the party to
immigration legislation included John McCain of Arizona, Lindsey Graham of South
Carolina and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, all of whom have supported legalization in
the past, and Rand Paul of Kentucky.

On Tuesday, a coalition of evangelical Christian leaders, including two Hispanic
organizations, the Southern Baptists and the National Association of
Evangelicals, called on the president to advance a comprehensive bill within the
first 92 days of his new term, a figure they said recalled the number of times
the Hebrew word for immigrant appears in the Bible.

The United States Catholic Bishops also called on Tuesday for "bipartisan
comprehensive immigration reform" in 2013.

But it did not seem to augur well for the intense debate about immigration
likely to come next year that Mr. Obama's flash of anger during the news
conference was aimed at Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham, over their criticism of the
United Nations ambassador, Susan E. Rice, for comments concerning the killings
of Americans in Libya.

Although the speaker of the House of Representatives, John A. Boehner, said last
week he was ready to take up immigration in 2013, legalization will most likely
be a hard sell in the House,  where many Republicans view it as amnesty for
lawbreakers.


     ·    Romney Has Conciliatory Remarks on Obama and Health Overhaul
     ·    A Holiday Week in a Tough Campaign
     ·    TimesCast Politics: Changes in Immigration Policy
     ·    The Caucus Click: The Week in Pictures
     ·    Gingrich Says Neither He Nor Santorum Will Leave Race


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday

Preparing to Respond to Landmark Decisions

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 680 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rarely have the black-robed justices at the Supreme Court held so
much potential for dominating the political conversation.






THE CANDIDATES Aides to Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, are prepared to use the court's rulings to their advantage, no matter
how they turn out.

If the court strikes down the health care law, they will argue that Mr. Obama
lost his biggest legacy. If the court upholds it, they will argue that Mr.
Romney is the last hope for conservatives seeking to undo the law.

The immigration law, which gives the police in Arizona broad power to detain
anyone suspected of being in the country illegally, is trickier for Mr. Romney,
who faces the task of increasing his appeal among Latinos while not pushing away
Tea Party conservatives.

Mr. Obama is traveling to the Northeast on Monday, so a ruling that day would
quickly frame his trip. Aides have been exceptionally quiet about their
preparations for a response on the health care law, but they are thought to be
readying a furious response in case it is shot down.

The president has been pretty clear about Arizona's immigration law. He does not
like it, and will put pressure on Mr. Romney to oppose it if it is upheld.

CAPITOL HILL In a memorandum to House Republicans on Thursday, Speaker John A.
Boehner of Ohio urged his colleagues to avoid "spiking" the ball if the court
strikes down Mr. Obama's health care law. The message: We are focused on the
economy.

Still, Mr. Boehner promised his colleagues that the Republican-controlled House
would move quickly to repeal "any part of Obamacare that is left standing" by
the court.

In the Democratic-controlled Senate, the task would be to protect what is left
and try to rebuild the rest - if it can.

Congress is unlikely to do anything on immigration this year, regardless of what
the court says about the Arizona law.

INTEREST GROUPS Advocacy organizations have their press releases ready, their
surrogates standing by and their outrage primed for both rulings.

Supporters of the health care law are preparing to assail the Supreme Court as
political and out of touch if it strikes down the law. They will argue that
re-electing Mr. Obama is critical to rein in what they call an out-of-control
conservative majority on the court.

Opponents of the law are expecting to offer an outpouring of anger if it is
upheld. Tea Party groups, which were born out of the summertime rage over health
care in 2009, will stoke that anger.

Immigration activists on both sides are preparing to use the court's ruling to
promote their causes. If the justices uphold the law, expect a push for similar
rules in other states. If they strike it down, immigration rights groups will
use that as an incentive to press for a broader overhaul of the immigration
system.

INSURERS The insurance industry has been quietly preparing for the court's
health care ruling for months. If the court strikes down the requirement that
everyone must buy insurance - a mandate considered a boon to the industry -
insurers will be ready with proposals for how to change the rest of the law so
that they are not saddled by costs from other elements of the legislation.

If the entire law is struck down, the industry is prepared to go back to square
one - though a full-blown debate over health care is all but certain to wait
until after the November elections.

THE MEDIA News organizations are preparing for a huge week that could have a
drastic effect on the election fight. Television networks and cable broadcasters
are preparing special reports, newspapers are ready to deploy armies of
reporters, and Twitter is hoping not to crash amid a crush of posts after the
rulings.

The biggest challenge for the news media (and the politicians) will be making
sense of complicated rulings in the moments after they are issued. Especially in
the health care case, the decision will probably not be a simple "yes" or "no."
Rather, there will most likely be nuanced points in long opinions.

But the imperatives of the news business will prevail. Expect headlines and
Twitter posts to boil the news down quickly to "court upholds health care law"
or "court strikes down mandate" shortly after the decision is announced.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Suit Filed For Immigrants

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTHWEST; Pg.
24

LENGTH: 154 words


Civil rights groups filed a federal class-action lawsuit on Thursday challenging
Gov. Jan Brewer's order barring the state from granting driver's licenses to
young illegal immigrants who have been given work permits and earned a temporary
reprieve from deportation under a new program by the Obama administration. The
lawsuit asks the courts to rule the order unconstitutional because it undermines
the federal program. Matthew Benson, a spokesman for Ms. Brewer, said the
program ''is neither Congressionally authorized nor enshrined in federal law.''
Ms. Brewer's order reversed a longstanding practice by the state's
Transportation Department of giving driver's licenses to beneficiaries of
deferred-deportation action, like asylum seekers, by accepting their work
permits as proof of their authorized presence. The suit was filed on behalf of
five young adults who were brought to the United States from Mexico as children.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/30/us/arizona-suit-filed-for-immigrants.html

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices' Decision A Narrow Opening For Other States

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Reporting was contributed by Robbie Brown from
Atlanta, Kyle Whitmire from Birmingham, Ala., and Michael D. Shear from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1313 words


While the Supreme Court's mixed decision on Monday on Arizona's immigration
enforcement law gave a big political boost to officials there who supported it,
the ruling does not seem likely to unleash a new wave of legislation by other
states to crack down on illegal immigration.

Gov. Jan Brewer and Arizona lawmakers who wrote the law can claim victory
because the court's decision allows the authorities to go ahead with its most
intensely disputed provision, which requires the police to determine the
immigration status of anyone they stop if there is a ''reasonable suspicion''
the person is an illegal immigrant.

But in practice, the legal opening the justices defined for action by states on
immigration is relatively narrow, constitutional lawyers said.

On the basis of the ruling, five other states that have already passed similar
laws -- Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah -- should be able to
defeat some of the many challenges they faced from civil rights organizations,
which have held up those laws in the courts.

But the Supreme Court's carefully etched decision also gave opponents of
Arizona's law a clear affirmation of the primary role of the federal government
on immigration. The court put state governments on notice that they would have
to tread carefully to avoid interfering with federal policy if they want to
engage in immigration enforcement.

The court also allowed, and even invited, lawsuits against Arizona's law that
are based squarely on civil rights claims that it would lead to racial profiling
against Latinos and other immigrants -- issues that did not arise directly in
the current case. Many civil rights groups, predicting that the police provision
of the law would rapidly lead to discriminatory actions by officers once it
takes effect, said on Monday that they were ready for that fight.

''If state governments enact new immigration bills, we say bring it on, we will
see them in court,'' said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the
American Civil Liberties Union. His organization has participated with other
rights groups in a separate lawsuit against Arizona over the law, known as S.B.
1070, and against immigration enforcement laws in other states.

The Supreme Court struck down three central sections of Arizona's law, which had
been regarded by opponents as the most harsh. In allowing the
''show-me-your-papers'' provision to stand, the court accepted, for the time
being at least, Arizona's word that police officers would not engage in racial
profiling as they put it into practice.

Both sides claimed on Monday that they had achieved important gains. Dan Stein,
the president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, a
group that supported Arizona, called the ruling ''an important victory.''

''Even if the Obama administration refuses to enforce most immigration laws,
states have the power to deter and discourage illegal aliens from settling or
remaining within their jurisdictions,'' Mr. Stein said.

He said the ruling, coupled with a Supreme Court decision last year that
affirmed an Arizona law requiring employers to verify the legal immigration
status of employees, gives states ''broad latitude to carry out a policy of
attrition through enforcement.''

Mr. Stein's organization supported a small but determined corps of lawyers who
created legal blueprints for Arizona's and other state laws that were intended
to drive out illegal immigrants by making daily life impossible for them in this
country.

In Georgia, Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican who signed an immigration enforcement
law last year, welcomed the court's decision more cautiously.

''It appears the court has upheld the major thrust of our state's statute,'' Mr.
Deal said, ''that states have the right to assist in enforcing federal
immigration law.'' An appeals court suspended parts of immigration enforcement
laws in Georgia and in Alabama, awaiting the decision from the Supreme Court.

On the other side, Obama administration officials also offered praise. ''I am
pleased the Supreme Court confirmed that state laws cannot dictate the federal
government's immigration enforcement policies or priorities,'' said Janet
Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security.

To prove the point, officials from her agency announced that they were
suspending seven joint agreements in Arizona under a program, known as 287g, in
which they had deputized state and local police to detain illegal immigrants.

Homeland Security officials also said they will send a directive to federal
agents in Arizona reminding them that to be consistent with the administration's
priorities, they should not pursue deportation of illegal immigrants who have
not committed serious crimes or are not repeat offenders.

Lawyers for both sides, after digging down into the complex decision, were
guarded in their assessments.

Calling the ruling a ''qualified victory for Arizona,'' Kris Kobach, a
constitutional lawyer who helped to write S.B. 1070, said the court had avoided
sweeping statements. Though affirming rights of states on immigration, he said,
the court also ''left open the possibility that a state action might not be
permissible depending on whether it is cooperative'' with federal efforts. Mr.
Kobach is now the Kansas secretary of state.

Latino leaders said they were deeply dismayed that the Supreme Court had allowed
the policing provision of the law to take effect.

''We believe it puts the civil rights of all Americans at risk and it places a
bull's-eye on the back of all Latinos,'' said Janet Murguia, president of
N.C.L.R., also called the National Council of La Raza, one of the nation's
largest Latino groups.

Mr. Romero said that the A.C.L.U. had raised a new ''war chest'' of $8.7 million
to combat state immigration laws across the country. ''The Supreme Court kicked
the can down the road, opening the floodgates to racial profiling and years of
litigation,'' Mr. Romero said. ''The constitutional sequel will be much more
controversial, messy and costly.''

Officials in states that have adopted similar laws said they would have to sort
through the court's decision to determine exactly how their statutes would be
affected. In Alabama, an especially far-reaching immigration law included
provisions imposing mandatory penalties for businesses that hired unauthorized
immigrants and requiring schools to check the immigration status of students,
neither of which were in Arizona's law.

In Utah, lawmakers avoided most of the pitfalls the court signaled in the
provisions it struck down, Attorney General Mark Shurtleff said Monday.

Across a wide spectrum, politicians from President Obama to Gov. Nikki Haley of
South Carolina, a Republican, said the decision should spur Congress to move on
a broad overhaul of immigration laws.

At least eight states considered enforcement legislation this year. But as
officials elsewhere have watched the polarized battles in Arizona, the mood
appears to have changed. No state passed a law like Arizona's.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29 2012



CORRECTION: : A news analysis article on Tuesday about the impact of the Supreme
Court's decision on Arizona's immigration enforcement law misstated the number
of joint agreements with Arizona police that the Department of Homeland Security
rescinded in response to the court's ruling. The department halted agreements
with seven Arizona police departments under which federal officials had
authorized state and local officers to check immigration status and to detain
illegal immigrants during stops or investigations. The department did not
suspend all joint agreements in Arizona under the program, which is known as
287g. Homeland Security officials say four agreements remain in force; they
allow Arizona police to determine the immigration status of foreigners held in
jails.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE GOVERNOR: Jan Brewer
SUPPORT: Members of the Tea Party, which favors stricter laws against illegal
immigration, outside the Supreme Court on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 OPPOSITION: A rally by the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles
on Monday at the federal courthouse in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA
ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Ruling Leaves Issues Unresolved

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Kyle Whitmire contributed reporting from Birmingham,
Ala.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1104 words


The Supreme Court's mixed decision on Arizona's tough immigration enforcement
law has laid the ground for years of legal and political wrangling in many
states over racial profiling and civil rights, making it likely that the court
will be asked to revisit immigration.

In its opinion on Monday, the court struck down three parts of the controversial
law but let stand a core ''show me your papers'' provision, which requires the
police to check the immigration status of anyone they stop if they suspect the
person is an illegal immigrant.

But the court also suggested it was open to new challenges based on any adverse
impact the law might have on the civil rights of Arizona residents.

Legal groups opposed to Arizona's law contend that the police will not be able
to decide whom to question without singling out Hispanics and foreign-looking
people for special scrutiny. They said the court's opinion, in a lawsuit brought
by the Obama administration, clears the way for them to come forward with
challenges based directly on claims that the statute will lead to racial
profiling of Latinos and immigrants.

Fearing that impact, Latinos turned out in street protests across the country
after the law, known as S.B. 1070, was enacted in 2010, and they led a boycott
of Arizona, together with civil rights and immigrant groups. But claims of
discrimination were not squarely addressed in the administration's case.

''The court has opened the door for us to proceed now with the rest of our
constitutional claims,'' said Marielena Hincapie, executive director of the
National Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles, which brought challenges against
Arizona's law and similar statutes in five other states. ''This type of law is
almost impossible to enforce in a racially neutral way, without leading to civil
rights violations against people of color,'' she said.

On the other side, supporters of Arizona's statute said the Supreme Court's
decision would compel them to pursue a new line of legal attack, focusing on
what they contend is overreaching by the Obama administration, which they
believe the justices encouraged. In its opinion the court broadly endorsed the
administration's argument that immigration policy and enforcement are primarily
the province of the federal government, not the states.

''The administration is relying on a claim that they have discretion to enforce
immigration law,'' said Michael M. Hethmon, general counsel of the Immigration
Reform Law Institute in Washington, a group that helped Arizona and many other
states to write their own immigration enforcement laws. ''And they are using
that claim to really massively expand their direct power.''

Mr. Hethmon's institute is the legal branch of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, one of the nation's most influential groups seeking reduced
immigration.

Five other states have enacted laws that are some variation of Arizona's:
Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah. Civil rights groups have
challenged those laws, and federal courts have suspended some or all of their
provisions.

The Obama administration, in its case against Arizona -- the first challenge to
rise to the Supreme Court -- relied almost exclusively on the argument that the
state law was invalid because it was in conflict with federal policy.

Before the administration filed its suit in 2010, civil rights organizations --
including Ms. Hincapie's center; the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, known as Maldef; and the American Civil Liberties Union --
brought a separate lawsuit against S.B. 1070. That case, on behalf of labor
unions, business groups, churches and immigrant organizations, claims the
Arizona law ''will subject many persons of color,'' including Americans and
legal immigrants, ''to racial profiling and to unlawful interrogations,
searches, seizures and arrests.''

The federal court put that lawsuit in abeyance while the Obama administration's
case moved forward. But after the Supreme Court's decision, Ms. Hincapie said,
the civil rights case can advance again.

The Supreme Court decision heightened attention on Alabama, where lawmakers last
year passed an immigration law tougher than Arizona's. While authorizing the
police to check immigration status, the law also restricted business contracts
and transactions with illegal immigrants, and required public schools to check
the status of students.

This year, the Alabama Legislature added provisions to make the law even more
strict. Based on challenges from rights groups, federal courts suspended many
provisions but allowed the ''show me your papers'' section to stand, making
Alabama the only state where such a law has gone into effect.

Alabama officials and lawmakers said they were both heartened and worried by the
court's decision.

''The Supreme Court came down solidly committed to both sides, not solidly for
either side,'' said State Senator Scott Beason, a Republican who was a leading
sponsor of the immigration bill. ''I was hoping for a more definitive set of
guidelines,'' he said.

Rights organizations, including the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery,
brought two lawsuits against Alabama, both including extensive civil rights
claims. They won one round, in which a federal court found the law unfairly
prevented illegal immigrants from obtaining license plates for mobile homes.

Alabama officials said they were studying the Supreme Court decision to decipher
its impact on the state law.

''The people of Alabama want a strong anti-illegal-immigration law,'' said Gov.
Robert Bentley, a Republican. ''I will keep my commitment to uphold and enforce
Alabama's law.''

Mr. Hethmon, of the Immigration Reform Law Institute, said the group was
preparing ''creative legal strategies'' to directly contest the Obama
administration's view that it can use its federal authority to exercise wide
prosecutorial discretion in setting deportation policy. The administration has
said it will focus on removing illegal immigrants who are criminals, while
sparing others with no criminal records.

Mr. Hethmon said he would also be advising states on how to devise policing
statutes similar to Arizona's so they will be fully consistent with the Supreme
Court's guidance.

Civil rights lawyers said they will not give up on trying to stop the policing
provision of S.B. 1070, which the Supreme Court upheld, from taking effect. They
contend the court's opinion pointed to new limits it wanted to impose on the
law.

''We feel strongly this law should not be implemented,'' said Thomas A. Saenz,
general counsel of Maldef. ''The irreparable harms are just too severe.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters rallied across the street from the White House on
May 1, 2010, opposing a newly enacted immigration law in Arizona. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Michael M. Hethmon, general counsel of the Immigration Reform Law Institute in
Washington, in his office on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 29, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 127 words


A news analysis article on Tuesday about the impact of the Supreme Court's
decision on Arizona's immigration enforcement law misstated the number of joint
agreements with Arizona police that the Department of Homeland Security
rescinded in response to the court's ruling. The department halted agreements
with seven Arizona police departments under which federal officials had
authorized state and local officers to check immigration status and to detain
illegal immigrants during stops or investigations. The department did not
suspend all joint agreements in Arizona under the program, which is known as
287g. Homeland Security officials say four agreements remain in force; they
allow Arizona police to determine the immigration status of foreigners held in
jails.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Republican Reactions to the Arizona Decision

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 570 words



HIGHLIGHT: They're even more confusing that the Supreme Court ruling.


If you found the Supreme Court's ruling on Arizona's anti-immigration law
confusing - the justices rejected three parts of the statute and sort of punted
on the fourth - then you should read the reactions from some Republican
politicians. At least the court's decision had internal logic.

Mitt Romney, who issued a press release on the decision shortly after it came
down, seemed not to have read the part where the justices said immigration
policy is a federal responsibility and states don't have the right or the
authority to meddle with it. Mr. Romney said it was every state's "right" to
secure the borders.

And he blamed President Obama for the ruling (surprise!), because he had not
shown "leadership" on immigration policy. Certainly, Mr. Obama has failed to
make comprehensive immigration reform a central part of his agenda, but Mr.
Romney doesn't favor comprehensive immigration reform. What Republicans like Mr.
Romney mean when they say Mr. Obama has not shown leadership is that he does not
support a mindless enforcement-only policy. You know, the Arizona approach.

Amazingly enough, Mr. Romney's reaction was not the most ridiculous. That award
goes to Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, who said: "I note that in his response to
today's Supreme Court ruling, President Obama called on Congress to pass
comprehensive immigration reform. I also note that the bipartisan comprehensive
immigration reform bill I helped draft in 2007 was killed - in part - by
then-Senator Obama."

As Talking Points Memo pointed out, Mr. Obama did not support guest-worker
provisions that were in President Bush's 2007 immigration plan. If that was the
"in part" part of Mr. Kyl's statement, then it was a cynical distortion. If not,
it was just a plain lie. Mr. Obama voted for the Bush immigration plan. Mr. Kyl
voted against it.

Mr. Kyl didn't stop there. In an appearance on Bill Bennett's radio program
today, he attacked the administration for deciding to pull back on the
deputizing of local cops to make immigration arrests. He outlined three
remedies: voters could get rid of Mr. Obama, Congress could look into whether
there are appropriate criminal charges for "dereliction of duty," or "if it's
bad enough and there are shenanigans involved in it, then of course impeachment
is always a possibility."

I saved you the trouble. There is no reference to shenanigans in the
Constitution.

Mr. Kyl was careful to add that he didn't "think" anyone was talking about
impeachment "at this point."

While Mr. Kyl dwells on "shenanigans" and dreams of impeachment hearings, the
people of Arizona will have to live with the section of the Arizona law that the
Supreme Court did uphold: The section that requires cops to demand documentation
from anyone they stop or arrest who looks like he or she might be an illegal
immigrant.

The "papers please" provision has not yet been put into force and so it's not
possible to say with absolute certainty that it will have an unconstitutional
discriminatory effect. But  I think this law was written to target people who
"look Mexican". Many citizens and legal residents would have trouble proving
their status if a police officer pulled them over for, say, failing to signal a
turn-but I highly doubt anyone who "looks Canadian" will experience any
hardships.


     ·    Arizona's Immigration Law and Mandatory Life Terms
     ·    The Arizona Show
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Health
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Court Rulings
     ·    As You Were


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 8, 2012 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Amnesty for Immigrants?

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 320 words


To the Editor:

Jorge G. Castaneda and Douglas S. Massey (''Do-It-Yourself Immigration Reform,''
Op-Ed, June 2) argue that we should grant amnesty to millions of illegal
immigrants because illegal immigration from Mexico is down. But this conclusion
is flawed.

First, they claim that Mexican illegal immigration is down because of decreased
job opportunities. But this doesn't mean that illegal immigrants won't try to
enter once the economy improves.

For this reason, we need to turn off the jobs magnet that encourages illegal
immigration. We should expand E-Verify, a Web-based program that quickly
identifies illegal immigrants working here and protects jobs for legal workers.

And since the Government Accountability Office has found that only 44 percent of
the Southwest border is under the ''operational control'' of the Border Patrol,
the border is still not secure and remains an open invitation to more illegal
immigration.

Second, while illegal immigration has slightly diminished, it's still a problem.
Last year, more than 340,000 people were apprehended trying to enter the country
illegally. But it's estimated that there are two to three successful illegal
crossings for every one thwarted. That means more than a million illegal
immigrants could have entered last year.

Third, not all illegal immigrants are from Mexico. Each year, tens of thousands
of illegal immigrants enter the United States from countries other than Mexico,
including some countries with strong ties to terrorist organizations like Syria,
Iran, Somalia, Nigeria and Pakistan. This means that if we grant amnesty to all
illegal immigrants in the United States, it could also include those who wish to
do us harm.

Granting amnesty to illegal immigrants is a shortsighted fix that will only
encourage more illegal immigration.

LAMAR SMITH Washington, June 6, 2012

The writer, a Republican of Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Christians On Right Urge Reform On Migrants

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 860 words


Some of the nation's most influential evangelical groups urged a solution to
illegal immigration on Tuesday that defies the harsh rhetoric of the Republican
primary race, which continues to undermine Mitt Romney's appeal to Hispanic
voters.

The call by the groups represents a recognition that in one bedrock element of
the conservative movement -- evangelical Christians -- the demography of their
followers is changing, becoming more Hispanic, and that Republican leaders risk
being out of step with their hawkish talk of border fences and immigration
crackdowns like those in Arizona.

Tom Minnery, the senior vice president of policy for one evangelical group,
Focus on the Family, said many of the 11 million to 12 million illegal
immigrants should be free to ''come out of the shadows'' and ''begin the process
of restitution'' leading to attaining legal residency.

Mr. Minnery spoke at a Capitol Hill news conference called to announce that more
than 150 Christian evangelical leaders, including from the Southern Baptist
Convention and the National Association of Evangelicals, were endorsing an
overhaul of immigration policy.

The evangelical leaders expressed opposition to such notions as
''self-deportation,'' which Mr. Romney favored in a Republican debate and which
urges strict enforcement of laws to encourage illegal immigrant workers to leave
the country.

The situation is considered all the more critical given that some important
swing states in the coming election -- including Colorado, Florida and Nevada --
have large Hispanic populations that leading Republicans say they must win over
to prevail in the states.

''This is the tipping point to finally convince Republican operatives that they
must redeem the narrative on immigration reform in order to be a viable party in
America's political landscape in the 21st century,'' said the Rev. Samuel
Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference.

Mr. Rodriguez said he met last week with aides to Mr. Romney, the presumptive
Republican nominee, to urge him to moderate his positions.

He noted that Hispanics, who account for about 7.5 million of the 82 million
evangelicals in the country, are the fastest-growing segment. Hispanic
evangelicals are more likely than other Hispanics to identify as conservative
and Republican.

But so far Mr. Romney has shown no inclination to shift his positions from the
primary season, when he attacked his rivals Newt Gingrich and Gov. Rick Perry of
Texas for their more moderate immigration stances.

Although he has campaigned with Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Cuban-American
popular with the Tea Party, Mr. Romney has not endorsed Mr. Rubio's proposal to
grant a path to legal residency for some children of illegal immigrants.

Mr. Romney plans to address a national meeting of elected Hispanic officials on
June 21 in Orlando, Fla., and is expected to speak about immigration.

For now, Mr. Romney's strategists argue that he need not change his positions
because Latino voters will cast ballots in November based on the economy, not
immigration.

''Governor Romney believes that legal immigration is a source of strength for
America and that to protect legal immigration we must address illegal
immigration in a civil but resolute manner,'' said Alberto Martinez, an adviser
to Mr. Romney in Florida.

''As president, Governor Romney would work with any groups on a reform that
strengthens legal immigration, secures our borders, respects those who are
waiting patiently to enter legally and ensures that we do not encourage further
illegal immigration.''

A pro-reform movement has been percolating among evangelical groups for the past
two to three years, with organizations and churches that align with Republicans
on issues like abortion and gay marriage supporting President Obama on
immigration reform.

The National Association of Evangelicals, which represents more than 40
denominations, passed a resolution calling for a comprehensive immigration
overhaul in 2009. The Southern Baptist Convention did so last year.

It called for ''just, fair immigration reform,'' said Richard Land, president of
the Southern Baptists' ethics commission, who also attended Tuesday's news
conference.

''It passed with at least an 80 percent vote,'' he said, ''and four of five
Southern Baptists is about as good as you're going to get on any given day on
anything.''

But Focus on the Family, the radio ministry based in Colorado, was a newcomer to
the cause of an immigration overhaul.

While some advocates favor a path to citizenship for many illegal immigrants,
Mr. Minnery of Focus on the Family advocated a path to legal status, like a work
visa, only after a fine is paid.

''These are the victims of economic misery, so there's compassion necessary,''
Mr. Minnery said. ''But making restitution is a first step.''

''I think the people are in a different spot than the politicians are on this
issue,'' he added. ''I think people are tired of the rhetoric and looking for
some improvement in the immigration system.''

If illegal immigrants are going to be asked to get in line for legal status,
first ''you have to get the lines moving,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Fleming, senior pastor of the Champion Forest Baptist
Church in Houston, delivered remarks with other evangelical leaders on Tuesday
about finding a solution to illegal immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama To Permit Young Migrants To Remain In U.S.

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.; Kirk Semple and Richard W.
Stevenson contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1401 words



Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who came to the United States as
children will be allowed to remain in the country without fear of deportation
and able to work, under an executive action the Obama administration announced
on Friday.

Administration officials said the president used existing legal authority to
make the broad policy change, which could temporarily benefit more than 800,000
young people. He did not consult with Congress, where Republicans have generally
opposed measures to benefit illegal immigrants.

The policy, while not granting any permanent legal status, clears the way for
young illegal immigrants to come out of the shadows, work legally and obtain
driver's licenses and many other documents they have lacked.

''They are Americans in their heart, in their minds, in every single way but
one: on paper,'' President Obama said in announcing the new policy in the White
House Rose Garden on Friday. He said he was taking ''a temporary stopgap
measure'' that would ''lift the shadow of deportation from these young people''
and make immigration policy ''more fair, more efficient and more just.''

Under the change, the Department of Homeland Security will no longer initiate
the deportation of illegal immigrants who came to the United States before age
16u, have lived here for at least five years, and are in school, are high school
graduates or are military veterans in good standing. The immigrants must also be
not more than 30 and have clean criminal records.

Young people, who have been highly visible and vocal activists despite their
undocumented status, have been calling on Mr. Obama for more than a year to stop
deporting them and allow them to work. Many of them were elated and relieved on
Friday.

''People are just breaking down and crying for joy when they find out what the
president did,'' said Lorella Praeli, a leader of the United We Dream Network,
the largest coalition of illegal immigrant students.

Republicans reacted angrily, saying the president had overstepped his legal
bounds to do an end run around Congress. Some Republicans accused Mr. Obama of
violating the law. ''The president's action is an affront to the process of
representative government by circumventing Congress and with a directive he may
not have the authority to execute,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa,
the senior Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee. ''It seems the
president has put election-year politics above responsible policies.''

In many ways, the president's move was a clear play for a crucial voting bloc in
states that will decide whether he gets another term. It also held the potential
for considerable payoff.

The action was the first measure by Mr. Obama that offers immediate relief to
large numbers of illegal immigrants, in contrast to smaller steps the
administration had taken that were intended to ease the impact of deportations
but in practice had little effect. During the three years of his term, Mr. Obama
has deported more than 1.1 million immigrants, the most by any president since
the 1950s.

''Now let's be clear: this is not an amnesty,'' Mr. Obama said in the Rose
Garden, anticipating the Republican response. ''This is not a path to
citizenship. It is not a permanent fix.''

The group of illegal immigrants that will benefit from the policy is similar to
those who would have been eligible to become legal permanent residents under the
Dream Act, legislation that Mr. Obama has long supported. An effort by the White
House to pass the bill in late 2010 was blocked by Republicans in the Senate.
Mr. Obama called on Congress again Friday to pass that legislation.

The president was facing growing pressure from Latino leaders and Democrats who
warned that because of his harsh immigration enforcement, his support was
lagging among Latinos who could be crucial voters in his race for re-election.

Illegal immigrants said the new policy would make a major difference in their
lives. As students, when they graduate from high school, they often cannot go on
to college because they are not eligible for financial aid and must pay higher
tuition rates. If they do succeed in graduating from college, regardless of
their academic accomplishments, they cannot be legally employed in the United
States or obtain driver's or professional licenses.

The Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, estimated
on Friday that as many as 1.4 million immigrants might be eligible for the new
measure. The vast majority are Latinos, with about 70 percent born in Mexico.
Many of the students live in states that could be pivotal for Mr. Obama's
re-election prospects, including Colorado, Florida, Nevada and New Mexico.

Nationally, a Pew Center survey in December found that 91 percent of Latinos
supported the Dream Act.

For immigrants who come forward and qualify, Homeland Security authorities will
use prosecutorial discretion to grant deferred action, a reprieve that will be
valid for two years and will have to be renewed. Under current law, that status
allows immigrants to apply for work permits.

In a memorandum issued Friday referring to the students, Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano instructed all enforcement agents to ''immediately
exercise their discretion, on an individual basis, in order to prevent
low-priority individuals from being placed into removal proceedings.''

But Homeland Security officials said they would begin accepting requests from
immigrant students in 60 days, leaving time to prepare procedures to handle the
huge response they expect.

Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, who is an outspoken critic of
illegal immigrants, said he would bring a lawsuit against the White House to
stop the measure.

White House officials said they chose Friday for the policy shift because it is
the 30th anniversary of a Supreme Court decision, Plyler v. Doe, that
effectively established that all children, regardless of immigration status,
were entitled to public education through high school.

Immigrant student leaders praised Mr. Obama, saying his action should convince
other students that advocacy could be effective, even for immigrants without
legal status. Although the reprieve is temporary, the leaders said they expected
that the majority of students would seize the opportunity to work and come out
into the open.

''We've done away with the fear,'' said Gaby Pacheco, 27, an Ecuadorean-born
immigrant who was among the first in a wave of students in recent years who
''came out'' to declare publicly that they were in this country illegally.

Mr. Obama also received praise from Democratic lawmakers, including the Hispanic
Caucus in the House and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-highest
Democrat in the Senate who is the leading author of the Dream Act. Mr. Durbin
first proposed in April 2010 that the president should grant deferred action to
young students.

Over the past two months Mr. Durbin and other top Democrats, including Senator
Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, have quietly urged Mr. Obama to do
something significant to help immigrant students.

Maricela Aguilar, 21, who was born in Mexico and lives in Wisconsin, said she
was in Los Angeles with a group of students when the news came of the new
policy.

''We were all watching and listening and screaming out in joy,'' she said. Ms.
Aguilar graduated last month from Marquette University, but feared she would
never find work professionally.

Some students were cautious, recalling that Mr. Obama had promised them help
before. ''We don't want to get too excited,'' said Daniela Alulema, 25, an
illegal immigrant from Ecuador who is a leader of the New York State Youth
Leadership Council. ''We hope that what was announced will be implemented and
will actually help our community.''

Correction: June 22, 2012, Friday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
Saturday about the Obama administration's new policy allowing some younger
immigrants to avoid deportation and obtain work permits misstated part of the
age qualifications established by the new rule. It applies to people who came to
the United States as children and were no more than 30 years old -- not ''under
30 years old'' -- at the time the policy was changed by the administrative
action last week. The error also appeared on Sunday and on Monday in articles
about the new policy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Milca Calymayor, right, was part of a protest on deportations
on Friday in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES)
 Arlete Pichardo, left, on Friday with other immigrant students graduating from
U.C.L.A. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN/REUTERS) (A16) CHARTS: Americans' Views
on Illegal Immigrants: Many Americans say that illegal immigrants should be
allowed to apply for citizenship or stay as guest workers, but nearly a third
say that they should be required to leave the United States. (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Campaigns Turning Focus to Borders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 640 words


If you're focused on the presidential campaign, get ready for the politics of
immigration.

President Obama set the stage on Friday by announcing that he would unilaterally
stop enforcing deportations against many illegal immigrants who came to the
United States as children. But immigration was already set to be the topic of
the week on the campaign trail.

Here's why:

OBAMA IN MEXICO: Mr. Obama left on Sunday for Los Cabos, Mexico, for the G-20
summit meeting of the world's major economies.

Topics other than immigration are likely to dominate the two-day meeting: the
economic crisis in Europe, a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia,
and the political and military crises in Egypt and Syria.

But the location of Mr. Obama's trip provides the backdrop for a discussion of
immigration between Mexico and the United States. And by announcing his new
deportation policy just days before arriving, Mr. Obama all but ensured that it
will come up in discussions with other leaders and with reporters.

What he says in Mexico will immediately echo on the campaign trail, where Mitt
Romney has already criticized Mr. Obama's new policy. But on Sunday, Mr. Romney
dodged the question of whether he would repeal it if he got into the White House
next year.

''What the president did - he should have worked on this years ago,'' Mr. Romney
said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''If he felt seriously about this, he should
have taken action when he had a Democrat House and Senate, but he didn't. He
saves these sort of things until four and a half months before the general
election.''

THE COURT: Any day now, the Supreme Court is expected to announce its decision
on the constitutionality of an Arizona law that expanded the powers of police
officers in the state to enforce immigration laws.

The decision could have far-reaching implications for illegal immigrants. A
ruling upholding the law could be seen as a green light for other states to
follow suit. If the court strikes the law down, it may help immigration
activists who say Arizona went too far.

On the campaign trail, either decision could supercharge the issue. Mr. Romney
must contend with conservative supporters who do not want him to embrace amnesty
or comprehensive immigration reform. Mr. Obama faces Hispanic voters already
suspicious of his commitment to the issue.

For months, both candidates have largely sidestepped the issue (though they have
each released ads in Spanish). A Supreme Court decision will be hard to ignore.

DUELING SPEECHES: But perhaps the most direct engagement on the issue of
immigration is likely to come at the end of the week, when Mr. Obama and Mr.
Romney are both scheduled to deliver remarks to the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials annual conference in Orlando, Fla.

Mr. Romney is scheduled to go first, addressing the group on Thursday. It will
be an opportunity him to expand - or not - on his response to Mr. Obama's new
immigration policy.

It will be a tricky moment for Mr. Romney, who appears to be trailing Mr. Obama
badly among Hispanic voters. Several top aides have said he must find ways to
narrow that gap. But doing so too aggressively could undermine his support among
conservatives.

For Mr. Obama, who is to speak on Friday, the appearance is likely to be less
contentious because of his new policy on deportations.

Some Latino supporters have expressed frustration with the president for not
pushing harder to achieve a comprehensive immigration overhaul that would
provide a pathway to citizenship for many of the illegal immigrants already in
the country.

That may still be an undercurrent on Friday. But many Hispanic activists have
cheered his new policy, making it more likely that he will be received warmly at
the event.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On TV, Romney Doesn't Show Immigration Hand

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 703 words


Responding to the challenge that President Obama posed in his order last week to
stop deporting some illegal immigrants, Mitt Romney declined to say on Sunday
whether he would reverse the president's decision if he takes up occupancy of
the White House.

Although Mr. Romney said during the Republican primary debates that he would
veto the Dream Act, which would provide a path to citizenship for some illegal
immigrants, he was more equivocal about Mr. Obama's order last week. It allows
work permits and prevents deportation for as many as 1.4 million undocumented
immigrants under the age of 30 who were brought to the United States as
children.

''With regards to these kids who were brought in by their parents through no
fault of their own, there needs to be a long-term solution so they know what
their status is,'' Mr. Romney said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS.

Echoing Republican lawmakers, Mr. Romney accused the president of a purely
political move in issuing the order and bypassing Congress. ''If he felt
seriously about this,'' Mr. Romney said, ''he should have taken action when he
had a Democratic House and Senate, but he didn't.''

The president supported passage of the Dream Act in 2010, but it was blocked by
Republicans in the Senate.

Mr. Obama was in danger of losing the enthusiasm of Hispanics, a crucial voting
bloc, over immigration policies that have focused on deportations.

The president put Mr. Romney on the defensive, and may have pre-empted him on a
solution to illegal immigration that he was edging toward -- an embrace of a
Republican alternative to the Dream Act proposed by Senator Marco Rubio of
Florida that would offer work visas to some immigrants, but not a path to
citizenship.

Advisers to Mr. Romney had said in recent days that he was working on a platform
that would include immigration policies, and they expected him to unveil them on
Thursday when he speaks to the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials in Florida.

Ana Navarro, an adviser on Hispanic issues to Senator John McCain in 2008, said
in a Twitter message on Sunday: ''After Obama move, it's time. Romney NALEO
speech Thurs is I-Day.''

Mr. Romney, granting his first interview to a Sunday morning news show other
than on Fox News, told Bob Schieffer of CBS that the president also failed to
work in a bipartisan way on health care, and he said that he would bring a
different spirit to the White House.

''I'm really not a guy that's going for the next step in my political career,''
he said. ''I am in this race because I want to get America back on the right
track. I don't care about re-elections, I don't care about the partisanship that
goes on. I want to get America right.''

Concerning another big news story of the day, the European economic crisis, Mr.
Romney said he favored a hands-off approach. ''Well we're not going to send
checks to Europe,'' he said. ''We're not going to bail out the European banks.''

He said the best economic defense for the United States was to strengthen its
own economy and blamed the president for policies that have ''made it harder for
our economy to reboot.''

Mr. Romney was skeptical about another round of monetary stimulus, known as QE3,
from the Federal Reserve, which is reported to be on the table for discussion
when the Fed meets this week.

He reiterated economic proposals familiar from the primary season -- lowering
tax rates and cutting government from 25 percent of the economy to 20 percent,
which he said would ''ignite growth.''

Pressed by Mr. Schieffer to cite tax deductions and exemptions that he would cut
to maintain the progressivity of the tax code, which Mr. Romney has pledged, he
said, ''Well, we'll go through that process with Congress.''

Mr. Romney is midway through a six-state bus tour of small towns meant to
connect him with everday Americans. Mr. Schieffer mentioned an alternative image
of Mr. Romney from Saturday: the success of a dressage horse that his wife, Ann
Romney, co-owns. The horse, Rafalca, won a berth on the United States Olympic
team.

''I joke that I'm going to send her to Betty Ford for addiction to horses,'' Mr.
Romney said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Schieffer asked Mitt Romney how he would respond to
President Obama's order to stop deporting some illegal immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 20, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Shut the Golden Door

BYLINE: By JOHN M. MacDONALD and ROBERT J. SAMPSON.

John M. MacDonald is an associate professor of criminology at the University of
Pennsylvania. Robert J. Sampson is a professor of the social sciences at
Harvard.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 753 words


IMMIGRATION is in the headlines again, with President Obama's decision last week
to stop deporting young illegal immigrants who came to the United States as
children, and the Supreme Court's approaching decision on the constitutionality
of Arizona's crackdown on undocumented migrants.

But too much of the public debate has focused on the legality of immigration
without considering a more fundamental question: What effects has mass
immigration had on American society?

As a result of the 1965 immigration act, which opened the door widely to
non-European immigrants, 40 million foreign-born immigrants now live in the
United States. They make up 13 percent of the population, the largest such
proportion since the 1920s. More than half of these migrants are from Latin
America and the Caribbean, although a study released Tuesday by the Pew Research
Center found that Asians overtook Hispanics in 2009 as the fastest-growing group
of immigrants.

For the May issue of the Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
Science, we commissioned some of the most meticulous research done to date about
the effects of immigration on a cross section of American communities -- urban,
suburban and rural.

The scholars who participated were in remarkable agreement: while new immigrants
are poorer than the general population and face considerable hardship, there is
no evidence that they have reshaped the social fabric in harmful ways.

America is neither less safe because of immigration nor is it worse off
economically. In fact, in the regions where immigrants have settled in the past
two decades, crime has gone down, cities have grown, poor urban neighborhoods
have been rebuilt, and small towns that were once on life support are springing
back.

Scholars can't say for sure that immigration caused these positive developments,
but we know enough to debunk the notion that immigrants worsen social ills.

For example, in rural counties that experienced an influx of immigrants in the
1980s and '90s, crime rates dropped by more than they did in rural counties that
did not see high immigrant growth. Higher immigration was associated with
reductions in homicide rates for white, black and Latino victims. In both
Hazleton, Pa., which has a recent history of hostility toward immigration, and
St. James, Minn., a much more welcoming community, migrants have also bolstered
dwindling populations and helped to reverse economic decline.

In large gateway cities, immigration has been associated not only with a
decrease in crime but also with economic revitalization and reductions in
concentrated poverty. Data from the 2005 American Community Survey showed, for
example, that the income of blacks in the New York City borough of Queens
surpassed that of whites for the first time, a development driven largely by
immigration from the West Indies.

Scholars found that immigrant youths in Los Angeles were involved in less crime
and violence than their native-born peers in similar economic circumstances.
Research also has shown that an increase in immigration in cities like San
Antonio and Miami did not produce an increase in the homicide rate. Furthermore,
social scientists found that people in immigrant communities in New York were
less cynical about the law than were people in less diverse communities; they
were also more likely to indicate that they would cooperate with the police.

If migration has had such beneficial effects, why, then, has there been such a
persistent backlash?

Part of the answer surely lies in the social changes -- language, political
attitudes, religious mores -- that immigrants bring, in addition to the effects
of the recession. The leveling-off of migration, especially from Mexico, may
bring a sense of relief to opponents of these social changes, but if the new
research is any guide, the consequences of the slowdown may be the opposite of
what the critics intend.

Comprehensive immigration reform -- last attempted during the second term of
President George W. Bush -- should be a priority for whoever wins in November.
Mr. Obama's decision to exempt undocumented children who were brought to the
United States by their parents from harsh deportation rules is an overdue, but
welcome, first step.

Establishing a clear path to citizenship for undocumented adults, creating a
more permissive guest-worker program, reducing unwarranted police stops of
immigrants and preserving families rather than separating them through
deportation are controversial ideas, but they deserve a hearing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romney Exhibits A Change In Tone On Immigration

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and TRIP GABRIEL; Ashley Parker reported from Lake
Buena Vista, and Trip Gabriel from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words


LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. -- Mitt Romney struck a more conciliatory tone toward
illegal immigrants on Thursday than he took during the Republican primary
season, but he backed only limited steps to address the concerns of many
Hispanic voters as he confronted one of the trickiest issues in his efforts to
build a broad general election coalition.

Speaking to a group of Hispanic officials in the heart of a swing state, Mr.
Romney made his most extensive remarks on immigration since President Obama
announced last week that he would use executive authority to allow many young
people who are in the country illegally to avoid deportation. Mr. Romney
reiterated his support for giving legal status to illegal immigrants who serve
in the military, and said he would ''staple a green card'' to the diplomas of
immigrants who receive advanced degrees.

He did not repeat the language he used during the primary season about
encouraging illegal immigrants to ''self-deport,'' and he did not address
Arizona's controversial law, now before the Supreme Court, that requires law
enforcement officers there to demand proof of immigration status when they
suspect someone might be in the United States illegally. But he remained vague
about whether he would leave in place the temporary measures taken by Mr. Obama
to allow young people to remain in the United States.

''We can find common ground here, and we've got to,'' Mr. Romney said. ''We owe
it to ourselves as Americans to ensure that our country remains a land of
opportunity -- both for those who were born here and for those who share our
values, respect our laws, and want to come to our shores.''

Mr. Romney's nearly 20-minute speech here was met with tepid applause and
moments of pointed silence. He seemed to hit his stride near the middle of his
remarks, when he talked about balancing the budget, giving parents a choice of
where to send their children to school, and providing a path to legal status for
immigrants who have served in the military. At the end, about half the room
stood up to applaud.

On Friday, Mr. Obama is scheduled to address the same group -- the annual
conference of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials
-- making the gathering a high-profile campaign forum that further highlights
the philosophical divide over the issue and the political stakes. Mr. Obama's
campaign dismissed Mr. Romney's remarks, saying he had shown his true colors
during the primaries.

Mr. Romney angered many Latinos during his battle to win the Republican
nomination against challenges from his right. In particular, Mr. Romney said
then that as president he would veto the Dream Act, which would provide a path
to citizenship for illegal immigrants who were brought into the country at a
young age and went on to attend college. But his remarks Thursday reflected a
softening in pitch on Hispanic and immigration issues, as Mr. Romney tries to
woo Hispanic voters, who are crucial in swing states like Colorado, Florida,
Nevada and Virginia.

Mr. Romney's challenge is to appeal to those voters, whose growing numbers in
important swing states could make the difference in November, while not seeming
to shift from the immigration positions he took during the early nominating
contests in a way that could open him to charges of flip-flopping and alienate
his conservative base. The topic is a sensitive one for the Romney campaign,
which cut short a conference call with the press on Wednesday when reporters
began asking questions about the issue.

Advisers to the Romney campaign say that the Hispanic vote is not monolithic,
and that they believe they can win over at least some of it by focusing on the
economy -- Mr. Romney's professed reason for running -- rather than appealing to
them solely on immigration issues.

''I am asking you to join me because, while we may not agree on everything, we
share the same goal, the same vision, and the same belief in American greatness
that draws so many people to our shores,'' Mr. Romney said. ''Liberty's torch
can burn just as brightly for future generations of immigrants as it has burned
for immigrants of the past.''

He added later: ''Immigration reform is not just a moral imperative. It's also
an economic necessity.''

Aside from tone, Mr. Romney's policy positions were as notable for what he did
not say as for what he did. He did not go as far as he seemed to last week when
he expressed support for a proposal by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida that would
have addressed the status of illegal immigrants who came to the United States as
children.

Instead, Mr. Romney repeated a position he took earlier this year that he would
embrace ''a path to legal status'' for undocumented young people who serve in
the military. (Mr. Rubio would grant a visa to those pursuing higher education.)

Mr. Romney's most concrete proposal -- and one he had not made before -- was to
expand the number of permanent resident visas, or green cards, to spouses and
children of green-card holders living abroad. Currently, there is a cap, with a
backlog of two and a half years to receive a visa, according to the Migration
Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group in Washington. Conservative
groups oppose lifting the quotas, which they call ''chain migration.''

Mr. Romney also called for updating the system of temporary worker visas ''so
that it meets our economic needs.'' Temporary visas are given to workers in
fields as diverse as agriculture, crab picking and computer programming, with
almost all industries complaining of excessive bureaucracy and low quotas.
Updating the system has been held hostage by both parties in Congress in failed
efforts to achieve immigration reform.

Reactions to Mr. Romney's proposals from groups that favor reform were largely
that he had offered only small-bore ideas.

''American voters want -- and the Republican Party needs -- visionary plans to
fix the immigration system, not tweaks around the margin where the only path to
legal status for grandmothers is to enlist in the military,'' said Ali Noorani,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum Action Fund.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney delivered a speech to the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials in Florida on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The (Sort of) New Mitt

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 784 words


Today: Mitt Romney and immigration.

As you know, American Hispanics are an important and fast-growing voting bloc.
Romney has long had a strategy for winning them over. The key, he explained last
year, is to tell them ''what they know in their heart, which is they or their
ancestors did not come here for a handout.''

Hard to get more appealing than that.

This was Primary Mitt, who had a long history of whacking his Republican
opponents with soft-on-illegal-immigrants charges. In the 2008 campaign, he
accused Rudy Giuliani of making New York a ''sanctuary city'' and Mike Huckabee
of supporting ''in-state benefits for illegal immigrants.'' One of his ads
called John McCain a champion of ''amnesty for illegals.'' The Romney news
release that accompanied the ad's debut mentioned ''amnesty'' 17 times.

It didn't work. McCain won the nomination anyway. That was the earlier version
of John McCain, before he lost the presidential race and was abducted by space
aliens who took him off to a distant planet and substituted a cranky android
with an obsession about border fences.

Last year, Romney tried the same tactics on Rick Perry. ''I got to be honest
with you. I don't see how it is that a state like Texas -- you go to the
University of Texas, if you're an illegal alien, you get an in-state tuition
discount,'' he complained during one of the debates.

Perry suggested that when it came to undocumented students who had been brought
to the country as children, Romney had no heart. Also, he tried to get some
mileage out of the fact that Mitt had once employed illegal immigrants to tend
his yard. But it was, you know, Rick Perry, so, of course, nothing worked.

Now Romney is the inevitable Republican nominee, and this week there he was,
speaking to a large group of prominent Hispanics. It was his first chance to try
out his strategy, but astonishingly, Romney did not tell the audience what they
knew in their hearts about in-state tuition and other handouts.

In fact, the word ''handout'' never came up. Romney did tell the inspiring story
of his father's emigration from Mexico at the age of 5, although not the part
about how the family had gone down there in the first place to avoid American
laws against polygamy.

And there was quite a bit about the economy. You certainly can't blame Romney
for mentioning it every chance he gets. But not everybody would choose to follow
''liberty's torch can burn just as brightly for future generations of
immigrants'' with a call to lower the corporate tax rate.

Plus, standard Mittspeak. We are going to have a lot of this in the coming
months, people. Let's pause for a minute while you test your ability to be a
Mitt Romney speechwriter:

''Though each of us walks a different path in life, we are united by one great,
overwhelming passion. We love ...

A) heavily sugared soft drinks.''

B) attractive young women who marry into the British royal family.''

C) cat videos.''

D) America.''

''This isn't an election about two people. This isn't an election about being a
Republican, Democrat or an independent. This is an election about ...

A) lowering the corporate tax rate.''

B) lowering the individual marginal tax rates.''

C) keeping dogs off the car roof.''

D) the future of America.''

O.K., the Ds. And not the most stirring speech in the history of the world.
Obama, who followed up on Friday, got a warmer reception. But let's try to
figure out what Romney actually said. Except when it came to certain lawn-mowing
episodes, he's always talked very tough on illegal immigration. Now that he's
sniffing around for Hispanic voters, is he going to change his tune?

Answer: Romney vowed to address the problem ''in a civil and resolute manner.''
That was a surprise. I really thought he'd go for ''impolite yet wishy-washy.''

Like many of our big policy debates, immigration reform has dwindled away to an
argument about something less than sweeping. In this case, it's the Dream Act,
the popular plan to let people who were brought here illegally as kids become
citizens if they get a college degree or serve in the military.

Primary Mitt was going to veto it.

General Election Mitt will take the military service part, ''and if you get an
advanced degree here, we want you to stay here.'' (Give me your tired, your
poor, your huddled masses bearing Ph.D.'s and master's degrees in civil
engineering or computer science. ...)

As for the mere college graduates, whom Obama has now announced he will protect
from deportation under an executive order, Romney was, um, vague. But whatever
he does will be ''long-term.''

Also, he seems to have banished ''self-deportation'' and ''amnesty'' from his
vocabulary. Unless it looks as if they'll come in handy somewhere down the line.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Sheriff's Trial Begins With Focus on Complaints About Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 838 words


PHOENIX -- Letters purporting to offer information about illegal immigrants are
among a vast array of evidence to be introduced in the class-action civil rights
trial against Sheriff Joe Arpaio and his Maricopa County Sheriff's Office that
began on Thursday in Federal District Court here.

The elected sheriff and his office are accused of engaging in a pattern of
discriminatory policing during large-scale operations known as suppression
patrols, unfairly singling out Latinos -- including citizens and legal
immigrants -- for stops, questioning and detention.

In one letter to the sheriff, a writer described dark skin as ''the look of
Mexican illegals,'' urging the sheriff to go to a particular street corner on
the northern edge of this city and ''round them all up.'' Another complained
about people speaking Spanish at a fast-food restaurant in Sun City, northwest
of here. Yet another grumbled about day laborers gathered at a spot in nearby
Mesa, asking when officers would check to see if they were there ''under
legitimate circumstances.''

Sheriff Arpaio has repeatedly and vehemently denied the accusations, and legal
experts have said that discriminatory intent is hard to prove.

In court on Thursday, Tim Casey, a lawyer for the defendants, said: ''There are
two sides to every story. If the truth were anything like what the plaintiffs
are suggesting, it would be a very disturbing picture.'' Reality, Mr. Casey
said, is much different. Race and ethnicity, he went on, have ''nothing to do
with it.''

There is much at stake for the civil rights movement. Two of its leading
organizations -- the American Civil Liberties Union and the Mexican-American
Legal Defense and Education Fund -- are representing the plaintiffs, and
condemning Sheriff Arpaio and his practices is just one of their goals. More
broadly, the idea is to highlight the pitfalls of allowing local police
officials to play a role in enforcing federal immigration laws.

The question was only partly resolved by the Supreme Court last month, when it
upheld one aspect of Arizona's immigration law, requiring officers to inquire
about the immigration status of the people they stop. It did, however, overturn
provisions that would have allowed the officers to arrest people whose only
offense was violating federal immigration laws.

This trial, and a broader lawsuit filed against Sheriff Arpaio by the Justice
Department in May, both focus on potential violations of civil rights. The six
plaintiffs named in this litigation, filed nearly five years ago, represent
Latinos who were stopped by Maricopa County sheriff's deputies since 2007.

Their lawyers will argue that the racially charged letters sent to Sheriff
Arpaio led to unlawful enforcement actions. In at least some cases, the
crime-suppression patrols took place two or three weeks after letters arrived.
(Mr. Casey said there was no connection, as it took months to plan the
operations.)

Maricopa County is also named in the litigation; its supervisors failed to stop
Sheriff Arpaio, the lawsuit asserts.

In court papers, Sheriff Arpaio's own statements were sometimes used to bolster
the plaintiffs' arguments, like his description of the raids last year as a
''pure program'' designed ''to go after illegals, not the crime first,'' and his
assertions that speech and appearance, ''if they look like they came from
another country,'' were justification for questioning a person's immigration
status.

As their first witness, the plaintiffs' lawyers called Ralph Taylor, a criminal
justice professor at Temple University who has studied the role of race in law
enforcement practices. He had been asked to investigate whether people with
Hispanic names were more likely to be stopped in traffic by Sheriff Arpaio's
deputies. During four hours of testimony, Dr. Taylor concluded that they were,
and that stops involving people with Hispanic names lasted, on average, two
minutes longer than stops of others. He analyzed about 108,000 stops between
January 2007 and October 2009, where the names of roughly 126,000 drivers or
passengers had been checked.

Tom Liddy, a lawyer for the defendants, questioned Dr. Taylor's analysis, saying
it was too narrow to bear much weight.

The courtroom, overlooking the atrium at the Sandra Day O'Connor United States
Courthouse, was full through much of the day; an overflow crowd of about a dozen
people gathered in an upper deck during opening arguments.

Outside, protesters gathered, some in prayer, asking the court to determine
''once and for all,'' that Sheriff Arpaio ''has committed acts of discrimination
and racial profiling,'' as an organizer put it. On Wednesday, recent high school
graduates, organized under the banner ''Adios Arpaio,'' had fanned out across
the heavily Hispanic Alhambra neighborhood here, urging those who were eligible
to register to vote.

The bench trial, presided over by Judge G. Murray Snow, is scheduled to end on
Aug. 2. Sheriff Arpaio, who is 80 and seeking re-election for a sixth term, is
likely to testify early next week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Wednesday rally, a day before Sheriff Joe Arpaio's trial.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In New York, Plan to Shield Immigrants From Fraud

BYLINE: By AARON EDWARDS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 609 words


Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's administration will pursue wide-ranging steps intended to
thwart the potential for fraud and unscrupulous practices in response to
President Obama's decision to allow many illegal immigrants who came to the
United States as children to remain here without fear of deportation.

Mr. Cuomo's plan calls for a multilingual news media outreach campaign,
community programs and the mobilization of lawyers across New York State to help
immigrants navigate the Obama administration's policy, which was announced last
month.

Some critics of the policy, which will allow hundreds of thousands of young
people to work and obtain driver's licenses and other documents, say it is an
open invitation to deceitful actions by people who promote themselves as
immigration consultants but often charge exorbitant fees and skirt the law.

Under Mr. Cuomo's plan, which will be announced on Thursday, New York will pay
for a team of immigration lawyers to work with organizations throughout the
state to help illegal immigrants who qualify for the new policy and who seek
federal permission to remain in the United States legally.

Among other requirements, immigrants must have entered the country before age
16, must be in school and must have no criminal records.

The New York Department of State has set aside $600,000 for the legal counsel
team.

The state also plans to expand its immigrant service hot line to include
information about the policy and to direct callers to service providers who can
help young immigrants.

''I think there is going to be a great deal of fraud, and these young people are
going to need a great deal of help responding with the kinds of documents the
federal government is going to require of them,'' Cesar A. Perales, New York's
secretary of state, said. ''It became clear to us that this was going to be a
golden opportunity for scammers.''

Since Mr. Obama's announcement, immigrants nationwide have been seeking
information on how to apply under the new provision of the law, but many have
been turned away because United States Citizenship and Immigration Services has
not finalized the process for accepting and handling applications.

The agency is expected to begin taking applications for deferred action -- as
the federal reprieve granting illegal immigrants legal status is officially
called -- by Aug. 15.

Angy Rivera, 21, who lives in Queens with her mother and three siblings, said
she was torn about whether to apply. Though she says she meets the requirements
under the provision, she fears that if she is rejected, her mother, who came to
the United States illegally from Colombia in 1993, might be at risk.

''Deferred action is like a Band-Aid,'' she said. ''It doesn't really solve the
problem. If I didn't get it, I'd be putting my family's information out there.
That doesn't guarantee that my mom won't be called in. It's a tougher decision
to make than people think.''

The issue of immigration fraud is a familiar one for Mr. Cuomo: When he was New
York's attorney general, he made cracking down on violators a top priority.

In 2009, he widened an investigation into businesses and people suspected of
fraudulent practices, culminating in more than 50 subpoenas and the shutdown of
the American Immigrant Federation, which was one of the state's largest
immigrant service providers, for incorrectly filing papers and using
unaccredited lawyers.

''It's not enough to say to people, 'Be careful; some people want to take your
money,' '' Mr. Perales said. ''What we're saying is we're also providing an
alternative mechanism. That is what distinguishes what New York State wants to
do from others who just warn you.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hospitals Worry Over Cut In Fund For Uninsured

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words


President Obama's health care law is putting new strains on some of the nation's
most hard-pressed hospitals, by cutting aid they use to pay for emergency care
for illegal immigrants, which they have long been required to provide.

The federal government has been spending $20 billion annually to reimburse these
hospitals -- most in poor urban and rural areas -- for treating more than their
share of the uninsured, including illegal immigrants. The health care law will
eventually cut that money in half, based on the premise that fewer people will
lack insurance after the law takes effect.

But the estimated 11 million people now living illegally in the United States
are not covered by the health care law. Its sponsors, seeking to sidestep the
contentious debate over immigration, excluded them from the law's benefits.

As a result, so-called safety-net hospitals said the cuts would deal a severe
blow to their finances.

The hospitals are coming under this pressure because many of their uninsured
patients are illegal immigrants, and because their large pools of uninsured or
poorly insured patients are not expected to be reduced significantly under the
Affordable Care Act, even as federal aid shrinks.

The hospitals range from prominent public ones, like Bellevue Hospital Center in
Manhattan, to neighborhood mainstays like Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn
and Scripps Mercy Hospital in San Diego. They include small rural outposts like
Othello Community Hospital in Washington State, which receives a steady flow of
farmworkers who live in the country illegally.

No matter where they are, all hospitals are obliged under federal law to treat
anyone who arrives at the emergency room, regardless of their immigration
status.

''That's the 800-pound gorilla in the room, and not just in New York -- in
Texas, in California, in Florida,'' Lutheran's chief executive, Wendy Z.
Goldstein, said.

Lutheran Medical Center is in the Sunset Park neighborhood, where low-wage
earning Chinese and Latino communities converge near an expressway. Hospitals
are not allowed to record patients' immigration status, but Ms. Goldstein
estimated that 20 percent of its patients were what she called ''the
undocumented -- not only uninsured, but uninsurable.''

She said Congressional staff members acknowledged that the health care law would
scale back the money that helps pay for emergency care for such patients, but
were reluctant to tackle the issue.

''I was told in Washington that they understand that this is a problem, but
immigration is just too hot to touch,'' she said.

The Affordable Care Act sets up state exchanges to reduce the cost of commercial
health insurance, but people must prove citizenship or legal immigration status
to take part. They must show similar documentation to apply for Medicaid
benefits that are expanded under the law.

The act did call for increasing a little-known national network of 1,200
community health centers that provide primary care to the needy, regardless of
their immigration status. But that plan, which could potentially steer more of
the uninsured away from costly hospital care, was curtailed by Congressional
budget cuts last year.

That leaves hospitals like Lutheran, which is nonprofit and has run a string of
such primary care centers for 40 years, facing cuts at both ends.

On a recent weekday in Lutheran's emergency room, a Chinese mother of two stared
sadly through the porthole of an isolation unit. The woman had active
tuberculosis and needed surgery to drain fluid from one lung, said Josh Liu, a
patient liaison.

The disease had been discovered during a checkup at one of Lutheran's primary
care centers, where the sliding scale fee starts at $15. But the woman, an
illegal immigrant, had no way to pay for the surgery.

Another patient, a gaunt 44-year-old man from Ecuador, had been in New York
eight years, installing wood floors, one in Rockefeller Center. The man had been
afraid to seek care because he feared deportation. Finally, the pain in his
stomach was too much to bear.

Dr. Daniel J. Giaccio, leading the residents on their rounds, used the notches
on the man's worn belt to underscore his diagnosis, severe B-12 deficiency
anemia. The woodworker had lost 30 pounds in a month, and his hands and feet
were numb. Reversing the damage could take months.

''This is a severe case of sensory loss,'' Dr. Giaccio said. ''Usually we pick
it up much sooner.''

In some states, including New York, hospitals caring for illegal immigrants in
life-threatening situations can seek payment case by case, from a program known
as emergency Medicaid. But the program has many restrictions and will not make
up for the cuts in the $20 billion pool, hospital executives said.

Groups that favor more restrictive immigration policies said they agreed that
the cuts in the $20 billion fund were a burden. They said hospitals obviously
had a duty to provide emergency care for everybody, including illegal
immigrants.

''I kind of like living in a society where we don't let people die on the steps
of the emergency room,'' said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of one such
group, the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington.

But he said the answer lay in enforcing laws, so that illegal immigrants leave
the country, not in extending health coverage.

''There is no ideal resolution to the problem, other than reducing the illegal
population,'' he said. ''Incorporating illegal immigrants into health exchanges
or directly taxpayer-funded health care legitimizes their presence.''

The Obama administration said the Affordable Care Act supported safety-net
hospitals in other ways, pointing to measures that raise payments for primary
care and give bonuses for improvements in quality.

''We are taking important steps to make health care more affordable and
accessible for millions of Americans,'' Erin Shields Britt, a spokeswoman for
the Department of Health and Human Services, said in an e-mail. ''Health reform
isn't the place to fix our broken immigration system.''

With illegal immigration an issue in the presidential campaign, many politicians
continue to steer clear of addressing the cuts.

Hospitals in New York State now receive $2.84 billion of the nation's $20
billion in so-called disproportionate share hospital payments.

Those payments start shrinking in 2014 under the law, and drop to $10 billion by
2019.

''It is a difficult time to really advocate around this issue, because there is
so much antipathy against new immigrants,'' said Alan Aviles, president and
chief executive of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.

The corporation runs New York City's public hospitals, which treated 480,000
uninsured patients last year, an estimated 40 percent of them illegal
immigrants. The same worries haunt tiny Othello Community Hospital, in
Washington state's rural Adams County, where it is the only hospital for miles
around.

Last year, the state began requiring that participants in a basic health plan
prove that they are citizens or legal residents.

As a consequence, 4,000 out of the 4,400 patients at the nearby primary care
center, mostly immigrant farmworkers, lost their coverage, leaving Othello more
financially vulnerable when those people need emergency care.

In Central California, Harry Foster, director of the Family HealthCare Network,
another primary care center, called the Affordable Care Act ''a double-edged
sword.''

Many low-wage earning citizens now lack employer-sponsored health insurance, and
the health care industry is already competing for those who will gain coverage
through the law. But no one is competing to treat those it leaves out, he said.

''We will receive more and more of those patients,'' he said, estimating that 40
percent of the area's residents were illegal immigrant farmworkers. ''But
financially, we can't take on all the uninsured patients in the area, to the
exclusion of all the others, and survive.''

In many ways Lutheran, a century-old hospital that refurbished a defunct factory
to serve as its hub in the 1960s, has been a prototype of the law's new model:
coordinating primary and preventive care to improve health outcomes while
curbing costs. Yet it stands to lose $25 million from the cuts.

''This is an unintended consequence of the law,'' said Ms. Goldstein, the
hospital's chief executive. ''But so far, nobody is doing anything to resolve
it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ivan Cortes, the director, speaks to patients at Park Ridge
Family Health Center. It was started by Lutheran Medical Center in Sunset Park,
Brooklyn, a hub for Latino and Chinese communities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER
MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young Immigrants Can File To Defer Deportation Aug. 15

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 443 words


Obama administration officials said Friday that they would begin on Aug. 15 to
process applications from hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants
expected to seek two-year deferrals of deportation. Applicants will be charged
$465 for each request.

Alejandro Mayorkas, the director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, the
agency that will handle the antcipated avalanche of paperwork, provided the
first logistical details since President Obama announced on June 15 that he
would halt deportations of illegal immigrants who came to the United States when
they were children.

Applications, which will also include requests for work permits, will be
considered individually, Mr. Mayorkas said, with each immigrant undergoing a
criminal and national security background check.

To encourage the maximum number of young people to come forward, Homeland
Security officials gave assurances that information from the applications would
not be used for immigration enforcement, which is handled by a separate agency.

Nevertheless, immigrants found to have serious criminal histories or to pose
national security risks would be prosecuted for deportation, officials said, and
anyone submitting a fraudulent application could face criminal prosecution.

Illegal immigrants can apply whether they are already in deportation proceedings
or they have never been detected by the authorities, officials said.

An applicant who has committed a felony, a ''significant'' misdemeanor like a
firearms or burglary violation, or three or more misdemeanors will not be
eligible. Still, driving without a license will not be a disqualifying offense,
officials said. Many illegal immigrants have committed that violation because
they do not qualify for licenses in most states.

There will be no waivers of the application fee, which is intended to pay for
the program so that no tax dollars will used, officials said. The fees will be
used to hire additional staff, as officials estimate that at least 800,000
immigrants may be eligible. It will take at least several months to complete the
process, an official said.

The initiative covers immigrants who could gain legal status under legislation
known as the Dream Act, which has stalled in Congress. It has created an excited
buzz in immigrant communities, with many organizations busily counseling
students on documents they must gather to support their claims. To be eligible,
an immigrant must have been under 31 years old on June 15, have come to the
United States before turning 16, and have lived here continuously for five
years. Applicants must be current students, high school graduates or honorably
discharged veterans.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Health Care

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 224 words


To the Editor:Re ''Hospitals Worry Over Cut in Fund for Uninsured'' (front page,
July 27):

Excluding undocumented immigrants from health insurance undermines population
health. In April, the Department of Health and Human Services reported that
Hispanics are more likely to be uninsured compared with the general population,
more likely to have chronic diseases and less likely to receive preventive care.

As 80 percent of undocumented immigrants are Hispanic, improving the health of
the American Hispanic population will be harder if undocumented immigrants are
left out.

Children of undocumented parents are insured in lower numbers than other
children even when they qualify for public insurance. Making it harder for
undocumented parents to obtain health care for themselves may impede access to
care for their children, four million of whom are American citizens.

The health secretary has the authority to create a formula to direct hospital
safety-net funds. As undocumented immigrants will continue to need the safety
net, the funding formula should give priority to communities where undocumented
immigrants live, work and raise families.

NANCY BERLINGER MICHAEL K. GUSMANO Garrison, N.Y., July 27, 2012

The writers are research scholars at the Hastings Center and the co-directors of
a project on undocumented patients in the health care system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/07/opinion/immigrant-health-care.html

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants See Opportunity in New Rule

BYLINE: By ADESHINA EMMANUEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1179 words


WASHINGTON -- The work permits that young illegal immigrants can begin applying
for next week under a new government policy will let American employers tap a
generation of educated workers who have been confined until now to the shadowy
corners of the economy, experts on immigration policy say.One of those could be
Juan Escalante, a 23-year-old Venezuelan who has been in the country illegally
since age 11 and is among those enthusiastic about the new opportunity. Not long
ago, Mr. Escalante said, he feared that he might spend the rest of his life
working as an assistant manager in an ice cream shop despite earning a
bachelor's degree in political science and international affairs at Florida
State University.

Getting a work permit ''would be amazing,'' he said, allowing him to look for
work on Capitol Hill ''to see how policy is driven'' and to save enough money to
help him pursue a master's degree in public policy.

With the Obama administration about to put its new program in place, the
Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan group here in Washington, says that
140,000 illegal immigrants in this country are enrolled in college. An
additional 80,000 already have college degrees -- about 48 percent from two-year
programs, 43 percent from four-year programs and 8 percent from graduate school.

Steven Raphael, a professor of public policy at the University of California,
Berkeley, said many of the young people eligible for the program, which will
start accepting applications on Wednesday, were now limited to jobs that do not
require proof of citizenship or a work permit. They often have service jobs that
pay cash, either in wages or tips, working as restaurant staff members,
landscapers, home cleaners, baby sitters or dog walkers. Others start their own
businesses off the books.

Roberto G. Gonzales, a sociologist at the University of Chicago, said the policy
could provide some relief for a small number of the estimated 11.5 million
illegal immigrants in the United States, and help solve a problem of ''wasted
talent.''

In a decade of doing research about illegal immigrants, Professor Gonzales said
he had come face to face with college-educated young people limited to
low-skilled jobs. Many had training to work in fields like mechanical
engineering, health care, education and law. The new policy could allow them to
apply for jobs closer to their career aspirations, he said, as well as motivate
high school dropouts to ''rejoin the mainstream.''

Still, like many other people who advocate for a broader change in immigration
policy, he said the policy announced by President Obama in June fell short of
the ideal. Professor Gonzales likened it to ''a kind of second-class
citizenship'' and a ''legal limbo where status can change overnight with a
change of administration, or with expiration of deferment or work permit.''

Opponents of the policy argue that it is ill-timed, given a dismal job market
that is especially grim for Americans under 30 who do not have college degrees.
Talk of harvesting ''wasted talent'' is ''just sugar to make the poison go
down,'' said William Gheen, president of Americans for Legal Immigration, a
political action committee. Mr. Obama is harming American workers by ''placing
more illegal immigrants up against them as competitors,'' he said.

Those criticisms do not diminish the excitement of young people like Claudia
Jimenez, of Florida, who finished high school last year. Asked what she has been
doing since, Ms. Jimenez, a 19-year-old native of Venezuela who has been in this
country since 2001, laughed uneasily and said she had not been doing anything.

''Now I have something,'' said Ms. Jimenez, who sees a work permit and
employment as the first steps toward enrolling in college. ''I can actually do
something with my life. Before it was like my life was on pause.''

The Migration Policy Institute says that about 800,000 illegal immigrants are
enrolled in American schools from kindergarten through the 12th grade, and
500,000 of them are under the age of 15. About 350,000 young illegal immigrants
16 and older have no high school diploma or equivalent credential and are not
enrolled to get either.

Clarissa Martinez of the National Council of La Raza, a civil rights
organization, said: ''Many people might have thought, 'What's the point; I can
be deported any time. I'll find a job in the meantime.' It's a net positive
because the high likelihood was that they would have continued to live in and be
part of the community anyway.''

Having a work permit could also help unauthorized immigrants whose dreams of
college are thwarted because they cannot afford to pay tuition with the
low-income jobs that they can get now. And if they do manage to get into
college, they cannot do work-study jobs, paid internships or clinical training
programs built into degree programs. They are typically not eligible for
in-state tuition at state universities. Laws also block them from federal grants
and loans for college.

The personal dream of Maria Marroquin, a 25-year-old from Peru who has been in
this country illegally since age 13, is to enroll in law school and become an
immigration lawyer -- a goal that had seemed impossible given the cost of
tuition. This fall she will start her senior year at Dominican University, in
Chicago's northwest suburbs. So far, she has paid for her education by working
baby-sitting and domestic jobs. She also has received aid that Dominican
University sets aside for illegal immigrants -- a rarity in higher education.

''If I do get a work permit it will definitely help me because I'd be able to
work and either save money to go to law school or work while I go to school,''
said Ms. Marroquin, who volunteers for Dream Activist, a youth advocacy
organization. ''It might not help me pay for all of it, but it will definitely
help me pay for some.''

Work permits will also serve as proof of legal residence, allowing young
immigrants to get driver's licenses -- an immediate benefit because they can
look for jobs in places where public transportation is not available. They can
also get Social Security numbers. When Mr. Obama first announced the new policy,
owners of small businesses praised the change, saying it would make it easier
for them to comply with laws requiring them to check the legal status of
employees.

Angy Rivera, a 21-year-old illegal immigrant from Colombia who has been here
since she was 3, is waiting to see the program in action before deciding what to
do. ''I kind of feel like I'm in a zombie mode,'' she said. Ms. Rivera, who
lives in Queens and is a part-time student at John Jay College of Criminal
Justice, said she was initially indifferent about Mr. Obama's policy. But when
Ms. Rivera, who writes an advice blog for young immigrants, spoke with other
young people, she began to change her mind.

''Those who have been close to giving up, who have worked for nothing or been
mistreated in their jobs, those who stopped believing in the American
government's promise of equality for all, may start to see some ray of
sunshine,'' she said

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/10/us/illegal-immigrants-see-opportunity-in-work-
permit-rule.html

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maria Marroquin, 25, says the new work permit policy will help
her to get a job that will enable her to pay for her education. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JUSTIN MAXON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 11, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Down Payment on a Dream

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 483 words


The most promising effort in years to restore fairness and hope to the
immigration system begins Wednesday, when the Obama administration will start
accepting applications from young, undocumented immigrants who want to be
shielded from deportation so they can be free to work and go to school.The
program to halt deportations is limited, hedged by detailed rules and not to be
confused with broad immigration reform, which is out of reach at a time when
antipathy to the undocumented runs high in Washington and in the states.

But any progress away from indiscriminate immigration enforcement, and toward
opening pathways to a fuller involvement in society, is worth noting and
celebrating.

Under the program, applicants must have been brought to the United States before
turning 16, be under 31, have clean records and have lived here for at least the
last five years. Those who are accepted will not be legalized, even if they are
given permission to work. They will instead be granted two-year deferrals of
deportation, which are renewable.

By one estimate, 1.7 million of the country's 11 million undocumented immigrants
may qualify.

Announced by President Obama in June, the program is not the legalization or
path to citizenship that millions are longing for and deserve. It's simply a
decision by the Department of Homeland Security, at President Obama's
instruction, to get its enforcement priorities right -- focusing on removing
criminals and others who threaten community safety, not the law-abiding,
hard-working young people who pose no threat and cannot be blamed for their
unauthorized status.

There are two major worries as the program unfolds. One is whether Citizenship
and Immigration Services, the agency that will run the program, can handle the
administrative load. Alejandro Mayorkas, the director, says his agency is
investing in staffing and training, helped along by the $465 fee charged to each
applicant. The agency depends entirely on fees.

The other fear is that applicants will fall prey to fraud. Immigration law is
fiendishly complicated, which unscrupulous consultants, known as ''notarios,''
take full advantage of. Applicants who are rejected have no right to appeal and
will still risk deportation, especially those whose paperwork was falsified. The
citizenship agency needs to do all it can to educate applicants and deter scams.

Then there will be the attacks from those who cannot stomach anything less than
the ejection of every last immigrant who lacks legal status. This harshness is
exemplified by Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, who denounced the
program on Wednesday.

''I cannot overstate the tragedy of this,'' he said, doing just that. His
inability to distinguish ''criminal aliens'' from the young strivers the United
States needs is the reason the country has been forced into administrative
half-measures, rather than real legislative reform.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/11/opinion/down-payment-on-a-dream.html

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 14, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young Immigrants, In America Illegally, Line Up for Reprieve

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1167 words


LOS ANGELES -- With their expectations soaring, young illegal immigrants across
the country are preparing to apply for a temporary reprieve from deportation
that the Obama administration is offering. For the first time, as many as 1.7
million of them could be allowed to work legally and live openly in this country
without fear of being expelled.The program is President Obama's most ambitious
immigration initiative by far, a sweeping exercise of executive authority after
Congress failed to pass the Dream Act, legislation he supported that would have
given legal status to the young immigrants. It is a major bid by Mr. Obama to
win back Latino voters who were souring on him after his administration deported
nearly 1.2 million immigrants, most of them Latinos, in the last three years.

The initiative to defer deportations, which Mr. Obama announced in June,
officially starts on Wednesday, when a federal immigration agency will begin
accepting requests.

This weekend, the small offices of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of
Los Angeles, a nonprofit group, were jammed with people seeking information
about the program. Despite the baking heat, the lines stretched out the front
door, to the end of a long city block. Similar crowds have flocked to immigrant
and student organizations in other states for advice.

The program, which grants two-year deportation deferrals and work permits to
illegal immigrants brought here as children, creates a herculean job for the
federal agency in charge, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Agency officials are expecting the biggest load of paperwork in the shortest
amount of time for a new program since 1986, when more than three million
immigrants who were here illegally became legal residents under an amnesty.

Because deferrals are temporary and must be renewed after two years -- when Mr.
Obama may no longer occupy the White House -- administration officials have been
uncertain how many illegal immigrants would come forward to apply.

The work permit young immigrants can receive with the deferral opens many doors
that have been firmly shut. They can obtain valid Social Security numbers and
apply for driver's licenses, professional certificates and financial aid for
college.

On Saturday at the Los Angeles coalition, which is known as Chirla, many
immigrants said they had calculated that the benefits would outweigh their
doubts. All day, staff members offered hourlong presentations about the
applications to groups of 200 or more immigrants, and still hundreds of people
were turned away at closing time.

Although coalition counselors urged caution, many immigrants were not holding
back their excitement.

''It's like giving us wings to the people that want to fly,'' said Noe Torres,
now 26, who said he had been living illegally in California since his parents
brought him here from Mexico when he was 4.

According to the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research
organization, about 1.2 million foreign-born people are eligible to apply now,
with another 500,000 children reaching the minimum eligibility age of 15 in
coming years. By far the largest number -- about 460,000 -- live in California,
with big populations in Florida, New York and Texas as well.

Immigrants who qualify for deferrals are generally the same ones who would have
been eligible if the Dream Act had passed. But unlike that proposal (and the
1986 amnesty), the new program, formally called Deferred Action for Childhood
Arrivals, suspends deportations but does not confer any legal status or open any
future path to citizenship.

To be eligible, illegal immigrants must have been in this country and under age
31 on June 15, when the program was announced. They must have come to the United
States before they were 16 and have lived here continuously for at least five
years. They must be in school, or have graduated from high school or honorably
discharged from the military.

An immigrant convicted of a felony, a serious misdemeanor (including a sexual
abuse or drug violation), or three less serious misdemeanors will be rejected,
as will anyone deemed to pose a threat to national security. There is no time
limit for applications, which involve a $465 fee. In general, there is no appeal
if an application is denied. But immigrants may apply again -- and pay the fee
again.

Homeland Security Department officials frame the program as part of the
administration's efforts to make good use of enforcement resources by focusing
on deporting convicted criminals while avoiding noncriminals with strong family
ties in the United States, particularly students.

To reassure wary parents who are here illegally, homeland security officials
have said that application information will not be shared with enforcement
agents.

Although the immigrants call themselves undocumented, they came to Chirla on
Saturday with armfuls of documents tracing their time in the United States:
school transcripts, awards for academic achievements and sports victories, high
school and college diplomas, letters of recommendation, pay stubs, bank
statements, rent checks, tax returns.

The advocates' message was to avoid denials by taking time to get it right the
first time. ''We don't want people to rush to apply,'' said Angelica Salas, the
coalition's executive director.

But many immigrants see the program as a long-awaited release for pent-up
academic and job aspirations. Cesar Cruz, 19, said he is a freshman at a
community college and wants to earn a doctorate in bioengineering. He said his
parents brought him here illegally from El Salvador when he was 10.

Mr. Cruz said he was eager for the day when he would give his fingerprints for
the application. ''I've been a good boy, you could say,'' he said. ''I want to
help out my parents and show them their efforts weren't for nothing.''

Hazar Parra, now 25, said she has been here since she was 7 and has just
finished her training to be a nurse. A work permit would come just in time to
allow her to apply for her state certificate.

Ms. Parra said she worried that her application might expose her mother, who is
also here illegally. ''My mom decided I should do it,'' she said. ''Basically,
for me to do better and succeed, she's willing to risk everything.''

White House and homeland security officials opted to entrust the huge effort to
Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that issues immigration
documents, rather than to enforcement agencies. The effort will be paid from
fees, officials said, with no taxpayer dollars invested.

The agency has had a short time -- 60 days -- to prepare for the program, and
its staff has been working long shifts. But its director, Alejandro Mayorkas,
said it was ready to deliver ''a positive and seamless customer experience.''

Still, until the applications start pouring in, Mr. Mayorkas has carefully
resisted giving benchmark figures of how many officers will be dedicated to
reading the applications, and how long it will take to approve or deny them.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/us/young-immigrants-poised-for-deportation-def
erral-program.html

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Immigrants sought advice on applying for the deportation
deferral program at the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles on
Saturday.
Marlon Ruiz, center, a 17-year-old immigrant, received counseling. Applications
for the initiative will be accepted on Wednesday. (A8)
 Hundreds of young people waited on Saturday to see a counselor at the Coalition
for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young Illegal Immigrants Jump at a First Chance

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Steven Yaccino contributed reporting from Chicago,
Fernanda Santos from Phoenix, and Kirk Semple from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words


CHICAGO -- Tens of thousands of young illegal immigrants waited excitedly in
lines as long as a mile and thronged to information sessions across the country
on Wednesday, the first day that a federal immigration agency began accepting
applications for deportation deferrals that include permits to work legally.The
public outpouring surprised both federal officials and immigrant advocates, who
had expected an enthusiastic response to the Obama administration's deferral
program but were unprepared for the size and intensity of it. At Navy Pier here,
young people began lining up on Tuesday evening for a counseling session about
the program that was organized by an immigrants' rights group.

By midmorning Wednesday, the line wound down the long pier, through a park and
along an expressway, with young people holding sheafs of documents that they
hoped would prove that they qualified for the program. By noon, event organizers
said, 11,500 people had attended briefings, and more than 2,000 people had been
turned away because there was not enough time or staff to deal with them.

''I know that out there many people are looking for the same thing as I am,''
said Reyna Martinez, 19, who has lived in the United States since she was 7.
''We are not alone; we stand together as a big crowd.''

Thousands of immigrants also waited in lines outside the offices of immigrants'
groups and flooded churches and law offices in Los Angeles, Miami, New York,
Boston and Houston, among other cities.

Many of the young immigrants waiting at Navy Pier were wary -- the program does
not provide any legal immigration status like a green card, and some would-be
applicants worried that there was a risk in coming forward so publicly -- but
they said any progress toward a legal foothold in the United States would be
worth it.

''I know there are a lot of people without documentation who want to continue
their school and work and make a better life for their families,'' said Darinca
Barron, 17, who added that she was brought here by her parents from Mexico when
she was 6. ''This is just a chance that you have to take.''

Under the program, the federal government will grant a two-year reprieve from
deportation to illegal immigrants who are under age 31, have been in this
country since they were children and meet other requirements.

President Obama initiated the program on June 15 using his executive authority.
He did so after legislation known as the Dream Act -- which he supported and
which would have given legal status to young immigrants -- stalled in Congress.
He made broad use of his presidential powers, with as many as 1.7 million
immigrants estimated to be eligible for deferrals.

The agency managing the program, Citizenship and Immigration Services, had only
60 days to prepare for the deluge of paperwork. The application form was first
published on the Internet on Tuesday afternoon. Officials at the agency said on
Wednesday that no major problems had been reported.

Immigrants must mail in the applications, which include a request for the
deportation deferral and separate forms for a work permit. Agency officials and
immigrant advocates have warned young people that there will be no appeals of
applications that are denied, so they should have all their documents in order.

As a result, few applications were submitted on Wednesday. Most immigrants who
turned out were seeking guidance about whether they would be eligible and what
documents they needed to prove that they met the requirements. At the session at
Navy Pier -- famous for its Ferris wheel -- organizers from the Illinois
Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights set up rows of tables in a ballroom
where dozens of lawyers and volunteers offered free individual counseling.

Three prominent Illinois Democrats, all longtime supporters of the Dream Act,
gathered at Navy Pier to mingle with the young immigrants and reap some of the
political benefits from Mr. Obama's initiative.

One of them, Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, wrote the original Dream Act
bill 11 years ago. Mr. Durbin, the Senate's second-ranking Democrat, said he was
elated to see the huge crowd. ''You can't stop this force,'' Mr. Durbin said to
applause from the immigrants. ''This is a force of people who have grown up in
this country and want to be part of its future. They are creating a moral force
beyond a legal force.''

Another of the Democrats, Representative Luis Gutierrez, compared the scene at
Navy Pier to the immigrants arriving at Ellis Island a century ago. ''While they
saw New York City then, today they see Chicago,'' he said.

The third Democrat, Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who was Mr. Obama's White House chief of
staff, announced that the city had raised $275,000 in private donations for a
college scholarship fund for immigrants who were granted deferrals. Mr. Emanuel
pressed home his political point.

''Don't let anybody tell you on a day like today that who sits in that Oval
Office does not matter,'' he said. Obama campaign strategists had hoped that
halting the deportations would help the president among Hispanics, whose votes
could be pivotal in several states.

Republicans have criticized the deportation deferrals as a form of backdoor
amnesty for immigrants who broke the law. They say the effort to give work
permits to so many of them is poorly timed, with the unemployment rate at more
than 8 percent.

Some states greeted the initiative with less enthusiasm than Illinois. In
Arizona, Gov. Jan Brewer, issued an executive order on Wednesday barring
immigrants who are granted a reprieve from getting public benefits or obtaining
drivers' licenses.

She instructed state agencies to carry out whatever changes were necessary to
safeguard ''the intent of Arizona voters and lawmakers,'' who have passed laws
and approved ballot initiatives that prevent anyone other than legal residents
from accessing taxpayer-financed benefits.

In New York, the City Council announced that it had set aside $3 million to
provide free legal services to deferral applicants through a network of
community organizations.

''The City Council has made this investment because we believe that undocumented
immigrants have a right to an education and a safe and productive life here in
the U.S.,'' Speaker Christine C. Quinn said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/16/us/illegal-immigrants-line-up-for-deportation-
deferrals.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The line of applicants for the deferred deportation program ran
the length of Chicago's Navy Pier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A1)
 In Los Angeles, immigrants went over the deferral paperwork. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Long Lines and Big Dreams

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 543 words


The lines on Wednesday were huge, like the ribbon of humanity at Navy Pier in
Chicago that snaked through halls and stairwells and along the pier and then
stretched, amazingly, out to and under Lake Shore Drive. Young illegal
immigrants by the tens of thousands formed similar lines in other cities across
the country. They lined up outside churches and nonprofit agencies, holding
paperwork and folders, to learn more about a new Obama administration policy
that would protect them from deportation and give them permission to work.It was
the first day of applications for the administration's ''deferred action''
program, which does not give legal status to unauthorized immigrants, just a
two-year reprieve from expulsion. It's simply a step away from indiscriminate
deportations, a reordering of enforcement priorities to shield law-abiding young
people who were brought here illegally as children.

It's also an application of common sense. But to Mr. Obama's more strident
critics, Wednesday was no less than the beginning of the end of the
Constitution. One of them called it ''A-Day,'' for amnesty, and invoked the fall
of the Roman Empire.

In Arizona, Gov. Jan Brewer on Wednesday issued an executive order barring
anyone who wins deferred action from getting public benefits or obtaining a
driver's license. Because Arizona law already denies those things to illegal
immigrants, her action seemed motivated by little more than spite. Senator Jeff
Sessions of Alabama said of the Obama policy: ''It is a direct threat to the
rule of law and to the demonstrated desire of the American people for a lawful
system of immigration.''

Actually, it's the opposite. Wednesday's lines were more than a display of hope
and enthusiasm. They were a full-scale outbreak of law and order, of people
wanting to play by the rules, to make their way lawfully in the country that
needs them.

Those who qualify for deferred action -- young students and those with military
service -- are victims of a broken system. Back when Congress was functioning
better, there was strong bipartisan support to help them become legal through
the Dream Act. But Republicans stymied the bill, preferring the unlawful status
quo -- forcing millions to keep living indefinitely outside the law, then
spending billions of dollars to slowly catch them one by one.

It took courage for these young people to come out into the open, getting ready
to present themselves to federal authorities. There will be no appeals if their
applications are rejected. It is encouraging to see community agencies and
nonprofits setting up information sessions, at reasonable cost, to process
applicants' paperwork and protect them from being defrauded by unscrupulous
immigration counselors. Organizations and law firms are donating time and
expertise to help make the program work. Business leaders and philanthropic
groups are raising private donations to help applicants cover their fees.

It will be a wise investment. As Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois, who
sponsored the Dream Act and cheered on the students in Chicago, said: ''You
can't stop this force. This is a force of people who have grown up in this
country and want to be part of its future. They are creating a moral force
beyond a legal force.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/18/opinion/long-lines-and-big-dreams-for-illegal-
immigrants.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Young Immigrants Eligible For Driver's Licenses

BYLINE: By ANA FACIO-KRAJCER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WEST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 115 words


Young illegal immigrants who qualify for President Obama's deportation deferral
program will be eligible to obtain a driver's license in California. Mr. Obama's
program, which began Wednesday, will grant work permits to immigrants who are 30
years or younger and meet program requirements. California law permits the
Department of Motor Vehicles to issue driver's licenses to individuals who
present an ''employment authorization document.'' The young immigrants, ''once
they have been given deferred action, can apply for a driver's license,'' said
Conrado Terrazas, a spokesman for Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, who has tried
unsuccessfully to pass a law allowing licenses for illegal immigrants.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/18/us/california-young-immigrants-eligible-for-dr
ivers-licenses.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Toughens Stance

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IMMIGRATION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 237 words


Republicans have adopted a party platform on immigration that would require
employers nationwide to verify workers' legal status and deny federal financing
to universities that allow illegal immigrants to enroll at in-state tuition
rates.

In their debates over the party platform this week in Tampa, Fla., where their
convention begins on Monday, Republican delegates hammered out an immigration
plank calling for tough border enforcement and opposing ''any forms of amnesty''
for illegal immigrants, instead endorsing ''humane procedures to encourage
illegal aliens to return home voluntarily,'' a policy of self-deportation.

The party's stance comes as Mitt Romney has been courting Hispanic voters before
the general election. During the nominating fight, he took a hard line on
immigration, embracing the concept of self-deportation and saying he would veto
legislation known as the Dream Act that would give legal status to illegal
immigrants who came to the United States when they were children.

But recently, Mr. Romney has sought to soften his stance, saying he would
consider a Dream Act for illegal immigrants who serve in the military.

The party platform offers no support for that proposal. A number of immigration
amendments were offered by Kris Kobach, a conservative who is secretary of state
of Kansas and helped write laws in Arizona and several other states that crack
down on illegal immigration.

JULIA PRESTON

URL:

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                                    National

'Border' Checkpoints Deter Noncitizens Seeking Later Abortions

BYLINE: By THANH TAN.

ttan@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 675 words


McALLEN -- Illegal immigrants who live in the Rio Grande Valley and are seeking
an abortion after 16 weeks face a hurdle beyond Texas' strict laws. They must
make a long drive north and face internal border checkpoints.

Since 2003, Texas has required women seeking abortions in their second trimester
to go to ambulatory surgical centers, and none exist in the Valley.

Health providers in the Valley say that many such women find out too late that
they are pregnant, discover fetal anomalies or are too poor to obtain an
abortion in the first 16 weeks. They say the only other option for some is to
cross into Mexico for an illegal procedure or to acquire abortion-inducing drugs
from unregulated pharmacies.

Kristeena Banda, the director of Whole Woman's Health in McAllen, one of two
abortion clinics in the Valley, said her clinic recently tried to refer a woman
in her second trimester to a surgical center in San Antonio, about 200 miles
away. To get there, she would have to pass a checkpoint in Falfurrias, north of
Hidalgo County, where authorities have detained 12,000 illegal immigrants in the
last year.

''She broke down and told us she didn't have the papers to cross over,'' said
Ms. Banda, who did not know the woman's fate or that of others who come in every
month under similar circumstances because they often provide false information.

It is unclear how many illegal immigrants are seeking second-trimester
abortions, but noncitizens accounted for 27 percent of the 220,899
Medicaid-financed births in Texas in 2010, state health officials said. Rick
Pauza, a United States Customs and Border Protection spokesman, said those
seeking health services, including abortions, were allowed to apply for legal
entry and could get a pass to go through the security checkpoints.

''C.B.P. will review each request on a case-by-case basis and determine if it
meets the criteria for a humanitarian parole or waiver of documents,'' Mr. Pauza
said in an e-mail.

But some people say there should be no exceptions for women seeking treatment
for an elective procedure.

''As long as they're not in labor, they should be taken into custody, and
deportation procedures should begin,'' said Shannon McGauley, an abortion
opponent and the president of the Texas Minutemen, a nonprofit group that
supports causes opposing illegal immigration. ''They shouldn't be given a pass
because they're pregnant. If you play, you've got to pay.''

Opponents of abortion rights say they sympathize with the women's plight but
that the women should seek a different solution.

''Abortion in any context is not O.K.,'' said Catherine Hake, the executive
director of the McAllen Pregnancy Center, which provides support services for
pregnant women. ''There's so much aid and people willing to help. It's a lot
more difficult to offer aid to women who are illegal, but there are still
options.''

Dr. Lester Minto, who owns Reproductive Services of Harlingen, the Valley's
other abortion clinic, said that before Texas began requiring women seeking
abortions after 16 weeks to go to the surgical centers, he was able to perform
the procedure on women who were 18 weeks into their pregnancy.

''Normally they're crying and begging me to do it,'' Dr. Minto said. ''It's sad
when I know I can do it. I can do it properly.''

For his patients who are citizens, traveling such a long distance is an
inconvenience, but they do not fear the checkpoints. For his patients who are
illegal, the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 further complicated travel for those
who needed specialized care outside the area, Dr. Minto said. Until then, ''I
could write a letter and they'd let them go through the checkpoints,'' he said.
''Since then, it's changed.''

The Valley abortion providers said that when time, resources and geography were
not on the patients' side, they could advise them only to seek prenatal care and
consider adoption.

This story was made possible by a grant from Atlantic Philanthropies and
produced as part of New America Media's Women Immigrants Fellowship Program.
newamericamedia.org

URL:

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Agents Sue Over Deportation Suspensions

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 543 words


Claiming they are being forced to carry out an illegal policy, 10 immigration
agents filed a federal lawsuit in Texas on Thursday against Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, seeking to overturn an Obama administration program
that suspends deportations for illegal immigrants who came here when they were
children.

In the lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Dallas, the agents from
Immigration and Customs Enforcement said the program prevented them from
detaining illegal immigrants who were public safety risks. The suit contends
that the program, which started on Aug. 15, violates a law requiring agents to
arrest illegal immigrants and infringes on the powers of Congress.

The agents said they faced disciplinary action by officials at ICE, as the
agency is called, for arrests that conflict with its directives.

''They are in the unusual and untenable situation where they are asked to choose
between following an order that makes them break federal law or disobeying the
order and facing discipline at the hands of superiors,'' said Kris Kobach, a
lawyer for the agents.

Mr. Kobach, a Republican, is also the Kansas secretary of state, and this week
he pushed to add several planks to the Republican Party platform calling for
tough immigration enforcement.

The lawsuit was a new sign of turmoil inside the immigration agency as a result
of an ambitious shift by the Obama administration in the focus of deportations.
Since June 2011, agents have also been instructed to concentrate on deporting
convicted criminals and to avoid detaining immigrants here illegally who have no
criminal records.

The policy has brought many work changes for agents, requiring fast and complex
decisions about which immigrants they should arrest.

The suit also has distinct political overtones. It is financed by NumbersUSA, a
group that seeks to reduce immigration and has strongly opposed the deferred
deportations, saying they are a backdoor amnesty.

The lead plaintiff is Chris Crane, president of the National ICE Council, the
union representing more than 7,000 immigration agents. He said Thursday that he
was participating as an individual, not on behalf of the union. He has been a
persistent critic of senior agency officials.

The policy ''is pretty much just let everyone go,'' Mr. Crane said. ''Our
biggest concern is that safety has been just thrown out the window.'' Two other
plaintiffs said they were punished for making legitimate arrests.

A spokesman for Ms. Napolitano, Matt Chandler, said the Obama administration had
deported record numbers of criminals. Deportation deferrals ''ensure that
responsible young people, who are Americans in every way but on paper, have an
opportunity to remain in the country and make their fullest contribution,'' he
added.

Under the program, as many as 1.7 million illegal immigrants who came here
before they were 16 will be eligible for two-year reprieves from deportation.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O., the labor federation that includes the ICE Council, opposed
the agents' lawsuit. ''They do not represent the labor movement, which has
strongly supported the president,'' said Ana Avendaño, director of immigration
for the federation. ''It's just a political maneuver by anti-immigrant forces.''

PHOTO: Janet Napolitano

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/24/us/agents-sue-over-deportation-suspensions.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California Sheriffs Oppose Bill on Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New York, and
Ian Lovett from Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 927 words


LOS ANGELES -- Some California sheriffs are pushing back against a proposed
state law that would bar law enforcement officers from detaining illegal
immigrants for deportation if they have not been charged with serious or violent
crimes.

The bill, which the Legislature sent on Friday to Gov. Jerry Brown, would create
what opponents have called a ''sanctuary'' for illegal immigrants statewide. It
sets up a new fight over immigration enforcement that comes as Republicans vow
at their national convention in Florida to impose sanctions on states, cities
and counties that adopt similar measures.

Known as the Trust Act, the bill would require police officers to ignore
requests from Immigration and Customs Enforcement to detain immigrants for
deportation, except when suspects are charged with serious or violent crimes.
Mr. Brown has not indicated where he stands on the proposed law; he must sign or
veto it by Sept. 30.

But some local authorities, including Sheriff Lee Baca of Los Angeles County,
say that they will continue to enforce federal policy regardless of what Mr.
Brown does. ''It's pretty simple: Federal law pre-empts state law,'' said Steve
Whitmore, a spokesman for Sheriff Baca.

Law enforcement officials in San Diego and Riverside Counties have also
expressed dismay with the Trust Act. Sheriff Robert T. Doyle of Marin County
said his ''gut reaction would be to ignore it,'' adding, ''If someone comes to
the county jail and he is not here lawfully, I think he should be turned over''
to Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

''We are forcefully pushing for a veto,'' said Nick Warner, legislative director
for the California State Sheriffs' Association. ''The sheriffs of this state are
actively, unalterably and vehemently opposed.''

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, a Democrat from San Francisco who sponsored the Trust
Act, said ''some of the more reasonable sheriffs'' are in favor of the law.
''There is always going to be that alpha-male posturing,'' he said of Sheriff
Baca and other opponents. ''The governor has been quiet, but we've been working
with his staff to address concerns, and we know that he knows doing the right
thing here has political cachet,'' Mr. Ammiano added.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Brown had no comment.

The Trust Act has been endorsed by Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles,
the police chiefs of cities like Oakland and San Francisco, immigrant-rights
groups and California's Roman Catholic bishops, among others.

The clash over the Trust Act involves a federal program called Secure
Communities, under which local authorities share fingerprints with federal
immigration officials of everyone booked. Federal agents run that information
through immigration databases and, if a suspect appears to be in the country
illegally, they can ask police to detain the person for deportation.

The Obama administration has expanded the Secure Communities program rapidly
across the country, saying that it helps federal agents identify illegal
immigrants arrested by local authorities who have criminal histories. Under a
policy started in June 2011, administration officials have sought to focus their
enforcement efforts on deporting criminal convicts, while steering away from
illegal immigrants arrested in minor offenses like traffic violations.

But many immigrants' rights and Latino groups say Secure Communities, which
aided in the deportation of nearly 400,000 people last year, has not operated as
the administration said it would, instead sweeping up and deporting many illegal
immigrants arrested for minor violations, separating families.

Dozens of cities and counties -- prominently Cook County in Illinois -- have
adopted ''sanctuary'' ordinances that limit police cooperation. Politicians like
Rahm Emanuel, the mayor of Chicago, who is pushing the adoption of such an
ordinance in his city, argue that Secure Communities erodes trust between police
and immigrant communities; when every arrest is a potential deportation,
immigrants might be afraid to report crimes or cooperate with investigators.

''We are also trying to bring some sanity and clarity to a program that I
frankly think has gone rogue,'' Mr. Ammiano said. ''We want police to
distinguish between the woman selling tamales and the gang member who has a
record.''

Mr. Ammiano was referring to Juana Reyes-Hernández, a Sacramento tamale peddler
who became a focal point in the Trust Act debate here after she was arrested for
trespassing in a Wal-Mart parking lot. Ms. Reyes-Hernández spent 13 days in jail
while authorities considered a deportation case. A judge eventually dismissed
the misdemeanor charge, and she remains in the United States.

The implementation of Secure Communities -- which, opponents to the Trust Act
note, Mr. Brown supported as state attorney general -- has become a hotter
political issue as the presidential election approaches. Republicans meeting in
Florida adopted a party platform that states, ''In order to restore the rule of
law, federal funding should be denied to sanctuary cities that violate federal
law and endanger their own citizens.''

Meanwhile, Republicans in Congress are pressing Immigration and Customs
Enforcement to force Cook County to comply with Secure Communities, including by
freezing some federal funding for jails -- something that California sheriffs
worry awaits them if the Trust Act is enacted and they follow it.

PHOTOS: At a demonstration this month in San Francisco, an activist carried a
sign asking Gov. Jerry Brown to sign the Trust Act. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Lee Baca

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/29/us/california-sheriffs-oppose-bill-on-illegal-
immigrants.html

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Rulings Help Illegal Immigrants' College-Bound Children

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 764 words


Several states with financial difficulties have moved quietly in recent years to
reduce spending on college education by denying low tuition rates and financial
aid to American citizens who are the children of illegal immigrants.

But in separate decisions over the past month, courts in New Jersey and Florida
have rebuffed those efforts, adding new limits to the measures state officials
can take to crack down on illegal immigrants by denying benefits to them and
their families.

The latest ruling came on Friday from a federal court in Florida, which threw
out state regulations defining American children of parents without legal
immigration status as out-of-state residents, ineligible for tuition breaks
given to state residents at public colleges and universities. Tuition for
out-of-state students can be as much as three times as high as the rate for
residents.

The five students who brought the lawsuit against Florida education officials
were born in this country. They had been living in Florida for most or all of
their lives and had graduated from public high schools there.

One student, Noel Saucedo, was born in Florida in 1991 and graduated from a high
school there in 2010. But according to the suit, he was not even able to
complete his application to Florida International University, one of the leading
four-year schools in the state system, because he could not provide proof that
his parents were legal residents of the United States.

Mr. Saucedo was offered a full scholarship to Miami Dade College, a two-year
school, the lawsuit said. But when he could not show that his parents had legal
immigration status, he was deemed to be an out-of-state resident. His
scholarship was reduced and his tuition was raised, so he could not afford to go
to college full time.

Florida's regulations were adopted in 2010 and 2011, with the most recent coming
under Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican who took office in January of last year.

In a broad decision, Judge K. Michael Moore of Federal District Court in Miami
found the regulations unconstitutional because they ''create a second-tier
status of U.S. citizenship,'' by denying benefits to the students in the lawsuit
that were freely available to other Americans.

The policy ''does not advance any legitimate state interest,'' the judge wrote,
while it hindered Florida's goal of ''furthering educational opportunities for
its own residents.'' The lawsuit was brought by the Southern Poverty Law Center
in Montgomery, Ala.

Policies to deny college assistance to American children of illegal-immigrant
parents build on efforts by many states to deny aid to immigrant students who
themselves are here illegally. But they have attracted far less attention than
other state immigration laws, even though they affect thousands of Americans in
Florida alone.

''Legally, the issue is straightforward,'' said Michael A. Olivas, a professor
of immigration and education law at the University of Houston. ''These children
are citizens. These are not kids whose status is at issue at all. The provisions
are struck down on plain vanilla equal-protection grounds.''

Lawyers said many American students had been reluctant to challenge the policies
for fear of exposing their parents to the possibility of deportation.

That was the situation of an American student, now 18, who brought a challenge
anonymously, under the initials A. Z., to financial aid laws in New Jersey. A.
Z. had been living in the state with her mother, an illegal immigrant from
Guatemala, since 1997. After graduating from high school with honors, she was
accepted at a four-year state college, according to Alexander Shalom, a lawyer
for the American Civil Liberties Union who helped bring the lawsuit.

A. Z. applied for state financial aid based on her mother's yearly income of
$4,950. Her application was denied by New Jersey education officials ''because
your parents are not legal residents,'' they wrote, under a policy put in effect
in 2005.

In a ruling on Aug. 8, a New Jersey state appeals court rejected that decision.
''She is a citizen,'' three justices found, adding that the record clearly
showed that A. Z. had also shown ''lengthy and continuous residence'' in New
Jersey.

''Here is a citizen being denied rights and privileges because of who her parent
is,'' Mr. Shalom said. ''We think that's decidedly un-American.'' She plans to
reapply for the aid next year, he said.

In California, state officials agreed in 2007 to settle a similar lawsuit,
putting an end to policies there that denied residency to American students with
parents in the country illegally.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/06/us/florida-and-new-jersey-courts-aid-illegal-i
mmigrants-college-bound-children.html

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 8, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Record Number of Foreigners Were Deported in 2011, Officials Say

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 590 words


Immigration enforcement authorities detained and deported record numbers of
illegal immigrants in 2011 and are on track for similar figures this year, even
as the numbers of migrants crossing the border illegally dropped to a 40-year
low, according to data published Friday by the Department of Homeland Security.

Immigration agents deported 391,953 foreign-born people during the 2011 fiscal
year, the department's Office of Immigration Statistics reported. They included
more than 188,000 people who had been convicted of crimes in the United States
-- an ''all-time high'' for such deportations, the report found.

Citizens of four Latin American countries -- Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras and El
Salvador -- made up 93 percent of all people deported last year.

With just one month to go in the 2012 fiscal year, deportations were down
slightly, with just over 366,000 people expelled through Aug. 31. But they
include more than 191,000 convicted criminals, more than last year, according to
figures from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, one of several agencies in the
department.

The figures provide a backdrop to the administration's political calculations on
the thorny issue of immigration as President Obama heads into the last stretch
before the November elections. Although Homeland Security Department officials
have said they are focusing their efforts on criminals, the fast pace of
deportations in the last two years was felt in many Latino immigrant
communities, and caused growing disillusionment with Mr. Obama.

Pressure from Latino and immigrant groups helped persuade Mr. Obama to take a
sweeping executive action in June to suspend deportations temporarily for as
many as 1.7 million young illegal immigrants who came to this country as
children. The program, which has been very popular among Latinos, began to
accept applications on Aug. 15. Homeland Security Department officials have not
yet reported that any applicants have been approved and their deportations
deferred.

In spite of the sharp increases in deportations of criminals, Mr. Obama's
policies have not won him friends on the other side of the political divide.
Republicans in Congress say the deferred deportations are a backdoor amnesty,
and they accuse the administration of crippling enforcement by demanding that
agents steer away from arresting illegal immigrants if they are not convicted
criminals.

In addition to formal deportations, last year Homeland Security Department
agents expelled about 324,000 foreigners back to their countries without formal
court proceedings, according to the report. Most were illegal immigrants who
agreed to leave voluntarily after they were detained, rather than be removed by
the authorities.

According to the new figures, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is
known as ICE, detained about 429,000 immigrants last year, another record.

Homeland security authorities have increasingly concentrated their efforts at
the border with Mexico, with the majority of detentions and expulsions coming
there. In 2011, the Border Patrol captured about 335,000 migrants trying to
cross illegally, the lowest number since 1971, and the figures are continuing to
drop. High rates of unemployment here and intensified border enforcement have
discouraged many migrants from Mexico and Central America from attempting
illegal crossings, officials said.

The Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, has said his priority would be
tougher border enforcement. He has not said if he would cancel the deferred
deportations program.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/us/us-deports-record-number-of-foreigners-in-2
011.html

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 15, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Says Fast Pace Continues

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 459 words


More than 82,000 illegal immigrants have applied for a two-year reprieve from
deportation in the first 30 working days of an Obama administration program, and
29 have been approved, officials from the Department of Homeland Security said
on Friday.

Officials released figures on the deportation deferrals for the second time this
week to give a broader public view of what they described as the fast pace of
the program. They said 63,000 applicants had already been scheduled to have
fingerprints and photographs taken for a criminal background check, the second
step in the process.

About 1,600 immigrants have finished providing their biometrics, officials said,
and are expected to move quickly to the final step. An officer at the federal
agency in charge, Citizenship and Immigration Services, will review the
applications and decide whether to grant the deferral, formally known as
deferred action.

Officials had originally predicted it could take several months after they began
receiving applications on Aug. 15 for the first immigrants to be approved.

Homeland Security officials said they wanted to encourage youths in the country
illegally to come forward to apply for deferrals, which protect them from
deportation for two years and, in most cases, come with work permits. Obama
administration officials said the program was part of an effort to focus
enforcement on illegal immigrants with criminal records and to avoid using
resources to deport otherwise law-abiding young people who have been here since
they were children.

''Our nation's immigration laws must be enforced in a strong and sensible
manner, but they are not designed to be blindly enforced,'' said Peter Boogaard,
a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security. ''These young people do not
represent a risk to public safety or security.''

Republicans said the immigration agency was rushing the background checks and
taking officers away from cases of foreigners who followed the steps to apply
through the legal system.

''Such a quick turnaround for these amnesty applications raises serious concerns
about fraud and a lack of thorough vetting,'' said Representative Lamar Smith,
Republican of Texas. ''It's appalling that the administration has diverted
resources from approving applications from those who have played by the rules.''

Evelyn Rivera, 24, who was born in Colombia but has been living illegally in the
United States since she was 3, said she applied on Aug. 16, the second day of
the program. She is scheduled to give fingerprints next week at an agency office
in Orlando, Fla., near her home.

''It's definitely what we were hoping for, everything moving so smooth and
fast,'' she said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/15/us/us-cites-fast-pace-on-reprieves-for-young-i
llegal-immigrants.html

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Undocumented Life Is a Hurdle As Immigrants Seek a Reprieve

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words


Chul Soo, a 27-year-old illegal immigrant from South Korea, has lived on the
fringes of society in recent years, working off the books at a video game store
and a beauty supplies wholesaler in New York City, carrying neither a driver's
license nor credit cards, and having little contact with the government.

Now he is applying for a new program that offers illegal immigrants who came to
the United States as children a reprieve from deportation if they can
demonstrate that they have been in the country since 2007, among other
requirements. Yet Chul Soo, who said he arrived in 1995, is finding that he has
little in the way of proof of his whereabouts for the last five years.

''It's frustrating,'' he said, referring to his effort to piece together a
mosaic of records. ''I really need this right now.''

Since President Obama announced the program in June, illegal immigrants across
the country have been scrambling to collect evidence to qualify.

Their challenge is this: How do you document an undocumented life?

Applicants must prove that they were brought to the United States before they
turned 16; that they have lived here continuously for the past five years; and
that they were in the country and were under age 31 on June 15. They must show
that they are enrolled in school or have graduated from high school or received
an equivalent G.E.D. certificate, or have been honorably discharged from the
military. An immigrant who poses a threat to national security or has been
convicted of a felony, a serious misdemeanor or three minor misdemeanors will be
rejected.

Some illegal immigrants have lived lives nearly indistinguishable from those of
citizens, amassing school transcripts, medical records and bank statements. But
many have remained under the radar, appearing rarely, if at all, on official or
business records.

To take part in the program, many have had to retrace their often-circuitous and
sometimes clandestine paths in the United States. Some have had to take the
uncomfortable step of calling former employers to request affidavits attesting
to their prior arrangements -- at the risk of placing those employers in legal
peril.

''One of the most striking things is the desperation and sadness when you're
talking to someone who absolutely qualifies but they can't provide documents
that prove it,'' said Jacqueline Esposito, director of immigration advocacy at
the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella group that has received about
1,400 requests for legal assistance since mid-August, when the federal
government began accepting applications.

Chul Soo, who recently moved with his parents from Staten Island to Flushing,
Queens, says he came to the United States when he was 10. (Chul Soo is his given
name. Like other applicants interviewed, he requested that his family name be
withheld because he was concerned that he was still vulnerable to deportation.)

His paper trail all but dried up after he dropped out of high school on Staten
Island and got a G.E.D. certificate in the mid-2000s.

All he has to show are bits and pieces: a transcript from the Borough of
Manhattan Community College, which he attended for one semester in 2007; tax
records from 2009, when he worked for a few months as a dental technician
trainee using a relative's Social Security number; recent pay stubs from his
current job as a manager at an electronics company; and statements from a bank
account that he opened for two months this year.

He is left with gaping holes for 2008, 2010 and 2011, and is working with
lawyers at the MinKwon Center for Community Action, an advocacy group in
Flushing, Queens, to fill them. He said he was considering approaching his two
former bosses to request affidavits of support.

''I don't know why I have to go through all of this,'' he said.

For others, the process has been no more difficult than it would be for a
citizen.

Hina, 22, a Pakistani immigrant who came to the United States with her family
when she was 10, said she had the good fortune to have parents who saved
everything -- tax documents, school correspondence, report cards, medical
records, utility bills.

She said the family stepped up the archiving in recent years in light of the
debate over the Dream Act, which would give legal status to young illegal
immigrants. (The legislation has not been approved by Congress.)

Still, she noted, her parents -- illegal immigrants who do not qualify for the
program -- wondered whether their children's applications might somehow lead to
their deportation.

''But my parents finally decided that it was worth the risk,'' Hina said. ''They
came here for their children. It didn't make sense for all of us to sit here in
the dark and wait this thing out.''

Last month, Hina submitted applications for herself, her younger brother and her
sister. Her older brother applied separately.

But her experience seems to be relatively unusual.

Rigoberto, 23, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, arrived in the United States in
1995 with his family and has transcripts from the New York City public schools
to establish his presence before he was 16 and for two of the past five years.
But he lives with his father and works off-the-books in construction.

The only documentation he has from the past few years is a letter that he
received from the Selective Service System a few months ago confirming that he
had registered. He said he hoped it would at least show that he was in the
country on June 15.

Rigoberto is considering asking his boss at a construction company to sign an
affidavit testifying to his presence in the country this year.

''Do you think he would get in trouble?'' Rigoberto asked.

Immigrant advocacy organizations around the United States have been swarmed by
people seeking help with their applications to the new program, but lawyers said
they were not entirely sure what the government allowed as proof.

The uncertainties, and the challenge of assembling the documents, may have
contributed to a smaller-than-expected number of applications. Immigration
authorities were preparing to receive as many as 250,000 in the first month of
the program, but ended up with less than a third of that.

Applicants have been creative. Some have collated date-stamped Facebook
photographs of themselves, said immigration lawyers and advocates. particularly
those taken in front of recognizable American backdrops. Others have printed out
records of activity on cellphone apps, like Four Square, and collected schedules
and records of sports leagues in which they have played.

The Rev. Mark Hallinan of St. Mary of the Assumption on Staten Island said he
had received dozens of requests for help. He and his staff have combed the
parish archives for sacramental records of baptisms, communions and
confirmations.

''There's been a steady flow of persons coming in looking for, at minimum, a
letter from me saying I recognize them as having participated in the life of the
parish,'' he said.

Yaida, 17, said that she was short just one document -- a Mexican passport, to
prove her identity -- and that the quest for it had reopened family wounds.

Her father abandoned the family when Yaida was young. Her mother has been
seeking to gain full custody over the children, but the process has been slow
because Yaida's father, who lives in Mexico, is not cooperating.

Unless her mother secures full custody, Mexican law requires that Yaida also
receive her father's authorization to obtain the passport. In the meantime, she
waits.

''I have all the school papers, I have the doctors' documents, I have church
documents for confirmation,'' she said, her voice trailing off. ''I have
everything except a passport.''

Luis, a 26-year-old Mexican immigrant, arrived in the United States in 2000 when
he was 14, but his search has been complicated by moves and job changes and the
fact that he has lived in both New York and Delaware.

He has pieced together a collage of documents from employers in both states,
from G.E.D. programs and from a money-transfer company that he used to send
remittances to relatives in Mexico.

One former employer at a restaurant in Delaware balked at his request for copies
of old W-2 forms, Luis said. (He had been working and paying taxes under a fake
Social Security number, he said.)

''He told me, 'I don't want problems, I don't have time, I am busy, that was a
long time ago, it will cost me some money,' '' Luis recalled. But Luis lobbied
him with e-mails, phone calls and faxes asking for help. The employer finally
agreed.

''It was difficult, but now I am about to apply,'' he continued. ''I hope
everything will come out right.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/04/nyregion/for-illegal-immigrants-seeking-a-repr
ieve-lack-of-documents-is-again-a-hurdle.html

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jackie Aruch, right, a law student, helped Maria Torres, who is
originally from Mexico, with her application for deferred action. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Yaida Ramon, 17, also from Mexico, says she wants to apply to the program but
does not have one of the necessary documents. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A30)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romney Revises Position on Deporting Young Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 516 words


With hours to go before the presidential candidates meet in Denver for their
first debate, Mitt Romney has scaled back his acceptance of a program by
President Obama to grant reprieves from deportation to hundreds of thousands of
young illegal immigrants.

On Monday, after months of pressure to clarify whether he would end the program
if elected, Mr. Romney said in an interview with The Denver Post that he would
not cancel two-year deportation deferrals already granted by the Obama
administration.

"I'm not going to take something they've purchased," Mr. Romney said.

But on Wednesday morning, campaign aides clarified that Mr. Romney intended to
halt the program after he took office and would not issue any new deferrals.

"We're not going to continue Obama's program," an aide said by e-mail. "We're
going to replace it and would only honor visas already issued."

Mr. Romney has said that instead of Mr. Obama's temporary measure, he would seek
a long-term solution for young undocumented immigrants. He has said he would
support legislation to give permanent resident green cards to illegal immigrants
who serve in the military.

"He will seek from Day 1 to work as quickly as he can for a permanent solution
that will supersede what Barack Obama did," said Alberto Martinez, an adviser to
the Romney campaign. "He will replace certainty and permanence for something
that is uncertain and not permanent."

Mr. Martinez confirmed that Mr. Romney, as president, would not issue any new
deportation deferrals. But he said Mr. Romney would not deport undocumented
students who would have been eligible for a deferral.

Mr. Romney has not offered details of a broader plan to give legal status to
those immigrants. An estimated 1.2 million immigrants are immediately eligible
for reprieves under Mr. Obama's program.

Undocumented youth leaders said they were dismayed by Mr. Romney's turnaround.
"Dreamers across the nation are disappointed to learn that if elected to the
presidency, Governor Mitt Romney would dismantle the Dreamer deferred action
policy," Lorella Praeli, a leader of the United We Dream Network, said
Wednesday. She was referring to a group of young undocumented immigrants who
call themselves Dreamers, after a bill called the Dream Act.

Mr. Romney's revision could have a major impact on the deferral program, which
began to receive applications on Aug. 15. Since there is no filing deadline,
many illegal immigrants have said they were holding back from applying until
after the Nov. 6 elections, fearing that Mr. Romney would stop the program.

Still, more than 100,000 immigrants have applied for deferrals and work permits
that come with them. After the first month, officials confirmed 29 approvals,
and they said the pace of decisions could slow as the volume increases.

Immigration policy analysts were perplexed that Mr. Romney referred to the
deferrals as visas, noting that the program does not grant visas. Mr. Obama
created the program by executive action after the Dream Act stalled in Congress.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/03/romney-dials-back-acceptance-of-ob
ama-immigration-program/

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 103 words


An article on Friday about a plan by the police in Los Angeles to stop turning
over illegal immigrants arrested for low-level crimes to federal officials for
deportation included outdated information about reaction by officials from
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The officials said in a statement sent by
e-mail that the I.C.E. had been reforming its own policies to focus resources on
''criminals, recent border crossers and repeat immigration law violators.'' It
is not the case that the officials did not respond to a request for comment.
(The e-mail went astray at The Times and did not reach the reporter.)

URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

IDs for Illegal Immigrants Take a Step in Los Angeles

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 540 words


LOS ANGELES -- In March, this city stopped impounding the vehicles of anyone
caught driving without a license, effectively allowing many illegal immigrants
to keep their cars. Then, this month, the police chief announced that the
department would stop handing illegal immigrants charged with low-level offenses
over to federal authorities for deportation.

Now, Los Angeles could soon become the largest city in the country to offer
municipal identification cards to illegal immigrants, with the goal of allowing
them to open bank accounts and gain access to other services.

A City Council committee on Tuesday unanimously approved a plan to solicit
proposals from private companies to develop and operate a city ID card system.
The plan will now go to the full Council for a vote.

''This card allows people who have been living in the shadows to be out in the
light of day,'' Ed Reyes, a city councilman, said. ''Some say this is a federal
issue and not our problem. Well, I'm sorry, I beg to differ.''

Over the course of the year, city officials and the police have pushed Los
Angeles toward the forefront of the immigration debate as they have tried to
ease some of the hardships facing illegal immigrants, joining the growing list
of states and cities that have tried to take immigration law into their own
hands.

A patchwork of immigration policies now dots the nation, with conservative
states like Arizona stepping up efforts to deport illegal immigrants while
liberal communities like Los Angeles push back.

In 2007, New Haven became the first city in the country to issue ID cards to
illegal immigrants. A handful of others have followed suit, including Oakland
and San Francisco, where hundreds of people lined up for hours to get ID cards
the first day they were offered.

The Los Angeles ID cards, like those in some other cities, will also function
like a prepaid debit card for those who want one. City officials estimate that
more than 12 percent of residents do not keep their money in a bank, in many
cases because they cannot open a bank account without ID. Instead, they carry
around large sums of cash, which renders them targets for robbery, activists
said.

''This means a lot to this community of day laborers,'' said Antonio Bernabe, a
Mexican immigrant who organizes street vendors and day laborers. ''Every day,
they are victims of robberies, because they have to carry their own money with
them. They are not able to go into a bank and deposit their money, and they are
affected going into a city building, because they need an ID.''

At City Hall on Tuesday, dozens of immigrant rights advocates, along with
bankers and business owners, implored the City Council to move ahead with the ID
card plan.

But Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
a group that pushes for stricter immigration laws and enforcement, criticized
the plan, calling it further evidence of the city's effort to impede immigration
enforcement.

''This city has bent over backwards to accommodate people who are in this
country illegally,'' Mr. Mehlman said. ''If Los Angeles is going to be issuing
government IDs, how do they know these people's true identities? They could be
helping people establish a false identity.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/17/us/la-takes-step-to-issuing-id-cards-to-illega
l-immigrants.html

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, where illegal
immigrants have been gaining more freedom of movement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL
CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans Reconsider Positions on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1112 words


After a presidential election in which Latino voters rewarded President Obama
while punishing Republicans for their positions on immigration, Republican
leaders and prominent conservatives moved quickly this week to shift to new
ground, saying they could support some kind of legislation to fix illegal
immigration.

The prospects for an immigration overhaul next year improved with stunning speed
after the vote, with John A. Boehner, the speaker of the House, who had long
resisted any broad immigration bill, saying on Thursday that ''a comprehensive
approach is long overdue.'' Haley Barbour, a Republican elder statesman and
former governor of Mississippi, echoed Mr. Boehner, and Sean Hannity, the
conservative talk show host -- in a startling turnaround -- joined calls for
measures opening pathways to legal status for illegal immigrants.

One of every 10 voters who cast ballots on Tuesday was a Latino, and they
favored President Obama, with 71 percent of their votes, compared with 27
percent for Mitt Romney, forcing Republican leaders to wonder if they could ever
regain the presidency without increasing their appeal to Hispanic Americans.

Mr. Obama wasted no time, renewing in his acceptance speech early Wednesday his
promise to move ''in the coming weeks and months'' on ''fixing our immigration
system.''

A host of advocates noted that the coalition of forces supporting a thorough
repair of the immigration system, including the offer of legal status for more
than 11 million illegal immigrants, is broader and more organized than ever
before. It includes Latino organizations, business and agricultural employers,
libertarian conservatives, evangelical Christians and law enforcement groups.

''Is the Republican disconnect with the Latino community temporary or
permanent?'' asked the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic
Christian Leadership Conference, the largest organization of Hispanic
evangelicals. ''The Republicans can redeem the narrative with this community by
passing comprehensive immigration reform,'' Mr. Rodriguez said Thursday.

Republicans, in soul-searching after their loss, weighed the lessons from Mr.
Romney's failed campaign. Looking at polls that showed immigration was not the
top subject of concern for Latinos, Mr. Romney avoided the issue when he could
and instead based his appeal to them on the economic themes he used with other
voters. That was a serious misunderstanding of Latino sensibilities, leaders
said.

''How you talked about immigrants sent a signal on what kind of perspective you
had on Latinos over all,'' said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund,
a bipartisan group.

Mr. Romney never recovered after he moved to the right during the primaries,
saying he would pressure immigrants to ''self-deport'' and veto the Dream Act, a
bill to give legal status to young immigrants here illegally that enjoys
near-universal support among Latinos.

Mr. Obama lifted his sinking standing with Hispanics in June when he offered
two-year reprieves from deportation and work permits to hundreds of thousands of
those young immigrants, an action so popular it made Latinos overlook his having
deported more than 1.4 million people during his term.

But many Republicans attacked the reprieves as amnesty by fiat, and Mr. Romney
said he would cancel them if he became president.

In exit polls on Tuesday, 77 percent of Hispanic voters said immigrants here
illegally should have a chance to apply for legal status, while 18 percent said
they should be deported. In the polls, 65 percent of all voters favored legal
status for those immigrants, while 28 percent said they should be deported.

Mr. Boehner chose his words carefully on Thursday, in an interview with ABC
News. Saying he was ready for a ''comprehensive approach,'' he said he was
confident that Congress and Mr. Obama could find ''common ground to take care of
this issue once and for all.''

Speaking to reporters in Washington on Friday, Mr. Boehner declined to say
whether he was endorsing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

''What I'm talking about is a common-sense step-by-step approach that would
secure our borders, allow us to enforce our laws and fix a broken immigration
system,'' he said. ''But again,'' he added, ''on an issue this big, the
president has to lead.''

Mr. Boehner's use of the word comprehensive caused a stir, because supporters of
legal status for immigrants who lack it have long called their proposal
''comprehensive immigration reform.''

Mr. Hannity was more forthright. On his show on Thursday, he said he had
''evolved'' and now believed that ''if people are here, law-abiding,
participating for years, their kids are born here, you know, first secure the
border, then pathway to citizenship, done.''

Those comments created new openings for Republicans who were already urging a
more inclusive approach, including Senator Marco Rubio, Representative Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen and former Gov. Jeb Bush, all of Florida.

In recent years, traditional immigrant and Latino groups worked to organize and
expand their base of support, finding middle ground with Republicans in state
offices worried about the party slipping with minorities.

The attorney general of Utah, Mark Shurtleff, a conservative Republican, said he
was part of an ''education campaign'' to persuade Republican officials that
''they need to reject the run-'em-out, deport-'em, enforcement-only approach
that people think is the only voice of the Republican Party.''

The emerging coalition includes technology companies seeking more visas for
high-skilled immigrants, growers seeking legal farm workers, evangelical pastors
responding to huge growth in their churches from Latino immigrants and young
undocumented immigrants whose protests pushed the White House to offer the
deportation reprieves.

Last month Grover Norquist, the fiscal hawk who is president of Americans for
Tax Reform, said in a speech in Indianapolis that more immigration, including
legal status for those here illegally, was vital to economic revival.

However, it was evident almost immediately after Mr. Boehner spoke on Thursday
that many Congressional Republicans would be hostile to comprehensive
immigration-reform efforts.

''I'm urging the speaker to talk with House Republicans before making pledges on
the national news,'' said Representative John Fleming, Republican of Louisiana.
''The first thing we need is for President Obama to finally enforce current
immigration law and strengthen our borders. To take up any other agenda is bad
policy for the American people and bad politics for Republicans.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/10/us/politics/republicans-reconsider-positions-o
n-immigration.html

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rally for immigration reform in Washington on Thursday.
Speaker John A. Boehner called for a ''comprehensive approach.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY
LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Hope on Immigration

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 779 words


Funny how quickly some principles collapse when given the right kind of shove.
One day, the Republican Party is rock-ribbed restrictionist, dedicated to the
proposition that unauthorized immigrants are an invading army of job stealers,
welfare moochers and criminals whose only acceptable destiny is to be caught and
deported -- the border fence forever, ''amnesty'' never. The next day: never
mind. The party suddenly discovers the merits of a working immigration system.
Senators like John McCain and Lindsey Graham, who once bravely supported
bipartisan reform but slunk away late in the last Bush administration, are
scratching at the door again, as if the last five years never happened.

All it took was an election in which millions of Latino voters -- many of them
the wives and husbands, sons, daughters, grandchildren, cousins, co-workers and
friends of those despised ''illegals'' -- overwhelmingly chose President Obama
over the man who promised to be deporter in chief. They rejected Mitt Romney by
3 to 1, according to exit polls. Asian-Americans did, too. Republicans looked at
a changing America, saw a future of decline and irrelevance for the party, and
concluded that immigrants weren't so bad after all.

This poses an opportunity and a challenge for Mr. Obama, who promised to tackle
immigration reform in his first term and did not, and is firmly on the hook to
do so now. He says he will push reform early, and he looks well positioned to
get something done. His allies in Congress need to step up and help.

There is a long way to go before an immigration deal is struck, but the
president and Congress can draw its outlines clearly, starting now. Any
worthwhile reform must give 11 million undocumented immigrants a way to live
within the law as American citizens. Mr. Obama's stopgap move to protect young
immigrants and students from deportation by a regulation similar to the Dream
Act was sensible and necessary. But these Americans-in-fact deserve the chance
to be Americans on paper, too. So do their parents, and whoever else in the 11
million wishes to journey from ''them'' to ''us.'' Republicans are floating
schemes for temporary legal status for workers without a clear path to
citizenship. Mr. Obama should make clear that basic equality demands more than
that.

Meanwhile, he should be reforming the way his administration is carrying out
current law -- starting with scaling back its arbitrary, self-imposed quota of
400,000 deportations a year. There is enforcement work to be done, like finding
more effective ways to stifle illegal employment, but any strategy that fixates
on deportations and the border is foolish and ineffective. Illegal border
crossings and arrests at the border have fallen to the lowest levels in decades.
The unauthorized immigrants whom hard-liners want to keep out are already in the
country. They are the workers and families Mr. Obama says he wants to integrate
and assimilate, even as his policies break those families apart. Mr. Obama's own
Department of Homeland Security is a huge part of the problem, with its
dangerous and widening use of state and local police officers as surrogate
immigration enforcement agents. Its Secure Communities program has led to mass
deportations of minor offenders and even people with no criminal records.

The country needs a new approach to immigration enforcement, one that stops
enlisting the local police in its dragnet. The Obama administration should keep
fighting efforts by states like Arizona and Alabama to set up their own
immigration laws to abuse and deport the undocumented. And it should support
states like Illinois and New York, which have been trying to reassert the proper
separation between local police officers and federal immigration agents.

There will be challenges, of course. The hard-liners against reform -- including
the white-culture alarmists and the closet racists -- have not gone away. But
the election did scare some of the immigration opportunists back onto the
bipartisan bus.

Mr. Obama gained much when he allowed students who could benefit from the Dream
Act a reprieve. Now he needs to think bigger and better, and look to the large
constituency behind reform -- student activists, business groups, farmers, labor
unions, Catholic bishops, evangelical churches, African-Americans,
civil-liberties organizations and regular American citizens who support
legalization -- to press the case. The arguments for reform over expulsion have
always been smarter, saner and better for the rule of law, the preservation of
families and the economy. Now that some of their opponents are softening their
positions, Mr. Obama and Congress need to act.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/18/opinion/sunday/new-hope-on-immigration.html

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants To Pay Tuition At Rate Set For Residents

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 734 words


Thousands of illegal immigrants living in Massachusetts can qualify for state
resident tuition rates at state colleges, under a policy laid out on Monday by
Gov. Deval Patrick -- another shift in the fast-changing mosaic of states'
policies toward that population.

The shift builds on the Obama administration policy, adopted in June, that the
federal government will not seek to deport most young immigrants who, as
children, were either brought to the United States illegally or kept here
illegally. The Massachusetts policy applies to that same group.

Officials say there are very few illegal immigrants currently enrolled who might
benefit from the in-state tuition discount; the much larger effect will be in
encouraging others to enroll. They estimate that Massachusetts has 15,000 to
17,000 residents in the age group affected by the change in the deportation
policy; they would not guess how many might take advantage of new state and
federal rules.

''Our experience has been that the difference between in-state and out-of-state
tuition is a prohibitive barrier,'' said Paul Reville, the state's secretary of
education. The state's flagship college, the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst, charges state residents $13,230 in tuition and fees; students from
outside the state pay more than twice as much, $26,645.

''Some states are playing real hardball on college tuition and other benefits,
while others are moving toward accommodation, and it's changing all the time,''
said Michael A. Olivas, a University of Houston law professor who tracks the
issue around the country.

By his count, 12 states have laws allowing illegal immigrants to claim state
residency and pay in-state tuition; this month, Maryland became the first to
adopt such a law by popular vote. The others are California, Connecticut,
Illinois, Kansas, New York, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Texas, Utah, Washington and
Wisconsin.

He lists six other states -- Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Indiana, Ohio and South
Carolina -- that have adopted laws explicitly barring illegal immigrants from
qualifying for in-state tuition. A law enacted in Alabama in 2011 prohibits such
people from attending state colleges at all, but it faces legal challenges.

Many other states do not have laws on the books to address the question but rely
on a range of policies that are also in flux. In August, a New Jersey appellate
court struck down a state practice that prevented an American citizen from
claiming residency and in-state tuition because her mother was an illegal
immigrant.

Some states charge illegal residents the lower rate but do not allow them to
qualify for state financial aid; California is scheduled to begin providing them
financial aid on Jan. 1.

And the battles over states' treatment of illegal immigrants extends beyond
college, to questions like granting driver's licenses or inquiring about
immigration status in routine police matters.

The Obama administration policy applies to anyone who arrived in the United
States before turning 16, has lived here for at least five years, is under the
age of 31, has no serious criminal record, and either is in school, has a high
school diploma or equivalent, or has been honorably discharged from the armed
services.

Young people can apply to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
agency for formal recognition under the policy, which automatically qualifies
them for a work permit.

The number of people who qualify may be over one million, but about 300,000 have
applied so far to be formally recognized by the federal government. Advocates
say that many immigrants did not want to step forward until after the election,
because Mitt Romney had said he would overturn the policy if elected president.
When he was governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Romney vetoed a bill that would have
granted in-state tuition to illegal immigrants. Since then, such bills have
stalled in the legislature, despite urging from Mr. Patrick.

The governor's action on Monday is more clarification than new policy. Since
2008, the state has recognized an immigrant's federal work permit as evidence of
state residency, qualifying students for lower tuition.

Officials said that in the wake of the new federal rules, there were questions
about whether the state would treat the newly granted work permits the same way.
On Monday, the governor informed the state higher education system that it
would.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/20/us/illegal-immigrants-to-pay-in-state-tuition-
at-mass-state-colleges.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday

The Weekend Word: Executive Action

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 540 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at the president's
weekly address and the latest happenings in Washington.


Today's Times


     ·    The Obama administration announced an executive actionon Friday that
          will allow illegal immigrants who came to the United States as
          children to remain in the county without fear of deportation and be
          able to work, Julia Preston and John H. Cushman Jr. report. The
          policy, while not granting any permanent legal status, clears the way
          for young illegal immigrants to come out of the shadows, work legally
          and obtain driver's licenses and many other documents they have
          lacked.



     ·    President Obama's unilateral shift in immigration policy was a baldly
          political move, but it held the potential for considerable payoff,
          Helene Cooper and Trip Gabriel write. The president's announcement
          puts Mitt Romney in a tough spot, pressuring him to choose between
          further alienating Latino voters who chafed at the stances against
          illegal immigration that he took in the primary season and alienating
          conservatives who reject any policies that smack of amnesty.



     ·    Though her biography outlines a seemingly conventional course,Ann
          Romney casts herself as someone who has defied others' expectations,
          not endeavored to fulfill them, Ashley Parker writes in a profile of
          the presumptive Republican nominee's wife.



     ·    Many health care advocates are supporting the scheduled expansion of
          Medicaid - if the new law is upheld by the Supreme Court - saying it
          would greatly increase the number of people served, Robert Pear
          reports. However, many state officials, especially Republicans, worry
          that it will bring budget-breaking new costs.



     ·    Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, delivered an
          incendiary defenseof the free flow of campaign cash in the wake of the
          Supreme Court's Citizens United decision, while accusing President
          Obama of "attempting to change the First Amendment," Jonathan Weisman
          reports. Mr. McConnell has a policy agenda: Stopping the Democrats'
          Disclose Act, which seeks to speed up and broaden disclosure of
          campaign contributions.


Weekly Address


     ·    President Obama used his weekly address to target what he asserts to
          be the main force holding the nation back from increased economic
          growth: a stalemate in Washington. "On most of the ideas that would
          create jobs and grow our economy, Republicans in Congress haven't
          lifted a finger. They'd rather wait until after the election in
          November," he said. "I think that's wrong."  He implored Congress to
          immediately pass a jobs bill "to help states put thousands of
          teachers, firefighters and police officers back on the job." He also
          asked them to pass a bill aimed at helping unemployed construction
          workers, and another that assists with moving expenses for companies
          that bring jobs back to America. "Every problem we face is within our
          power to solve," Mr. Obama said. "What's lacking is our politics.
          Remind your members of Congress why you sent them to Washington in the
          first place."


Happenings in Washington


     ·    Education Secretary Arne Duncan will speak at the United States
          Presidential Scholars Medallion ceremony on Saturday. More than 140
          high school seniors are being honored for outstanding academic
          achievement and public service.



     ·    The Early Word: 'Make-or-Break'
     ·    The Early Word: Delineation
     ·    The Early Word: Dialing for Dollars
     ·    The Early Word: Rifts
     ·    The Weekend Word: Investigation


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

An Immigration Order in June, With an Eye to November

BYLINE: LUISITA LOPEZ TORREGROSA

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 634 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's new executive order on young immigrants partly
fulfills his 2008 campaign promise to reform the immigration system and open a
path to citizenship for 11 million illegal immigrants, most of them Hispanic.
The order complicates the immigration issue for Mitt Romney, the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee.


NEW YORK - President Barack Obama was coming off weeks of bad economic news and
a string of gaffes - notably his much-maligned comment that "the private sector
is doing fine" -  when he pulled off a political gamble intended to rev up his
declining fortunes five months before the presidential election.

With an executive order issued Friday, he allowed some 800,000 illegal
immigrants - those under the age of 31 who came to the United States as
children, if they meet certain conditions - to remain in the country without
fear of deportation. The order, which also allows them to work, was a dramatic
move that rallied Latinos in such battleground electoral states as Florida,
Nevada, Colorado, New Mexico and Virginia.

The temporary order reverses Mr. Obama's previous position that he lacked the
authority to bypass Congress, and it partly fulfills his 2008 campaign promise
to reform the immigration system and open a path to citizenship for 11 million
illegal immigrants, most of them Hispanic.

Not least, Mr. Obama put his presumptive Republican opponent in November, Mitt
Romney, and other Republican candidates in a tough spot. Mr. Romney, who has
warned that if his party does not appeal to Latinos "it spells doom for us," had
sided with anti-immigration conservatives during the Republican primaries,
although he seemed to retreat from that hard line on Friday.

At the start of a bus tour of six swing states, Mr. Romney said, "I believe the
status of young people who come here through no fault of their own is an
important matter to be considered. I would like to seek legislation that deals
with this issue. I think the action that the president took today makes it more
difficult to reach that long-term solution."

Mr. Romney may now jump on the bandwagon of Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, the
popular conservative  son of Cuban immigrants who is widely seen as  a top
candidate to join Mr. Romney on the Republican  ticket. For some time now Mr.
Rubio has been working on a legislative measure called Dream Act II, which would
provide work permits to undocumented students and military personnel, a measure
quite similar to Mr. Obama's directive.

Mr. Obama's move came just weeks after he made a public statement supporting
same-sex marriage. It was, by any  measure, a big deal. He was given credit for
taking a political risk, although the risk was mitigated by national polls that
show a slight majority of Americans now support gay marriage. Against that
background, Mr. Obama's statement  doesn't seem too politically dangerous, and
it certainly solidifies support for him among gays, a demographic that was
largely in his camp already.

Not surprisingly, aides to Mr. Obama denied that politics influenced the
president's decision on immigration (or on gay marriage, for that matter). But
the analysts on the Sunday talk shows in America didn't really believe that
politics played no role in Friday's decision. Though some saw the directive as a
bold gamble that could yet backfire on Mr. Obama, it was difficult to argue that
the president's move would lead to a loss of conservative voters for whom
illegal immigration is an important issue - voters who were unlikely to be
supporting him anyway.

There was little question, however, that he helped consolidate his hold on the
record 21.7 million Hispanics who are eligible to vote in 2012. (He received 67
percent of the Hispanic vote in 2008.)

But to make sure the Obama message gets across loud and clear, the White House
planned a set of meetings with Hispanic activists over the weekend. On Monday
Mr. Obama is expected to meet at the White House with a group of immigration
advocates. To cap it all off, Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney are both scheduled to
appear, separately, before Hispanic elected officials in Florida later this
week.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

The Early Word: Processing

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 296 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at
the latest happenings in Washington.


Today's Times

The Romney campaign has sought to lift at least some of the secrecy of the
vice-presidential selection process, Jeff Zeleny and Ashley Parker report. Mr.
Romney said one quality rose above all: his vice-presidential nominee must be
unquestionably prepared to be president and he must feel comfortable that the
candidate's ambitions are aimed at getting him elected.

Julia Preston and Helene Cooper report on the intense pressure the White House
faced ahead of last week's major policy shift to stop deportations of young
illegal immigrants. Close allies and administration officials saw that President
Obama was losing the initiative to Republicans on an issue he had long
championed and that he was alienating the Latino voters who may be pivotal to
his re-election bid.

Mitt Romney declined to say on Sunday whether he would reverse the president's
decision to stop deporting some illegal immigrants, Trip Gabriel reports. Mr.
Obama put Mr. Romney on the defensive, and may have pre-empted him on a solution
to illegal immigration that he was edging toward - an embrace of a Republican
alternative to the Dream Act proposed by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida that
would offer work visas to some immigrants, but not a path to citizenship.

Around the Web

The Senate Appropriations Committee approved a spending bill last week that
would allow the District government to erect a statue of Frederick Douglass, the
abolitionist leader, in the halls of Congress, The Washington Post reports.

Happenings in Washington

Eleven individuals from the Head Start program will be honored with a ceremony
at the White House.


     ·    Sunday Breakfast Menu, June 17
     ·    The Weekend Word: Executive Action
     ·    The Early Word: 'Make-or-Break'
     ·    The Early Word: Delineation
     ·    The Early Word: Dialing for Dollars


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday

A New Policy for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE and KATHERINE SCHULTEN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 276 words



HIGHLIGHT: 6 Q's About the News | What Obama administration executive action was
announced on June 15?



WHAT Obama administration executive action was announced on June 15?
WHAT group of immigrants will it affect?
WHAT is the Dream Act
WHAT, under the change, will the Department of Homeland Security no longer do?
WHAT are the conditions the immigrants must meet to avoid deportation?
WHAT was the Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney's reaction to the
news

WHO runs the largest coalition of illegal immigrant students?
WHOM has this group been pressuring for more than a year?
WHO, as a group, has reacted angrily to the executive action?

WHY do they believe their reaction is justified?
WHY might President Obama's actions have "considerable payoff" for his
re-election bid?
WHY, according to this article, is some Latinos' joy about the order "undercut
with wariness"?

HOW many illegal immigrants were deported in the first three years of the Obama
presidency?
HOW will the new policy affect the group's ability to enroll in college?
HOW did the people previously profiled in The New York Times say the measure
will affect them
HOW many people, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, might be eligible for the
new measure?

WHERE were an estimated 70 percent of these immigrants born?

WHEN will Homeland Security officials begin accepting requests from immigrant
students?
WHEN was the  blocked by the U.S. Senate?

Related: Our Student Opinion question, "Are Children of Illegal Immigrants
Entitled to a Public Education?" and our lesson plan, "To Think, Perchance to
Debating the Dream Act."


     ·    What Are Your Family Stories of Sacrifice?
     ·    In Legal Limbo
     ·    A Dream Deferred
     ·    Jan. 31, 1865 | House Passes 13th Amendment, Abolishing Slavery
     ·    Oct. 28, 1886 | Statue of Liberty Is Unveiled


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 22, 2012 Friday

Rubio Denounces Partisanship on Immigration

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 600 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Rubio criticized the narrowness of focus on both sides: liberals
who wanted a path to amnesty for 11 to 12 million illegal immigrants, as well as
conservatives who only talk of controlling the border.


An hour before President Obama was to speak to Latino officials on Friday,
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida lamented how the immigration issue has become
hostage to politics - on both the left and right.

"I have seen people take the legitimate concern about illegal immigration and
turn it into panic and turn that panic into fear and anger and turn that anger
into votes and money," Mr. Rubio said.

A conservative Republican who has been mentioned as a possible vice-presidential
pick for Mitt Romney, Mr. Rubio said, "I was tempted to come here today and rip
open the administration's policies."

Instead, he offered a blunt discussion of how he learned during his year and a
half in Washington how complicated and politically nasty immigration issues have
become.

During his first year in the Senate, he said, no one wanted to work with him on
immigration because so many senators were scared by bruising battles of the
past.

He said a Republican version of the Dream Act he developed was roundly attacked
by Democrats, then the same ideas were hailed once Mr. Obama embraced them last
week in an executive action, which would spare young people brought to the
country illegally from deportation.

"I don't care who gets the credit," Mr. Rubio said. "I wasn't looking for a
talking point. I wasn't looking to influence the election in November. I was
looking to help these kids that I've met."

"As long as this issue of immigration is a political ping-pong that each side
uses to win election and influence votes," he added, "I'm telling you it won't
get solved.''

Mr. Rubio, a Tea Party favorite elected in 2010 with 55 percent of Florida's
Latino vote, showed a level of candor on immigration that went well beyond Mr.
Romney's address one day earlier to the same group, the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.

Mr. Romney offered a more conciliatory tone on immigration than during the
Republican primary fight, but few specific policies. He did not mention Mr.
Rubio by name and endorsed a much narrower version of his Dream Act - granting
legal status to young illegal immigrants who join the military, but not to those
seeking higher education.

The Democrats' version of the Dream Act, which once had bipartisan support, was
defeated in 2010 by a Republican filibuster in the Senate. By then the focus of
immigration reform had shifted toward border security and deportations and away
from how to deal with millions of illegal immigrants in the country.

Mr. Rubio criticized the narrowness of focus on both sides: liberals who wanted
a path to amnesty for 11 to 12 million illegal immigrants, as well as
conservatives who only talk of controlling the border.

Those who view illegal immigration as a "law-and-order issue," he said, neglect
that it is also a human issue.

"These are real people," he said of illegal immigrants, "people doing what
virtually any of us would do if our children were hungry, if their countries
were dangerous, if they had no hope for their future."

"I've talked about what you do about the kids. What about everybody else?" Mr.
Rubio said. "Here's the truth, if we're honest with ourselves: we don't know
yet. I know we're not going to round up and deport 12 million people. I know
we're not going to grant amnesty to 12 million people, and somewhere between
those two ideas is the solution."


     ·    Veterans Stick With the Republican Nominee
     ·    Obama Defends Attacks on Romney's Work at Bain
     ·    Romney Rejects Using the Rev. Jeremiah Wright Against Obama
     ·    Asked About Gay Marriage, Romney Doesn't Answer
     ·    After a Charge of Treason, Romney Stays Silent, at First


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 22, 2012 Friday

The Early Word: Now and Then

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 353 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney was more conciliatory toward illegal immigrants Thursday
while addressing to Hispanic officials than he had been during the primary
season.


In Today's Times:


     ·    Speaking before a gathering of Hispanic officials Thursday, Mitt
          Romney struck a softer chord while addressing illegal immigration than
          he had during the primary contests, Ashley Parker and Trip Gabriel
          report. In a speech met with tepid applause, he emphasized his support
          for allowing illegal immigrants who serve in the military or receive
          advanced degrees to become citizens.



     ·    Can women have it all? A magazine article by a former administration
          official has infused renewed interest in the classic feminist debate
          about how women can balance the demands of work and family to close
          the new gender gap at the top of most fields, Jodi Kantor reports.



     ·    A contempt citation against Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. has
          brought front-and-center a confrontation that has been brewing on the
          sidelines for months, a blowup that Republican leaders have feared
          would detract from the party's campaign focus on jobs, Jonathan
          Weisman reports.



     ·    With an increasingly divisive and polarized political reality, crises
          have become the norm for the attorney general, no matter which party
          holds the presidency. Charlie Savage and Eric Lichtblau take a look at
          the turmoil recent officials have faced.



     ·    While much attention has been paid to the huge spending cuts slated to
          hit the Pentagon in January should Congress not act to stop them,
          there is less acknowledgement of the fact that nearly every government
          sector - from cancer research to law enforcement agencies - will be
          affected, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.


Washington Happenings:


     ·    President Obama will travel to Orlando, Fla., on Friday to speak to
          the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials -
          which Mr. Romney addressed on Thursday. Later, he will attend a
          campaign event at a community college in Tampa, Fla.



     ·    Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, is
          scheduled to speak at the Defense Department and Departments of
          Veterans Affairs' annual conference on suicide prevention.



     ·    The Early Word: Cited
     ·    The Early Word: One Step Forward
     ·    The Early Word: Middle Ground
     ·    The Early Word: Processing
     ·    Sunday Breakfast Menu, June 17


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             July 12, 2012 Thursday

Chicago, the Next Anti-Arizona

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 685 words



HIGHLIGHT: Chicago gets its priorities straight on immigration, and the Obama
administration should take note.


Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago is the latest official to diverge from the Obama
administration's widening use of local police in deporting illegal immigrants.
He is seeking an ordinance that would bar Chicago cops from turning immigrants
over to federal authorities if they do not have serious criminal convictions or
outstanding warrants.

The Obama administration has been rolling out a nationwide program, Secure
Communities, to catch illegal immigrants through the wide screening of people
who are arrested and get fingerprinted in local jails. This has led to many
thousands of deportations-and fierce criticism that the feds are catching way
too many non-criminals and minor offenders, while delegating too much power to
local cops.

The administration says it has been working harder to deport only the bad guys,
by using greater "discretion" in whom Immigration and Customs Enforcement
detains and prosecutes.

Mr. Emanuel's response to the feds: You do your job and we'll do ours. If you
want the violent criminals, gangbangers and fugitives-take them. But we won't be
part of any roundups of non-offenders, traffic violators and other small fry.
The cost in public safety is too great, when people in immigrant communities are
too afraid that they will be deported if they report crimes or cooperate with
local cops.

"If you have no criminal record, being part of a community is not a problem for
you," Mr. Emanuel said on Tuesday in a Latino neighborhood. "We want to welcome
you to the city of Chicago."

Mr. Emanuel is not seeking to upend federal immigration policy or defy any laws.
Chicago is not trying to be like Arizona and Alabama, which have drafted their
own immigration schemes, with new restrictions and punishments that displace and
distort federal enforcement priorities (unconstitutionally, according to the
Supreme Court). In fact, Mr. Emanuel's plan to use discretion with nonviolent
and minor offenders is completely in sync with ICE's stated (though not always
honored) enforcement priorities.

And for good reasons. Better policing, less fear and greater cooperation among
immigrants and the police-those are the same reasons that California is moving
toward passing the Trust Act, which forbids the local police to send immigrants
to ICE unless they have been convicted of serious or violent felonies. The bill
passed the state Senate last week, and is expected to become law later this
year.

When Mr. Emanuel worked in the White House, immigrant advocates viewed him with
suspicion because he called immigration a political "third rail" that President
Obama shouldn't touch. Mr. Obama's disheartening performance in defense of
reform and immigrants' rights (as opposed to harsher enforcement, which he
pursued with enthusiasm), was seen as partly Mr. Emanuel's fault.

But now Mayor Emanuel has put himself and his city in a better place. He is in
good company, along with  Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, who has
endorsed the Trust Act, and three big-state governors-Andrew Cuomo of New York,
Deval Patrick of Massachusetts and Pat Quinn of Illinois-who have all objected
to Secure Communities  and suspended their states' involvement in it.

Their opposition puts the President in an awkward spot. Mr. Obama-and his
Homeland Security Secretary, Janet Napolitano, and John Morton, the head of
ICE-surely don't want to lumped among the defenders of more intense state and
local crackdowns. Because on that side lies Arizona, where crackpots and zealots
have been leading the country down a dangerous anti-immigrant path.

It's a fair question for Mr. Obama: Whom is he closer to? Old friends and allies
like Mr. Emanuel and Mr. Patrick? Or Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona and the Sheriff
of Maricopa County, Joe Arpaio, who is heading to trial in federal court in
Phoenix next week, accused of years of racial profiling and other civil-rights
abuses in enforcing immigration laws?


     ·    Republican Reactions to the Arizona Decision
     ·    Arizona's Immigration Law and Mandatory Life Terms
     ·    The Arizona Show
     ·    Mitt Romney's Hamptons Weekend
     ·    Another Dismal Jobs Report, Another Misguided Attack from the Right


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday

Joe Arpaio's American Dream

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 543 words



HIGHLIGHT: The sheriff testified today at his racial-profiling trial.


Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz., testified today at his
racial-profiling trial in federal district court in Phoenix, a futuristic glass
box that swelters like a greenhouse. His seat has been the hottest. The
plaintiff's lawyer has been dragging him through years of damning evidence --
official press releases, emails, memos, videos of news conferences, his own
deposition testimony and excerpts from one of the sheriff's own books -- that
clearly depict a sheriff's office on the hunt for brown-skinned immigrants,
scouring the county looking for ways to lock them up.

Sheriff Arpaio, grim as an undertaker in a black suit and red tie, gave subdued
and occasionally testy responses as the incriminating exhibits were presented,
one after another. Yes, he admitted, that was me saying that my office was
"quickly becoming a full-fledged anti-illegal immigration agency." That was me
saying that our crackdown was a "pure program to go after the illegals and not
the crime first." That was me saying that most of the Mexicans we arrested were
potential swine-flu carriers. That was me telling Rick Sanchez of CNN and Glenn
Beck that we can tell people are illegal immigrants based on the clothes they
wear and how they talk.

On a few occasions the sheriff said: No, that wasn't me. Like, for instance,
when the lawyer read a section from the 2008 book "Joe's Law: America's Toughest
Sheriff Takes on Illegal Immigration, Drugs, and Everything Else That Threatens
America," by Sheriff Joe Arpaio, in which the sheriff, an Italian-American who
grew up in Springfield, Mass., reminisced about his Italian immigrant parents.

The section begins: "My parents, like all other immigrants exclusive of those
from Mexico, held to certain hopes and truths." It goes on to state that
Mexicans refuse to assimilate and are immigration lawbreakers to an
"astonishing" degree.

Sheriff Arpaio, on the stand, backed away from his book and blamed his
ghostwriter. I believe that the co-author was talking about the proximity of
Mexico, he said.

The lawyer then drew attention to the rest of the excerpt, in which the sheriff
said that second- and third-generation Mexican immigrants have maintained
identities "separate from the American mainstream."

For someone as invested in his image as Sheriff Arpaio, the questioning must
have been acutely embarrassing.

Q. Who put that in your book?

A. My co-author.

Q. Is that your view?

A. No, it isn't.

"Would you agree with me that the American dream is for everyone?" the lawyer
asked.

"Yes," said the sheriff, sounding chastened.

The questioning continues this afternoon, and his lawyers will have a chance to
revive the sheriff's bluster and self-confidence. One of the lawyers for the
defense is Tom Liddy, son of G. Gordon. He's very smart (we were classmates in
college, at Fordham University) and I'm told he's very good at what he does.



A previous version of this post referred to "John Sanchez of CNN." He's Rick
Sanchez. It also misidentified the affiliation of the plaintiff's lawyer. He is
with the law firm of Covington & Burling, not the American Civil Liberties
Union.


     ·    Arizona's Immigration Law and Mandatory Life Terms
     ·    U.S. v. Arpaio
     ·    Yes, Racial Profiling Is Illegal
     ·    Opinion Report: Romney at Bain
     ·    Chicago, the Next Anti-Arizona


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                              July 29, 2012 Sunday

The Morality of Migration

BYLINE: SEYLA BENHABIB

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1398 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigration pits two moral and legal principles, foundational to the
modern state system, against each other. How can they be reconciled?


In announcing the Department of Homeland Security's policy directive on June 15
stating that undocumented migrant youths who meet certain conditions would no
longer be deported, President Obama said that "It was the right thing to do."
What he did not say was whether he meant "the right thing" legally or morally.

Obviously, he considered the action to be legal, even though this invocation of
his administration's power drew strong criticism from many, including Supreme
Court Justice Antonin Scalia. But the president's grounds for believing it moral
were much less clear.

This should come as no surprise: the morality and politics of migration are
among the most divisive issues in much of the world. In the United States,
discussions of immigration flow seamlessly into matters of national security,
employment levels, the health of the American economy, and threats to a
presumptive American national identity and way of life. Much the same is true in
Europe.  Not a week goes by without a story of refugees from Africa or Asia
perishing while trying to arrive at the shores of the European Union.

Nor are such developments restricted to the resource-rich countries of the
Northern Hemisphere.  The United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Singapore, Israel and
Jordan are countries with the of migrants among their total population, while
the United States, the Russian Federation, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Canada and
France lead in the  of international migrants.  Migrations are now global,
challenging many societies in many parts of the world.

Whereas from 1910 to 2012, the world's population increased slightly more than
fourfold, from 1.6 billion to to more than 7 billion, the number of people
living in countries other than their own as migrants increased nearly sevenfold,
from roughly 33 million to more than 200 million.

Migrations pit two moral and legal principles, foundational to the modern state
system, against each other. On one hand, the human right of individuals to move
across borders whether for economic, personal or professional reasons or to seek
asylum and refuge is guaranteed by Articles 13 and 14 of the 1948 Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. On the other hand, Article 21 of the declaration
recognizes a basic right to self-government, stipulating that "the will of the
people shall be the basis of the authority of government."  Under the current
regime of states, that fundamental right includes control over borders as well
as determining  is to be a citizen as distinguished from a resident or an alien.

The international system straddles these dual principles but it has not been
able to reconcile them. The irony of global developments is that while state
sovereignty in economic, military, and technological domains is eroded and
national borders have become more porous, they are still policed to keep out
aliens and intruders.  The migrant's body has become the symbolic site upon
which such contradictions are enacted.

Why not advocate a "world without borders" then?  From a moral point of view, no
child  to be born on one side of the border rather than another, and it is
deeply antithetical to our moral principles to punish individuals for what they
cannot help being or doing.  Punishment implies responsibility and
accountability for one's actions and choices; clearly, children who through
their parents' choices end up on one side of the border rather than another
cannot be penalized for these choices.

A strong advocate of the right to self-government might retort that rewarding
certain children for the wrongs committed by their parents, in this case illegal
immigration, by legalizing undocumented youths is illogical as well as immoral
and that "the right thing to do" would be to deport  undocumented migrants -
parents and children alike. Apart from the sheer impracticality of this
solution, its advocates seem to consider undocumented "original entry" into a
country as the analog of "original sin" that no amount of subsequent behavior
and atonement can alter.

But such punitive rigor unfairly conflates the messy and often inadvertent
reasons that lead one to become an undocumented migrant with no criminal intent
to break the law.

If conditions in a person's native country so endanger his life and well-being
and he becomes willing to risk illegality in order to survive, his right to
survival, from a moral point of view, carries as much weight as does the new
country's claim to control borders against migrants.  Immanuel Kant, therefore,
called the moral claim to seek refuge or respite in the lands of another, a
"universal right of hospitality," provided that the intentions of the foreigner
upon arriving on foreign lands were peaceful.  Such a right, he argued, belonged
to each human being placed on this planet who had to share the earth with
others.

Even though morally the right to hospitality is an individual right, the
socioeconomic and cultural causes of migrations are for the most part
collective.  Migrations occur because of economic, environmental, cultural and
historical "push" and "pull" factors. "We are here," say migrants, "because in
effect you were there."  "We did not cross the border; the border crossed us."

We do have special obligations to our neighbors, as opposed to moral obligations
to humanity at large, if, for example, our economy has devastated theirs; if our
industrial output has led to environmental harm or if our drug dependency has
encouraged the formation of transnational drug cartels.

These claims of interdependence require a third moral principle - in addition to
the right of universal hospitality and the right to self-government - to be
brought into consideration:  among peoples arising through historical factors.

States cannot ignore such associative obligations.  Migration policies, though
they are often couched in nation-centric terms, always have transnational causes
and consequences.   It is impossible to address Mexican migration into the
United States, for example, without considering the decades-long dependency of
the rich California agricultural fields upon the often undocumented and
unorganized labor of Mexican workers, some of whose children have now grown up
to become "Dreamers" (so named after the Development, Relief, and Education for
Alien Minors Act introduced to Congress in 2001). Among the three million
students who graduate from United States high schools, 65,000 are undocumented.

The United States owes these young people a special duty of hospitality, not
only because we, as a society, have benefited from the circumstances under which
their parents entered this country, but also because they have formed strong
affiliations with this society through being our friends, students, neighbors
and coworkers.  In a liberal-democratic society the path to citizenship must
follow along these associative ties through which an individual shows him or
herself to be capable and worthy of citizenship.

Migratory movements are sites of imperfect justice  in that they bring into play
the individual right to freedom of movement, the universal right to hospitality
and the right of collectives to self-government as well as specific associative
moral obligations.  These rights cannot always be easily reconciled.
Furthermore, international law does not as yet recognize a "human right to
citizenship" for migrants, and considers this a sovereign prerogative of
individual states.  Nonetheless, the responsible politician is the one who acts
with a lucid understanding of the necessity to balance these principles rather
than giving in to a punitive rigorism that would deny, in Thomas Jefferson's
words, "the right which nature has given to all men of departing from [and I
would add, from joining with] the country in which choice, not chance has placed
them" (1774).

Whether or not President Obama considered all these moral aspects of the matter,
his handling of this issue shows that he acted as a "responsible politician,"
and not opportunistically as some of his critics charged.  It was "the right
thing to do."


An earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to the action announced
by President Obama on June 15. It was a policy directive issued by the
Department of Homeland Security, not an executive order.


     ·    The Sacred and the Humane
     ·    Are We Ready for a 'Morality Pill'?
     ·    Philosophy - What's the Use?
     ·    The Future of Moral Machines
     ·    Good Minus God


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

The Spanish Campaign

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 321 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new Spanish-language ad calls the president the
"Deporter-in-Chief."


Alongside the presidential campaign we all know-centered at the moment on a
debate between "Romney Hood" and "Obamaloney"-the candidates are waging a shadow
war in Spanish, more closely focused on the issues politicians assume are
particularly important to Latino voters. The newest foray is a dishonest
Spanish-language ad running in Nevada, which attacks President Obama for
breaking a campaign promise to pass immigration reform, and for deporting too
many illegal immigrants.

The ad, paid for by American Principles in Action, a Washington-based
conservative PAC, calls the president el Deportador-en-Jefe, the
Deporter-in-Chief. It also denounces Mr. Obama's recent decision to halt the
deportations of some young unauthorized immigrants - because it doesn't go far
enough.

"He offers undocumented youth a temporary solution that still cheats them of
legal status," the ad says.

The claims are pretty much true. But wait - why are right-wingers saying this?
Republicans like deportations. They want more of them - millions more. They
don't want undocumented youth to get legal status, they want them to get

The ad does not mention that Mr. Obama actually supports a bill in Congress that
would help those undocumented youths:  the Dream Act. It doesn't say that this
bill has been stymied in Congress for a decade - by Mr. Romney's party. Or that
Mr. Romney has promised to veto it. Or that he favors policies designed to make
life in the United States so miserable for unauthorized immigrants that all 11
million of them will "self-deport."

The ad also does not mention that Mr. Romney was the most extreme
anti-immigrant, pro-deportation candidate in the Republican race this year, and
he's about to be the nominee.

"No más mentiras, Señor Obama," the ad says: No more lies.


     ·    Romney's Immigration Speech
     ·    A Breakthrough on Immigration Policy
     ·    Opinion Report: Rove's 'Social Welfare' Group
     ·    Shhh, Don't Mention Immigration
     ·    The Arizona Show


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday

Republican Immigration Platform Backs 'Self-Deportation'

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 506 words



HIGHLIGHT: Republican delegates hammered out an immigration plank calling for
tough border enforcement and opposing "any forms of amnesty" for illegal
immigrants, instead endorsing "humane procedures to encourage illegal aliens to
return home voluntarily," a policy of self-deportation.


Republicans have adopted a party platform on immigration that would require
employers nationwide to verify workers' legal status and deny federal financing
to universities that allow illegal immigrant students to enroll at lower
in-state tuition rates.

In their debates this week in Tampa, Fla., over the party platform, Republican
delegates hammered out an immigration plank calling for tough border enforcement
and opposing "any forms of amnesty" for illegal immigrants, instead endorsing
"humane procedures to encourage illegal aliens to return home voluntarily," a
policy of self-deportation.

The party's platform stance comes as Mitt Romney has been moving to court
Hispanic voters before the general election. During the nominating fight last
year, he took a hard line on immigration, embracing the concept of
"self-deportation" and saying he would veto legislation known as the Dream Act,
which would give legal status to illegal immigrants who came to the United
States when they were children.

But recently, Mr. Romney has sought to soften his stance, saying he would
consider a Dream Act for illegal immigrants who serve in the military.

The party platform offers no support for that proposal. A number of immigration
amendments were offered by Kris Kobach, a conservative who is secretary of state
of Kansas and was an author of laws in Arizona and several other states to crack
down on illegal immigration.

Mr. Kobach proposed the plank calling for mandatory use by employers of a
federal electronic system known as E-Verify to confirm the legal immigration
status of new hires. "If you really want to create a job tomorrow, you can
remove an illegal alien today," Mr. Kobach said.

At his urging, the delegates also adopted a call to complete a double-layer
border fence and to end federal lawsuits challenging state enforcement laws like
Arizona's.

The distance - at least on paper -- between the Republican party and mainstream
Hispanic organizations was highlighted on Wednesday when the National Hispanic
Leadership Agenda, a coalition that includes 30 of the country's largest Latino
groups, issued a list of proposals it will promote at both the Republican and
Democratic conventions. The coalition endorsed passage of the Dream Act for all
undocumented students as well as "comprehensive immigration reform" to give
millions of other illegal immigrants an "earned path to legalization."

The Hispanic groups want to "demilitarize" the southwest border and curtail
state and local enforcement of immigration laws. Though Hispanics generally
favor Democrats, they have shown signs of cooling on President Obama, who
pledged to pursue immigration reform as a candidate in 2008 but who only
recently has drawn accolades from immigrant rights groups by taking executive
action to halt deportations of hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants
who came here when they were children.

Both campaigns are scrambling to court Hispanics because of their potential
clout in swing states including Florida, Nevada and Colorado.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                         (The Public Editor's Journal)

                           September 24, 2012 Monday

Is 'Illegal Immigrant' the Right Description?

BYLINE: MARGARET SULLIVAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 552 words



HIGHLIGHT: An activist wants The Times to stop using the term "illegal
immigrant" in its reporting.


Jose Antonio Vargas is a man on a mission. The journalist turned immigration
activist wants news organizations to stop using the term "illegal immigrants,"
which he finds disparaging and inaccurate. He's particularly focusing on The
Times and The Associated Press to change their policies.

Mr. Vargas has approached me about it by e-mail, and I've said I would be happy
to hear him out. I should note that, as public editor, I don't make Times policy
on such things. However, I could, at some point, take a stand.

At this point, I don't know enough.

I do know what Mr. Vargas -- who revealed that he is an 'undocumented immigrant'
in a Times Magazine piece last year -- told the Online News Assocation in a
speech there last Friday.

And I talked about it Monday morning with Philip B. Corbett, the associate
managing editor for standards at The Times. "We do think about this, and we talk
about it all the time," he said.

Asked about the matter by Poynter.org's Mallary Tenore on Monday, he responded
as follows:

Obviously we know this is a sensitive area, one that we continue to struggle
with. As my colleague Julia Preston, who covers immigration, has suggested,
we're trying hard to be neutral on an issue where there isn't much neutral
ground.

For one thing, we don't reduce our coverage of this complicated issue to a
single label. Julia and other Times reporters try to be detailed, descriptive
and as accurate as possible in writing about immigrants in a whole range of
different situations.

But in referring in general terms to the issue of people living in the United
States without legal papers, we do think the phrases "illegal immigrants" and
"illegal immigration" are accurate, factual and as neutral as we can manage
under the circumstances. It is, in fact, illegal to enter, live or work in this
country without valid documents. Some people worry that we are labeling
immigrants as "criminals" -- but we're not. "Illegal" is not a synonym for
"criminal." (One can even park "illegally," though it's not a criminal offense.)

Proposed alternatives like "undocumented" seem really to be euphemisms -- as
though this were just a bureaucratic mix-up that can easily be remedied. Often
those phrases seem deliberately chosen to try to soften or minimize the
significance of the lack of legal status. We avoid those euphemisms just as we
avoid phrases that tend to cast a more pejorative light on immigrants. For
example, we steer clear of the shorthand "illegals" and also the word "aliens,"
both of which we think have needlessly negative connotations.

So, in keeping with my promise to make this blog a continuing conversation about
journalism and journalistic practices, I'll put the question out there for
discussion.

In the meantime, I also hope to talk with Julia Preston. Here are her comments
last week in an ABC/Univision story.

What do you think? You can respond in comments to this blog, e-mail me at
public@nytimes.com or reply on Twitter, where my handle is @sulliview.

I'll aggregate the discussion and comment more substantively soon.

Correction: An earlier version of this blog post incorrectly referred to the
group Mr. Vargas gave his speech to on Friday.  It is the Online News
Association, not the Online News Organization.


     ·    On Identifying a Rape Victim, Naming a Prophet, and Nate Silver's Role


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

A Young Immigrant Struggles for a College Education

BYLINE: MIMI SCHIFFMAN

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 361 words



HIGHLIGHT: As summer gives way to fall, one young illegal immigrant's hopes of a
college education and a stable, prosperous future are clouded by anxieties of
deportation and other obstacles.


For graduating high school seniors, the months that stretch out between the end
of spring and those first signs of fall can be magical - senior prom,
graduation, soaking up summer then cramming in the last bits of time with
childhood friends.

For one teenager from Queens, that joy was clouded by growing anxiety as he
attempted to save enough money to pay for his first semester of college.

I followed Frisly Soberanis, an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, through his
final weeks of high school and the run-up to what he hoped would be his first
semester at Brooklyn College.

"Education leads to opportunities, it leads to some type of security," Mr.
Soberanis said.

"I don't want to end up in the same cycle as my family is right now. We're great
but it's tough not having security about next week because you don't know if
you're going to get a job next week or if you're going to get paid for the job
you just finished because maybe they're just gonna be like 'I'm not gonna pay
you.'"

More than four million illegal immigrants under the age of 25 are thought to be
living in the United States according to 2009 census figures, yet statistics
indicate that only around 65,000 graduate from high school each year.

The reason for the huge disparity between population and attrition rates comes
down to opportunity. There are many obstacles for those who aspire to higher
education, and in the schools that do accept illegal immigrants, students do not
have access to federal financial aid. Without the opportunity to hold down
steady, legal jobs, young illegal immigrants often do not make it to college at
all. (Classes began at Brooklyn College on Aug. 27, but Mr. Soberanis's future
is by no means clear.)

Mr. Soberanis was brought to this country at the age of 7. Because he overstayed
his tourist visa, he cannot hope to become a citizen without first returning to
Guatemala for a period of up to 10 years, then applying for a visa to return.

At that point there is no guarantee that the United States would welcome him
back.


Mimi Schiffman is a photographer and videographer based in North Carolina. She
is also a Magnum fellow. Follow her on Twitter @mimischiffman.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

Romney Has a Visa Problem

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 439 words



HIGHLIGHT: Does the G.O.P. candidate know the difference between deferred action
for unauthorized immigrants and actual visas?


To the things we already knew or suspected about Mitt Romney and his views on
immigration  - that he is a hard-liner prone to pandering, a bearer of
platitudes, seemingly allergic to clarity or specifics - we now must add a
disturbing new possibility: that he has no idea what he is talking about.

On Monday Mr. Romney told The Denver Post something that Latino groups had been
begging him to explain for months - whether or not he would cancel President
Obama's policy of granting two-year deportation reprieves to hundreds of
thousands of young unauthorized immigrants.

Because the policy merely defers deportations and does not grant legal status,
it could be reversed by a future president. Mr. Obama announced the policy in
June. Ever since then Mr. Romney has been asked - most insistently at a
Univision forum in September - whether he would repeal it if he were elected
president.

This was Mr. Romney's answer in Denver:

"The people who have received the special visa that the president has put in
place, which is a two-year visa, should expect that the visa would continue to
be valid," Mr. Romney said. "I'm not going to take something that they've
purchased," adding, "Before those visas have expired, we will have the full
immigration reform plan that I've proposed."

Sounds like great news! But what visa is he talking about? The policy does not
involve visas. It is a presidential directive to the Department of Homeland
Security to temporarily suspend, on a case-by-case basis, the deportations of
people who meet certain criteria: young immigrants with clean records who were
brought to the United States illegally as children.

The Times's national immigration reporter, Julia Preston, spoke to an
immigration lawyer, Margaret Stock. "It is disturbing that he does not know the
difference between a visa and deferred action," Ms. Stock said of Mr. Romney.
"Nobody got a visa through this program. That would have required Congressional
action."

"This is Immigration Law 101," said Ms. Stock, who is also a Republican. "It
looks like a major fumble by whoever is advising him on immigration."

Immigration reform has been a white-hot political subject for nearly a decade.
You'd think that a candidate who got to this level of a national campaign would
be beyond the Rick Perry-Michele Bachmann-Herman Cain level of policy
understanding and comprehension.

As for his "full immigration reform plan," Mr. Romney, true to form, did not say
what that was, or how he was going to get it passed.


     ·    Mitt Romney's Secret Plan
     ·    The G.O.P.'s Message to Latino Voters
     ·    The Spanish Campaign
     ·    Romney's Immigration Speech
     ·    A Breakthrough on Immigration Policy


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

Romney Says He Would Honor Immigration Reprieves Granted by Obama

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 664 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney clarified his stance about an immigration move by the
Obama administration that has been hailed by Latinos.


     Responding to pressure from Latino groups to clarify his immigration views,
Mitt Romneytold The Denver Post late Monday that he would not cancel temporary
reprieves from deportation that President Obama is granting to hundreds of
thousands of young illegal immigrants.

"The people who have received the special visa that the president has put in
place, which is a two-year visa, should expect that the visa would continue to
be valid," Mr. Romney said in an interview aboard his campaign bus two days
before he meets Mr. Obama in a debate in Denver.

"I'm not going to take something that they've purchased," he said. He added,
"Before those visas have expired, we will have the full immigration reform plan
that I've proposed."

It was unclear what Mr. Romney meant when he called the deferrals "something
that they've purchased," but he may have been referring to the $465 application
fee, which is steep for many immigrant families. The program is financed by the
fees.

As he returned to Colorado, where Latino voters could help decide who carries
the battleground state, Mr. Romney had been repeatedly pressed about his
approach to the Obama administration's program, which gives two-year deferrals
of deportation to young undocumented immigrants who were brought to this country
as children.

Despite repeated questions at a Sept. 19 town hall meeting in Miami broadcast by
Univision, a Spanish-language network, Mr. Romney declined to say whether he
would continue the program, which has been highly popular in Latino and
immigrant communities. He did say he would not support any mass roundup and
deportation of illegal immigrants.

In the Denver Post interview, Mr. Romney did not fill in new details about the
reform plan he would propose, or say how he would steer it through Congress,
where there is a partisan stalemate on the issue.

Mr. Romney's statement seemed likely to play well among Latinos in Colorado, who
have been turning out by the thousands for legal counseling sessions about the
deferrals. Many undocumented immigrants have said they are holding back from
applying for the program until after the Nov. 6 elections, because they fear
that Mr. Romney would halt it if he were elected.

Young immigrants had praise but also some skepticism. "We think it is important
that Governor Romney said that people who have already received their deferred
action permits will be able to keep them," said Lorella Praeli, a leader of the
United We Dream Network, a nationwide group. "However, it is still not clear
whether he is intending to allow those of us who have not applied yet to
continue to apply."

Many immigration policy analysts noted a conspicuous error in Mr. Romney's
choice of words, which suggested a misunderstanding about basic terms of the
debate.  Mr. Obama's program, which he put in place by executive directive, does
not confer any visas or legal status. The program, known as deferred action,
suspends deportations only on a case-by-case basis.

"It is disturbing that he does not know the difference between a visa and
deferred action," said Margaret Stock, a retired Army lieutenant colonel who is
an immigration lawyer in Alaska and a Republican.  "Nobody got a visa through
this program. That would have required Congressional action."

"This is Immigration Law 101," Ms. Stock said. "It looks like a major fumble by
whoever is advising him on immigration."

Since taking hard-line positions during the Republican nominating contests, Mr.
Romney has moderated his position, saying he could support legislation to give
permanent resident visas, known as green cards, to young immigrants who serve in
the military.  Still, polls suggest that Mr. Obama had far broader support among
Latinos than Mr. Romney.

More than 100,000 immigrants have applied for deferrals, a number that officials
say is increasing steadily.  As many as 1.2 million immigrants could be
immediately eligible.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Ross Douthat)

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

A Campaign Without a Plan

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 803 words



HIGHLIGHT: An immigration shift exposes the Romney campaign's lack of strategic
thinking.


Yesterday, Mitt Romney finally stopped dodging a question he'd evaded for
months, and stated that if elected president, he wouldn't undo the visas for
younger illegal immigrants that President Obama made available by executive fiat
earlier this year. It's a repositioning that's likely to be swallowed up by the
coverage of tomorrow night's debate, but it's worth pausing over because of how
perfectly it crystallizes the strategic ineffectiveness of the Romney campaign.

Immigration is an issue where Republican politicians are often urged to move to
"the center" - that is, adopt a pro-amnesty position - in order to win over
Hispanic voters alienated by anti-immigration rhetoric. At the same time, it's
an issue where the more conservative, restrictionist position is often shared by
a different bloc of swing voters: The kind of working class whites whose support
Romney has been struggling (and struggling, and struggling) to win. There are
potential political benefits, in other words, to branding yourself as the
candidate of compassion toward illegal immigrants, as George W. Bush
persistently did. But then again there are also potential benefits - sometimes
greater ones, in my view - to taking a more restrictionist position and using
the issue to portray the Democrats as beholden to their party's ethnic interest
groups and out of step with blue collar Americans' concerns.

There's nothing whatsoever to be gained, however, by doing what Romney has done,
which is to act evasive on a hot-button issue for months on end before finally,
grudgingly, issuing a defensive quasi-endorsement of your opponent's gambit.
When the White House announced its policy change, Romney could have attacked the
president for bending the rule of law to suit the demands of Democratic
coalition politics, or alternatively he could have embraced the DREAM Act
himself to pivot away from the hard line he took during the Republican primary
campaign. Either move, if finessed effectively, might have helped him with a
crucial bloc of voters. But by doing neither, and basically ducking the issue
until this late-in-the-game concession, he enabled the White House to reap all
of the benefits of its backdoor amnesty without paying any political price at
all.

You can see the same pattern in health care. Romney made a point, throughout the
primary season, of standing by his Massachusetts health care plan: Indeed, Noam
Scheiber has reported that one reason Stuart Stevens got the job running the
campaign is that Stevens was the only consultant who promised Romney he could
win the nomination without formally disavowing Romneycare. Now, I thought at the
time that this was a mistake, and that Romney could have threaded the needle
more effectively by disavowing parts of his health care bill while defending
others. But that was the strategy they chose, and it actually worked: He won the
Republican nomination without having to repudiate his signature policy
accomplishment as governor.

You would think, then, that having taken this risk and succeeded, the Romney
campaign would try to capitalize on their success by weaving his health care
record, in some form, into their general election pitch. And every once in a
while that has happened: Romney finds himself talking about health care in an
interview, and he'll say something like, "don't forget - I got everybody in my
state insured." But there's no consistency to this message, no policy substance
that it's tied to, no sense that the people in Boston ever sat down and
war-gamed out anything like a clear narrative on one of the most important
domestic issues of our time. (Nor, on the other hand, has there been anything
like a sustained critique of the president's health care law either.) Instead,
the campaign's policy messaging seems entirely ad hoc: Now right-wing, now
centrist, with no clear plan for how to actually shape the debate, rather than
just reacting to it.

Running a presidential campaign and selling a consistent message isn't easy,
obviously. But neither is it nearly as difficult as the Romney campaign has made
it seem. You pick some issues that play well with your base, pick some issues
where you want to move to the center, write a script with these choices in mind
and do your best to stick to it. Of course events intervene and the script
sometimes has to be rewritten. But on immigration, health care and indeed just
about every topic worth mentioning, the Romney camp apparently decided that the
weakness of the economy meant that they didn't need a clear script at all, and
that they could get by with evasions and improvisations instead. On the evidence
of current polling, they were wrong.


     ·    Keeping The Disaffected That Way
     ·    Romney the Inexorable
     ·    The Media Bias That Matters
     ·    In Search of a Middle Eastern Strategy
     ·    Romney's Post-Convention Predicament


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

Romney Dials Back Acceptance of Obama Immigration Program

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 542 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney has scaled back his acceptance of a program by President
Obama to grant reprieves from deportation to hundreds of thousands of young
illegal immigrants.


With hours to go before the presidential candidates meet in Denver for their
first debate, Mitt Romney has scaled back his acceptance of a program by
President Obama to grant reprieves from deportation to hundreds of thousands of
young illegal immigrants.

On Monday, after months of pressure to clarify whether he would end the program
if elected, Mr. Romney said in an interview with The Denver Post that he would
not cancel two-year deportation deferrals already granted by the Obama
administration.

"I'm not going to take something they've purchased," Mr. Romney said.

But on Wednesday morning, campaign aides clarified that Mr. Romney intended to
halt the program after he took office and would not issue any new deferrals.

"We're not going to continue Obama's program," an aide said by e-mail.  "We're
going to replace it and would only honor visas already issued."

Mr. Romney has said that instead of Mr. Obama's temporary measure, he would seek
a long-term solution for young undocumented immigrants. He has said he would
support legislation to give permanent resident green cards to illegal immigrants
who serve in the military.

"He will seek from day one to work as quickly as he can for a permanent solution
that will supersede what Barack Obama did," said Alberto Martinez, an adviser to
the Romney campaign. "He will replace certainty and permanence for something
that is uncertain and not permanent."

Mr. Martinez confirmed that Mr. Romney, as president, would not issue any new
deportation deferrals. But he said Mr. Romney would not deport undocumented
students who would have been eligible for a deferral.

Mr. Romney has not offered details of a broader plan to give legal status to
those immigrants. An estimated 1.2 million immigrants are immediately eligible
for reprieves under Mr. Obama's program.

Undocumented youth leaders said they were dismayed by Mr. Romney's turnaround.
"Dreamers across the nation are disappointed to learn that if elected to the
presidency, Governor Mitt Romney would dismantle the Dreamer deferred action
policy,"  Lorella Praeli, a leader of the United We Dream Network, said
Wednesday. She was referring to a group of young undocumented immigrants who
call themselves Dreamers, after a bill called the Dream Act.

Mr. Romney's revision could have a major impact on the deferral program, which
began to receive applications on Aug. 15. Since there is no filing deadline,
many illegal immigrants have said they were holding back from applying until
after the Nov. 6 elections, fearing that Mr. Romney would stop the program.

Still, more than 100,000 immigrants have applied for deferrals and work permits
that come with them. After the first month officials confirmed 29 approvals, and
they said the pace of decisions could slow as the volume increases.

Immigration policy analysts were perplexed that Mr. Romney referred to the
deferrals as visas, noting that the program does not grant visas. Mr. Obama
created the program by executive action after the Dream Act stalled in Congress.


     ·    Rubio Denounces Partisanship on Immigration
     ·    The Scene Before Obama's First Debate
     ·    Polls Show Voters Divided Ahead of Debate
     ·    The Caucus Click: Role of a Lifetime
     ·    September, November: 40 Precious Days to Spend on Early Vote


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CORRECTION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 64 words


An editorial on Wednesday about a federal appellate court's rulings on
immigration laws in Alabama and Georgia incorrectly described the court's
decision on a section of Alabama's law restricting licenses and registrations
for illegal immigrants. The court lifted its temporary hold on the section,
which had been significantly narrowed by the State Legislature. It did not
enjoin it.

URL:

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Closer Look at Some of the More Hotly Disputed Assertions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER, JOHN M. BRODER, SHARON LaFRANIERE, RICHARD A. OPPEL
Jr., RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA and JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; CHECK POINT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1583 words


At the second presidential debate, everyone played fact-checker.

President Obama said, ''Not true, Governor Romney'' to dismiss his rival's
charge that oil and gas production permits and licenses on federal lands and
waters had been cut in half over the past four years. (They have declined, but
not by half).

Mitt Romney said at one point, ''Let me go back and speak to the points that the
president made, and let's get them correct'' after Mr. Obama falsely charged
that he had called the strict Arizona immigration law ''a model for the
nation.'' (Mr. Romney has spoken favorably of the state's immigration law, but
the ''model'' Arizona law he talked about was the mandatory use of a federal
electronic verification system to check the immigration status of new hires.)

And the moderator, Candy Crowley of CNN, got into the act, too, when Mr. Romney
challenged Mr. Obama's assertion that he had gone into the Rose Garden the day
after the attack on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, and
called it an act of terror.

''You said in the Rose Garden the day after the attack it was an act of
terror?'' Mr. Romney said disbelievingly. He later added: ''I want to make sure
we get that for the record, because it took the president 14 days before he
called the attack in Benghazi an act of terror.''

''Get the transcript,'' Mr. Obama replied.

Ms. Crowley interjected: ''He did in fact, sir.''

To which the president added, ''Can you say that a little louder, Candy?''

The Obama administration has been criticized for shifting assessments of what
really happened in Benghazi, which continued to change over the course of two
weeks. But the day after the attacks, Mr. Obama did say, ''No acts of terror
will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that character or
eclipse the light of the values that we stand for.''

There were plenty of questionable assertions at the second presidential debate.
Here is a look at some of them:

Energy Policies

Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney carried out an extended dispute over energy policy that
wandered into a thicket of half-truths, started by a question about gasoline
prices that was never fully addressed.

Mr. Romney, describing Mr. Obama as hostile to traditional energy sources,
repeated his assertion that all of the increase in domestic oil and gas
production in the past three years had come on private, not public, lands and
that the Obama administration had cut the number of oil and gas drilling permits
on public lands in half. Neither assertion is quite true.

Oil and gas production on public lands has fluctuated during the Obama
administration, but it has increased modestly (about 13 percent for oil and
about 6 percent for gas) in the first three years of the Obama presidency,
compared with the last three years of the administration of President George W.
Bush, according to an analysis from the Energy Information Administration.

The Interior Department produced a report this year showing that drilling
permits received and issued by the agency had indeed declined from the last
years of the Bush administration to the first years of the Obama administration
-- but not by half. (In the 2007 fiscal year, the government issued 8,964
permits to drill on public lands; in 2008 the figure was 7,846. The numbers for
2009 and 2010 were 5,306 and 5,237.)

Mr. Obama said that 7,000 drilling permits had been granted but were not being
used by oil companies, an accurate figure, according to the Interior Department.

Mr. Obama stated that renewable energy production had doubled during his
presidency, which is true, and that oil imports were at their lowest level in 16
years, also accurate. He also said that the boom in natural gas production could
produce 600,000 new jobs, a highly optimistic estimate, but he qualified it with
the word ''potentially.''

But Mr. Obama mischaracterized Mr. Romney's energy plan, saying it was written
by oil companies and favored only traditional sources of energy: oil, gas and
coal. But Mr. Romney's energy plan does include a place for renewables, although
he would sharply cut back on federal subsidies for wind, solar and other
alternative energy sources. JOHN M. BRODER

Tariff on Chinese Tires

Mr. Obama said, ''We had to make sure that China was not flooding our market
with cheap tires,'' and therefore took action to save 1,000 jobs. It is true
that in 2009, the Obama administration imposed a duty on Chinese tires, but last
month the administration let the tariff expire.

The United Steelworkers Union, an Obama political supporter, sought the action,
and many economists criticized it as politically motivated.

A study by the Peterson Institute for International Economics found that the
tariff protected at most 1,200 American jobs. But last year alone, the institute
found, it cost American consumers $1.1 billion in higher-priced tires.

Moreover, China responded by imposing tariffs on imports of American chicken
parts that cost American poultry producers an estimated $1 billion. Last month,
the Obama administration quietly let the tire tariff expire. Critics say it
recognized that the economic costs of the sanction were too great. SHARON
LaFRANIERE

Relations With Israel

Mr. Romney said that ''the president said that he was going to put daylight
between us and Israel.'' Is he correct?

Mr. Romney's campaign cites a newspaper account of a meeting with Jewish leaders
at the White House in 2009 as evidence for Mr. Romney's statement. In that
account, published in The Washington Post, people at the meeting said Mr. Obama
had said that ''there was no space between us and Israel'' during the Bush
administration, which he said had hurt the ability of the United States to
influence Israeli actions or cajole Arab nations. ''When there is no daylight,
Israel just sits on the sidelines, and that erodes our credibility with the Arab
states,'' the newspaper quoted Mr. Obama as saying.

An Obama administration official said they did not know whether Mr. Obama made
that statement during a private meeting.

The newspaper account did not quote Mr. Obama as explicitly stating that his
''goal'' was to put distance between the United States and Israel, as Mr. Romney
characterized Mr. Obama's intentions during a recent speech.

Instead, the account indicates that Mr. Obama was complaining that what he
suggested was the Bush administration's unwillingness to challenge the Israelis
had reduced the American government's leverage over Israel and hurt its
reputation with Muslim countries. At the same time, a plain reading of the
account would also suggest that Mr. Obama wanted for his administration to be
seen as less of a rubber stamp for Israel than the Bush administration was.

Obama administration officials have said that there is no daylight whatsoever
between the United States and Israel on the issue of preventing Iran from
obtaining nuclear weapons. RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

Pell Grants for College

Mr. Romney said he wanted to keep the Pell Grant program growing. This is a new
position for him.

The governor and his campaign have repeatedly criticized Mr. Obama's expansion
of the Pell Grant program, which they have said is unsustainable. Mr. Romney's
position paper on education says he would ''refocus Pell Grants dollars on the
students who need them most.''

For months, this was widely interpreted as meaning that fewer people would
qualify for Pell Grants -- an issue the Romney campaign declined to clarify.

Mr. Romney would also restore banks to their role in making student loans. Mr.
Obama eliminated that role and used some of the savings to pay for the Pell
Grant expansion. RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

Illegal Immigration

Mr. Obama said Mr. Romney's ''main strategy'' to curb illegal immigration would
be to ''encourage self-deportation.''

Mr. Romney has never clarified precisely what he would do about the more than 11
million illegal immigrants in the United States. During the Republican primaries
he called for tough enforcement to pressure them to leave the country. Since
June he has moderated that position, saying he could support some measures that
would allow a limited group to remain here legally.

Mr. Romney says he opposes any amnesty. During a primary debate in January, he
said he would seek a mandatory nationwide program to verify the legal status of
all new hires, expanding an existing federal program known as E-Verify, which is
now voluntary. With that program in place, he said, illegal immigrants would
soon discover that they could not get jobs and that ''they're going to
self-deport.''

Mr. Romney was pressed for more details on the self-deportation strategy during
a town hall-style meeting last month with Univision, the Spanish language
network. But he did not provide them. ''I believe people make their own choices
as to whether they want to go home,'' he said.

But he said he would not favor ''a mass deportation effort, rounding people up,
12 million people.'' Mr. Romney said, ''Our system is not to deport people.''

He has said he would support giving permanent resident green cards to illegal
immigrants who serve in the military, a group probably numbering in the tens of
thousands.

Mr. Romney has said he will ''put in place a permanent solution'' for illegal
immigration, but he has not described what it would look like or how he would
get around the roadblocks in Congress that stalled Mr. Obama's efforts to pass
legislation. Most Republican lawmakers in Washington have rejected any legal
status for illegal immigrants, calling it amnesty. JULIA PRESTON

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/17/us/politics/a-closer-look-at-some-disputed-cla
ims.html

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Have Gas Prices Doubled Under Obama? Mr. Romney said that gas
prices have doubled since Mr. Obama took office in 2009. They have, but Mr.
Obama took office just after prices plummeted during the financial crisis.
(Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration)
 What's Happened to Jobs? Mr. Obama said the private sector has added five
million jobs. This is  true if you start counting in February 2010, the month
that jobs  bottomed out. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Panel Blocks Rules On Seasonal Jobs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
29

LENGTH: 152 words


Four Democrats on the Senate Appropriations Committee sided with Republicans on
Thursday to temporarily block new rules protecting seasonal foreign workers who
often perform backbreaking labor at low wages. The 19-to-11 vote would delay for
one year rules designed to make it more difficult for businesses like seafood
processors to exploit foreign workers and to get more Americans into seasonal
jobs. Business groups object to the cost of requirements like paying
transportation and visa fees for imported workers. The effort to shelve the
rules was led by Senator Richard Shelby, Republican of Alabama, who also
objected to a requirement that employers advertise for American workers until 21
days before work begins, and hire the qualified United States workers who apply.
He said workers in the United States were likely to quit hard, dirty jobs,
leaving employers without time to find foreign replacements.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wal-Mart Suspends Supplier Of Seafood

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words


Wal-Mart Stores has suspended one of its seafood suppliers in the South as an
advocacy group for foreign workers pressed the retailer to improve working
conditions there and at a dozen other suppliers cited for hundreds of federal
labor violations.

The advocacy group, the National Guestworker Alliance, said on Friday that it
had found terrible conditions at C. J.'s Seafood, a crawfish company in Breaux
Bridge, La. Several immigrant workers said they had been forced to work 16 to 24
hours consecutively and had even been locked into the plant. Guest workers said
they sometimes labored more than 80 hours a week, had been threatened with
beatings to press them to work faster and had been warned that their families in
Mexico would be hurt if they complained to government agencies.

''It's one of the worst workplaces we ever encountered anywhere,'' said Scott
Nova, executive director of the Worker Rights Consortium, a university-sponsored
monitoring group that was asked by the guest-worker advocates to investigate C.
J.'s Seafood. ''The extreme lengths of the shifts people were required to work,
the employer's brazenness in violating wage laws, the extent of the
psychological abuse the workers faced and the threats of violence against their
families -- that combination made it one of the most egregious workplaces we've
examined, whether here or overseas.''

Guest workers are temporary workers from abroad who typically receive special
visas to do seasonal work.

On Friday, the National Guestworker Alliance released a list of 644 federal
citations at 12 other Wal-Mart food suppliers that employ guest workers and used
that list to assert that the retailer had fallen short on ensuring that its
suppliers complied with its standards.

Lorenzo Lopez, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said the retailer had begun its own
investigation of C. J.'s, which supplied its Sam's Club warehouse stores, and
had uncovered violations of some of its supplier standards.

''We have suspended C. J.'s Seafood as a supplier, pending the outcome of the
investigation,'' Mr. Lopez said.

He said that the United States Labor Department and the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration were conducting their own investigations of the seafood
processor.

C. J.'s did not respond to several phone messages left at its main office.

The Worker Rights Consortium's investigation of C. J.'s found that some women
worked from 2 a.m. to 6 p.m., that the workers were on average paid 42 percent
less than legally required and that when the workers tried to complain to their
managers, they were threatened with discharge, deportation and blacklisting. One
worker told investigators that he was once forced to stay when he sought to
leave after working 38 of the previous 48 hours.

After finding serious problems at C. J.'s, the Guestworker Alliance said, it
decided to examine 18 other Wal-Mart food vendors that used guest workers.

The alliance said it had discovered the 644 citations at 12 of the companies.
While many of them go back to the 1980s, there were 201 safety and other labor
violations over the last five years, including 132 that OSHA had deemed serious.

''Wal-Mart is the nation's biggest buyer and sets standards across the retail
industry,'' said Saket Soni, director of the Guestworker Alliance. ''We want to
have a productive conversation with Wal-Mart about its national supply chain
standards.''

While acknowledging problems at C. J.'s, Mr. Lopez strongly objected to the
Guestworker Alliance's report and its suggestion that the citations at the other
12 suppliers indicated a possible problem with forced labor there.

''This report, crafted by a union-funded, union-backed group, has little to do
with solving real issues,'' he said. ''It simply repackages old data from up to
more than 20 years ago in an attempt to make people believe they have uncovered
something new.''

''We work with more than 60,000 suppliers in the U.S., and we have rigorous
standards in place that our suppliers are required to follow,'' Mr. Lopez said.

He said that if the allegations of forced labor at C. J.'s are found to be true,
it would permanently terminate its relationship with that company. The
Guestworker Alliance's report pointed to 33 citations at Tanimura & Antle, a
vegetable grower based in Salinas, Calif. The report noted that 18 of the
citations had incurred a total of $52,000 in fines since 2006, including one for
failure to provide proper training after a worker suffered a severe eye injury
when a tractor tire he was inflating exploded.

Rick Antle, the company's president and chief executive, said it employed 2,200
workers and that 33 citations over two decades was ''pretty good.'' He said
Tanimura & Antle was an ''impeccable'' employer and provided health and
retirement benefits. He noted that none of the citations had involved guest
workers.

The alliance's report also focused on Trident Seafoods of Seattle, saying the
company had received 212 OSHA citations and been fined $102,738.

More than half the citations were from 2000 or earlier. But in March 2011,
Trident was fined $11,645 after OSHA found that its workers had been exposed to
live electrical equipment carrying up to 480 volts, that a major electrical
cable had exposed areas and that a high-pressure hose connected to a combustible
gas container had not been properly tightened.

Trident said in a statement that any attempt to tie it to a labor abuse scandal
''is patently false'' and that ''Trident's plant safety and human resource
policies are among the best in the seafood industry.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: C. J.'s Seafood of Breaux Bridge, La., is under pressure after
complaints from employees, including about the condition of the trailers they
live in, below, on the plant's grounds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM MUELLER FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Latitude)

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday

The New Japanese Worker is Chinese

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA HARNEY

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 750 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why are Chinese coming to Japan, an expensive country they are raised
to dislike, with an economy that's shrinking while China's is expanding?


TOKYO - These days Japan's newsstands are filled with shrill, hyperbolic and
sometimes nationalistic titles about China. "The China Risk." "The End of
China." "China: Withdraw or Stay the Course." Such headlines reflect the anxiety
of a declining nation that fears its rising neighbor.

And yet, without debate or comment, Japan is opening its arms to Chinese
immigrants as never before, relying on Chinese workers to fill jobs once
reserved for locals, especially in the service sector. No one in Tokyo seems
surprised anymore to hear a Chinese accent or see a Chinese name on the name
tags of waiters or convenience-store clerks.

Among Japan's small foreign population, there are now more Chinese - 674,879 as
of last year, according to Japanese government data - than people from any other
country. That's about 10 times as many Chinese as were here in 1984, according
to the Ministry of Justice.

Why have so many Chinese wound up in Japan, an expensive country many of them
are raised to dislike, with an economy that's shrinking while China's is
expanding? And why are so many staying, given worsening relations between the
two countries?

The number of foreign workers in Japan remains small: They account for less than
one percent of all workers. But the changing composition of the foreign
workforce reveals a subtle evolution in Japan's labor market and popular
attitudes.

Most Chinese workers come through the back door, as exchange students or under
vocational training programs. Han (she asked that I not use her last name), a
22-year-old student from the northeastern Chinese city of Shenyang who turned
down a place at a Chinese university, said she never intended to come here. She
had hoped to study in the United States. But tuition there was beyond her
parents' budget, and they worried about crime. Japan was closer, safer and
cheaper. Plus, her uncle had lived here for years.

When they enroll in a Japanese language school, Chinese (and other) exchange
students are also entitled to work 28 hours a week. But the rules are poorly
enforced, a Japanese government official told me, and so many students hold more
than one job and work longer hours. Han talks of classrooms of sleeping Chinese
students. At the Tokyo convenience store where she works part-time, her
colleagues and bosses are Chinese.

Han is still hoping to find her way to the United States or Canada, but some
Chinese workers in Japan stay for a few years, save aggressively and go home.
Others come here to find a husband and get a Japanese passport: About 58 percent
of the Chinese living in Japan are women, according to Japanese government
statistics.

Japanese companies say they are hiring more foreigners, particularly Chinese, to
bring their practices closer to international norms and cultivate employees who
understand both the Japanese and Chinese markets. Hiring foreigners can help
keep down costs, not only for stores and restaurants in cities like Tokyo, but
also for manufacturers in the automotive and electronics sectors.

More significant still, Chinese workers are not confined to working in factories
in rural areas; now they're in front-line service-sector jobs in big cities.
They're out in the open, serving politicians and executives in restaurants,
wearing the uniforms of Japanese companies - generally doing jobs that two
decades ago would have rarely been left to foreigners from any country. Back in
the early 2000s, one senior Japanese airline executive told me that Japanese
airlines would never join international alliances because Japanese customers had
special service needs and didn't feel comfortable being served by foreign flight
attendants.

If Japanese customers are now willing to accept more foreigners working for
retailers and in restaurants, why not in other service roles, like nursing and
elderly care?

A Japanese journalist friend argues that Japan has been able to allow more
foreigners in because it hasn't openly debated its immigration policy. A frank
discussion would only awaken immigration's opponents, he says.

But it may be time to face the issue squarely. A country where almost
one-quarter of the population is over 65 and the workforce has been shrinking
since 1998 must do more than open its back door to part-time foreign workers. It
should throw open the front door and maybe even a few windows. Japan needs to
give more foreign workers more reasons to build their lives here.


     ·    Out of Africa
     ·    Inside Out Is Upside Down
     ·    China Beckons
     ·    The Casino Is Coming to Town
     ·    Liberty or Debt


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

What Obama Said About Immigration in His Off-the-Record Interview

BYLINE: MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 727 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the interview he gave this week to The Des Moines Register, the
president used his perceived anonymity to explain why he thinks the political
calculus will make it possible for him to overhaul the nation's immigration laws
next year.


Curious about what President Obama might say when he believes he is off the
record and can therefore afford to be "very blunt?"

In the case of the interview he gave this week to The Des Moines Register, the
president used his perceived anonymity to explain why he thinks the political
calculus will make it possible for him to overhaul the nation's immigration laws
next year.

"The second thing I'm confident we'll get done next year is immigration reform,"
Mr. Obama said in an interview he gave as he sought the newspaper's endorsement.
"And since this is off the record, I will just be very blunt. Should I win a
second term, a big reason I will win a second term is because the Republican
nominee and the Republican Party have so alienated the fastest-growing
demographic group in the country, the Latino community. And this is a relatively
new phenomenon."

"George Bush and Karl Rove were smart enough to understand the changing nature
of America," he continued. "And so I am fairly confident that they're going to
have a deep interest in getting that done. And I want to get it done because
it's the right thing to do, and I've cared about this ever since I ran back in
2008."

Of course, there is a deja-vu quality to Mr. Obama's goal of overhauling the
nation's immigration laws in the first year of his second term: he wanted to do
so in the first year of his first term, too. Inan interviewwith Jorge Ramos of
Univision in 2008, he said: "I cannot guarantee that it is going to be in the
first 100 days. But what I can guarantee is that we will have in the first year
an immigration bill that I strongly support and that I'm promoting. And I want
to move that forward as quickly as possible."

Mitt Romney has pointed to that promise repeatedly to criticize the president.
When Mr. Ramos asked Mr. Obama about that statement at a town-hall-style meeting
in Miami this year, Mr. Obama said he had not anticipated that Republicans who
previously supported reform "suddenly would walk away."

Mr. Obama did try in December 2010 to pass the Dream Act, a bill that would give
legal status to at least 1.2 million young illegal immigrants who came to the
United States as children. After an intense campaign by the White House, the
bill passed the House of Representatives.

In the Senate, it failed - by 5 votes - to gain the 60 votes needed to go to the
floor. With no prospect of passing legislation in Congress, Mr. Obama used
executive authority in June to offer reprieves from deportation to hundreds of
thousands of young illegal immigrants.

Mr. Romney said during the primaries that he would veto the Dream Act and has
made it clear that he opposes amnesty for people in the country illegally, but
has never precisely clarified what he would do about more than 11 million
illegal immigrants in the United States.

The Romney campaign responded to Mr. Obama's statement by reminding voters of
the president's failure to enact legislation during his first term. "He's caught
making secret promises to an editorial board in Iowa, which also happens to be a
promise he made in 2008, a promise he failed to keep, and a promise he doesn't
repeat publicly,'' Alberto Martinez, and adviser to the Romney campaign, said in
a statement.

Generally, Mr. Obama sounded almost as cautious in remarks he thought were
off-the-record as he does in on-the-record interviews. There was nothing like
Mr. Romney's remark at what he believed was an off-the-record fund-raiser
earlier this year that 47 percent of Americans see themselves as victims, or
like Mr. Obama's remarks at what he thought was a closed fund-raiser that
small-town Pennsylvania voters, bitter over their economic circumstances, "cling
to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them."

The White House agreed to make the interview public after the paper's editor
wrote a blog post lamenting that "The Des Moines Register's publisher and I
spoke with President Barack Obama this morning - but we can't tell you what he
said."

The published remarks shed light on what it's like when the president of the
United States asks a newspaper for its endorsement.

"Thank you, guys," the president is quoted as saying in the transcript. "I
appreciate you taking the time. I want your endorsement."
[#x2028]
After his interviewers thanked him, Mr. Obama said: "You'll feel better when you
give it. All right? Bye-bye."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rutgers Case Will Not Spur Deportation, Officials Say

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 363 words


Immigration officials said Monday that they would not try to deport Dharun Ravi,
the Indian-born 20-year-old convicted in March of using a webcam to spy on his
roommate having sex with another man in their dormitory at Rutgers University.

Mr. Ravi is expected to be released from the Middlesex County Adult Corrections
Center in North Brunswick, N.J., on Tuesday, after serving 20 days of a 30-day
jail sentence imposed in May. He earned the early release, as state statute
allows, for good behavior and work credit.

Officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement said they were not allowed to
remove individuals, like Mr. Ravi, who are lawful permanent residents of the
United States, unless they are convicted of an aggravated felony, domestic
violence, drug or weapons charges or ''crimes of moral turpitude.''

''Based on a review of Mr. Ravi's criminal record, ICE is not initiating removal
proceedings at this time,'' said Ross Feinstein, a spokesman for the immigration
and customs agency.

Immigration officials said the decision would be reconsidered only if Mr. Ravi,
who moved here from India when he was 6, committed crimes in the future.

Mr. Ravi's lawyers have said that he intends to appeal his conviction, but in
the meantime will work toward completing the remainder of his sentence, which
includes 300 hours of community service, three years' probation and a $10,000
fine that goes to a fund to help victims of bias crimes.

Prosecutors have also appealed the sentence, arguing that he deserved more time
behind bars.

Mr. Ravi spied on his roommate, Tyler Clementi, three weeks into their freshman
year at Rutgers in September 2010, then sent out Twitter messages reporting that
he had seen Mr. Clementi ''making out with a dude'' and encouraging others to
watch on video chat. Mr. Clementi, who like Mr. Ravi was 18 at the time, killed
himself a couple of days after discovering the Twitter messages.

Mr. Ravi, who had no previous criminal record, was convicted on all 15 counts
against him in the Rutgers case, which included violation of privacy as well as
lying to investigators and tampering with a witness and evidence. He was not
charged in Mr. Clementi's death.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Court's Moment

BYLINE: By LINCOLN CAPLAN

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 317 words


The challenge to the Affordable Care Act tops the list of Supreme Court rulings
expected this week. The big question is whether Congress has the power to
require that individuals buy or obtain health insurance as part of a
comprehensive reform. Other issues are whether Congress can broaden Medicaid
coverage of the poor and taxpayers can even challenge the individual mandate
before it takes effect in 2014. The outcome -- aside from determining whether
millions of Americans will get health coverage -- will show whether the Roberts
court recognizes that constitutional law requires that it defer to Congress on
matters affecting the national economy.

The Arizona immigration law case is the other major piece of business left. The
core issue is whether federal immigration law invalidates the state law, which
lets police stop anyone they believe to be an illegal immigrant and makes it a
crime for anyone to be in Arizona or hold a job without valid papers. At oral
argument, Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. focused on the doctrine of pre-emption,
and brushed aside some effects of the law, whose explicit purpose is ''attrition
through enforcement'' by making life so harsh for undocumented immigrants that
they would be driven from the state. Arizona's law invites racial profiling and
abuse of police power. While the pre-emption issue is significant, the court's
ruling will inevitably be judged by many on civil rights grounds if the justices
allow the law to stand.

Other remaining cases deal with whether a federal law making it a crime to lie
about receiving military medals or honors violates free-speech rights and
whether a life-without-parole-sentence for someone convicted of murder at 14
violates the Constitution. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said recently that this
term has been ''more than usually taxing.'' She may prove right in predicting
''sharp disagreement'' on the remaining cases.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Are Crucial To Innovation, Study Says

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 763 words


Arguing against immigration policies that force foreign-born innovators to leave
the United States, a new study to be released on Tuesday shows that immigrants
played a role in more than three out of four patents at the nation's top
research universities.

Conducted by the Partnership for a New American Economy, a nonprofit group
co-founded by Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York, the study notes that nearly
all the patents were in science, technology, engineering and math, the so-called
STEM fields that are a crucial driver of job growth.

The report points out that while many of the world's top foreign-born innovators
are trained at United States universities, after graduation they face ''daunting
or insurmountable immigration hurdles that force them to leave and bring their
talents elsewhere.''

The Partnership for a New American Economy released a paper in May saying that
other nations were aggressively courting highly skilled citizens who had settled
in the United States, urging them to return to their home countries. The
partnership supports legislation that would make it easier for foreign-born STEM
graduates and entrepreneurs to stay in the United States.

''Now that we know immigrants are behind more than three of every four patents
from leading universities, the federal laws that send so many of them back to
their home countries look even more patently wrong,'' Mayor Bloomberg said in a
statement.

But some worry that the partnership's ideas for immigration reform would
undermine similarly skilled American workers while failing to address broader
problems with immigration policy.

''No one is asking what is in their best interest, the American worker,'' said
Eric Ruark, director of research for the Federal for American Immigration
Reform, an advocacy group that is pushing for reduced immigration. ''It's what
is best for the employers. What is best for the foreign workers. It's not as if
the foreign workers aren't skilled. What's being ignored is we already have a
domestic work force that has the same skills.''

The most recent study seeks to quantify the potential costs of immigration
policies by reviewing 1,469 patents from the 10 universities and university
systems that had obtained the most in 2011. The schools include the University
of California system, Stanford and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Patents, the study maintains, are a gauge for a nation's level of innovation and
an important way for the United States to maintain an edge in STEM fields.

In one illustration of the issue, the study notes that nine out of 10 patents at
the University of Illinois system in 2011 had at least one foreign-born
inventor. Of those, 64 percent had a foreign inventor who was not yet a
professor but rather a student, researcher or postdoctoral fellow, a group more
likely to face immigration problems.

Some of the patents that were reviewed for the report have become business
ventures. Wenyuan Shi, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles,
earned a patent for an ingredient in a lollipop he developed that works as a
dental treatment for children. A native of China, Mr. Shi has created a company
to commercialize his inventions.

But current immigration laws can make it difficult for foreign-born students to
remain in the United States after graduation. And employers may be wary of
hiring them because green cards, allowing for permanent residency status, are
limited and the process of obtaining one is cumbersome and expensive.

Under the current system, foreign-born students are allowed to stay in the
United States for 12 to 29 months after graduation, provided they find a job or
internship in their field.

After that, more permanent visas are difficult to obtain, restricted by factors
like country quotas. The study notes that China is entitled to the same number
of visas as Iceland.

Dr. Ashlesh Murthy came to the United States from India in 2001 to pursue a
master's degree in molecular biology at the University of Texas at San Antonio.
Working with his professors there, he developed a vaccine for the sexually
transmitted diseasechlamydia, which obtained patents in 2011 and 2012.

Nonetheless, Dr. Murthy had to negotiate a bureaucratic maze to remain in the
United States, and at one point was stuck in India for an extra month because
American officials in India doubted a previously approved visa.

Noting that university officials petitioned a congressman to intervene on his
behalf, Dr. Murthy, said, ''If I was not in a position where they really wanted
me, I seriously doubt I would have gotten back.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wenyuan Shi, a native of China, earned a patent in 2011 for the
active ingredient in a lollipop that can help prevent tooth decay. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY U.C.L.A. SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices assert federal power on immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL THE SUPREME COURT ACTS;
Pg. 22

LENGTH: 551 words


The Supreme Court rejected the foundation of Arizona's cold-blooded immigration
law and the indefensible notion the state can have its own foreign policy. In a
5-to-3 decision, the court blocked three of four provisions in the statute and
gave a significant, though incomplete, victory to the federal government.

The majority opinion, by Justice Anthony Kennedy, knocked out sections of
Arizona's 2010 statute, S.B. 1070, that made it a crime not to carry immigration
papers in the state and a crime for an undocumented immigrant to apply for a job
or to work there. The court also struck down a section that gave state officers
power to arrest without a warrant anyone that they had ''probable cause to
believe'' had committed a crime that could make that person subject to
deportation.

Justice Kennedy's opinion rests heavily on the principle that the federal
government has exclusive power over immigration policy as part of its power to
control relations with foreign nations -- and thus pre-empts states from
entering this area of governance.

The ruling is a clear warning to other states that they, too, are barred from
writing their own immigration laws, including imposing state punishments on the
undocumented. Arizona's fallacious claim that part of its statute was intended
merely to help federal agents do their job was rejected outright.

The court said the requirement to carry papers intruded on federal registration
of immigrants. The criminal section, it said, added prohibitions ''where no
federal counterpart exists.'' And the provision allowing the state to arrest a
person for being deportable breached ''the principle that the removal process is
entrusted to the discretion of the federal government.''

The one section the court did uphold requires officers to check the immigration
status of anyone they stop, arrest or detain on some other legitimate basis --
if the officer has a ''reasonable suspicion'' the person is in the country
illegally. Justice Kennedy wrote that until that provision is put into
operation, the court could not assume that it would be applied in ways that
conflict with federal law.

But the intent of the law is to harass Hispanics and to drive out immigrants by
''attrition through enforcement.'' That section of the law, as it goes into
effect, will promote racial profiling of all Hispanics, including American
citizens and legal residents. By mandating verification of immigration status
even when it is unlikely the federal government will deport the individual, the
provision sows fear that any contact with law enforcement -- even for a
jaywalking ticket -- could result in detention.

Justice Kennedy's opinion noted that allowing the provision to stand for now
''does not foreclose other pre-emption and constitutional challenges to the law
as interpreted and applied after it goes into effect.''

But in allowing the section to stand, the majority bends over backward not to
deal forthrightly with the racial context of Arizona's immigration efforts. The
majority should have struck it down as well.

A pending lawsuit against S.B. 1070, including this section, could become a
compelling challenge on the basis of discrimination. The Justice Department
should ensure that the state's application of this section is as careful as the
Supreme Court said it expects.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Rulings on Hot-Button Issues

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 547 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Court Splits Immigration Law Verdicts; Upholds Hotly Debated Centerpiece,
8-0'' (front page, June 26):

The Supreme Court has upheld the most damaging element of SB 1070, Arizona's
cruel anti-immigrant law. The ''show me your papers'' provision allows law
enforcement to profile people based on the color of their skin.

A community in which racial profiling is permitted -- even invited -- is a
community deprived of its basic right to safety and dignity. And such laws have
a particular impact on women and families. Under the constant threat of police
harassment and possible detention, even simple daily outings -- running errands,
driving to work, grocery shopping, taking your child to the doctor -- become
fraught with fear and very real risk.

In Alabama, mothers drop their children off at school not knowing if they'll be
back to pick them up. Some families no longer go out at all.

President Obama, in having moved to protect young immigrants from unwarranted
deportation, is correct: ''We are a better nation than one that expels innocent
young kids.'' But are we so much better for continuing to harass and deport
their mothers?

We must take heart in that two-thirds of American voters support Mr. Obama's
plan for young immigrants. And we must take action to protect the rights of all
women, men and children who call America home.

MALLIKA DUTT New York, June 26, 2012

The writer is president of Breakthrough, a human rights organization.

To the Editor:

The Supreme Court's rationale for upholding the section of Arizona's misguided
immigration law that allows law enforcement to check on a detainee's immigration
status might seem innocuous in high-minded legalese, but will likely falter in
practice. It doesn't take too much imagination to predict what criteria will
constitute a reasonable suspicion of a suspect's immigration status.

Most of the criteria will be generic metrics shared by dark-skinned and
dark-haired Hispanics, many of whom speak Spanish or accented English. While
these characteristics describe many undocumented immigrants, they also describe
many American citizens who also happen to be Hispanic.

There are other racial and ethnic groups living and working in the United States
without papers, permission or official sanction. However, I seriously doubt that
an Irish brogue will rate high among Arizona law enforcement as cause for
reasonable suspicion.

It's logical that many people have a reasonable suspicion that Arizona's law
will ultimately insult personal dignity and infringe upon civil rights.

WAYNE TRUJILLO Denver, June 26, 2012

To the Editor:

I read with dismay about the Roberts court's refusal by a 5-to-4 vote to revisit
the odious and damaging Citizens United decision (news article, June 26), which
has already ransacked this election year. The funneling of unregulated money
into the system sets up future presidencies by super PAC, with affluent
corporate elites able to manipulate and control the levers of public discourse
and political institutions far beyond elections alone.

Short of an unexpected change on the present court, Citizens United is going to
be around as the law of the land for a long time to come, with the American
people and political system the great losers.

PETER BARKLEY Cambridge, Mass., June 26, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 11, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Policy On Immigrants Is Challenged By Chicago

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and STEVEN YACCINO; Julia Preston reported from New
York, and Steven Yaccino from Chicago.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 872 words


Just weeks after the Supreme Court largely reaffirmed the Obama administration's
immigration enforcement powers in its legal battle with Arizona, federal
officials are facing a new, politically tricky clash with local authorities over
immigration, this time in Chicago.

At a news conference on Tuesday, Mayor Rahm Emanuel said he would propose an
ordinance that would bar police officers from turning over illegal immigrants to
federal agents if the immigrants do not have serious criminal convictions or
outstanding criminal warrants.

In contrast to the Obama administration's long-running confrontation with
officials in Arizona, who are mostly Republicans, the latest challenge to the
president's immigration policies comes from Mr. Emanuel, his former chief of
staff, and from other Democratic allies in President Obama's hometown.

''If you have no criminal record, being part of a community is not a problem for
you,'' Mr. Emanuel said, speaking at a high school library in Little Village, a
Latino neighborhood. ''We want to welcome you to the city of Chicago.''

The mayor said the proposal was part of his goal to make Chicago the ''most
immigrant-friendly city in the country.''

While Arizona sought to authorize the state and local police to enforce
immigration laws more strictly than federal policy, officials in Chicago and
surrounding Cook County want to ease the impact of enforcement on immigrant
neighborhoods by restraining the local police and restricting the action of
federal agents. The Supreme Court ruled on the Arizona law on June 25, striking
down most of the controversial parts.

Mr. Emanuel's initiative came as a senior administration official in Washington
stepped up the heat on Cook County, a vast Illinois jurisdiction that includes
Chicago and nearby suburbs, where commissioners adopted an ordinance last
September that sharply limited local police cooperation with federal immigration
agents.

Testifying before a subcommittee in the House of Representatives, John Morton,
the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Cook County's
ordinance was ''inconsistent with the terms of federal law.''

That law generally bars county police and jails from detaining illegal
immigrants to turn them over to federal agents, unless the agents have a
specific warrant. It is the strongest of the ''sanctuary'' ordinances adopted by
a handful of cities and counties nationwide, which have spared illegal
immigrants from being held for deportation if they have committed only minor
civil immigration violations.

Republicans in Congress have accused the Obama administration of a double
standard, since it sued Arizona over its immigration efforts but has taken no
action against Cook County.

''I am quite confident their approach is ultimately going to lead to additional
crimes in Cook County that would have been prevented,'' Mr. Morton said. He said
the administration was discussing ''legal options'' against the county, and was
likely to cut federal funds that reimburse Cook County for detaining illegal
immigrants in its jails. In 2011, the county received $2.3 million in those
funds, according to official figures.

Chicago is governed separately from Cook County. The city's ordinance would give
its police department more power to decide which immigrants to turn over to
federal agents, but it would not curtail most cooperation as Cook County has
done.

Behind the disputes in Illinois is a federal program called Secure Communities,
under which local police and jail authorities share fingerprints with federal
immigration agents of everyone they book. The Obama administration has rapidly
expanded the program across the country, with Illinois being one of only two
states -- the other is Alabama -- where it has been implemented in some
jurisdictions but not statewide.

Many immigrant organizations have bitterly resisted the program, saying it
erodes trust between their communities and the local police. A coalition of
groups on Tuesday announced a national campaign to try to persuade more
localities to ban or restrict the program.

Mr. Emanuel did not pose his initiative as a challenge to Mr. Obama. Rather he
laid blame on Congress for inaction on immigration. The City Council will
consider the ordinance this month.

Mr. Emanuel and police officials have been under fire for a gang problem in
Chicago, with homicides up 39 percent from a year ago. The mayor said the
proposed ordinance would encourage some immigrants to help the police without
fear of being deported. ''If you're a good citizen, immigration status is not a
pause button for you to call the police department,'' he said.


This article has been revised to reflect the following correction

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Program Tracks Arrests In Group of Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 744 words


Immigrants who were identified under a federal fingerprinting program as
possibly being here illegally but who were not detained by immigration
authorities were arrested again on more than 1,800 serious offenses, according
to a report by the Congressional Research Service. The charges included 19
murders, 3 attempted murders and 142 sex crimes.

The report, released Tuesday by the Judiciary Committee of the House of
Representatives, analyzed arrests of immigrants whose fingerprints generated
matches with federal databases under an Obama administration program called
Secure Communities. The researchers focused on 159,286 immigrants who were
arrested by state or local police, were not taken into custody by federal
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents and then were arrested again by the
police.

Among those immigrants, the report identified 7,283 who were likely to have been
in the country illegally at the time of the first arrest. They were arrested
again on a total of 16,226 charges. While the majority were not for serious
crimes, there were 1,105 charges for violent or major crimes, including the
murder and sex charges, as well as 682 crimes described as burglary or theft and
48 firearms charges, according to the report. There were also 1,420 suspected
drug violations.

The report covers arrests during almost three years, from October 2008, when
Secure Communities was begun under the administration of President George W.
Bush, through July 2011. Obama administration officials have vigorously defended
the program and have expanded it so far across 48 states, with plans to cover
the entire country by 2013.

The Congressional Research Service is a nonpartisan agency that conducts
research at the request of lawmakers. The report drew clashing interpretations
from Obama administration officials and Republican lawmakers and seemed certain
to fuel new arguments in the months before the November elections over
immigration enforcement.

Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, who ordered the report from the research service, said it
showed that President Obama's policies had allowed dangerous criminals to go
free after they were identified in fingerprint checks, to commit crimes that
could have been avoided.

''Rather than protect the American people he was elected to serve, President
Obama has imposed a policy that allows thousands of illegal immigrants to be
released into our communities,'' Mr. Smith said. He called the policy a
''reckless amnesty agenda that is dangerous and deadly for Americans.''

John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, also known as
ICE, challenged Mr. Smith's view, calling it ''a misleading picture of the facts
and a disservice to our actual efforts.''

Administration officials said they have pushed to expand Secure Communities in
order to enhance their ability to detect and deport serious criminals. They
noted that the report covered arrests from several years before the program was
widely in place and before they established priorities that focus deportations
on immigrants with criminal records. Under Secure Communities, fingerprints of
anyone arrested by the police are checked against federal criminal databases and
also against Department of Homeland Security immigration records.

As a result of the priorities, some illegal immigrants who did not have criminal
convictions have been released after being flagged through Secure Communities.
But of more than 396,000 immigrants deported last year, officials said, about 55
percent were convicted criminals, an 89 percent increase in the number of
criminals deported compared with the last year of the Bush administration.

''We have removed more criminal offenders than any administration,'' Mr. Morton
said. He said his agency had not found any case of an immigrant released after a
fingerprint match who was later convicted of murder.

According to the report, ICE could probably not have detained about 70 percent
of the immigrants who were released after fingerprint checks, generally because
they were legal immigrants not yet convicted of any crime. The report also found
48,660 cases of immigrants who were released after Secure Communities matches
because they were United States citizens.

The report is based on criminal charges, not convictions. Many immigrants were
arrested on more than one offense -- including one immigrant who was arrested
more than 50 times.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congressional Fund-Raiser Charged With Immigration Fraud

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 695 words


A former rabbinical aide who may hold the fate of a United States representative
in his hands has been arrested on immigration-fraud charges, federal authorities
said on Friday.According to a criminal complaint unsealed on Friday, the aide,
Ofer Biton, 39, who used to work for Rabbi Yoshiyahu Pinto of Manhattan, schemed
to commit immigration fraud and other illegal acts with other people.

United States Magistrate Judge Steven M. Gold signed a warrant on Monday that
led to Mr. Biton's arrest late in the week.

Mr. Biton, who was arraigned in Brooklyn on Friday and ordered held at the
Metropolitan Detention Center without bail, has previously denied any
wrongdoing. His lawyer, Jeffrey Udell, declined to comment on Friday.

According to the complaint, Mr. Biton deceived the government in June 2010 about
the source of $500,000 that he claimed to have put into a new business that was
to make him eligible for a permanent visa.

Immigrants who can document that they have invested significant amounts of
capital in the United States and have created jobs for Americans are often
eligible for a permanent visa for themselves and their families. But under the
rules, the seed money for the business has to have been obtained honestly.

In his papers, Mr. Biton claimed much of the money for his business came from a
loan from a family friend.

In challenging that account, the complaint strongly hints that the money was
raised through more coercive means, like extortion.

While it was not mentioned in the complaint, Mr. Biton has also emerged as a key
figure in the 2009-10 Congressional campaign of Representative Michael G. Grimm,
a Republican who represents Staten Island and Brooklyn and is seeking
re-election. Though Mr. Biton is barred from raising money for federal election
campaigns because he is an illegal immigrant, he is said to have raised much of
Mr. Grimm's campaign money for that race from the rabbi's followers and left the
impression with some of them that he expected help with his visa problems in
return if Mr. Grimm was elected.

Mr. Grimm, who has not been charged with a crime, insists he complied with all
campaign laws.

The presence of Anthony Capozzolo, the head of the public corruption unit of the
United States attorney's office in Brooklyn, at Mr. Biton's arraignment,
reinforced the appearance that the case has more significance to the government
than a mere immigration case.

Mr. Capozzolo has been busy ever since the authorities became aware last year of
serious irregularities and turmoil at Shuva Israel, an Orthodox yeshiva on the
East Side of Manhattan that Mr. Biton helped establish as the top aide to and
translator for Rabbi Pinto, who speaks Hebrew.

For several months now, the authorities have been investigating the possibility
that Mr. Biton, along with Ronn Torossian, a public relations executive,
embezzled millions of dollars in charitable funds from the yeshiva and extorted
additional money from the rabbi and his followers until Mr. Biton parted ways
with the congregation in 2010. Mr. Torossian, who has not been charged, has
emphatically denied any wrongdoing.

Asked for comment, his lawyer, Gerald L. Shargel, called the complaint ''a
collection of hints and innuendos.''

''There is nothing in the document that requires me to comment,'' he added.

Lawyers who read the complaint said that the charges appeared to have been
narrowly drawn to preserve Mr. Biton's ability to become a government witness
and cooperate against other possible defendants in a scheme whose tentacles have
already touched off public corruption investigations in the halls of Congress
and overseas.

By focusing strictly on the immigration fraud and not on other areas where Mr.
Biton might have criminal exposure, the government may be ensuring that it
minimizes the amount of potentially incriminating material it ultimately has to
make public about Mr. Biton, since that material could be used by other
defendants to attack his credibility or motives, the lawyers explained.

''We're satisfied that this investigation is proceeding and we look forward to
the criminal justice system playing itself out,'' said Arthur L. Aidala, Rabbi
Pinto's lawyer.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/18/nyregion/biton-fund-raiser-for-grimm-accused-o
f-immigration-fraud.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ofer Biton has been accused  of immigration fraud. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY YOSSEF BEN YOSSEF)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Official's Lawsuit Claims Discrimination Against Men at U.S. Immigration Agency

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Julia Preston contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 839 words


A discrimination and retaliation lawsuit has embroiled the upper reaches of the
federal government's immigration enforcement agency, contributing to a sense of
turmoil in a bureaucracy that has been suffering major labor conflicts between
senior officials and employees.The lawsuit, filed by a top federal immigration
official in New York, alleges that he was shunted out of a high-level position
in the agency in favor of a less-qualified woman because he was a man.

The official, James T. Hayes Jr., also accuses the agency's chief of staff,
Suzanne Barr, of ''sexually offensive behavior'' that contributed to a
discriminatory work environment for male employees.

Last week, Ms. Barr stepped down from her post and voluntarily left the agency
on paid leave pending the outcome of an internal review of the misconduct
allegations, a spokesman said.

The charges by Mr. Hayes have added to a sense of unrest in the agency,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the Department of Homeland
Security.

The union that organizes more than 7,000 enforcement agents, the National ICE
Council, has been openly critical of the leadership of the agency's director,
John Morton, and resistant to policy changes he has introduced. The head of the
union has accused Mr. Morton, who was appointed in 2009, of failing to consult
with agents in the field about the effect of the new policies.

Last week the union posted a petition on its Web site asking for public support
for ICE officers who are ''upholding the law.'' As of Tuesday morning it had
more than 55,000 signatures.

The discrimination lawsuit, which names Janet Napolitano, the Homeland Security
secretary, as the sole defendant, was filed in May by Mr. Hayes, special agent
in charge of investigations for the agency's New York office.

In the lawsuit, Mr. Hayes claims he was shoved out of a senior-level management
position to make way for a less-qualified woman and then suffered retaliation
when he threatened to file a discrimination complaint.

In addition, he accuses Ms. Barr of contributing to a sexualized office culture
hostile to men.

Ms. Barr, the lawsuit alleges, ''created a frat house-type atmosphere that is
targeted to humiliate and intimidate male employees.''

Men make up a majority of the leadership at ICE.

Mr. Hayes's lawyer, Morris Eli Fischer, said other ICE employees had filed
affidavits in support of Mr. Hayes's lawsuit, also alleging inappropriate
behavior by Ms. Barr. Until Mr. Hayes's lawsuit, however, no employee had filed
a sexual harassment complaint against Ms. Barr, said a federal official who
requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on the record about
the case.

Mr. Hayes first accused the agency of discrimination last year in a formal
complaint to its Equal Employment Opportunity office, according to court
documents. That complaint, however, did not include any sexual harassment
allegations.

Brian Hale, director of public affairs for ICE, said the agency ''will respond
directly and strongly to this lawsuit in court.'' He added that the misconduct
allegations were referred to internal affairs investigators at Homeland Security
and ICE.

Federal lawyers filed a motion last week to dismiss the lawsuit on grounds that
it failed to present sufficient facts to justify the claims.

Mr. Hayes began his federal career in 1995 as a border patrol agent in Texas and
quickly ascended the ranks of the federal immigration bureaucracy. In September
2008, he was promoted to head the agency's detention and removal operations,
managing a staff of 8,500 and a budget of about $2.5 billion, according to the
lawsuit.

But Mr. Hayes contends that he was soon supplanted in meetings by Dora B.
Schriro, who was appointed in February 2009 as a special adviser to Ms.
Napolitano for detention and removal operations.

Mr. Hayes contends that he was ''being replaced in his duties'' in part because
''he was not female,'' according to the lawsuit, which was filed in the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia.

Mr. Hayes claims that Ms. Schriro was unqualified for the job because she lacked
federal law enforcement experience. Ms. Schriro had previously served as head of
both Missouri's and Arizona's correction departments. She left Homeland Security
in 2009 and is currently the commissioner of the New York City Department of
Correction.

Mr. Hayes sought a transfer to Los Angeles, the lawsuit contends, but his
request was denied.

When he threatened to file an internal discrimination complaint, the lawsuit
says, the agency opened four misconduct investigations against him and reopened
two others ''to intimidate him,'' the lawsuit says.

He was eventually transferred to New York in late 2009 ''at a substantial
financial loss,'' he claims, and is suing to recover $335,000 in moving costs,
unpaid relocation bonuses and lost wages. Mr. Hayes, Ms. Barr nor Ms. Schriro
could be reached for comment, though a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg
said in a statement that Ms. Schriro's appointment at ICE was ''based on
merit.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/22/us/immigration-agency-accused-of-unfairness-to
-men.html

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A lawsuit by James T. Hayes Jr., right, names Janet Napolitano,
the Homeland Security secretary, as the defendant. He says he was moved out of a
position in favor of a less-qualified woman. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE
NEW YORK TIMES
 ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Laws

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 267 words


To the Editor:

Regarding President Obama's decision to unilaterally grant amnesty to millions
of illegal immigrants, you summarized this policy as ''a decision by the
Department of Homeland Security, at President Obama's instruction, to get its
enforcement priorities right -- focusing on removing criminals and others who
threaten community safety'' (''Long Lines and Big Dreams,'' editorial, Aug. 18).

According to the president of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers'
union: ''The administration has said a lot over the last year regarding the new
policies, stating that I.C.E. agents and officers will have increased discretion
as a result of its new policies. I think it is important to set the record
straight. ... The administration's new policies do not provide officers with new
options or increased flexibility, but instead order officers not to enforce
laws.''

It is also not the case that only those with ''clean records'' are eligible for
the administration's amnesty. An individual could be convicted of as many three
federal misdemeanors and still qualify, and it is unclear if there is any limit
on the number of state misdemeanor convictions (which include, in some cases,
drunken driving, assault and some sexual offenses).

What you describe as the ''harshness'' of my views is nothing more than a belief
that the laws of this country must be enforced, and a concern that the
administration's actions have undermined the morale of the very law enforcement
officers we ought to be supporting.

JEFF SESSIONS Washington, Aug. 20, 2012

The writer is a Republican senator from Alabama.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/24/opinion/immigration-laws.html

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young and Alone, Facing Court and Deportation

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2658 words


HARLINGEN, Tex. -- The judge called his next case, scanning the courtroom.

The immigrant who was facing deportation rose to his feet, in a clean T-shirt
and khaki pants several sizes too large, with his name -- JUAN -- printed on a
tag around his neck.

But the judge could not see him. Juan's head did not rise above the court's
wooden benches.

Juan David Gonzalez was 6 years old. He was in the court, which would decide
whether to expel him from the country, without a parent -- and also without a
lawyer.

Immigration courts in this South Texas border town and across the country are
confronting an unexpected surge of children, some of them barely school age, who
traveled here without parents and were caught as they tried to cross illegally
into the United States.

The young people, mostly from Mexico and Central America, ride to the border on
the roofs of freight trains or the backs of buses. They cross the Rio Grande on
inner tubes, or hike for days through extremes of heat and chill in Arizona
deserts. The smallest children, like Juan, are most often brought by smugglers.

The youths pose troubling difficulties for American immigration courts. Unlike
in criminal or family courts, in immigration court there is no right to a lawyer
paid by the government for people who cannot afford one. And immigration law
contains few protections specifically for minors. So even a child as young as
Juan has to go before an immigration judge -- confronting a prosecutor and
trying to fight deportation -- without the help of a lawyer, if one is not
privately provided.

So far this year, more than 11,000 unaccompanied minors have been placed in
deportation proceedings, nearly double last year's numbers.

Young migrants say they are fleeing sharply escalating criminal violence in
their home countries. Federal agencies have scrambled to muster adequate
detention facilities, while legal groups try to find lawyers to represent them.
Judges, for their part, have struggled to offer fair hearings to penniless
youths who speak little English and often do not even understand why they are in
court.

The influx has heightened concerns that young people without legal help may not
be able to obtain even the most basic justice.

''It is almost impossible for children to receive relief in immigration court on
their own,'' said Meredith Linsky, the director of the South Texas Pro Bono
Asylum Representation Project, known as ProBAR, a nonprofit organization that
defends young migrants in the region. ''The reality is they cannot comprehend
the system and what is being asked of them.''

Juan David Gonzalez was just another illegal border crosser on Judge Howard E.
Achtsam's docket one recent day. Juan was guided to the front of the courtroom
by a social worker so that the judge could see him. Like any adult, Juan was
facing charges of entering the United States without authorization, punishable
by removal.

Speaking through an interpreter, Judge Achtsam delicately asked the boy his name
and age. After the social worker's nudge, Juan declared them loudly. She
informed the court of plans by a federal child welfare agency to send Juan to be
reunited with his parents, who were illegal immigrants living in another state.

Judge Achtsam postponed Juan's proceedings, but he warned the boy and other
minors in the courtroom.

''If you do not have a lawyer,'' the judge said, ''you need to be ready to speak
for yourselves at your next hearing.''

Juan left holding the social worker's hand, grinning proudly when she told him
he had done well. But his case was just beginning. Most likely it would end with
a final order for his deportation.

A Risk Worth Taking

The rush of young illegal border crossers began last fall but picked up speed
this year, according to official figures. From October through July, the
authorities detained 21,842 unaccompanied minors, most at the Southwest border,
a 48 percent increase over a year earlier.

Some left their parents behind at home. Many came yearning to reunite with
parents who have long been living here illegally.

The figures are striking because overall migration from Latin America,
especially from Mexico, fell last year to the lowest level in two decades,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center, a research group in Washington. Yet the
numbers of young unaccompanied Mexicans crossing illegally have stayed steady,
and minors from Central America -- especially El Salvador, Guatemala and
Honduras -- have nearly doubled since last year.

Policy changes in this country or Mexico do not appear to have spurred the
surge.

President Obama's announcement in June that he would halt deportations of
illegal immigrant students came months after the increases were first seen. From
the start, officials made it clear that no recent border crossers would be
eligible.

Recent illegal crossers are also excluded from an Obama administration policy
applying prosecutorial discretion to spare illegal immigrants from deportation
if they have not been convicted of crimes.

Nor has there been any effect from a recent change in Mexican law that would
make it easier for young migrants from Central America to cross Mexico on their
way to the United States. That law has not yet been put into practice, Mexican
officials said.

Some answers came from the Women's Refugee Commission, an advocacy group in New
York, which interviewed more than 150 young migrants in Texas in June. Most said
they were seeking to escape increasingly violent gangs and drug traffickers at
home, who were recruiting children aggressively.

''They are willing to risk the uncertain dangers of the trip north to escape
certain dangers they face at home,'' said Jessica Jones, a member of the
commission's fact-finding team.

Sometimes parents living illegally in this country will initiate a child's
journey. Tighter border enforcement under the Obama administration has made them
reluctant to leave, fearing that they will not be able to return. Instead, they
hire smugglers, paying up to $5,000 per child.

''The children at home feel unloved, they feel empty,'' said Elizabeth G.
Kennedy, a researcher at San Diego State University who studies child migrants.
''If parents know their child is feeling empty and is in danger, they will make
a decision.''

For the parents of Liliana Muñoz, 6, it was a bloody spree of shootouts and
kidnappings by drug traffickers close to her home in Tamaulipas, in northeast
Mexico, that prompted them to send for their daughter. Both illegal immigrants,
they had been living near Atlanta since 2007.

They had steady jobs, he in landscaping and she in a restaurant, and regularly
wired money to an aunt in Mexico who was raising Liliana.

''But we knew what she needed was not the money, not the clothes,'' Mrs. Muñoz
said in Spanish. ''She needed the attention and care of her parents.'' (Although
their daughter's name is now in the public record, the parents spoke on the
condition that their full names not be published because of their illegal
status.)

To avoid the perils of an illegal river crossing, they paid an American friend
from Georgia to bring Liliana by car through a border station, with valid
documents belonging to another child.

A vigilant inspector detected the document mismatch. Her parents got the phone
call from a border agent in Laredo, Tex., at dawn on April 3. Liliana had been
detained, he said, and if they did not come immediately, she could be held for
many months.

''Don't do any more psychological damage to her than you have already,'' the
agent said, in words Mrs. Muñoz recalled with tears of anguish.

Mrs. Muñoz rushed to Texas, but Liliana had already been transferred to a
federal detention shelter for minors near Brownsville. It took nearly a month
for the parents to secure Liliana's release.

To their relief, Liliana was content there. She ate well, played and went to
school. Her biggest complaint was that she had been placed in an arithmetic
class with children who could not do addition or subtraction.

''I already knew how to add,'' Liliana said firmly.

But there was no lawyer to accompany her to her first court hearing on June 4.
Her parents stayed away, fearful of the immigration officer at the court
entrance.

''I had to speak by myself,'' Liliana recounted in her small voice.

Even with an interpreter, Liliana had a hard time following the hearing. She
gave the judge her name and age. But she did not understand that she had crossed
an international boundary, or that she was now in the United States, or what the
United States is exactly. She did not know she had done anything wrong.

The judge set a new hearing date and urged Liliana to get a lawyer. But the
volunteer lawyers her parents consulted in South Texas have been reluctant to
take her case, which is weak since both parents are here illegally.

Yet under the administration's prosecutorial discretion policy, deportations of
very young children can sometimes be suspended, even if they entered recently.

To make the complex argument for discretion, however, Liliana needs a lawyer.
Her parents may soon have to decide what to do if she is ordered to leave. Will
they give up what they have gained in the United States and return with her --
or let her be sent back alone to a violent Mexican state?

Navigating the System

Most unaccompanied migrants are teenagers from Mexico and Central America,
seeking safety and work in the United States. In most cases minors from Mexico
will be quickly returned there, without any formal court proceeding. Minors from
noncontiguous countries are charged with immigration violations and detained.
Either way, an overwhelming majority have been required to leave.

But a recent report found that as many as 40 percent of unaccompanied minors who
were detained in federal shelters were eligible for some kind of legal
immigration status. The report was by the Vera Institute of Justice, a nonprofit
group that provides services to thousands of youths.

Through the courts, young migrants can gain legal status if they were severely
abused or neglected at home or were victims of human traffickers. Sometimes they
have relatives living here legally who can sponsor them. In a few cases,
children have discovered that they were United States citizens but did not know
it.

Even if a judge determines that young migrants must leave, they can ask to
depart voluntarily. If they are actually deported, the consequences are severe:
in many cases they cannot return legally to the United States for 10 years.

Yet young people have little chance of navigating the system without lawyers.
Parents often do not understand that their children, no matter how young, must
attend court hearings or the judge can issue a final deportation order -- the
equivalent of a criminal arrest warrant -- in absentia.

Conditions for unaccompanied migrants have improved in recent years. It is not
unusual for youths to recall the detention shelters, which are run by the
Department of Health and Human Services, as some of the best times in their
battered lives.

Immigration courts, despite an already severe overload, have designated special
days for juvenile cases, with judges trained to deal with children. The courts
offer briefings for family members about a child's obligations. Many judges will
do what Judge Achtsam did for Juan, extending the schedule to leave the child
plenty of time to be reunited with his family here, so they can plan his next
legal step.

But these advances have been strained by this year's surge. In the spring,
federal officials set up emergency shelters in gyms along the border and at
Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio. Although the crisis has passed,
officials now say they expect a ''new normal'' of about 15,000 unaccompanied
minors in detention a year, almost double previous levels.

Groups that provide legal services have been overwhelmed. Kids in Need of
Defense, known as KIND, is scouring the country for volunteer lawyers. In
Harlingen, Ms. Linsky has told the court that ProBAR cannot provide in-depth
representation to all the new detained minors on its docket.

ProBAR will at least reach minors to explain their rights. For younger children,
staff members offer advance tours to help them to get to know the courtroom.
They ask children to draw pictures of how they crossed the Rio Grande -- which
Mexicans call the Rio Bravo, the Angry River.

One afternoon, Violeta Discua, a legal assistant, gave a marathon three-hour
talk to two dozen feisty teenagers, who at first rolled their eyes and slouched
in their chairs.

Soon they were riveted.

''Who arrested you?'' Ms. Discua asked, spreading her arms and scowling to
imitate the eagle that sits atop the badges of agents.

''The Border Patrol!'' they responded, delighted at her pantomime.

''What do they want to do with you?'' she asked.

''Deport us!'' they shouted.

She gave a message many of them later said they had never heard before:
''Remember, no one can mistreat you. No one can hit you, not even with their
little finger.'' She wiggled her pinkie.

The youths fell silent, taking that in.

''Are you bad people?'' Ms. Discua asked.

''No!'' they exclaimed. She explained the rudiments of their limited legal
options, the procedures for their court appearances and what they should expect
if they were expelled from the United States, as most would be.

Sometimes, a Victory

When children appear in court without lawyers, it can be distressing for them
and for judges. One judge tried to put a boy at ease by asking playfully to
share a bit of the child's lunch. Thinking that he was supposed to have brought
food for the judge, the boy burst into tears.

Migrants who have gotten help from lawyers have won immigration cases they could
never have attempted alone. Eduín Rodríguez, now 18, was abandoned by both
parents in Honduras. He rode the tops of freight trains across Mexico and swam
the Rio Grande to Hidalgo, Tex.

Caught and sent to a shelter, Eduín made contact with ProBAR lawyers, who
realized he was a strong candidate for a special immigration status for abused
or neglected juveniles.

The legal battle wound from immigration court to Texas family court and back to
immigration court. By the end, not only Eduín had won a permanent resident's
green card. The lawyers also discovered that his sister, Cintia, who is one year
older, had made the same journey before him and was living illegally in Texas.
Through Eduín's case, she also became a legal resident.

The siblings support themselves on their own in Harlingen. They share a small
apartment, and Eduín has been working full time, helping his sister while she
went to school. Cintia graduated from high school in May with honors and also
completed a nurse aide program at a local community college.

''I left Honduras because I didn't want to be a loser,'' said Cintia, who is now
working part time at a supermarket while she continues her nursing training. She
plans to enlist in the Navy.

''It really was worth it,'' Cintia said, ''all the pain I went through, the
hunger on the trip, the thirst. I'm a successful person now because I graduated
and I'm going to college.''

Flashing a smile, she displayed her most vital documents: her Texas nurse aide
certificate and her green card.

''Thanks to God I'm here legally,'' she said.

PHOTOS: Liliana Muñoz, 6, is in deportation proceedings in Texas. Her parents,
here illegally, are afraid to appear with her in court. (A1); THROUGH A CHILD'S
EYES: Lauren Fisher, of a nonprofit group that defends young migrants, with
drawings by some of crossing what they call the Rio Bravo, left, and of their
courtroom experience, right.; ENTRY POINT: The Border Patrol at a stretch of
heavy brush along the Rio Grande in Hidalgo, Tex., where many unaccompanied
minors cross the border.; MAKING A NEW HOME: Cintia and Eduín Rodríguez,
siblings from Honduras, have been granted residency and live in Harlingen, Tex.
Video of them and other young migrants at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/26/us/more-young-illegal-immigrants-face-deportat
ion.html

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 8, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawyer Says Man's Link To Legislator Led to Arrest

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 663 words


A lawyer for an Israeli immigrant who raised thousands of dollars that helped
elect Michael G. Grimm to Congress in 2010 said Friday that the authorities
arrested his client last month on a charge of immigration fraud because of his
ties to the lawmaker.

''This case is politically motivated,'' the lawyer, John Meringolo, said at a
midday bail hearing in federal court in Brooklyn for his client, Ofer Biton.

''He did not profit one nickel, your honor,'' from this alleged crime, the
lawyer told United States Magistrate Judge Cheryl L. Pollak. While the
authorities have charged Mr. Biton with misrepresenting $400,000 on a visa
application, Mr. Meringolo argued that ''no one in the public'' had money taken
from them and ''there's never been allegations of a violent crime.''

Outside court, after Mr. Biton was denied bail, Mr. Meringolo explained why he
thinks prosecutors are focusing on his client, ''They say he has ties to Michael
Grimm,'' he said. ''I haven't seen any evidence whatsoever of wrongdoing of
Michael Grimm.''

Robert Nardoza, a spokesman for the United States attorney's office for the
Eastern District of New York, which is prosecuting the case, had a different
analysis in responding to the lawyer's allegation. ''The case,'' he said, ''is
motivated by the evidence.''

In fact, Anthony Capozzolo, a federal prosecutor at the public corruption unit
of the United States attorney's office, said in court that this was ''not a
simple visa fraud.''

''The government does expect to charge him with extortion and money
laundering,'' he said.

Rocking gently back and forth, as his wife, the eldest of his six children and a
dozen supporters watched from the back of the courtroom, Mr. Biton, said little
during the half-hour proceeding. He has been in federal custody since Aug. 16 on
the basis of a criminal complaint issued under seal on Aug 13.

Though the bail application described him mostly as the owner of
Mediterranean-style food restaurants in New York, Mr. Biton, 39, got his big
break as the aide and gatekeeper to Rabbi Yoshiyahu Pinto, a Sephardic rabbi
from Ashdod, Israel, looking to build up his following in Manhattan over the
last decade.

Relying mostly on connections he had gained by working for the rabbi, Mr. Biton,
by many accounts, then went on to help Representative Grimm, a Staten Island
Republican, raise hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign gifts from
followers of the rabbi.

Some of those donors have said in interviews that they were advised by the
candidate or Mr. Biton that there were ways for the campaign to accept large
gifts that were over the legal limits, included more cash than allowed, or were
given by people who were ineligible.

Mr. Grimm's office did not respond to a request for comment.

Prosecutors have yet to bring a formal indictment that would lay out the charges
against Mr. Biton more fully, and ordinarily, they would have until this coming
week to do so.

Without naming possible accomplices or co-conspirators, Mr. Capozzolo told the
court that the initial charges against Mr. Biton stemmed from roughly $400,000
that Mr. Biton mischaracterized on a June 2010 visa application as a loan from a
family friend.

In fact, he said, the true source of the money was hidden through a convoluted
series of transfers executed with the help of someone the prosecutor called
''Individual A.''

He said maneuvers of this type violated ''anti-money-laundering provisions'' and
''stop immigration from questioning the people whose money it really was.''

While Judge Pollak declined to grant Mr. Meringolo's bail application, she said
he could again if he could put more guarantees on the table that Mr. Biton would
not try to leave the country.

Citing his illegal immigration status -- ''Mr. Biton's status is that he has no
status,'' is how Mr. Capozzolo put it -- and the government's assertions that he
has strong family ties back in Israel, the judge told Mr. Meringolo, ''I'd need
a secure package that you have not offered.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/nyregion/lawyer-says-mans-link-to-rep-grimm-le
d-to-arrest.html

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mistrust in California

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 329 words


Gov. Jerry Brown of California dropped the ball on Sunday when he vetoed the
Trust Act, a bill aimed at keeping harmless immigrants out of the deportation
dragnet -- not out of misguided compassion, but to bolster public safety. The
police in immigrant communities depend on the cooperation of witnesses and
victims; when local officers become federal immigration deputies, fear overrides
trust and crime festers.

Mr. Brown's late-night veto bitterly disappointed immigrant advocates,
law-enforcement officials, religious leaders and others who had urged him to
take a stand against pressure from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is
deporting people at a blistering pace and wants to keep doing so. The agency's
Secure Communities program has turned local police into handmaidens of federal
immigration policy; people arrested are automatically subjected to immigration
checks, leading to the deportations of tens of thousands who have no criminal
records or are only minor offenders.

Local crime fighting and civil immigration enforcement have thus become
confusingly, dangerously entangled. States like Arizona are jumping into the
deportation business; sheriff's offices are run like rogue ICE outposts; racial
profiling and other abuses are rampant. Mr. Brown could have put California on a
better path. He failed, making it more urgent for President Obama to reform ICE
to compel it to focus on dangerous offenders and to stop outsourcing critical
discretion to local sheriffs and police departments.

Mr. Brown also vetoed a bill to make his state the second, after New York, to
extend basic labor protections to domestic workers. He won praise for signing a
bill to allow driver's licenses for young people whose deportations have been
halted by the Obama administration. But judging from the dismay that his vetoes
have caused, Mr. Brown has work to do to repair ties with a larger set of
constituents. He can start by protecting their safety, and their rights.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/03/opinion/mistrust-in-california.html

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Immigration Charges Filed Against Activist in Traffic Stop

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 502 words


Federal immigration officials said on Monday that they had decided not to detain
a prominent immigrant rights advocate after his arrest in Minnesota last week on
a traffic violation because he did not present a risk to public safety.

The immigrants' advocate, Jose Antonio Vargas, was stopped Friday morning on a
highway south of Minneapolis because he was driving with headphones on, his
lawyers said.

The Minnesota State Police officers arrested him after a check of his driver's
license revealed that it had been revoked by the authorities in Washington
State, said Debra Schneider, a lawyer for Mr. Vargas.

Mr. Vargas, an immigrant from the Philippines and a former reporter for The
Washington Post, has been an activist since he revealed in June 2011 that he had
been living in this country illegally for years.

After the traffic stop, he was taken to the Hennepin County jail, where he was
questioned by agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal
agency known as ICE. He was released Friday afternoon with no immigration
charges being filed.

''Mr. Vargas was not arrested by ICE nor did the agency issue a detainer,'' said
Gillian Christensen, an agency spokeswoman. ''ICE is focused on smart, effective
immigration enforcement that prioritizes the removal of public safety threats,
recent border crossers and egregious immigration law violators, such as those
who have been previously removed from the United States.''

Agents determined that Mr. Vargas did not fit any of those priority categories
for detention, Ms. Schneider said.

Mr. Vargas was driving a rental car on his way to give a lecture at Carleton
College in Northfield, Minn. He missed the lecture.

Mr. Vargas disclosed his illegal immigration status in a June 2011 article in
The New York Times Magazine. In that article, he revealed that he had obtained a
driver's license using a false address. Shortly afterward, officials in
Washington State revoked his license.

Mr. Vargas will be arraigned in Minneapolis on Oct. 18 on charges of driving
without a license, Ms. Schneider said.

Speaking by telephone Monday, Mr. Vargas said he could not comment in detail
because the case was still open. ''I am grateful to have made it home Friday
night,'' said Mr. Vargas, who lives in New York.

The Obama administration's policy of steering away from detaining illegal
immigrants who have not been convicted of crimes has been strongly criticized by
Republicans in Congress and by some immigration agents, who say ICE is failing
to enforce the law and creating a de facto amnesty.

Rights groups have protested that the administration's enforcement programs
still sweep up many immigrants for minor infractions like traffic violations.

In June 2012, Mr. Vargas appeared on the cover of Time magazine with an article
about young people living illegally in the United States. The next day,
President Obama announced a reprieve from deportation for hundreds of thousands
of young immigrants. At 31, Mr. Vargas is too old to qualify for that program.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/09/us/no-immigration-charges-filed-against-jose-a
ntonio-vargas-in-traffic-stop.html

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico: Drug Lord's Daughter Is Arrested at U.S. Border

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 475 words


MEXICO CITY -- A daughter of Mexico's most-wanted drug lord is in custody in the
United States after she tried to cross the border illegally into California to
give birth in Los Angeles, an American law enforcement official said Tuesday.

The woman, Alejandrina Gisselle Guzmán-Salazar, is a daughter of Joaquín Guzmán
Loera, who is known as El Chapo, or Shorty, and is the leader of the Sinaloa
drug organization, which American authorities consider the largest
drug-smuggling operation in the world.

Ms. Guzmán-Salazar, 31, who is believed to be a physician, tried to walk into
the United States on Friday afternoon at the San Ysidro border station by
presenting a Mexican passport with a fake American visa, which an immigration
officer detected.

She was escorted to a holding area where her identity was confirmed and, under
questioning, she revealed that she was Mr. Guzmán's daughter, which law
enforcement officials believe is accurate, an American official said. She also
told immigration officers that she was pregnant and planned to give birth in Los
Angeles, according to the complaint filed by federal prosecutors.

Ms. Guzmán-Salazar, who is being held without bail on immigration charges, has
hired as her lawyer Jan Ronis, whose clients have included high-profile
organized crime figures extradited from Mexico. He did not answer a message
seeking comment. Neither the United States nor Mexico has criminal charges
pending against Ms. Guzmán-Salazar, and she is not known to be an active
participant in Mr. Guzmán's drug gang.

Her arrest was first reported on Monday by The Associated Press.

Malcolm Beith, a journalist who wrote a book published in 2010 on the hunt for
Mr. Guzmán, ''The Last Narco,'' said Tuesday that he did not learn about her in
his research, which notes at least six children. But, he said, ''that's not a
huge surprise given the mythology that surrounds Chapo, and the fact that he
does have a knack for keeping closely guarded secrets just that.''

Ms. Guzmán-Salazar's mother, María Alejandrina Salazar Hernández, is believed to
be Mr. Guzmán's first wife and plays a large enough role in his organization
that in June the United States Treasury Department put sanctions on her barring
American citizens from doing business with her.

Last year, Mr. Guzmán's current wife, Emma Coronel, who has dual citizenship as
a Mexican and an American, traveled across the border to give birth to twins in
a Los Angeles-area hospital and returned to Mexico, without being stopped by
American or Mexican authorities.

She had a United States passport and no pending warrants, officials explained at
the time, and the episode led President Felipe Calderón to wonder aloud in an
interview whether Mr. Guzmán himself could be hiding out in the United States.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/17/world/americas/daughter-of-mexican-drug-lord-d
etained-us-says.html

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 16, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Athlete Is Short of 'Extraordinary' in Visa Bid

BYLINE: By JERÉ LONGMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1035 words


When it comes to table tennis, the United States is not exactly a world power.
It has never won an Olympic medal. The most visible players in the country are
not stars but weekend warriors: Warren Buffett, Bill Gates and the actress Susan
Sarandon. At the elite level, immigrant talent has long been welcomed. The
entire American team at the 2008 Beijing Olympics was born in China, a dominant
power in the sport.

But an immigration case involving an Iranian table tennis player has raised
question about exactly what status an international athlete must achieve before
being granted preferential entry into the United States. Is it enough to be the
best in your own home country? Or must you also be among the best in the world?

On Wednesday, a Federal District Court judge in New York affirmed a decision by
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services to deny an ''extraordinary
ability'' work visa to Afshin Noroozi, 27, the first table tennis Olympian from
Iran. Noroozi had sought the visa on the ground that he was a top international
player, having finished 65th at the 2008 Olympics and gained a ranking of 284th
in the world.

The Immigration Act of 1990 allows employment visas to be given to those who
possess ''extraordinary ability'' in the sciences, arts, education, business or
athletics. Winning a Nobel Prize, for instance, would signal exceptional
achievement. Finishing dozens of places behind the winner in Olympic table
tennis apparently makes a less convincing case.

While Noroozi's proficiency was ''impressive and commendable, and surely
bespeaks years of dedication and practice,'' Judge Paul A. Engelmayer of Federal
District Court in Manhattan wrote, the immigration service was ''well within its
discretion to conclude that Noroozi's standing fell short of making him 'one of
that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor.'
''

John Assadi, Noroozi's New York-based lawyer who specializes in immigration
cases, said he might appeal Wednesday's decision. Assadi said he believed the
immigration service interpreted ''extraordinary ability'' more narrowly than the
law had originally intended.

''Hopefully the government will change its stance and be more liberal in
attracting talent,'' Assadi said. ''Even if he is not 1 or 2 in the world, he
would be able to contribute in the U.S. Why they want to keep him out, I don't
know.''

Assadi said he did not believe that the tense political situation between the
United States and Iran influenced the immigration service's opposition to
Noroozi's visa. ''I think, in a way, they may not consider table tennis as a
major sport, and maybe that has something to do subconsciously in the thought
process,'' Assadi said.

A month before competing for Iran at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Noroozi came to
the United States to participate in Ping-Pong diplomacy as part of a State
Department-sponsored program to promote cultural and athletic exchanges, Assadi
said.

In 2010, Noroozi applied for an ''extraordinary ability'' visa, and his petition
was granted by the immigration service.

''I can assume he liked what he saw in 2008, and he felt the U.S. was where his
contribution could be meaningful,'' Assadi said of his client.

From there, though, the case paddled back and forth in a game of legal
Ping-Pong. The immigration service implemented new rules -- some might say a
more challenging one -- about granting visas based on extraordinary ability. In
2011, Noroozi's visa was revoked. He filed another visa petition and it was
denied.

The immigration service ruled that Noroozi did not sufficiently establish
himself as a singular talent. Among his accused deficiencies: he did not
demonstrate that he played a leading or critical role in Iranian table tennis.
His achievements were not reported in major publications. And he did not show
how his presence would benefit the United States.

Last November, Noroozi sued federal officials, including Janet Napolitano, the
Homeland Security secretary, and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. Among his
arguments were that the immigration service discriminated against Iranian
applicants. On Wednesday, though, Noroozi lost his case.

A finding in Noroozi's favor would effectively oblige the immigration service to
grant extraordinary ability visas to every one of the international table tennis
players ranked ahead of him, along with the top 284 performers (minus Americans)
in every other sport, Engelmayer wrote.

''The Court is unprepared to conclude that C.I.S. abused its discretion, or
otherwise erred, in requiring more elite standing before a petitioner can be
deemed to be at 'the very top of the field of endeavor,' '' Engelmayer wrote.

USA Table Tennis said its rules prohibited it from recruiting foreign players.
International players are welcome but expected to enter the country on their
own. The group wrote a letter on Noroozi's behalf last year, hoping he would be
able to come to help at one of the nation's 50 training centers and serve as a
sparring partner for developing players or serve as a coach.

''We don't actively target world-class players and recruit them for our national
team,'' said Michael Cavanaugh, chief executive of USA Table Tennis.

The absence of Noroozi as a player is unlikely to make any difference in
American fortunes, officials said. An athlete who is ranked only 284th in the
world at age 27 is ''not likely to see a huge surge in the next five years,''
said Sean O'Neill, a spokesman for USA Table Tennis and a former Olympian.

For now, recreational players will continue to provide the sport's buzz in the
United States. The biggest American table tennis story at the 2012 London Games
involved a 16-year-old named Ariel Hsing from San Jose, Calif., whose occasional
playing partners have included Buffett and Gates. And it is Sarandon, who
co-owns a Manhattan table tennis club called SPiN, who ''changed the cool factor
by a hundredfold,'' O'Neill said. ''She's taken it out of the basement and made
it mainstream.''

Instead of applying for an extraordinary ability visa, O'Neill suggested with a
laugh, Noroozi should have shown up at Sarandon's club ''and won the Friday
night round robin and said, 'I'd love to stay here.' ''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/16/sports/olympic-table-tennis-player-afshin-noro
ozi-falls-short-in-work-visa-case.html

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afshin Noroozi  of Iran sought an  ''extraordinary  ability''
work  visa based on his  table tennis  skills. He  finished 65th at  the 2008
Beijing  Olympics and  achieved a  ranking of 284th  in the world. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MARIANN DOMONKOS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kansas: Students Picket Secretary of State

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | PLAINS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 89 words


About 50 college students who are in the United States illegally marched on the
Kansas secretary of state's office to urge him to stop working on immigration
laws and do his state job. The students delivered a letter on Tuesday to a staff
member, who said the secretary, Kris W. Kobach, was unable to meet with them.
Mr. Kobach is a Republican and former law professor at the University of
Missouri, Kansas City. He has helped shape immigration policies around the
country and continues to litigate immigration issues in other states.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/21/us/kansas-students-picket-secretary-of-state.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 28, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plan Aims To Add Help To Contest Deportation

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 691 words


In 2010, a federal judge in New York City convened a task force of prominent
immigration lawyers, academics and advocates to tackle a longstanding problem:
the dearth of legal representation for immigrants fighting deportation.

Now, after extensive debate and research, this group has developed a plan to
create a network of legal service providers to represent all low-income
immigrants in the region who have been detained and face deportation.

The network would be the first of its kind in the country, say its proponents.

''While a number of states have entered the immigration arena in ways generally
hostile to immigrants, a more enlightened New York City and New York State could
be among the first to use state and local power to preserve the rights of
immigrants, to keep immigrant families intact, and to retain the vibrant
immigrant character of its diverse communities,'' said a report that outlines
the plan, called the New York Immigrant Family Unity Project.

The report is to be released on Wednesday.

The task force, which was organized by Judge Robert A. Katzmann of the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals, determined that 60 percent of detained immigrants in
the New York region did not have counsel at the time their cases were completed.
In addition, 18 percent of detained immigrants with representation had
successful outcomes in their cases, compared with 3 percent of detained
immigrants without counsel.

Unlike in criminal proceedings, defendants in immigration court have no
constitutional right to a court-appointed lawyer. Ignorance, fear, language
barriers and poverty also can keep legal counsel out of the reach of immigrants.

But having a lawyer is no guarantee that an immigrant will be well-represented.
In a 2011 report by the group, judges in the region said legal assistance in
nearly half the cases they heard was deemed ''inadequate'' or ''grossly
inadequate.''

The impact of inadequate representation is felt most acutely in cities with
large immigrant populations, like New York City, immigration experts say.
Deportation can fracture families and communities and put additional stress on
city and state social programs as deportees' dependents who remain behind are
forced to seek help.

''Put simply, the City and State of New York bear a heavy cost as a result of
the immigrant representation crisis,'' according to the new report.

The proposed project would seek to provide legal representation for all
low-income immigrants being held in detention centers in Manhattan, Newark and
Elizabeth, N.J., as well as for those facing deportation while being held in New
York State prisons.

The researchers estimated that the network would help about 1,800 clients a
year.

A screening would determine eligibility according to income guidelines, and all
qualified immigrants would receive not only a qualified lawyer but also support
services like interpreters, mental-health counseling and social service
guidance.

The project would rely on a small group of immigration legal service providers
-- private law firms as well as nonprofit organizations -- selected through a
bidding process and would be overseen by a coordinating organization.

The plan's supporters have proposed that the system be publicly financed; they
estimate that it would cost about $6 million a year.

Peter L. Markowitz, a clinical associate professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo
School of Law and co-chairman of the task force that conceived the plan, said he
and his colleagues had not yet discussed the project's feasibility with
government officials.

''We certainly haven't gone down that road yet,'' he said. ''I'm sort of eager
to begin that discussion with the launching of the report.''

More than 20 of the city's leading immigrant advocacy organizations have
declared their support for the project.

''Given that it is often difficult for people to understand the charges against
them, much less be able to answer them, it is an utter fantasy to believe that a
system where almost half of the defendants have no legal assistance is producing
just and fair results,'' said J. C. Salyer, staff lawyer for the Arab-American
Family Support Center in Brooklyn.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/28/nyregion/plan-would-add-lawyers-to-contest-dep
ortation-cases.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Votes To Ease Restrictions On Visas

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 659 words


WASHINGTON -- A divided House of Representatives voted Friday to ease visa
restrictions for a limited pool of foreign workers, previewing a fight over how
far Congress should go in changing the country's immigration laws.

Leaders of both parties believe the issue will be one of the biggest they will
face after the new Congress convenes in January, pitting lawmakers who want a
more sweeping immigration overhaul against those who think an incremental
approach stands the best chance of passing both houses.

The bill the House approved by a vote of 245 to 139 -- with just 27 Democrats
supporting it -- stands little chance of advancing in the Senate, where
Democrats have control. And the White House has come out in opposition to the
bill, calling it too ''narrowly tailored'' and incompatible with President
Obama's vision for a more comprehensive approach.

Looming over the House vote was a stark political reality: Republicans received
just a sliver of the Hispanic vote in the elections last month, and the party is
divided over how best to improve its standing with such a large and growing
demographic.

Some Republicans are eager to move forward with legislation that would tighten
border controls but also start paving a path to citizenship for some of the
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants now in the United States, a move that
could help reverse impressions among Hispanics that the party is hostile to
immigrants. But many are also wary of the furor that could arise among
conservative voters over any perceived softness on those who are here illegally.

Some leading Republicans have become more vocal about their desire to see
immigration legislation pass, albeit in a nuanced fashion. Representative Eric
Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, published an op-ed article in
multiple newspapers this week making an economic argument to pass the House
bill.

''Entrepreneurship and job creation won't kick into high gear until businesses
have the workers they need to drive growth and innovation,'' he wrote, ''and
immigrants have always been a key part of the equation.''

The House bill, which would provide for 55,000 visas for foreign graduates of
American universities who have doctoral and master's degrees in science,
technology, engineering or mathematics, was an attempt to reconcile the concerns
within the party. And some Republicans acknowledged its shortcomings.

''It is not the panacea,'' said Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, who represents
a stretch of South Florida west of Miami. ''It does not solve all the problems.
But it takes a huge step.''

Businesses, particularly technology and software companies, had pushed for the
legislation as a way to help address the shortage of skilled American workers.

But some Democrats said Friday that the bill set immigrant groups against one
another by deepening demographic divides.

''That is not America,'' said Representative Luis V. Gutierrez of Chicago.
''There was no special line for Ph.D.'s and master's degree holders at Ellis
Island.''

Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan called the bill ''a naked attempt to
satisfy anti-immigrant groups.''

In the Senate, there are several different immigration proposals but no clear
road to passage yet. One plan favored by Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida
Republican, would start by providing a path to legal status for children who
were brought here illegally by their parents.

But more comprehensive efforts have languished in the Senate ever since
bipartisan negotiations between Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a
Republican, and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Democrat, broke down
in 2010.

But recently the two have restarted talks about a far-reaching bill that would
include the House plan as part of a package that would combine enhanced border
security -- a sweetener for conservatives -- with ways for illegal immigrants to
become citizens.

Senate Democrats expect that hearings could begin in early 2013.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/01/us/politics/house-votes-to-ease-restrictions-o
n-visas.html

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Delay Sought For Visa Cases That Involve Same-Sex Spouses

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WASHINGTON; Pg.
20

LENGTH: 146 words


In a letter to the White House on Monday, more than 50 gay rights and immigrant
advocacy groups asked President Obama to delay immigration cases involving
Americans who are seeking legal residency visas, known as green cards, for their
foreign-born spouses of the same sex until the Supreme Court issues a ruling on
same-sex marriage next year. Under the federal Defense of Marriage Act, a
same-sex marriage cannot be a valid basis for federal benefits, including
immigration documents. Administration officials have been denying applications
for green cards for foreign-born same-sex spouses of American citizens. On
Friday, the Supreme Court agreed to hear two cases involving same-sex marriages,
including a direct challenge to the federal law. The groups are asking the
administration to postpone decisions on green card applications from gay couples
until the court rules.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/11/us/delay-sought-for-visa-cases-that-involve-sa
me-sex-spouses.html

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday

In Speech, Romney Takes Softer Tone on Immigration

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 957 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney on Thursday offered what he called a strategy for
"bipartisan and long-term immigration reform" as he prepared to address a
convention of Latino elected officials in Florida.


Mitt Romney on Thursday offered what he called a strategy for "bipartisan and
long-term immigration reform" in an address to a convention of Latino elected
officials in Florida.

In the speech, which also touched on the economy, Mr. Romney dropped the
confrontational tone he took on immigration during the Republican primary.
Instead, he promised to work in a series of areas to help immigrants and their
families while discouraging people from coming to the country illegally.

"Immigration reform is not just a moral imperative, but an economic necessity as
well," Mr. Romney said. "We can find common ground here, and we must. We owe it
to ourselves as Americans to ensure that our country remains a land of
opportunity - both for those who were born here and for those who share our
values, respect our laws, and want to come to our shores."

But Mr. Romney, who has refused to say whether he would overturn a policy
announced last week by President Obama that would stop the deportation of some
illegal immigrants who were brought to the country as children, again
sidestepped that question.

"Some people have asked if I will let stand the president's executive action,"
he said. "The answer is that I will put in place my own long-term solution that
will replace and supersede the president's temporary measure."

Even as he started speaking, Mr. Romney's campaign released an outline of his
plan, which would include giving green cards to immigrants who earn advanced
degrees at American universities; providing a path to legal status for illegal
immigrants who serve in the military; and cutting red tape.

"As president, I will stand for a path to legal status for anyone who is willing
to stand up and defend this great nation through military service," Mr. Romney
said.

The nearly twenty-minute speech was met with tepid applause and moments of
pointed silence. He seemed to hit his stride near the middle of his remarks,
when he talked about balancing the budget, giving parents a choice of where to
send their children to school, and providing a path to legal status for
immigrants who have served in the military. At the end, about half the room
stood up to applaud.

Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, said that the fact that Mr. Romney
addressed the conference was a meaningful gesture.

"It was a great speech, I was real impressed with it and I'm glad he came," Mr.
Bush said. "I think he was received respectfully and warmly."

Democrats criticized Mr. Romney on immigration issues even before the speech was
delivered.

In a memo to reporters, Bill Burton, a founder of Priorities USA Action, a
"super PAC" backing Mr. Obama, wrote that Mr. Romney was attempting to hide his
real views on the issue from voters.

"Mitt Romney's speech in Florida today will be an attempt to cover up the
divisive rhetoric and draconian policies he has espoused for years on
immigration," Mr. Burton wrote. "Today's slick speech will not change the fact
that Romney has repeatedly used divisive language to propose an extreme
immigration policy."

The issue of immigration is shaping up as a critical one in the presidential
election. Mr. Romney trails President Obama by wide margins among Hispanic
voters, a gap which could provide the difference in important swing states like
Colorado, Nevada, Florida and Virginia, where Latino populations are growing.

Mr. Obama is scheduled to speak to the same group on Friday. But for now, the
pressure is on Mr. Romney to increase his appeal among Hispanic voters.

Advisers inside and outside Mr. Romney's campaign have urged him to shape a
positive message to Hispanics on immigration and dispel the harsh image he
created during the primaries.

"Ultimately what we're talking about here is the tone is what has hurt
Republicans in the past, not the policies,'' said Alberto Martinez, an adviser
and spokesman for the campaign on Hispanic issues.

But that effort is likely to run headfirst into some of Mr. Romney's
conservative supporters. Many in the Republican base believe that any solution
that lets illegal immigrants remain in the country is unacceptable. During the
primary race Mr. Romney courted these voters with talk of "self-deportation" and
his approval of Arizona's harsh immigration law.

In two previous addresses to Hispanic groups, Mr. Romney ignored immigration. On
Wednesday the Romney campaign abruptly cut short a telephone press conference
when all the questions were about immigration - and the campaign wanted to talk
about the economy.

"The reason that immigration is important is not because it's the priority issue
but because it's the issue that can turn Hispanics off,'' said Ana Navarro, a
Florida-based adviser to Senator John McCain's presidential campaign in 2008.
"If a candidate has the wrong tone and the wrong rhetoric on immigration,
Hispanics won't listen to any of his proposals on anything else.

Ahead of the Florida speech on Thursday, Mr. Romney's campaign promised to forge
"lasting solutions" to what he called the "nation's broken immigration system."
He said he would work with both parties to pass immigration reform.

But the brief outline did not say how he would overcome the gridlock that has
blocked comprehensive immigration reform in the Congress for more than a decade.

Senator McCain, Republican of Arizona, also promised to work with Democrats on
illegal immigration reform. He abandoned that effort in 2007 in the face of
intense opposition by conservatives.

Mr. Obama also pledged during the 2008 campaign to pursue comprehensive changes
to the immigration system in the country. The president increased border
enforcement, but faced similar opposition among Republicans in Congress to
pursuit of a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants already in the country.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 22, 2012 Friday

In Florida, Obama Assails Republicans Over Immigration Policy

BYLINE: PETER BAKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 663 words



HIGHLIGHT: In what amounted to the general election campaign's first immigration
debate, President Obama told a Latino audience that had heard from Mitt Romney
that they should not trust Mr. Romney's shifting rhetoric.


LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. - President Obama assailed Republicans on Friday as
obstacles to fixing the nation's immigration system and said his opponent would
block efforts to let young immigrants stay if they were brought into the United
States illegally by their parents.

In what amounted to the general election campaign's first debate on immigration
policy, Mr. Obama appeared before the same Latino audience that heard from his
challenger, Mitt Romney, a day earlier and told them they should not trust Mr.
Romney's shifting rhetoric.

Mr. Obama touted his own decision last week to stop kicking many young
immigrants out of the country, saying he was "lifting the shadow of deportation"
from those who deserved to stay in the United States. By contrast, he pointed to
Mr. Romney's opposition to legislation known as the Dream Act intended to offer
a path to legal status for many of the same young people.

"It's long past time we gave them a sense of hope," Mr. Obama said of those
spared by his action. "Now, your speaker from yesterday has a different view. In
his speech, he said when he makes a promise he'll keep it. Well, he's promised
to veto the Dream Act and we should taken him at his word. I'm just saying. I
believe that would be a tragic mistake."

Mr. Obama noted that Republican opposition blocked passage of the Dream Act in
2010 and lamented that Republicans who supported more expansive legislation just
a few years ago have now abandoned the issue. "Those same Republicans have been
driven away from the table by a small faction in their own party," he said.

Mr. Romney's camp focused on economic issues in their response on Friday. "No
election year speech can cover up the president's job-killing policies that have
led to 11 percent Hispanic unemployment and millions of Hispanics living in
poverty," Amanda Henneberg, a Romney spokeswoman, said in a statement. "On Day
1, Mitt Romney will take our country in a new direction and get our economy back
on the right track."

Mr. Obama's speech to the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials was framed to capitalize on last week's decision, bolstering support
from a critical constituency that leans strongly in his direction but has been
disappointed that he has not taken stronger action to liberalize immigration
rules. Mr. Obama has deported more illegal immigrants than any other president,
while in the face of Republican resistance he has done relatively little to push
broader legislation providing a path to legal status for millions more in the
country without permission.

"Congress still needs to come up with a comprehensive immigration solution,
rather than argue that we did this the wrong way or for the wrong reasons," he
said. "To those who say Congress should be the one to fix this, absolutely. To
those who say we should do this in a bipartisan way, absolutely. My door's been
open for 3 1/2 years. They know where to find me."

Mr. Obama received a warmer response from the audience than Mr. Romney did on
Thursday, with those in attendance at times standing to give him ovations. But a
conservative Hispanic leader said the president's words rang hollow to him given
the lack of progress in forging a bipartisan solution.

"Where is the leadership?" asked Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the
Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles. He said that President George W.
Bush did a better job of working across the aisle on immigration and argued that
Mr. Romney would be more likely to find a solution with a Republican Congress
next year.

"We have a better chance of getting something constructive done in immigration
with Romney than Obama," Mr. Aguilar said.

After his remarks, Mr. Obama left for Tampa, where he planned to make a campaign
speech.


     ·    Democrats Say Romney Ad Distorts Obama's Comments
     ·    Perry Wrestles With His Political History
     ·    G.O.P. Front-Runners Offer Contrast in Styles
     ·    2012 Republicans Ignore Each Other, for Now
     ·    Can Huntsman Be Civil to Obama and Win?


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Opinion Report: Supreme Court Rulings

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 107 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



New York's earlier-than-usual Congressional primary elections are on Tuesday.

On Monday, the Supreme Court's conservative majority refused to allow Montana or
any other state to impose limits on corporate election spending.

Also on Monday, the Supreme Court rejected the foundation of Arizona's
immigration law and the notion that a state can have its own foreign policy.

Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood has been declared the first freely
elected president of Egypt.


     ·    Opinion Report: Political-Message Bills
     ·    Opinion Report: The Egyptian Election
     ·    As You Were
     ·    Arizona's Immigration Law and Mandatory Life Terms
     ·    Opinion Report: Fleeting Expletives


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            August 14, 2012 Tuesday

Bloomberg Urges Campaigns to Discuss Immigration Reform

BYLINE: KAREN ANN CULLOTTA and JESS BIDGOOD

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 823 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appeared with William M. Daley, a former
White House chief of staff, in Chicago, and with media mogul Rupert Murdoch in
Boston to promote proposals on immigration reform and urge a more vigorous
discussion of the topic in the presidential campaign.


9:50 p.m. | Updated  BOSTON -  Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg joined Rupert Murdoch,
the chief of the News Corp. media company, in Boston on Tuesday night, appearing
in the same city as Mitt Romney's campaign headquarters to make an economic
argument for immigration reform and call for a more substantial discussion of
the issue in the presidential campaign.

"I think we are in a crisis in this country," said Mr. Murdoch, the
Australian-born media mogul who is himself a naturalized American. "Right now,
if we get qualified people in, there shouldn't be any nonsense about it."

The pair appeared at a forum co-hosted by the New England Council and moderated
by Gerald Seib, an assistant managing editor for the Wall Street Journal. Mr.
Bloomberg had appeared earlier in the day with former White House Chief of Staff
William M. Daley at a forum on the same topic in Chicago.

"One can argue very, very strongly that most immigrants add tremendously to the
economy," said Mr. Murdoch on Tuesday night.

But the pair lamented how, despite what they see as an urgent need for
immigration reform, a deeply divided Congress is unlikely to legislate any.

"Both sides have tried to hold the other hostage," said Mr. Bloomberg, adding,
"I think there is a consensus, but I don't see how they come together."

Both saw a clear political advantage for the presidential candidates to push for
immigration reform - especially on the Republican side, they said.

"As for the so-called illegal Mexicans, give them a path to citizenship. They
pay taxes, they are hard-working people," said Mr. Murdoch, adding, "Why Mitt
Romney doesn't do it, I have no idea, because they are natural Republicans."

"Republicans walking away from the Latino electorate is about as dumb a strategy
as any political party has ever adopted," agreed Mr. Bloomberg.

The pair also offered their own policy prescriptions, calling for reforms that
would increase access by both high- and low-skilled foreign workers to the
American economy.

"We give out most of our visas for family reunification," said Mr. Bloomberg.
"You look at a country like Canada, most of their visas are given out for
helping the economy."

The two were harshly critical of the H1-B visa, a temporary visa for workers in
certain specialized occupations, which Mr. Murdoch said limits the stateside
options for some foreign born graduates of masters and Ph. D. programs in
valuable specialties like science and engineering. "When they get a graduation
certificate, if it's in a certain field, they should have a green card stapled
to it," said Mr. Murdoch.

2:08 p.m. | Updated CHICAGO -- Mr. Bloomberg appeared with William M. Daley, a
former White House chief of staff, for breakfast here on Tuesday, united in
their belief that immigration reform is one of the best and cheapest ways to
revive the nation's economy.

Speaking at a gathering of the Economic Club of Chicago, Mr. Bloomberg chided
both President Obama and Mitt Romney for what Mr. Bloomberg perceives as a
bipartisan reluctance to discuss immigration reform during an increasingly
fractious campaign season.

"Neither candidate is talking about immigration reform," Mr. Bloomberg said.
"But there is no way to help the economy as quickly and as cost-free as opening
the borders to create jobs and create business."

"Around the world, people want to move to America, and they vote with their
feet," Mr. Daley added. "The world wants to come here, and we need them to come
here."

Indeed, according to a recent report by the Partnership for a New American
Economy, a group of mayors and business leaders led by Mr. Bloomberg and Mr.
Murdoch, immigrants are more than twice as likely to start a business as the
native-born, accounting for the start of 28 percent of new American businesses
in 2011, despite representing just 12.9 percent of the population.

In recent years, Mr. Bloomberg has repeatedly argued for the need for
comprehensive immigration reform. And on Wednesday, a federal program announced
by President Obama to defer deportations of some 1.7 million young illegal
immigrants officially goes into effect.

The breakfast meeting in Chicago - home of Mr. Obama's campaign headquarters -
was the first of two forums sponsored by the partnership. Mr. Murdoch was
expected to join Mr. Bloomberg on Tuesday evening for a second immigration
reform discussion in Boston, where Mr. Romney has his headquarters. Meanwhile,
Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney spent more time in swing states on Tuesday, with Mr.
Obama in Iowa and Mr. Romney in Ohio.

While the naming of Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin as Mr. Romney's
running mate has accelerated demands that the candidates define their plans for
reducing the federal budget deficit, Mr. Bloomberg urged Mr. Obama and Mr.
Romney to share their ideas for immigration reform, despite its being an often
polarizing issue with voters.

"There has got to be something more important than getting elected," Mr.
Bloomberg said.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday

The Early Word: Overwhelmed

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 337 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in
Washington.


In Today's Times:


     ·    Thousands of young illegal immigrants lined upWednesday for
          information sessions about applying for deportation deferrals under a
          new Obama administration policy, overwhelming immigration officials
          who expected a strong response but were still surprised by the
          turnout, Julia Preston reports.



     ·    The selection of Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin as Mitt
          Romney's running mate has shifted the subject in the presidential race
          from the economy to ideology, trying to appeal to Republicans intent
          on pushing President Obama out of office, Jeff Zeleny writes.



     ·    Mr. Obama jumped into the fray over Medicare in Iowa on Wednesday,
          drawing a distinction between his approach and his opponents' approach
          to the budget, Helene Cooper reports. Meanwhile, Mr. Ryan hit back in
          Ohio, telling people their taxes would go toward paying for the
          president's health care law.



     ·    In a direct attack on one of President Obama's political strengths, a
          group of former special operations and C.I.A. officers have accused
          Mr. Obama of recklessly leaking information about the raid that killed
          Osama bin Laden and other security matters to gain political
          advantage. Scott Shane reports on the effort, which the Obama campaign
          immediately compared to the "Swift Boat" advertisements against
          Senator John Kerry in the 2004 presidential campaign.



     ·    Liberal groups are planning to appeal to the Pennsylvania Supreme
          Court after a judge declined to block a state law requiring voters to
          present specific kinds of identification, Ethan Bronner reports.


Washington Happenings:


     ·    Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will have lunch
          together Thursday, as well as meet with Secretary of State Hillary
          Rodham Clinton and then Timothy F. Geithner, the treasury secretary.



     ·    The Labor Department will release its numbers on weekly jobless
          claims.



     ·    The Commerce Department will put out housing data for July.



     ·    The Early Word: Influences
     ·    The Weekend Word: Drought
     ·    The Early Word: Happy Ending
     ·    The Early Word: New Lines
     ·    The Early Word: Fixed Battle Lines


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

The G.O.P.'s Message to Latino Voters

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 412 words



HIGHLIGHT: When courting Hispanics, Republicans omit inconvenient truths, like
the party's opposition to the Dream Act.


That's one mixed-up message the Republicans are sending to Latino voters, in
Spanish and English.

At a news conference for the Hispanic press yesterday, with Francisco Canseco, a
Congressman from Texas, and John Sununu, the former New Hampshire governor (who
is not Hispanic, but speaks Spanish very well), some of the talking points were:

1.     Hispanics should love Republicans because this is a land of opportunity
and entrepreneurship.

2.     President Obama is an incompetent failure because he couldn't get
immigration reform passed. So people who support comprehensive reform or
pro-immigrant legislation like the Dream Act should vote Republican.

3.     And by the way, Republicans support an expanded guest-worker program. Oh,
and Mitt Romney's father was born in Mexico.

As a plea for Hispanic support, this is not just dishonest, it's pitiable. It
omits inconvenient things, like the fact that Republicans don't want immigration
reform. They keep  reform bills. And that the party's platform, thanks to
delegates like Kris Kobach, author of extremist state laws like Arizona's, is
simply a grab-bag of harsh enforcement provisions, like national, mandatory
workplace immigration checks and a double-walled border fence.

As for the Dream Act, that has never been able to get past a Republican
filibuster. Yes, that means, literally, that Mr. Obama couldn't get it passed -
but he did the next best thing. He took executive action to shield some young
students from deportation.

Mr. Kobach, a  Romney endorser and sometime adviser, is among those suing the
Obama administration to overturn that decision. "We need to do something by
law," Mr. Sununu said. The suggestion seemed to be that Republicans would
improve upon Mr. Obama's deportation policy by enshrining the Dream Act into
law. Except that's not a position Mr. Romney has taken.

The more honest pitch (which you will never hear) would be: Yes, Latino amigos,
we need your votes. But we are stuck in a hard-core place where the only answer
to our immigration problems is more and harsher enforcement. Like many prominent
and esteemed Republicans before him, Mr. Romney could have embraced more
hopeful, forward-looking, business-and-immigrant-friendly policies in his
campaign - like the Dream Act - but he didn't. And so we have nothing to offer
you except these vague promises, couched in lies.


     ·    Kobach and Romney
     ·    Self-Deportation
     ·    The Spanish Campaign
     ·    Romney's Immigration Speech
     ·    A Breakthrough on Immigration Policy


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

The Hurricane and the Undocumented

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 481 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Department of Homeland security suspended immigration enforcement
in the Hurricane Isaac disaster area.


As Hurricane Isaac continues its agonizingly slow crawl over southeast
Louisiana, it is exposing one of the regrettable consequences of a broken
immigration system - a shadow population of the undocumented who can't or won't
seek emergency help. The authorities and immigrant advocates have learned from
prior storms that fear can have a crippling effect on people's willingness to
flee a disaster zone. That is why they have urged the Department of Homeland
Security not just to suspend its immigration enforcement during this emergency,
but to make that policy highly public and official, so that families will not
hesitate to enter public shelters or to just get in the car and go.

To its credit, after being pressed by immigrant-rights advocates in New Orleans,
the department did just that. A message from Immigration and Customs Enforcement
and the Border Patrol has been posted on the D.H.S. Web site, distributed within
the agencies and sent - in English, Spanish and Vietnamese - to more than 1,000
local organizations that deal with immigrants.

It states that "there will be no immigration enforcement initiatives associated
with evacuations or sheltering related to Isaac, including the use of
checkpoints for immigration enforcement purposes in impacted areas during an
evacuation." It goes on to tell state and local law enforcement agencies that if
they are holding people in custody at the request of ICE or the Border Patrol -
people who would otherwise be released because of the storm --  they should let
them go, after giving the feds a heads-up first.

This common-sense policy will be invaluable to immigrant organizations and
rescue workers should evacuations, some of which have already begun, widen and
become more difficult and chaotic. Especially when it's inscribed on paper --
something official that be held in the face of a gung-ho sheriff, police officer
or Border Patrol agent who didn't get the memo.

Advocates in New Orleans said they spent much time in the last few days trying
to wring this policy and public statement out of ICE. They would be grateful for
a more permanent statement that could be applied to future disasters wherever
they happen - that enforcement will be temporarily halted, not just in the
evacuation and sheltering phase of a disaster, but in the return and recovery
period as well, to encourage evacuees to seek help. ICE says it's considering
such a move, while weighing the concern that criminals like smugglers might find
a way to exploit such a policy when chaos hits. I'm confident that the
department will be able to walk and chew gum at the same time - to protect us
from canny smugglers while adopting a humane policy that saves lives of
vulnerable evacuees when disasters strike.


     ·    We Built It: Flood-Control Edition
     ·    The G.O.P.'s Message to Latino Voters
     ·    Self-Deportation
     ·    Opinion Report: Wyoming Wolves
     ·    Opinion Report: Voting in Ohio


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                            October 15, 2012 Monday

The Arizonification of America

BYLINE: JEFF BIGGERS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1740 words



HIGHLIGHT: On immigration policy, Arizona leads the way, but maybe not where we
thought it was going.


Phoenix, Ariz.

With the "papers please" provision of Arizona's controversial SB 1070
immigration law now in effect, Bill Clinton roused an overflowing crowd at
Arizona State University last week with a special shout out to the state's
"dreamers," the highly organized ranks of undocumented youth seeking permanent
residency either through education or the military (and sometimes both).
Appearing on behalf of the former Surgeon General Richard Carmona, whose surging
campaign to become the first Latino Senator in Arizona now leads in the latest
polls, Clinton drew some of his biggest cheers for his support of the DREAM Act
merely by calling it the "right thing to do."

Welcome to the Arizona showdown.

Underscored by Gov. Jan Brewer's latest act of defiance in denying state
benefits to undocumented youth affected by President Obama's deferral of
immigration action against them, the Republican Party's full embrace of
Arizona's immigration policy at its summer convention drew a clear line in the
state's sand. The "Arizonification" of America continues to frame the national
immigration debate. It has cemented the state's frontline image as so hopelessly
wedded to a punitive approach of "attrition through enforcement" at any cost
that "The Daily Show" once referred to Arizona as the "meth lab of democracy."

Not that the headline-grabbing nativists, frontier justice sheriffs, neo-Nazi
marchers, gun-toting militiamen and Tea Party political figures don't exist in
Arizona. But as the estimated 5,500 in attendance for Carmona and Clinton
reminded the state, the fringe elements dominating the media and Arizona's state
house may have finally met their match. Case in point: An electrified citizens'
campaign has mounted the most serious get-out-the-vote effort against Joe
Arpaio, the notorious Maricopa County Sheriff, in his 20-year reign.

The resurgence of this "other Arizona" signals a revival of the state's
century-old legacy of fighting against such anti-immigrant and thinly veiled
racism, a movement that began almost as soon as Arizona's entry as a territory
in the mid-19th century. For example, in Tucson, the pioneering Mexican
immigrant Estevan Ochoa not only salvaged public education but single-handedly
faced down the Confederate occupation of the Old Pueblo. When the Tucson Unified
School District dismantled its acclaimed Mexican-American Studies program in
Ochoa's hometown last spring, Latino youth were quick to rekindle his memory.

I believe that today's overlooked but growing alliance among Latinos, retiring
baby boomers and rooted centrists will have a far a more lasting impact on both
the liberal and conservative agendas nationally than the headline-grabbing but
faltering Tea Party. This alliance might even have an impact on the 2012
election: Beyond Carmona's surprising gains, the latest polling data to include
Spanish-speaking voters now places the presidential showdown in a dead heat,
even as Gov. Mitt Romney hangs on to a healthy overall lead in Arizona.

Is the other Arizona coming back?

Consider the progressive stalwarts who wrote one of the most enlightened
constitutions in the country at Arizona's birth in 1912. In a prophetic speech
that he gave after negotiating a nationally watched labor agreement between
striking union miners and copper companies, Gov. George W. Hunt spelled out the
challenge facing the entire nation:

It will be a happy day for the nation when the corporations shall be excluded
from political activity and vast accumulations of capital cannot be employed in
an attempt to control government.

Railing against corporate influence and money in politics in Arizona in 1916,
Hunt foretold the Occupy Wall Street movement a century in advance:

"The working class, plus the professional class, represent 99 percent," he
declared. "The remaining 1 percent is represented by those who make a business
of employing capital."

For all of his enlightenment, Hunt and his progressive forces succumbed to
anti-immigrant pressures from more conservative unions and excluded the very
foot soldiers who had built his labor ranks before statehood: in 1903,
Mexican-American, native and immigrant workers led the first strikes in the
state in Morenci.

The betrayal came full circle in 1917. Driven by a similar anti-immigrant
hysteria during World War I, armed copper company thugs led by a border sheriff
rounded up and deported striking immigrant miners in the copper capital of
Bisbee. The extreme measure drew national condemnation, but also set a precedent
of using punitive measures against immigrants over the next century whenever the
economy slumped, wars ended or election time heated up.

But Arizonans also fought back. In 1972, the national media once again focused
here, when Gov. Jack Williams signed a bill that banned secondary boycotts and
strikes during harvest time, cracked down on collective bargaining rights and
union membership procedures, and made it a crime to make "misleading" speeches
about boycotted products. The headlines screamed: "Arizona-type legislation is
spreading to many other farm states, despite protests."

Launching his "Si Se Puede" movement, the inspiring slogan that would be adopted
as "Yes, We Can" by President Barack Obama's first presidential campaign, Cesar
Chavez, an Arizona native and co-founder of the United Farm Workers embarked in
1972 on a "fast for love" in Phoenix in the "spirit of social justice in
Arizona." Chavez wrote:

The fast is to try to reach the hearts of those men, so that they will
understand that we too have rights and we're not here to destroy, because we're
not destroyers, we're builders.

Although Williams's hard-line anti-union legislation would be fought in the
courts for years, the Chavez-led campaign signed up 150,000 new voters, ushering
in a new era of electoral participation: Within two years, thanks to Chavez's
work, Raul Castro became the state's first (and still the only) Latino governor.

In one of the most overlooked major news stories last year, a similar "Si Se
Puede" movement once again shocked local and national media observers and
entrenched political interests lulled into believing Arizona's SB 1070 had
placed the state on electoral lockdown. Led by Randy Parraz, a labor organizer,
new bipartisan movement fed up with the state's extremist policies took its
organizational momentum into electoral politics and carried out the historic
recall of former state senator Russell Pearce, the self-declared "Tea Party
President" and legislative mastermind behind SB 1070. The historic nature of the
recall, dating back to the state's progressive constitution battle a century
ago, was the opening salvo in the 2012 elections, for two reasons.

First, Parraz and his Citizens for a Better Arizona brought together often
disparate factions in Arizona - including rising Latino youth, retiring baby
boomers, centrists that included the Mormon church, and the demoralized local
Democratic Party - in arguably one of the most conservative legislative
districts in the nation. "Arizona has been in the headlines for all of the wrong
reasons," Parraz told his forces. "We need a victory now." And they got it.
Pearce, considered one of the most influential voices in the "attrition through
enforcement" movement spreading across numerous states, was the first state
senate president to be recalled in American history, according to election
record keepers.

Speaking about the Pearce recall, Dan O'Neal, chairman of the Arizona
Progressive Democrats of America, said: "This election sends a message to other
Democratic efforts," to not be afraid to take on issues and races in red
states."

Secondly, the recall also spotlighted the emergence of a new Latino generation
and its role in a historic demographic shift taking place in Arizona and across
the nation. With the nation's highest "cultural generation" gap, according to a
Brookings Metropolitan Policy study in 2010 - 83 percent of the state's aging
population was categorized as Anglo, and 57 percent of the children came from
Latino families in the last census - Arizona has changed from 72 percent to 50
percent non-Latino in the past two decades. The demographics don't pull any
punches. A new political conversation is about to take place in Arizona. And
organizers are not sitting back and waiting.

Working with several other civil rights groups, Parraz and his Citizens for a
Better Arizona now lead the "Joe's Got to Go" campaign against Arpaio, whose
one-time insurmountable lead over his opponent Paul Penzone has shrunk to a few
percentage points. With the sheriff under investigation for racial profiling by
the Department of Justice, the take-no-prisoners challenge of Arpaio's role as
the face of SB 1070 enforcement has already electrified the state's once-timid
liberal ranks.

If an Arpaio upset happens, with the state "papers please" law a part of all
races in the state and the nation, the rise of the "other Arizona" and its
bipartisan rejection of extremism could reverse the "Arizonification of America"
push back in the opposite direction. As one of 15 swing states where the margin
of victory often hangs on one to three percentage points, the expected 6-8
percent increase in Latino voters places Arizona on the cusp of electing Carmona
to a highly prized Senate position for the Democrats.

In essence: While Arizona may not swing to President Obama, the defeat of Arpaio
or a victory for Carmona would be a huge step toward dismantling Republican
control behind Arizona's state immigration policy, and changing a state of mind
for the media and outside observers.

No more "meth lab of democracy."

Inspired by organizers like Parraz, and driven by the changing demographics,
electoral change is coming in increments to Arizona in 2012 - and ultimately
laying the groundwork for the gubernatorial race in 2014 for either Brewer or a
bevy of Republican candidates. A groundwork deeply rooted in the other Arizona's
powerful lessons of history that transcend the state's borders.

As Phoenix-based Puente human rights advocate Carlos Garcia recently told me,
Arizona's gift to the nation may simply be this legacy of resiliency against
extremism on the front lines. "Turning the tide from hate to human rights," as
Garcia put it, sends a powerful message that will reach far beyond the ballot
box.

Jeff Biggers is the author, most recently, of "State Out of the Union: Arizona
and the Final Showdown Over the American Dream."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           November 27, 2012 Tuesday

Mexico's President-Elect Discusses Immigration Policy With Obama

BYLINE: PETER BAKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 734 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this country, the postelection climate has given fresh momentum to
efforts to find proposals that both Democrats and Republicans can support.


The incoming president of Mexico visited President Obama in the White House on
Tuesday and vowed to help him pass comprehensive legislation overhauling the
American immigration system even as Republicans begin looking for a bill they
can support too.

Enrique Peña Nieto, who will be inaugurated as Mexico's president on Saturday,
made the customary stop in Washington first to get acquainted with his northern
counterpart. His arrival coincided with a postelection political shift in
Washington that has given fresh momentum to long-stalled proposals to liberalize
immigration policy.

"We fully support your proposal," Mr. Peña Nieto told Mr. Obama in the Oval
Office. "We want to contribute. We want to be part of this."

Mr. Peña Nieto's visit came on the same day that two retiring Republican
senators unveiled their own proposal to make it easier for immigrants brought to
the United States illegally as children to stay, a sign of the rapidly evolving
politics of immigration.

Senators Jon Kyl of Arizona and Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas introduced what
they called the Achieve Act as an alternative to the so-called Dream Act
supported by Mr. Obama and most Democrats. The Kyl-Hutchison plan would give
legal residency to many younger illegal immigrants, but not a path to
citizenship as the Democratic version would.

"Many young people in this country are here illegally through no fault of their
own," the two senators said in a joint written statement. "Relegating a
potentially productive portion of the population to the shadows is neither
humane nor good economic or social policy."

A number of prominent conservatives, including Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio,
former Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi and the Fox News host Sean Hannity,
have embraced some moves toward easing immigration rules since this month's
election. Latinos made up 10 percent of the electorate for the first time and
overwhelmingly supported Mr. Obama's re-election.

Unless they relax the party's traditional hard line on illegal immigration, some
Republicans believe they risk long-term political damage. As a result, the White
House, which had largely abandoned immigration legislation since Republicans
took control of the House in the 2010 midterm elections in favor of less
sweeping executive action, now sees a chance for early bipartisan consensus on
the issue in the new year.

The Kyl-Hutchison proposal would extend legal residency to illegal immigrants
seeking college degrees or serving in the military who entered the country
before the age of 14, have lived here for five years, have not committed a
felony, can demonstrate knowledge of English and are still 28 or younger, or 32
if they have a degree from an American college. They would be denied access to
public welfare benefits, federal student loans or other federal benefits.

Immigration activists rejected the proposal. United We Dream, a network of young
immigrants, called it "a cynical political gesture" because it does not provide
a road map to citizenship. "We won't stop fighting until we win citizenship for
every single new American," Lorella Praeli, the group's advocacy and policy
director, said in a statement.

In addressing reporters in the Oval Office, Mr. Peña Nieto did not elaborate on
how he hoped to help Mr. Obama pass immigration legislation. Before arriving at
the White House, he visited Capitol Hill, where he had a photo opportunity with
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic minority leader.
"We hope to address the migration issue by having comprehensive immigration
reform brought before the Congress when the president sends it to us," she said.

After several years in which security and drugs dominated the Mexican-American
relationship, Mr. Peña Nieto stressed that he wanted to talk about a variety of
other issues as well, including jobs, trade, North American integration and
education.

Mr. Obama announced that he would send Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to Mr.
Peña Nieto's inauguration on Saturday and hinted that he would visit himself in
2013. "Any excuses to go to Mexico," Mr. Obama said, "I'm always game."


     ·    Obama Expresses Confidence in Early Action on Immigration
     ·    TimesCast Politics: Changes in Immigration Policy
     ·    Obama Can't Depend On New Poll Numbers
     ·    Debt Reckoning: The Fiscal Deadline in Washington
     ·    TimesCast Politics: Assessing the Storm Damage


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           November 27, 2012 Tuesday

A Bad Start on Immigration Reform

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 353 words



HIGHLIGHT: The resurrected STEM Jobs Act is a tweaked version of a bad bill that
died earlier this year in the House, and it's bad for the same reasons as
before.


Representative Lamar Smith, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, is
offering a new version of an old immigration bill that's due to be voted on this
week. It's being touted by supporters as a signal that the Republican Party
understands the election message sent by voters - particular Latinos and Asians
- in favor of immigration reform.

Don't be fooled. The resurrected STEM Jobs Act is a tweaked version of a bad
bill that died earlier this year in the House, and it's bad for the same reasons
as before. The bill increases visas for immigrants skilled in STEM fields --
science, technology, engineering and math -- by eliminating another visa
category entirely: the "diversity" visas set aside for people from countries
with relatively low immigration rates to the United States.

Here's the math: add 55,000 new visas for immigrants with advanced STEM degrees.
Take away 55,000 diversity visas. A zero-sum game, in pro-immigrant disguise.

To sweeten the deal for Democrats, Mr. Smith has added another provision - to
reunite some families of immigrants with green cards. Currently, relatives of
legal permanent residents have to wait years overseas to get their own green
cards before they can rejoin their families. The Smith bill would allow some of
those who are waiting for green cards to spend that waiting period in the United
States. But they would not be allowed to work. Families would suffer - not just
from the financial burden, but also the risk of deportation, if they choose to
risk working illegally to avoid economic hardship.

High-tech industries need workers. Families need to be reunited. But not on
these meager terms. If Mr. Smith had been serious, not cynical, about an
immigration measure, he could have negotiated with Democrats, come up with
something better on family reunification and drafted a more defensible bill.

He didn't, and this is what we're left with: an old strategy, repackaged. If the
Republicans are going to offer real immigration reform, they will have to do
better than this.


     ·    Racial Politics
     ·    A Shooting in Broad Daylight, Rationalized
     ·    Adios, Arpaio?
     ·    Bilingual Lies
     ·    Left Unsaid


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            December 4, 2012 Tuesday

Bush Urges Immigration Policy Reshaped With 'Benevolent Spirit'

BYLINE: PETER BAKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 533 words



HIGHLIGHT: The former president, in a rare public statement on policy, rejects
the idea that the country has to choose between between securing its borders and
providing a pathway to citizenship for those who are already here, however they
arrived.


Former President George W. Bush weighed back into the nation's volatile
immigration debate on Tuesday by calling on policymakers in Washington to revamp
the law "with a benevolent spirit" that recognizes the contribution of those who
move here from other countries.

Mr. Bush has remained largely out of the policy arena since leaving the White
House four years ago, but immigration has long been one of his passions and he
spent much of his presidency trying to make it easier for those in the United
States illegally to come out of the shadows and earn legal status.

In speaking out on Tuesday, Mr. Bush was pushing his party again at a time when
some other Republicans are beginning to come around to his point of view.
Latinos represented 10 percent of the electorate for the first time in last
month's election and overwhelmingly supported Democrats, leading some
conservatives to re-evaluate the party's stance to avoid permanently losing an
increasingly powerful constituency.

Mr. Bush received 44 percent of Latino votes when he won re-election in 2004,
while this year's Republican nominee, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts,
who presented himself as a staunch foe of illegal immigration, won 27 percent.
Given the rising share of the Latino vote, that trend bodes ominously for
Republicans in future years. Among those who have spoken out about making the
party more open to immigrants has been former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida.

His brother, the former president, added his voice again during a speech opening
a conference on immigration and economic growth in Dallas sponsored by his
public policy institute. As he did when he was president, Mr. Bush rejected the
old tension between securing the nation's border and providing a pathway to
citizenship for those already here.

"America can be a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time," he
said, according to a transcript provided by his office. "As our nation debates
the proper course of action relating to immigration, I hope we do so with a
benevolent spirit and keep in mind the contributions of immigrants."

"Not only do immigrants help build our economy, they invigorate our soul," Mr.
Bush said. "Growing up here in Texas, like many in this room, we've had the
honor and privilege of meeting newly arrived. Those whom I've met love their
families. They see education as a bright future for their children. Some
willingly defend the flag."

The former president described immigrants as a bedrock of the nation's economy,
providing new skills and new ideas while filling critical gaps in the labor
market. But he also presented the question in more human terms in a state that
has been one of the major homes to immigrants over the years.

Mr. Bush recalled attending naturalization ceremonies as president. "I'll never
forget the proud looks on those whose hands were raised to swear allegiance to
our nation," he said.


     ·    Ex-Senator Criticizes Republicans' Tone on Immigration
     ·    Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
     ·    Romney Campaign Manager Says He Regrets Immigration Stance
     ·    Mexico's President-Elect Discusses Immigration Policy With Obama
     ·    Obama Expresses Confidence in Early Action on Immigration


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            December 10, 2012 Monday

Gay and Immigrant Rights Groups Join Forces on Marriage Issue

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 535 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president is urged to put on hold cases under consideration by
immigration authorities of U.S. citizens who are seeking permanent resident
visas, or green cards, for immigrants of the same sex they legally married.


    In a letter on Monday to the White House, more than 50 gay rights and
immigrant advocacy groups asked President Obama to put a hold on immigration
cases involving Americans seeking legal residency visas for foreign-born spouses
of the same sex, until the Supreme Court issues a significant ruling on gay
marriage next year.

The gay and immigration organizations are joining forces on the marriage issue,
hoping to capitalize on political momentum they gained from the elections, when
gay, Latino and immigrant voters turned out overwhelmingly in support of  Mr.
Obama.

The groups urged the president to "hold in abeyance" cases currently under
consideration by federal immigration authorities of United States citizens who
are seeking permanent resident visas, known as green cards, for immigrants of
the same sex they legally married. The Supreme Court ruling is expected in June.

Under the federal Defense of Marriage Act, which Congress passed in 1996, a
same-sex marriage cannot be a valid basis for federal benefits, including
immigration documents. For an American who marries an immigrant of the opposite
sex, obtaining a green card for the spouse is generally a routine and relatively
fast procedure. But under the terms of DOMA, as the law is known, Americans
cannot obtain green cards, based on their marriage, for foreign spouses of the
same sex.

The Supreme Court agreed on Friday to take two cases challenging laws that
define marriage as being only between a man and a woman. The letter from the
rights groups focused on one of them, a direct challenge to DOMA.  The case,
United States v. Windsor, concerns a woman in New York, Edith Windsor, who faced
a steep tax bill on property she inherited after her same-sex spouse died, which
Ms. Windsor would not have to pay if her spouse had been a man.

In January 2011 the Justice Department announced it would no longer defend DOMA
in the courts. But the administration has continued to enforce the law and
officials have routinely denied green card applications from same-sex couples.

"With no ability to apply for family-based immigration benefits because of
DOMA," the groups wrote in their letter, "many foreign nationals face the
untenable choice" of remaining in the United States without legal papers and
"facing the daily fear of deportation," or "leaving the U.S. and their family
behind."

The groups pointed to a similar hold placed on green card cases by United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services when Congress was debating a change in the
law allowing widows of American citizens to obtain the visas.

Nine states recognize same-sex marriages. But for the time being, an
administration official said, DOMA "remains in effect and the Executive Branch
will continue to enforce it unless and until Congress repeals it or there a
final judicial determination that it is unconstitutional."


     ·    Romney Says He Would Honor Immigration Reprieves Granted by Obama
     ·    4 Senators Propose Easing Visa Limits for Highly Skilled
     ·    Gay Donors, Key Group for Obama, to Plot Strategy in Washington
     ·    In Heated Primary Fight, Romney Keeps Focus on Obama
     ·    Republicans' Immigration Bill Blocked by Senate Democrats


LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           December 11, 2012 Tuesday

Kaine Says He Is Optimistic About Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 815 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tim Kaine, Virginia's newest senator, said he was eager to be a vote
for immigration reform that would require those in the country to pay a fine in
exchange for permanent legal status.


Tim Kaine, Virginia's newest senator, said he was eager to be a vote for
immigration reform that would require those in the country to pay a fine in
exchange for permanent legal status.

"I think the elements of that deal are acceptable to most of the parties that
are around the table right now," Mr. Kaine, a Democrat, said in an interview
with The New York Times. "I'm expecting and I'm anxious to get in and be a vote
for comprehensive immigration reform."

Mr. Kaine, who served as governor of Virginia and as chairman of the Democratic
National Committee, will join the Senate early next year as one of a dozen newly
elected members of the chamber.

In the interview, Mr. Kaine said he was more optimistic about the likelihood of
an immigration deal early next year, in part because of what he called "soul
searching" among Republicans who are eager to do better among Hispanic voters
than they did in the last election.

"I see them willing now, maybe for self-preservation, to build and to grow their
party, look we've got to do this," Mr. Kaine said.

He also said that interest groups on all sides of the issue were lined up behind
some kind of solution.

"You see an unusual degree of support for immigration reform: Chamber of
Commerce? They want reform. Agriculture industry? They want reform. Technology
industry? They want reform," Mr. Kaine said. "When you see groups off Capitol
Hill -- left, right and center -- who really want to do immigration reform, that
tells you that, hey, there's a moment we can do it."

Mr. Kaine said he hoped to focus on building American talent through education,
work training programs, and efforts aimed at veterans.

But the one-time leader of partisan attacks on behalf of President Obama said he
now saw his role in the Senate as one of compromise and cooperation.

"Once you get elected, you are supposed to be part of the bridge-building
caucus, not part of the go in your corner and have a stare-down with the other
side," he said. "If it's the gang of six, eight, 98 or one and a half, I want to
be part of it. And I think Virginians definitely expect that of their electeds,
regardless of party."

Mr. Kaine dodged questions about whether he would vote to confirm Susan E. Rice,
the ambassador to the United Nations, to be the next secretary of state. He
noted that Mr. Obama had not nominated her for the position.

But he said he remained concerned about the events that led to the death of J.
Christopher Stevens, the American ambassador in Libya, and three other people in
Benghazi.

"Under any circumstance, if an American diplomatic official and others,
including Navy Seals, are killed, well, then we ought to learn something from it
and stop it from happening again," Mr. Kaine said.

Mr. Kaine hailed a decision by the Supreme Court to consider two gay marriage
cases. He said he hoped the  court overturns the federal law that bans federal
benefits from going to gay couples. And he said he thought a decision by the
court to require states to allow gay marriages would be an unequivocal victory
for the gay rights movement.

"There were states, like Virginia, which had the ban on interracial marriage on
the books, and the Supreme Court decision, in the '60s, was not popular
everywhere, but it was a step forward," he said. "I think couples should be
treated the same, legally."

Mr. Kaine talked about the tax and spending fight going on in Washington right
now and urged Mr. Obama to compromise with Republicans to get a deal.

"I've put on the table what I thought was a reasonable compromise: Let the tax
cuts expire over 500K," Mr. Kaine said, referring to income of $500,000. "The
Republicans are not going to walk to the president and say we're going to do it
exactly your way. And the president's not going to walk to Republicans and say
we'll do it your way."

"So find compromises," he urged.

As he begins his new job in Washington, Mr. Kaine expressed little regret with
the path his life has taken. A former Catholic missionary, Mr. Kaine said he was
comfortable with being a career politician.

"I didn't think I'd be in politics," he said. "I got mad at my city council one
day in 1994, and that was eight races ago. It has been a surprise."

He said he had few regrets, though he recognized that there had been sacrifices.

"I've got three great kids. You miss things with family if you're in politics,"
Mr. Kaine said. "I work very hard to be a good father, but look, I've missed
things and my family has been very understanding. But you kind of hope that you
might miss some things here but you put a thumbprint on your kids' character
that says serving other people is important."


     ·    Poll Finds Tight Senate Races in Virginia and Wisconsin
     ·    For a Virginia Republican, a Comeback and a Tough Fight Ahead
     ·    In Virginia, Kaine Jumps to Substantial Fund-Raising Lead
     ·    Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
     ·    Tim Kaine Announces Senate Run in Virginia


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Bill Keller)

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

Afterthoughts on a National ID

BYLINE: BILL KELLER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 773 words



HIGHLIGHT: Responding to reader discussion about a national ID.


My column advocating a national ID as a crucial component of immigration reform
drew some serious, thoughtful discussion, but let me begin with a quick note to
those readers who checked in from their generator-powered, booby-trapped,
hardtack-stocked bunkers. I mean the fearful minority who worry that a national
ID will become a tool of enslavement when the U.S. drifts into totalitarianism.
Phew. Wow. What can I say?

Well, first: this is the argument the NRA and its kin have used for decades to
prevent even the most minimal and sensible gun controls. When the fascists take
over they will round us up and confiscate our guns!  Much about our dystopian
politics drives me crazy, but I do not lie awake nights listening for the sound
of jackboots. Call me a Pollyanna, but on my list of national worries
encroaching fascism ranks well below our divisive immigration politics (or for
that matter our gun culture). The thing is, if America becomes a totalitarian
state, a) most of us are so thoroughly data-based already that a national ID
would be superfluous; and b) we'd have a lot of other things to worry about,
starting with our neighbors, since such an America could only arise with the
complicity - or at least the indifference - of the governed.

For those who believe we ALREADY live in a fascist state, I think you should get
out more.

On a less alarmist note, I'd like to address a few of the thoughts and themes
that arrived in the comments and emails.

Several readers noted that an ID card would not be a cure-all for our jerrybuilt
immigration system. I agree. For a broader discussion of immigration reform, see
a column I wrote last December, in which I found myself - on this one issue - in
surprising harmony with Newt Gingrich. (Even a stopped clock is right twice a
day.)

Some readers pointed out that it's hard to enforce laws against the employment
of undocumented workers when employers have a vested interest in circumventing
the rules - namely, a pool of relatively low-wage labor. No doubt, some
employers are tacit conspirators in defrauding the current E-Verify system. They
want a reliable and docile work force to pick their fruit and pack their meat
and vacuum their hotel rooms, so they wink at fake documentation. It's hard to
hold employers accountable now because there is no dependable way to
authenticate whatever documents applicants provide. With a verifiable national
ID, employers would have no excuse. At the same time, we could, of course,
reduce their incentive to cheat by expanding guest workers programs when
domestic labor is not adequate to do the job.

A couple of people argued that biometric data - fingerprints and digital
photographs, for example - are not entirely foolproof.  No, but they're pretty
darn good. The Government Printing Office has manufactured 75 million passports
in which the biometric data is a digital photograph; the picture contours are
turned into a computer algorithm that is at least as distinctive as a
fingerprint. This has not put passport-forgers entirely out of business, but
obtaining a false passport is immeasurably more difficult and expensive than
coming up with a pilfered Social Security number.

If a national ID is good for curbing illegal employment, why not use it for
other purposes? A relatively fraud-proof identifier could be used to board
airplanes and open bank accounts, to establish your identity at the DMV, etc.
Some readers proposed using it as a voter ID, to curb election fraud.

I proposed a single-purpose ID - containing just enough information to verify
that someone can legally be employed - as a way to overcome the concerns of
civil libertarians about expansive government databases. Moreover civil rights
groups worry that an ID could be a voting impediment to the poor, who are less
likely to have the time or money to obtain official ID like passports or
driver's licenses. I would not want those anxieties to prevent us from fixing
immigration. But personally I'm not so troubled by the idea of multiple-purpose
IDs, which are more convenient and provide fewer access points for identity
fraudsters. And I think the concerns about a universal ID for voting are
surmountable. You'd want to assure free and convenient access to cards that
would serve as your admission to the voting both, and you'd probably want to
phase them in over time.  A friend in California - a devoted Democrat - suggests
that the process of registering for an ID should automatically register you to
vote - and then the card can serve as a voter ID on Election Day. That way an ID
program could be used to expand the franchise rather than constrict it.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Chinese Lining Up in Record Numbers to Visit the U.S.

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 800 words



HIGHLIGHT: U.S. consular officials processed more than 1 million Chinese visas
in the first six months of the year, a 43 percent increase over fiscal 2011.
Brazil and Mexico also showed large increases.


HONG KONG - Chinese tourists apparently can't wait to get to the United States.
Brazilians and Mexicans, too.

The State Department  has announced that it has already processed more than 1
million visas in China this year, a 43 percent increase over the first six
months of fiscal 2011.

Since 2004, according to the Commerce Department, the number of visitors from
China has increased 438 percent.

Dong Xue, a senior at Purdue University in Indiana, told the state-run China
Daily newspaper that she recently got her visa to return to Purdue in just five
days, using a drop-off service at a bank in China. As a frequent visitor, she
said, she did not have to appear at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing or a consulate
for a personal interview.

U.S. consular offices in Mexico also process more than 1 million visa
applications each year, the State Department said, and Brazil is soon likely to
become the third such nation. Visa applications this year are up 44 percent in
Brazil. Mexico has shown a 36 percent increase.

Of the top 20 countries sending tourists to the United States, only Britain,
Spain and Ireland have shown decreases so far this year.

The White House said the increasing number of tourists is due in part to the
Travel Promotion Act, which passed in 2010. It established a tourism marketing
and promotional fund, financed through a $10 fee on each new visa.

But the U.S. share of the global travel market has been slipping in the past
decade, to 11.2 percent in 2010 from 17.3 percent in 2000, as Harriet Edleson
recently reported in The New York Times.

"After Sept. 11, the perception formed around the world that America was not as
welcoming as it once was, that there was difficulty in accessing the visa, and
the entry process through customs was inefficient," Geoff Freeman, the chief
operations officer of the U.S. Travel Association, told Harriet.

"Interest in America is high and has largely remained high but there has been
the perception that 'America isn't interested in me so I won't go,' " Mr.
Freeman said. " 'Go away' was the message we were sending."

About 1.2 million mainland Chinese visited the United States last year,
according to Chinese government statistics cited by China Daily. The number is
expected to reach 2 million by 2015.

The main purpose of Chinese visits to the United States in 2001, according to
the Commerce Department, were for business (30 percent of the total), vacation
(27 percent), visiting relatives (24 percent) and study (3 percent).

At the start of 2012, more than 850,000 foreign students were actively enrolled
at over 10,000 schools in the United States, federal statistics show.

Student visas have increasingly become a security concern, especially when
foreign students are bound for aviation schools, as my colleague Michael Schmidt
reports:

More than one-third of the flight schools in the United States that cater to
foreigners are not certified by the Federal Aviation Administration, according
to the Government Accountability Office, raising concerns that the schools are
illegally backing student visas although they have no intention of teaching the
students to fly.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which oversees the student visa
program, keeps such sloppy records that it does not know how many of the 10,000
schools that can submit paperwork for such visas are accredited by the states
where they do business, according to a new G.A.O. report. It said 167 of the 434
flight schools in the United States were not accredited by the F.A.A. and could
not provide students with the proper documents to show they know how to operate
a plane.

The G.A.O. report, which was released Tuesday, said most of the flight schools
it inspected at random were unable to provide proper documentation, "such as
proof of school officials' citizenship or permanent residency."

The agency began its investigation of flight schools at the request of three
senators after a school in California had "provided foreigners with paperwork
for student visas, with no intention of educating them," Michael writes.

"After the school was shuttered, roughly 1,000 students, many from India, had
their visas taken away and were forced to wear ankle bracelets until their
status was resolved."

A statement on Tuesday by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York,
said:

"The report shows that more than a decade after the 9/11 attacks, the student
visa program remains dangerously vulnerable to terrorists. These sham schools
are providing a dangerous backdoor entrance to the United States. The bogus
school in California exposed last year was really just the tip of the iceberg."

Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi - two of the hijackers involved in the attacks
of Sept. 11, 2001 - received visas and attended a flight school in Florida.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 8, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Failure of Discretion

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 356 words


When the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, John Morton, said in a
June 2011 memo that his agency would focus on deporting convicted criminals and
repeat immigration violators rather than noncriminals who pose no threat, he
raised hopes of restoring balance to a broken system. He told agents and
prosecutors to use ''all appropriate discretion'' with immigrants who lack
criminal records, have deep family ties to this country and are pursuing
''legitimate civil-rights complaints.''

But a year later, the promise has fallen short. Julia Preston reported in The
Times on Thursday that the administration's review of more than 411,000
deportation cases has had negligible results. Fewer than 2 percent of the cases
were closed under the new discretion policy.

Delays in background checks are at the root of the inaction, but the problem
goes beyond that. Immigration advocates in the South are trying to stop the
deportation of dozens of people who spoke out against abuses like dangerous
working conditions, unlawful arrests, unpaid wages, racial profiling and
retaliation against those trying to organize. Instead of protecting them, the
administration is trying to expel them. The fate of these immigrants, known as
the Southern 32, will test whether the discretion policy is worth the paper it's
written on.

There is another reason for action. The Supreme Court is expected to rule this
month on the constitutionality of Arizona's coldblooded immigration law. If it
upholds the right of Arizona and other states to wage their own immigration
crackdowns, local officials and employers will surely be emboldend to push the
undocumented further into the shadows. The Arizona model makes no distinction
between criminal offenders and those who have earned a chance to stay.

President Obama is nowhere close to fulfilling his pledge to win legalization
for 11 million immigrants who are languishing in this society without hope of
fully joining it. As Congress continues to do nothing, it becomes more urgent
that Mr. Obama act to protect those who could be well on their way to becoming
lawful Americans but for the broken system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Living in Fear

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 178 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Do-It-Yourself Immigration Reform,'' by Jorge G. Castaneda and Douglas S.
Massey (Op-Ed, June 2):

The writers express an optimistic view of the situation of Mexican immigrants in
the United States. What I see and hear as a clinician taking care of immigrant
families at eye level, face to face, is very different.

Immigrant families are frozen in fear of being torn apart by the vastly
escalated deportations of the last four years.

In the first six months of 2011, 46,000 parents of children who were mostly
American citizens were deported.

In raids on homes of housecleaners, landscapers and nannies, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents with machine guns surround houses in predawn hours
and treat parents with immigration violations as if they were terrorists in
front of their children.

Parents are afraid of leaving the house, and children fear every day that
parents will not return home.

This is the daily reality, here and now.

JULIA KOEHLER Boston, June 3, 2012

The writer, a pediatrician, is a volunteer at a free clinic in the Boston area.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Announcement Seizes Initiative and Puts Pressure on Romney

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and TRIP GABRIEL; Reporting was contributed by Jonathan
Weisman, Jackie Calmes and Jeff Zeleny from Washington, and Sarah Wheaton from
Milford, N.H.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1177 words


WASHINGTON -- In many ways, President Obama's unilateral shift in immigration
policy was a bluntly political move, a play for a key voting bloc in the states
that will decide whether he gets another term. But as political moves go, it
held the potential for considerable payoff.

It sent a clear signal to fast-growing Hispanic populations in Florida,
Colorado, Nevada, Virginia and other states that he understood their frustration
at his lack of progress so far in addressing problems with the immigration
system and reducing the number of deportations.

After two weeks in which his re-election campaign often seemed to be struggling
to cope with events and losing the upper hand to Mitt Romney, Mr. Obama, for a
day at least, was able to drive the agenda. And the president's announcement put
Mr. Romney, whose party is already split on the issue, in a tough spot,
pressuring him to choose between further alienating Latino voters who chafed at
the anti-illegal immigration stances he took in the primary season and
alienating conservatives who reject policies resembling amnesty.

The timing of the announcement appeared to have been carefully calibrated. Next
week, Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama are scheduled to appear before a group of
Hispanic elected officials on successive days in Florida, a ready-made
opportunity for the president to draw a contrast in their positions before a
swing-state audience. Mr. Obama is also scheduled to meet on Monday with a group
of immigration activists at the White House. The Supreme Court is expected to
rule soon, perhaps Monday, on Arizona's legislation that requires state law
enforcement officers to check immigration status during traffic stops and makes
it a crime for illegal immigrants to work in the state.

Especially with unemployment remaining high, the politics of immigration remain
sensitive for both parties, with neither Democrats nor Republicans wanting to be
seen as jeopardizing jobs for American workers. But polling suggests
considerable public opposition in both parties to deporting people already in
the country illegally, and support for steps that would allow otherwise
law-abiding young people who arrived in the United States illegally to stay. The
Obama administration had continued to deport illegal immigrants, including some
young people, breaking up families and draining enthusiasm for the president's
re-election among some Hispanic voters.

Democrats have long seen immigration as the best example of how Mr. Romney's
move to the right during the bitterly contested Republican primary could
complicate his ability to create a broad general election coalition. During the
primary season, Mr. Romney opposed the Dream Act, proposed legislation that
would have allowed many young illegal immigrants to remain in the country and
would have given them a path to citizenship. As he has moved into the general
election and confronted the need to compete for Latino voters, his campaign has
tried to finesse the issue by saying that the focus of his outreach to Hispanics
would be on jobs and the economy, and his initial response to Mr. Obama's
decision on Friday was to focus less on its substance than its unilateral
nature.

Speaking after an event in Milford, N.H., on Friday, Mr. Romney criticized the
president's executive order for making it ''more difficult to reach a long-term
solution'' for dealing with the fate of young people who are in the United
States illegally ''through no fault of their own.'' Mr. Romney did not respond
to questions about whether he would repeal Mr. Obama's order if elected.

In both substance and tone, his remarks were a softening of the posture he
struck during the Republican primary fight, when he said he would veto any bill
allowing children brought to the country by illegal immigrants to become
permanent residents.

They should ''return home, apply and get in line with everyone else,'' Mr.
Romney said in a debate in January.

His position apparently shifted under the influence of Senator Marco Rubio of
Florida who has been preparing a Republican version of the Dream Act similar to
what the president ordered Friday.

Congressional Republicans were more pointed in their criticism, but they too
were careful not to oppose some kind of solution to the problem of young people
who are in the country illegally but who are productive, otherwise law-abiding
residents. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, denounced it as
''possibly illegal'' for essentially bypassing lawmakers. Mr. Rubio said the
announcement would be ''welcome news for many of these kids desperate for an
answer,'' but that by going around Congress, the president had made it ''harder
to find a balanced and responsible long-term'' solution.

Their caution reflected concern within the Republican Party that they are at
risk of giving up a chance to win the political allegiance of Hispanics, not
just for this election but for years to come. Though the Dream Act was
originally co-sponsored by a conservative Republican, Senator Orrin G. Hatch of
Utah, in recent years most conservatives have worked to block any changes to
immigration policies that would provide a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants, and many conservatives have backed measures to limit the rights of
illegal immigrants already in the United States.

But Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, called this week for the party to do
more to connect with Hispanic voters. And just before Mr. Obama's announcement,
former Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi told reporters in Washington on Friday
that Republicans, for political and business reasons, should support plans to
let workers who are not citizens stay in the country.

''I believe America is in a global battle for capital,'' Mr. Barbour said. ''If
you are a worker who has been here for any length of time, we have to have a
path, not to citizenship, but a secure knowledge that they will be able to
work.''

Many Hispanic leaders had been critical of the president for not doing more to
address immigration. But on Friday, they said they welcomed his move, whatever
his motivation. ''We know this is political -- we like that it's political,''
said Robert Meza, a Democratic state senator from Phoenix. ''People are smart
enough to know that of course it's politics, but if their agenda moves forward,
they're happy.''

Mr. Romney has warned that if Republicans did not find a better way to appeal to
Hispanic voters, ''it spells doom for us.''

But his campaign has concluded so far that its outreach should be an economic
message, not a modulation of the anti-illegal immigration stances Mr. Romney
took during the primaries. His advisers observe that polls show Hispanic voters
rank jobs and the economy their most pressing issues, followed by education.

Some advisers have argued that Mr. Romney has more to lose by exposing himself
to charges of shifting positions over illegal immigration than he has to gain by
appealing to a slice of the Latino constituency that ranks immigration a top
concern -- because those voters already support Mr. Obama.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript of Obama's Speech on Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1242 words


The following is the full text of President Obama's speech on Friday from the
Rose Garden.

PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: Good afternoon, everybody.

This morning, Secretary Napolitano announced new actions my administration will
take to mend our nation's immigration policy, to make it more fair, more
efficient and more just, specifically for certain young people sometimes called
DREAMers.

Now, these are young people who study in our schools, they play in our
neighborhoods, they're friends with our kids, they pledge allegiance to our
flag. They are Americans in their heart, in their minds, in every single way but
one: on paper. They were brought to this country by their parents, sometimes
even as infants, and often have no idea that they're undocumented until they
apply for a job or a driver's license or a college scholarship.

Put yourself in their shoes. Imagine you've done everything right your entire
life, studied hard, worked hard, maybe even graduated at the top of your class,
only to suddenly face the threat of deportation to a country that you know
nothing about, with a language that you may not even speak.

That's what gave rise to the Dream Act. It says that if your parents brought you
here as a child, you've been here for five years and you're willing to go to
college or serve in our military, you can one day earn your citizenship. And
I've said time and time and time again to Congress that -- send me the Dream
Act, put it on my desk, and I will sign it right away.

Now, both parties wrote this legislation, and year and a half ago, Democrats
passed the Dream Act in the House, but Republicans walked away from it. It got
55 votes in the Senate, but Republicans blocked it. The bill hasn't really
changed; the need hasn't changed. It's still the right thing to do. The only
thing that has changed, apparently, was the politics.

Now, as I said in my speech on the economy yesterday, it makes no sense to expel
talented young people who, for all intents and purposes, are Americans. They've
been raised as Americans, understand themselves to be part of this country. To
expel these young people who want to staff our labs or start new businesses or
defend our country simply because of the actions of their parents or because of
the inactions of politicians -- in the absence of any immigration action from
Congress to fix our broken immigration system, what we've tried to do is focus
our immigration enforcement resources in the right places. So we prioritize
border security, putting more boots on the southern border than at any time in
our history.

Today there are fewer illegal crossings than at any time in the past 40 years.
We focus and use discretion about whom to prosecute, focusing on criminals who
endanger our communities rather than students who are earning their education.
And today deportation of criminals is up 80 percent. We've improved on that
discretion carefully and thoughtfully.

Well, today we're improving it again. Effective immediately, the Department of
Homeland Security is taking steps to lift the shadow of deportation from these
young people. Over the next few months, eligible individuals who do not present
a risk to national security or public safety will be able to request temporary
relief from deportation proceedings and apply for work authorization.

Now, let's be clear. This is not amnesty. This is not immunity. This is not a
path to citizenship. It's not a permanent fix. This is a temporary, stopgap
measure that lets us focus our resources wisely while giving a degree of relief
and hope to talented, driven, patriotic young people. It is the -- it is the
right thing to do.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Off mic.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Excuse me, sir. I -- the -- it's not time for questions, sir.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Off mic.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA: I -- not while I'm speaking.

Precisely because this is temporary, Congress needs to act. There's still time
for Congress to pass the DREAM Act this year, because these kids deserve to plan
their lives in more than two-year increments. And we still need to pass
comprehensive immigration reform that addresses our 21st-century economic and
security needs; reform that gives our farmers and ranchers certainty about the
workers that they'll have; reform that gives our science and technology sectors
certainty that the young people who come here to earn their Ph.D.s won't be
forced to leave and start new businesses in other countries; reform that
continues to improve our border security and lives up to our heritage as a
nation of laws and a nation of immigrants.

Just six years ago, the unlikely trio of John McCain, Ted Kennedy and President
Bush came together to champion this kind of reform, and I was proud to join 23
Republicans in voting for it.

So there's no reason that we can't come together and get this done. And as long
as I'm president, I will not give up on this issue, not only because it's the
right thing to do for our economy -- and CEOs agree with me -- not just because
it's the right thing to do for our security, but because it's the right thing to
do, period. And I believe that eventually enough Republicans in Congress will
come around to that view as well.

And I believe that it's the right thing to do because I've been with groups of
young people who work so hard and speak with so much heart about what's best in
America, even though I knew some of them must have lived under the fear of
deportation. I know some have come forward at great risks to themselves and
their futures in hopes it would spur the rest of us to live up to our own most
cherished values. And I've seen the stories of Americans in schools and churches
and communities across the country who stood up for them and rallied behind
them, and pushed us to give them a better path and freedom from fear, because we
are a better nation than one that expels innocent young kids.

And the answer to your question, sir -- and the next time I prefer you let me
finish my statements before you ask that question -- is this is the right thing
to do for the American people. They -- I didn't -- I didn't ask for an argument,
I'm answering your question.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Off mic.)

PRESIDENT OBAMA: It is the right thing to do for the American people, and here's
why.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Off mic) -- high unemployment.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Here's the reason -- because these young people are going to
make extraordinary contributions and are already making contributions to our
society. I've got a young person who is serving in our military, protecting us
and our freedom. The notion that in some ways we would treat them as expendable
makes no sense.

If there's a young person here who has grown up here and wants to contribute to
this society, wants to maybe start a business that will create jobs for other
folks who are looking for work, that's the right thing to do. Giving certainty
to our farmers and our ranchers, making sure that in addition to border
security, we're creating a comprehensive framework for legal immigration --
these are all the right things to do.

We have always drawn strength from being a nation of immigrants, as well as a
nation of laws. And that's going to continue. And my hope is that Congress
recognizes that and get behind -- gets behind this effort. All right? Thank you
very much, everybody.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible) -- specifically ruled this our, sir, last year.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: What about American workers who are unemployed while you employ
foreigners? END

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Step Toward a Dream

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 550 words


The Obama administration's decision to allow as many as 800,000 young immigrants
avoid deportation and apply for work permits makes perfect sense. It wisely
rescues blameless young people from legal limbo in an immigration system marked
by dysfunction and toxic politics.

Before the fog sets in -- with the predictable Republican outrage and the
distortions of an election year -- it is important to be clear that this move
does not offer amnesty and has nothing to do with green cards or a path to
citizenship.

It is a decision by the Department of Homeland Security to provide limited and
temporary relief to people who should not be deported anyway and to allow them
to work legally. To qualify for a two-year deferral of deportation, which could
be renewed, applicants would have to be under 31, have been brought to the
United States before age 16 and have been in the country for at least five
years. They cannot have serious criminal convictions and would have to be in
high school or have a diploma or its equivalent, or be honorably discharged
military veterans.

For the young people who would qualify, the decision opens pathways to higher
education, to careers, to fuller involvement in society that, until Friday
morning, had been hopelessly blocked.

It is well within Mr. Obama's authority to do this because the federal
government can decide how to enforce immigration laws. It shows common sense and
a smart use of resources to focus on removing dangerous criminals, recent
illegal immigrants and repeat offenders instead of young people who had no
choice when they were brought here illegally, have deep American roots, clean
records and dreams of higher education.

If this reminds you of the Dream Act, it should. The Dream Act is a bill in
Congress to give legal status to young immigrants who go to college or serve in
the military. It has long been stalled by Republicans who oppose relief of any
sort for people without papers. Those who were complaining about Mr. Obama's
action on Friday should acknowledge that Congress could have taken on this job,
but immigration extremists have not allowed it.

We welcome Mr. Obama's evolving leadership on immigration, though it is fair to
say that he was led to this decision by young Dream Act advocates -- students
unaffiliated with political parties or Washington lobbying groups who have
staged waves of rallies, infusing a campaign for smart policy with a sense of
moral urgency. On Thursday night, as word of the new policy spread, their social
networks were flooded with waves of elation and relief.

Now it is up to Mr. Obama to make sure the new hope he offers is fulfilled.
Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican of Florida, has been planning to offer his
version of a Dream Act, on lines possibly close to what Mr. Obama has done. He
was critical of Mr. Obama's unilateral action on Friday, yet he agreed with him
in principle to granting relief to those here illegally through no fault of
their own.

Perhaps Mr. Rubio and Mr. Obama can team up to push Congress to make the Dream
Act come true. Mitt Romney, meanwhile, still opposes the Dream Act. It is well
past time to make a more sensible and humane immigration policy the law of the
land, instead of having to rely on modest, incremental gains that any future
administration could undo.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Shift, Biggest Wave Of Migrants Is Now Asian

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 862 words


Asians have surpassed Hispanics as the largest wave of new immigrants to the
United States, pushing the population of Asian descent to a record 18.2 million
and helping to make Asians the fastest-growing racial group in the country,
according to a study released Tuesday by the Pew Research Center.

While Asian immigration has increased slightly in recent years, the shift in
ranking is largely attributable to the sharp decline in Hispanic immigration,
the study said.

About 430,000 Asians -- or 36 percent of all new immigrants, legal and illegal
-- moved to the United States in 2010, compared with 370,000 Hispanics, or 31
percent of all new arrivals, the study said. Just three years earlier, the ratio
was reversed: about 390,000 Asians immigrated in 2007, compared with 540,000
Hispanics.

''Asians have become the largest stream of new immigrants to the U.S. -- and,
thus, the latest leading actors in this great American drama'' of immigration,
Paul Taylor, executive vice president of the Pew Research Center, wrote in the
report.

Immigration scholars have attributed the decrease in Hispanic immigration to a
mix of factors, including the economic downturn in the United States, increased
deportation and border enforcement by the American authorities, and declining
birthrates in Mexico.

Tougher enforcement measures have made a greater impact on the Hispanic
immigrant population than on the Asian immigrant population because a much
higher percentage of Hispanics are in the United States without immigration
papers, experts said. About 45 percent of Hispanic immigrants in the United
States are here illegally compared with about 13 percent to 15 percent of Asian
immigrants, Pew demographers found.

Under this pressure, Hispanic immigration dropped 31 percent from 2007 to 2010,
while Asian immigration increased about 10 percent.

Pew researchers estimated that Asian immigration surpassed Hispanic immigration
by 2009. Mr. Taylor said in an interview on Monday that the delay in identifying
this shift was due in part to the fact that the analysis relied on later
demographic data, including the 2010 American Community Survey.

The findings are part of a study called ''The Rise of Asian-Americans,'' a
comprehensive analysis of the Asian population in the United States. The Pew
Research Center is a nonpartisan organization in Washington that has provided
some of the most reliable estimates for illegal immigration.

Drawing on Census Bureau and other government data as well as telephone surveys
from Jan. 3 to March 27 of more than 3,500 people of Asian descent, the 214-page
study found that Asians are the highest-earning and best-educated racial group
in the country.

Among Asians 25 or older, 49 percent hold a college degree, compared with 28
percent of all people in that age range in the United States. Median annual
household income among Asians is $66,000 versus $49,800 among the general
population.

In the survey, Asians are also distinguished by their emphasis on traditional
family mores. About 54 percent of the respondents, compared with 34 percent of
all adults in the country, said having a successful marriage was one of the most
important goals in life; another was being a good parent, according to 67
percent of Asian adults, compared with about half of all adults in the general
population.

Asians also place greater importance on career and material success, the study
reported, values reflected in child-rearing styles. About 62 percent of Asians
in the United States believe that most American parents do not put enough
pressure on their children to do well in school.

The growth of the Asian population has been noteworthy for its speed. In 1965,
after a century of exclusionary, race-based policies, the Asian share of the
American population was less than 1 percent. But immigration reform legislation
that year opened the door to broader immigration from around the world. The
Asian share of the total population is now about 5.8 percent, the Pew study
said.

''A century ago, most Asian-Americans were low-skilled, low-wage laborers
crowded into ethnic enclaves and targets of official discrimination,'' the study
said. ''Today they are the most likely of any major racial or ethnic group in
America to live in mixed neighborhoods and to marry across racial lines.''

A closer look at the numbers can reveal sharp differences between subgroups.

At least 83 percent of the total Asian population in the United States traces
its ancestry to China, the Philippines, India, Vietnam, the Korean Peninsula or
Japan -- and demographic characteristics can vary widely from group to group.

Indians, for instance, lead all other Asian subgroups in income and education,
the report said. Indians, Japanese and Filipinos have lower poverty rates than
the general public, while Koreans, Vietnamese and Chinese have higher poverty
rates.

But Mr. Taylor said there was still value in the macroanalysis. ''For better or
worse, throughout our history, we've always used race as a prism to understand
who we are,'' he said. ''Anything that illuminates the latest immigration wave,
that illuminates a growing race group, helps us to understand ourselves
better.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: New Face of Immigration: Asians have overtaken Hispanics as the
largest stream of new immigrants. In general, Asians are more successful and
better educated than most other groups. (Source: Pew Research Center) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Move to Allow Young Immigrants to Stay

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 355 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Obama to Permit Young Migrants to Remain in U.S.'' (front page, June 16):

The announcement took the first steps to correct a grievous injustice. We have
for far too long failed in our duty to be a land embracing ''your tired, your
poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.''

It is only an ugly, narrow-minded perspective that would find that those
children and young adults, whose sin was being born to the ''wrong'' parents,
are not welcome in our midst.

Republicans, as always, found error in the president's unilateral action.
Nothing to protect the most vulnerable ever gains the support of those on the
right.

There is skepticism that this is an election-year ploy, and the president's
undistinguished record on immigration gives some credence to that concern.

With luck, his retort to a reporter's inquiry that ''this is the right thing to
do for the American people'' will serve as a clarion call to re-evaluate an
overall policy of exclusion and deportation that cannot succeed. More important,
it should not succeed, because it is antithetical to our foundational obligation
to be a moral, just and inclusive society.

ROBERT S. NUSSBAUM Englewood Cliffs, N.J., June 16, 2012

To the Editor:

One consequence of President Obama's remarks about illegal immigrants -- ''they
are Americans in their heart, in their minds, in every single way but one: on
paper'' -- is to suggest that illegal is O.K. if you want to realize a dream.

Many people enjoy marriage, property ownership and other desirable states in
their hearts, just not on paper. But it's the ''on paper'' part, achieved
through procedures outlined in our laws, that ultimately protects the rights of
all who have a dream in their hearts, including those who must wait to achieve
it legally.

ABBY AVIN BELSON Jamaica, Queens, June 16, 2012

To the Editor:

President Obama's critics were quick to decry his immigration initiative as
election-year politics. Of course it was. That's one of the important reasons we
have elections: to induce political leaders to carry out the will of the
electorate.

JONATHAN J. MARGOLIS Brookline, Mass., June 16, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Politics as Performance, an Evolving Art

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE HOT LIST
ART; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 482 words


Artists have always blurred the lines among art, life and politics. Joseph Beuys
planted thousands of trees as ecological sculpture. Gordon Matta-Clark
stockpiled useless slivers of Manhattan real estate to illustrate the absurdity
of property ownership. The tradition continues in the work of the Cuban-born
artist Tania Bruguera, who has created the equivalent of a full-time performance
piece called the Immigrant Movement International in Corona, Queens.

Conceived as a gesture of solidarity with people living illegally in countries
not their own, the movement has headquarters in a storefront on Roosevelt
Avenue. There, free and seven days a week, a tiny staff and a roster of
volunteers, many of them artists, offer a program of practical assistance and
consciousness-raising activities to neighborhood residents, many of whom are new
arrivals from Ecuador and Mexico.

Services include legal advice and computer instruction, but there are also
reading lessons that double as introductions to art history, with an emphasis on
the difficult lives of artists in the past; health classes that incorporate
meditation and tai chi, linking an isolated Latin American population to the
borough's Asian cultures; and theater workshops that function as safe places to
work out stress, reimagine reality and rehearse political interventions.

One goal of the Immigrant Movement International, defined in a collectively
written manifesto, is to bring the cause of civil rights for immigrants into the
public sphere. How to do so effectively is the question. And this is the focus
of a series of community meetings, the first of which I sat in on last week.

It was evident from the discussion that the merging of life and art that Ms.
Bruguera envisions is still an evolving concept here. Some people wanted
straightforward protest marches; others mulled subtler forms of mass
demonstration learned from, among other sources, Occupy Wall Street, with its
roots in street theater. What was clear was that everyone -- about 50 people --
understood the basic politics-as-performance idea and were ready to go with it.

When Ms. Bruguera first set up the project in Corona in 2011, with financing
from Creative Time and the Queens Museum of Art, skeptics assumed that it was an
artist's ego trip and that she wouldn't stay. A year and a half later, and with
most of the money gone, the work is still in progress, and Ms. Bruguera is still
there, living over the storefront.

Is it art? Tired question, to which nearly half a century of history responds:
yes. For sure, it's art I'll be following this summer. Both before and after the
Chelsea galleries close for vacation, a lot will be happening in community
meetings in Corona, as more ideas for election-year actions are sketched out,
then firmed up and filled in, like paintings. How often do you get to see art
conceived, refined and finished as you look?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Gaspar, left, demonstrating food preparation with
homegrown vegetables at Immigrant Movement International headquarters.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

California's Trust Act

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 324 words


A bill moving through the California Legislature, aptly named the Trust Act,
seeks to counter the damage done to community policing and public safety by the
Obama administration's Secure Communities program. The program conducts
mandatory immigration checks of everyone booked into local jails and has led to
the deportations of many thousands of people with no criminal records, while
impeding law enforcement.

Once the program identifies immigration violators, federal officials can issue
''detainers,'' or requests that people be held so they can be picked up for
deportation. Local departments usually comply, even though police officials
complain that doing so clogs their cells with traffic violators and other very
minor offenders, including -- because of database foul-ups -- wrongfully
detained citizens and legal residents.

When every arrest is a potential immigration arrest, people in immigrant
communities are afraid to report crimes or cooperate with investigations.

Hence the Trust Act. Sponsored by Assemblyman Tom Ammiano of San Francisco, the
bill would require local police departments to release people who have been
arrested once their bond is posted or their sentence is up as long as they have
no serious convictions and even if federal officials have issued a detainer.

California is hardly going rogue as states like Arizona and Alabama have. Unlike
them, it has not drafted laws starkly opposed to federal immigration priorities,
to harass the innocent and encourage racial profiling.

On the contrary, the bill has been endorsed by Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los
Angeles, the police chiefs of Oakland and Palo Alto, California's Catholic
bishops and a wide cross-section of other city governments, police officials and
immigrant-rights organizations.

The bill would enhance the ability of local departments to fight crime by
restoring community trust and saving jail space for serious offenders. It
deserves to become law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Draws Contrast With Romney in His Turn Before Hispanics

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 734 words


LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. -- President Obama on Friday sought to capitalize on his
newly announced reprieve for young illegal immigrants with a broad attack on
Mitt Romney and Congressional Republicans as obstacles to a comprehensive
overhaul of the nation's immigration system.

In what amounted to the general election campaign's first debate on immigration
policy, Mr. Obama appeared before the same Latino audience that heard from Mr.
Romney, his Republican challenger, a day earlier. Mr. Obama used the opportunity
to tell Latinos not to trust Mr. Romney's softening language about immigration.

The president cited his decision last week to stop forcing out many young
immigrants illegally brought into the country as children by relatives, saying
he was ''lifting the shadow of deportation'' from people who deserved to stay.
By contrast, he pointed to Mr. Romney's opposition to legislation known as the
Dream Act, intended to offer legal status to many of the same young people.

''It's long past time that we gave them a sense of hope,'' Mr. Obama said.
''Now, your speaker from yesterday has a different view. In his speech, he said
that when he makes a promise to you, he'll keep it. Well, he has promised to
veto the Dream Act, and we should take him at his word. I'm just saying. And I
believe that would be a tragic mistake.''

In its response on Friday, Mr. Romney's camp focused on economic issues. ''No
election-year speech can cover up the president's job-killing policies that have
led to 11 percent Hispanic unemployment and millions of Hispanics living in
poverty,'' said Amanda Henneberg, a Romney spokeswoman. ''On Day 1, Mitt Romney
will take our country in a new direction and get our economy back on the right
track.''

The back-to-back appearances before the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials cast a sharp light on a topic that has divided the
country in recent years, particularly as jobs have grown scarcer since the
financial crisis of 2008. Each candidate faced a delicate balancing act in
appealing to a growing segment of the electorate while papering over aspects of
his record that are less appealing to this audience.

For Mr. Romney on Thursday, the challenge was to shift away from the harsher
talk, of the Republican primary season, if not the party's policies, when he was
competing for conservative votes. For Mr. Obama a day later, the test was
bolstering support from a critical part of his electoral coalition while
managing disappointment over his failure to enact more sweeping immigration
changes and over a deportation policy that has sent home more immigrants than in
any other administration.

Mr. Obama offered no new policies or ideas for how he would accomplish in a
second term what he did not in his first. Instead, he focused on blaming
Republicans for blocking the passage of the Dream Act in 2010 and lamented that
even those Republicans who once supported more expansive changes had now, he
said, abandoned the issue.

''Congress still needs to come up with a long-term immigration solution, rather
than argue that we did this the wrong way or for the wrong reasons,'' he added.
''So to those who are saying Congress should be the one to fix this, absolutely.
For those who say we should do this in a bipartisan fashion, absolutely.

''My door has been open for three and a half years. They know where to find
me.''

Mr. Obama received a warmer response here than Mr. Romney did. ''He hit all the
high notes,'' said Rafael Anchia, a Democratic state representative from Texas.

But another Hispanic leader said Mr. Obama's words rang hollow, given the lack
of progress in forging a bipartisan solution. ''Where is the leadership?'' asked
Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative
Principles.

Mr. Romney on Friday disassociated himself from an adviser who predicted that he
would reverse Mr. Obama's decision to allow young immigrants to stay. Ray
Walser, co-chairman of Mr. Romney's Latin America policy group, told The Daily
Telegraph, a British newspaper, that ''he would probably rescind this directive
were he to be elected in November.''

The Romney campaign noted that Mr. Walser advises on foreign policy, not
immigration. ''Governor Romney has been clear that he will put in place a
long-term solution that will supersede President Obama's stopgap measure,'' said
Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama addressed a national association of Latino
elected and appointed officials in Florida on Friday, a day after Mitt Romney
spoke.(A9)
 President Obama's appearance after one by Mitt Romney amounted to a debate on
immigration. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ping-Pong In Washington: Rubio Slams Immigration Politics

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 240 words


An hour before President Obama spoke to Latino officials in Orlando on Friday,
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida lamented how the immigration issue had become
hostage to politics -- on both the left and right.

''I have seen people take the legitimate concern about illegal immigration and
turn it into panic and turn that panic into fear and anger and turn that anger
into votes and money,'' Mr. Rubio said.

A conservative Republican who has been mentioned as a possible vice-presidential
pick for Mitt Romney, Mr. Rubio told the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials, ''I was tempted to come here today and rip open the
president.''

Instead, he offered a blunt discussion of how complicated and politically nasty
immigration issues had become.

Mr. Rubio, a Tea Party favorite elected in 2010 with 55 percent of Florida's
Latino vote, said that during his first year in the Senate no one wanted to work
with him on immigration because so many senators were scared by bruising battles
of the past.

He said that a Republican version of the Dream Act he developed was roundly
attacked by Democrats but that the same ideas were hailed once Mr. Obama
embraced them last week in an executive action sparing many young people from
deportation.

''As long as this issue of immigration is a political Ping-Pong that each side
uses to win election and influence votes,'' Mr. Rubio said, ''I'm telling you it
won't get solved.''

TRIP GABRIEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Soccer's Lost Boys

BYLINE: By ADAM MCCAULEY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; LENS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 933 words


The light was dim, and the room dank. The photographer Jason Andrew descended
the basement steps. A single television displayed the English Premier League
match between Chelsea and Tottenham, as flickering light of the television
illuminated nearly a dozen dark faces in the room.

They watched intensely, their eyes fixed intently on the white ball being kicked
back and forth across the field's brilliant green grass.

In March 2010, more than 40 Nigerians flew to Istanbul, carrying an invitation
to try out with Turkey's professional soccer teams. Within a week of arriving,
the players realized that the promises had been false, that their money had been
stolen and that they had nowhere to go but the streets. They've been there ever
since.

Mr. Andrew, 36, flew to Turkey in late April 2011 searching for his next photo
project. He wanted to find migration stories along the country's Edirne border.
He soon found himself in an Internet cafe in Istanbul, talking with African
migrants to whom few had paid any attention.

''I've always been interested in getting deep into human lives.'' said Mr.
Andrew, who studied history at San Diego State University before completing a
certificate program at the International Center of Photography in 2007.

Born and raised in Alameda, Calif., Mr. Andrew said he grew up alongside
immigrants. Driven by a desire to travel and explore, he said that issues of
immigration, and cross-border transit, became significant parts of his personal
and professional lives.

Mr. Andrew said photography was his attempt to explore important issues like,
''Where people come from, and why they do the things they do?'' In his latest
project, ''Football's Lost Boys,'' Mr. Andrew quickly uncovered some answers.

The African players said a manager they called Okpos had advertised a training
camp with ties to European soccer. The program was simple: if the players were
good enough, and they paid a fee, they would have their shot at playing
professional soccer in Europe.

Turkey was their dream, Mr. Andrew said. ''It was their gateway to Europe and
the height of professional soccer,'' he said. So when the aspiring players
arrived in Istanbul only to find that their manager had fled the country with
their money, they were left with nothing more than a fake invitation, and
receipts for the nearly $5,000 they had spent on the trip.

Mr. Andrew said this project has become a modern meditation on the question of
immigration.

''We always picture illegal immigrants as people who have jumped the fence,'' he
said. ''In Turkey, these individuals were invited into the country. Immigration
is no longer black and white.''

Beyond the missed opportunities on the field, the African soccer players felt
considerable animosity on the Turkish streets. They were often cursed at, spat
at and could rarely hail taxis, said Mr. Andrew, who, as a Caucasian, witnessed
this treatment.

In one of Mr. Andrew's favorite photographs (Slide 7), four players lay in a
single bed, a tiger-print blanket pulled up over them, each set of eyes scanning
a different direction, as three of the four men listened to music. There is
little in the photograph that identifies this as Turkey, were it not for the
large photograph of a woman praying at Mecca hanging crookedly above them.

This single frame hints at the complexity of their experience in Istanbul, Mr.
Andrew said. They have been stranded in a country that speaks a different
language, and many of them live without visas necessary for gainful employment.
Yet in their marginalization, the Nigerians have carved out a niche, he said.

When Mr. Andrew visited the players last year, they were sleeping eight to a
room, crammed into an old converted industrial building with unreliable water
and electricity. They nicknamed the complex ''The African Ghetto.'' Players said
that their landlord would threaten to assault tenants whose rent was late, and
was said to have once stabbed a tenant.

The aggressive tactics continue, in part, because of lacking police response to
issues facing African immigrants, the players said.

''When you go to these stations to make complaints, they ignore your reports,''
Jerry, a 22-year-old player who works in textiles to try to pay the bills, said
about the police. He asked to not be fully identified because of his precarious
visa status. ''They just tell you that you are a foreigner and that your rights
don't matter here,'' he added.

Despite the challenges they face, many of the Nigerians choose to stay in
Istanbul, Mr. Andrew said. Not because they believe it is the best option or
that it provides the best opportunities in the long-term, but because the shame
involved in returning home is too overwhelming, he said. Instead, the players
suffer quietly.

''I don't open up to my family about this,'' said Akeem, an 18-year-old still
battling for a spot on a Turkish soccer team. ''I don't want to make my mother
cry.''

As Mr. Andrew prepares to return to Turkey next month, he'll do so with a 2012
Photographer Giving Back award in the sports category for this body of work. He
hopes that these accolades will stimulate discussion about the soccer players
the world may never see.

''This is the ugly underbelly of professional sport, and one of my biggest
struggles is to make sure that my photography can communicate that to the
audience.'' he said. ''I want my photographs to tell the story that my eyes and
ears and heart have witnessed.''

Follow @jasonandrew, @adammccauley and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on
Facebook.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Akeem, left, and Jerry on the roof of Jerry's residence. The
building is home to a large number of African immigrants, many who came to play
pro soccer. They live five to seven to a room. Below, a player from Nigeria
practicing.
 Soccer clothes, top center, drying in an apartment shared by six. At left,
Akeem, 18, stretching during a pickup game. Akeem, above center, headed to his
home, which is within view of Taksim Square, a popular meeting spot. Players
paid 50 Kurus (28 cents) to watch Chelsea versus Tottenham in 2011 in the
basement of an Internet cafe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON ANDREW)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 11, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Debate: A Bush Tells Romney 'It's Never Too Late' to Lead

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 522 words


6:33 p.m. Updated George P. Bush said on Tuesday that ''it's never too late''
for Mitt Romney to take a leadership role in the immigration debate, but he
acknowledged Republicans were outflanked by President Obama's election-year
decision to allow hundreds of illegal immigrants to remain in the country
without fear of deportation.

''Governor Romney had an opportunity to get in front of the president on the
issue,'' said Mr. Bush, 36, the son of former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. ''But
the president clearly has taken the initiative on it.''

Mr. Bush, who is urging younger voters to increase their participation in the
2012 election through his political action committee called MavPAC, said he
hoped Mr. Romney would still ''formulate a plan - a more comprehensive plan'' on
immigration. But he added, ''Leading up to Election Day, it's very difficult to
get anything so controversial through, so we'll see.''

The White House announced a policy last month that would clear the way for young
illegal immigrants to come out of the shadows, work legally and obtain driver's
licenses and many other documents they have lacked. The temporary reprieve could
benefit at least 800,000 young people.

The decision fell short of Mr. Obama's pledge to pursue a broad overhaul of the
nation's immigration laws during his first term. Yet Republicans concede the
move is likely to help the president's appeal to Hispanic voters who could play
an influential role in the presidential race.

Mr. Bush, who was on a trip to Washington to promote his political action
committee, said the Republican Party needed to broaden its outreach to younger
voters. In an interview with reporters after a breakfast meeting, he said
Republicans needed to find an ''honest solution to the immigration problem,''
and both parties should commit to a bipartisan plan that recognized a ''need for
labor in our country and the need of enforcing, for purposes of national
security, our immigration laws.''

Like his father, Mr. Bush is a fluent Spanish speaker who has been an outspoken
advocate for overhauling the nation's immigration laws. His mother, Columba
Bush, was born in Mexico.

''Regretfully, this has become an issue that has ended and created political
careers,'' Mr. Bush said. He added, ''This is such a complicated question, it's
not going to be solved by one party alone.''

Mr. Bush, the nephew of George W. Bush and grandson of George H.W. Bush, is a
lawyer and managing partner of an investment firm in Texas. He and Jay Zeidman,
who worked in the Bush White House, are national co-chairmen of MavPac, a
political action committee to help younger political candidates and to increase
activism among younger voters.

The committee is focusing its work on Ohio and Florida, two key battleground
states in the 2012 presidential election.

Mr. Bush, who has worked on the campaigns of his father and uncle, demurred when
reporters asked whether he intended to enter the family business of politics. He
said, ''I'd be open to it. I just don't have an overwhelming urge to do it right
now.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAEMMRICH FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 13, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GRALLA, MILTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 499 words


GRALLA--Milton. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, friend,
philanthropist, of Boca Raton, FL passed away on July 11, 2012. He was 84 years
old. Born in 1928, middle son of Jewish immigrants from Poland.

Graduated 1948 (English, journalism) from City College of New York.
Newspaper/magazine career started as sports stringer for New York Times. Worked
for Tulsa World, before establishing business magazine company with brother,
Lawrence Gralla. Company expanded into Gralla Publications which had 19
magazines and a national exposition division before being sold in 1983 to United
Newspapers (London), an international publishing firm. Active life-long in
philanthropy and Jewish educational progress in the United States, Israel and
Former Soviet Union. Served on boards of directors of Boys Town Jerusalem,
Yeshiva University, UJA-Federation (NY City), World ORT, Jewish Telegraphic
Agency, JEWISH WEEK newspaper, Solomon Schechter School and Y/JCC of Bergen
County (NJ), and Be'er Hagolah School, ORT schools to Former Soviet Union as
founder (with wife Shirley) of new school in Odessa and then chairperson of
"Regeneration" campaign to build or expand similar schools in numerous FSU
cities. Sponsored and helped conduct seminars in Moscow for executives of
revitalized Jewish community weeklies. Became chairman of Salute to Israel
parade in New York City in 1994. With wife Shirley sponsored "Freedom Flight" of
250 Russian Jewish immigrants to new homeland in Israel. "It was emotional and
memorable beyond description," Milt recollected. In 1998 founded Gralla Fellows
Program at Brandeis University for journalists in early/middle stages of
careers. Helped bring music to Boca Raton FL through financial and business
support of the Palm Beach Pops and the Sunshine Pops. With Adriane Berg
co-authored "How Good Guys Grow Rich" which explained Good Guy attitude that
living to enrich others without seeking rewards would bring financial rewards
and personal satisfaction. Ran as Independent for Congress in his NJ district in
1974 and gained considerable support. Numerous awards included Ellis Island
Medal (to first-generation or second-generation Americans who have made
distinguished contributions to U.S. society), and Doctorate of Humane Letters
from Yeshiva University (1991). Residence in Boca Raton (FL). Wife Shirley
(Edelson) Gralla, married in 1950. Children M/Ms Edward Gralla, M/Ms Todd
Galinko, M/Ms Dennis Gralla. Six Grandchildren. Donations in Milton's name can
be made to any of the following institutions: Brandeis University, Mailstop 122,
Waltham MA 02453 - Attn: Nancy Winship, Senior VP of Institutional Advancement;
For Milton Gralla Endowed Scholarship for a Journalism Student, 781-736-4003 or
Jewish Home in Rockleigh, 10 Link Drive, Rockleigh, NJ 07647 - Attn: Chuck
Berkowitz, Executive Director, 201-784-1414 or Memorial Foundation for Jewish
Culture, 50 Broadway 34th Floor, New York, NY 10004 - Attn: Dr. Jerome Hochbaum,
212-425-6606.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

In Arpaio's Arizona, They Fought Back

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL SUNDAY OBSERVER; Pg.

LENGTH: 1126 words


Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Arizona, whose trial in a class-action
civil-rights lawsuit continues this week in Phoenix, didn't get to be America's
most notorious anti-immigrant lawman by being shy. The camera and microphone are
blood and oxygen to him. Where he goes, he trails TV crews, a gallery of rabid
followers, posse volunteers and, every four years, supplicating Republican
presidential candidates. The tent-city jail he calls his ''concentration camp''
is meant to signify brash, unchallenged power. In the blistering landscape of
Phoenix, he blots out the sun.

The people he abuses and humiliates, by contrast, are not Fox News regulars. The
men and women hustled into custody by his immigration sweeps are generally
undocumented and unknown. The neighborhoods he raids can seem like traumatized
places, silent and cowed by the dread Sheriff Joe.

This picture is incomplete. Many Latinos surely avoid any contact with the
sheriff and his deputies. But Maricopa is also home to a brave corps of people
who have tirelessly and stubbornly resisted the sheriff's campaign of fear. They
are a diverse group -- Latinos and Anglos, immigrants and the native-born,
street protesters and musicians, filmmakers and bloggers, and a very small
number of elected officials. They don't get much national attention. But as the
worst of the outrages of the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office are exposed this
month in United States District Court in Phoenix, their work and their warnings
are finally being recognized.

Among the most easily recognizable is a stocky Mexican-American with a white
mustache and ponytail, Salvador Reza, an Air Force veteran with long experience
in organizing Latino entrepreneurs and day laborers. When Sheriff Arpaio teamed
up with local business owners to harass day laborers in 2007, Mr. Reza helped
organize weekly protests outside M. D. Pruitt's furniture store, a now-legendary
series of confrontations that drew Minutemen vigilantes and white supremacists
to one side of the street, and Mr. Reza and his supporters, accompanied by
traditional dancers and musicians, to the other. Mr. Reza has been a thorn in
Sheriff Arpaio's side ever since. Sheriff's deputies arrested him in 2010 while
he was a bystander at a protest; though Mr. Reza was hauled before a judge in
prison stripes, a prosecutor admitted he had been arrested without cause, and he
was released.

Mary Rose Wilcox, the only Democrat, woman and Latina on the Maricopa County
Board of Supervisors, was an early critic of Sheriff Arpaio's, speaking out
against his ''saturation patrols'' of Latino neighborhoods in 2008, when few
other elected officials dared to defy the sheriff. She paid a heavy price: she
was indicted by a grand jury in 2009 on dozens of trumped-up corruption charges.
A judge later threw out the case, saying the county attorney, an Arpaio ally
named Andrew Thomas, had forged a ''political alliance with the Maricopa County
sheriff, who misused the power of his office to target members of the Maricopa
County Board of Supervisors for criminal investigation.'' Ms. Wilcox later won a
$975,000 settlement from the county. Mr. Thomas was eventually disbarred.

In a place rife with racial profiling, baseless traffic stops and widespread
fear of immigration detention, Lydia Guzman is like a 911 operator for the
community. Her advocacy organization, Respect-Respeto, monitors reports of
civil-rights violations by the police and sheriff's deputies and spreads the
word so immigrants know their rights when they are detained. It gathers
testimony about human rights abuses and helps families find relatives who are
taken into immigration custody. Ms. Guzman's boldest innovation is a
text-message version of a phone tree, which spread the word instantly to
thousands of people when immigration raids are taking place.

Dennis Gilman is a relentless independent videographer -- the chronicler of
Arizona in the age of Sheriff Arpaio. When immigration tension erupts, or bad
policing happens, you will often find Mr. Gilman and his camera -- at white
supremacist rallies, pro-immigrant marches, politicians' and lawyers' news
conferences and the sheriff's ''crime suppression'' sweeps. If the revolution is
ever televised, it will be because Mr. Gilman was there, taping it and posting
to YouTube.

In the Arizona Legislature, an elective body of astounding dimness, one of the
few bright lights was Kyrsten Sinema, who as a state senator gave a blistering
critique of S.B. 1070, the state's radical, Arpaio-inspired immigration law.
(She sponsored several bills to rein in the abuses of Sheriff Arpaio and his
ally Mr. Thomas, the county attorney, though her colleagues didn't go along.)
Ms. Sinema, who is a lawyer and on the faculty of the Arizona State University
School or Social Work, debated the law for hours with its sponsor, Russell
Pearce, ruthlessly exposing its many legal flaws. The law was later eviscerated
by the United States Supreme Court, too. Arizona voters eventually recalled Mr.
Pearce. Today, Ms. Sinema is running for Congress.

Dan Pochoda is legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Arizona,
which has spent years wrangling with Sheriff Arpaio over brutal conditions in
his jails, his abuse of prisoners, illegal work-site raids and wrongful arrests.
Mr. Pochoda got an inside view of Maricopa County's Fourth Avenue Jail in 2007,
when he went to the protest rally at M. D. Pruitt's furniture store and
sheriff's deputies grabbed him. He was handcuffed and locked up for nearly 12
hours on the trivial misdemeanor charge of ''trespassing.'' He was later found
not guilty. The A.C.L.U. is one of the parties bringing the lawsuit against
Sheriff Arpaio, along with the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, or Maldef, and the law firm of Covington & Burling.

These are not the only undaunted Arizonans deploying reason and truth-telling
against brute-force policing. A fuller list would include people like Carlos
Garcia, who has engaged thousands of young people in statewide pro-immigrant
advocacy as leader of the group Puente Arizona; Andrew Sanchez, a Town Council
member in Guadalupe, a tiny community of about 5,500 people of Hispanic and
Yaqui Indian descent, where Sheriff Arpaio and his deputies descended full-force
in April 2008; Rebecca Jimenez, who as Guadalupe mayor at the time publicly
demanded that Sheriff Arpaio stop the immigration raids there, and who (along
with Mr. Sanchez and members of Mr. Sanchez's family) later reported being
targeted for harassment by the sheriff's office; Stephen Lemons, a blogging
reporter for Phoenix New Times; and Phil Gordon, former mayor of Phoenix and one
of the first to call for a federal investigation of the Maricopa sheriff's
office.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Arpaio's Arizona, They Fought Back

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; SUNDAY OBSERVER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 882 words


Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Arizona, whose trial in a class-action
civil-rights lawsuit continues this week in Phoenix, didn't get to be America's
most notorious anti-immigrant lawman by being shy. The camera and microphone are
blood and oxygen to him. Where he goes, he trails TV crews, a gallery of rabid
followers, posse volunteers and, every four years, supplicating Republican
presidential candidates. The tent-city jail he calls his ''concentration camp''
is meant to signify brash, unchallenged power. In the blistering landscape of
Phoenix, he blots out the sun.

The people he abuses and humiliates, by contrast, are not Fox News regulars. The
men and women hustled into custody by his immigration sweeps are generally
undocumented and unknown. The neighborhoods he targets can seem like traumatized
places, silent and cowed by the dread Sheriff Joe.

This picture is incomplete. Many Latinos understandably go to some lengths to
avoid the sheriff and his deputies. But Maricopa is also home to a brave corps
of people who have tirelessly and stubbornly resisted the sheriff's campaign of
fear. They are a diverse group -- Latinos and Anglos, immigrants and the
native-born, street protesters and musicians, filmmakers and bloggers, and a
very small number of elected officials. They don't get much national attention.
But as the worst of the outrages of the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office are
exposed this month in United States District Court in Phoenix, their work and
their warnings are finally being recognized.

Among the most easily recognizable is a stocky Mexican-American with a white
mustache and ponytail, Salvador Reza, an Air Force veteran with long experience
in organizing Latino entrepreneurs and day laborers. When Sheriff Arpaio teamed
up with local business owners to harass day laborers in 2007, Mr. Reza helped
organize weekly protests outside M. D. Pruitt's furniture store, a now-legendary
series of confrontations that drew Minutemen vigilantes and white supremacists
to one side of the street, and Mr. Reza and his supporters, accompanied by
traditional dancers and musicians, to the other. Mr. Reza has been a thorn in
Sheriff Arpaio's side ever since. Sheriff's deputies arrested him in 2010 while
he was a bystander at a protest. Though Mr. Reza was hauled before a judge in
prison stripes, a prosecutor admitted he had been arrested without cause and he
was released.

Mary Rose Wilcox, the only Democrat, woman and Latina on the Maricopa County
Board of Supervisors, was an early critic of Sheriff Arpaio's, speaking out
against his ''saturation patrols'' of Latino neighborhoods in 2008, when few
other elected officials dared to defy the sheriff. She paid a heavy price: she
was indicted by a grand jury in 2009 on dozens of trumped-up corruption charges.
A judge later threw out the case, saying the county attorney, an Arpaio ally
named Andrew Thomas, had forged a ''political alliance with the Maricopa County
sheriff, who misused the power of his office to target members of the Maricopa
County Board of Supervisors for criminal investigation.'' Ms. Wilcox later won a
$975,000 settlement from the county, and Mr. Thomas was eventually disbarred.

In a place rife with racial profiling, baseless traffic stops and widespread
fear of immigration detention, Lydia Guzman is like a 911 operator for the
community. Her advocacy organization, Respect-Respeto, monitors reports of
civil-rights violations by the police and sheriff's deputies and spreads the
word so immigrants know their rights when they are detained. It gathers
testimony about human rights abuses and helps families find relatives who are
taken into immigration custody. Ms. Guzman's boldest innovation is a
text-message version of a phone tree, which spreads the word instantly to
thousands of people when immigration raids take place.

Dennis Gilman is a relentless independent videographer -- the chronicler of
Arizona in the age of Sheriff Arpaio. When immigration tension erupts, or bad
policing happens, you will often find Mr. Gilman and his camera -- at white
supremacist rallies, pro-immigrant marches, politicians' and lawyers' news
conferences and the sheriff's ''crime suppression'' sweeps. If the revolution is
ever televised, it will be because Mr. Gilman was there, taping it and posting
to YouTube.

These are not the only undaunted Arizonans deploying reason against brute-force
policing. A fuller list would include people like Kyrsten Sinema, who as a state
senator gave a blistering critique of S.B. 1070, the state's radical immigration
law, much of which was later struck down by the Supreme Court; Dan Pochoda,
legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Arizona, which has
wrangled with the sheriff's office over constitutional violations for years;
Rebecca Jimenez, the former mayor of the tiny Hispanic-and-Indian town of
Guadalupe, who demanded that Sheriff Arpaio end immigration raids there;
Guadalupe Town Council member Andrew Sanchez; Stephen Lemons, a reporter and
blogger for Phoenix New Times; and Carlos Garcia,who, as leader of the group
Puente Arizona, has engaged thousands of young people in statewide pro-immigrant
advocacy.

LAWRENCE DOWNES

A slide show of some of the notable anti-Arpaio activists can be seen at
nytimes.com/opinion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Salvador Reza, an Air Force veteran and organizer, is a member
of the Sheriff Joe Arpaio resistance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Delay on Domestic Violence

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 281 words


With Congress just days away from its August break, House Republicans have to
decide which is more important: protecting victims of domestic violence or
advancing the harsh antigay and anti-immigrant sentiments of some on their
party's far right. At the moment, harshness is winning.

At issue is reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, the landmark 1994 law
central to the nation's efforts against domestic violence, sexual assault and
stalking.

In May, 15 Senate Republicans joined with the chamber's Democratic majority to
approve a strong reauthorization bill. Instead of embracing the Senate's good
work, House Republicans passed their own regressive version, ignoring President
Obama's veto threat. The bill did not include new protections for gay,
immigrant, American Indian and student victims contained in the Senate measure.
It also rolled back protections for immigrant women, including for undocumented
immigrants who report abuse and cooperate with law enforcement.

Negotiations on a final bill are in limbo. Complicating matters, there is a
procedural glitch. The Senate bill imposes a fee to pay for special visas that
go to immigrant victims of domestic abuse. This runs afoul of the rule that
revenue-raising measures must begin in the House. Mr. Boehner's leadership could
break the logjam -- but that, of course, would also require his Republican
colleagues to drop their narrow-minded opposition to stronger protections for
all victims of abuse.

Unless something changes, Republicans will bear responsibility for blocking
renewal of a popular, lifesaving initiative. This seems an odd way to cultivate
moderate voters, especially women, going into the fall campaign.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bus Ride to Show the Cracks in Immigration

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PHOENIX JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 742 words


PHOENIX -- The route they will take on their cross-country trek resembles a
slithering snake -- up, down and around in a series of intentional detours that
are equal parts political strategy and provocation. Their bus leaves from this
sprawling city in the desert at sunrise on Monday, carrying 30 men and women who
say they have chosen to live in the shadows no more.

If all goes as planned, they will get to Charlotte, N.C., on Sept. 3, just as
the Democratic National Convention is getting started. For the illegal
immigrants taking the ride, it is time to make front and center a problem they
feel President Obama has failed to confront.

They do blame Congress and the Republicans for stonewalling attempts at
immigration reform, but as one of the riders put it, ''they're not the only ones
at fault.''

''No papers, no fear'' is their motto, and the words are stamped on T-shirts and
posters that went on sale at a party here on Wednesday to raise money for food
and water, lodging and toiletries, gas and rent of the bus, and also a bail
fund. It is not as if anyone is looking to get arrested, but they are preparing
for it.

The bus will traverse unfriendly territory for immigrants who are in the country
illegally -- states like Georgia and Alabama, where the police are allowed to
check the immigration status of certain people they detain.

It will cut across Louisiana and Mississippi, both of which tried -- and failed
-- to enact legislation imposing penalties against illegal immigrants. It will
slice through Tennessee, where in Davidson County, the sheriff boasts about his
role helping federal authorities deport them.

They hope to expand on the activist role carved out by immigrants who were
brought to the country as children, many of whom would be shielded from
deportation under a policy enacted last month by the Obama administration. (Many
of the riders on the bus are the parents of young people whose protests
eventually spurred the administration's action.)

''I'm running this risk because I want us to be respected, I want us to be
recognized as the human beings that we are,'' Maria Cruz Ramirez said at the
party, where she sat before a makeshift stage, surrounded by other bus riders.

Ms. Ramirez, 46, said she came here 11 years ago from the Mexican state of
Hidalgo to give her three children, whom she had brought along, a chance at a
better life.

Gerardo Torres, 41, said he arrived here 18 years ago from the Mexican state of
Aguascalientes so he could live freely as a gay man.

David Ramirez, 22, is among the youngest of the riders -- a green-eyed Mexican
from the state of Durango who said he was brought to the United States when he
was 9, too young to have made his own choice.

''I have a bachelor's degree in economics, for whatever it's worth,'' said Mr.
Ramirez, who graduated in the spring from Dominican University, just outside
Chicago, where he lives.

For them, the bus offers a chance for empowerment and kinship. The ride to North
Carolina is scheduled to last six weeks, and Ms. Ramirez, who said she had never
spent time away from her children, has forged a close friendship with Mr.
Ramirez, who is almost as old as the oldest of her sons and is traveling on his
own.

She said she had set aside the documents her family would need to run their
lives and the household in case she does not make it back: Mexican birth
certificates, bank account information, phone numbers of friends who can help
them.

Mr. Torres said joining the ride forced him to come out to cousins, aunts and
uncles who had no idea he is gay. ''I want to be the voice of the queer
community,'' and the only way to do that is to embrace his homosexuality
publicly, he said.

Mr. Ramirez said he had made no special plans.

''I'm walking on faith,'' he said.

As the party wrapped up, guests began to collect the chairs as actors from the
New Carpa Theater dismantled the makeshift stage, set up in the auditorium of a
labor union hall on 24th Street.

It had been a night of performances, like the short play featuring an encounter
between Our Lady of Guadalupe, the patron saint of Mexico, and Sheriff Joe
Arpaio of Maricopa County, known for his crackdowns on illegal immigrants. In
it, Mr. Arpaio asked Guadalupe for her papers, while Guadalupe asked him to
repent. He refused, and she left him to find his way out of the desert along the
border, a place many Mexicans have died trying to cross.

''This Land Is Your Land'' played softly in the background.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Actors performed a play depicting Sheriff Joe Arpaio and Our
Lady of Guadalupe at a party to raise money for the trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
SAMANTHA SAIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrants' Freedom Ride

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 692 words


On Sunday night or early Monday, about three dozen people are planning to set
out on a six-week bus voyage through the dark terrain of American immigration
politics. Their journey is to begin, fittingly, in the desert in Arizona,
national capital of anti-immigrant laws and oppressive policing. It will wind
through other states where laws and failed policies force immigrants to toil
outside the law -- New Mexico, Colorado, Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, Georgia and
Tennessee -- and end in North Carolina at the Democratic National Convention.

There the riders plan to deliver a defiant message to a president who is hoping
to return to office on a wave of Latino support that they believe he has not
earned.

There is something very different about this particular protest. Many of those
planning to ride the bus are undocumented and -- for the first time -- are not
afraid to say so. Immigrants who dread arrest and deportation usually seek
anonymity. These riders, weary of life in the shadows and frustrated by the lack
of progress toward reform, will be telling federal authorities and the local
police: Here are our names. This is our plan. If you want us, come get us.

The momentum for this daring ride, called the ''UndocuBus,'' began building last
Tuesday at the federal courthouse in downtown Phoenix. The immigrants' nemesis,
Sheriff Joe Arpaio, was testifying at trial that day about his office's long
history of racial profiling and discriminatory policing. Out on the street, the
midday glare off the pavement was blinding. Four unauthorized immigrants --
Leticia Ramirez, Miguel Guerra, Natally Cruz and Isela Meraz -- sat blocking
traffic and waited to be arrested. They were taken away in cuffs to spend the
night at Sheriff Arpaio's red-brick jail on Fourth Avenue.

Their civil disobedience should not have been necessary. Hopes for reform were
high in 2006, a year of huge, peaceful pro-immigrant marches in cities across
the country, after which Congress entertained comprehensive reform that had
strong bipartisan support. But Republicans killed the bill, and the years of
inaction that followed crushed immigrants' hopes while reinforcing the broken
status quo -- to the benefit of border vigilantes, the private-prison industry,
the engorged homeland security apparatus and hard-right ideologues who started
planting neo-nativist laws in legislatures across the land, starting in Arizona.

As Sheriff Arpaio quickly recognized, demonizing the undocumented was a potent
political tool: once an immigration moderate, he recast himself as a relentless
hunter of ''illegal aliens.'' With federal powers delegated to him by the
Homeland Security Department, he spent years conducting ''saturation patrols''
in Latino neighborhoods of Maricopa County, abusing and terrifying those with
brown skin.

All this time, as promises were broken and reforms went nowhere, as President
Obama ratcheted up deportations to record levels, and as Republicans intensified
their assaults, the immigrants lay low. But then groups of students, working
outside the regular channels of immigrant advocacy, bravely ''came out'' as
undocumented and demanded justice -- and won from Mr. Obama a promise not to
deport them.

A few more immigrants have now chosen to come out of the shadows. It is
impossible to know how many of the 10 million to 12 million undocumented might
dare to do the same. And while each and every one of them deserves a chance to
get right with the law, one provocative bus trip may well seem like a voyage to
nowhere, given the dismal state of Congress and the low odds of immigration
reform.

But this small group has already won an important victory, a victory against
fear. At the cramped offices of Puente Arizona, the Phoenix organization behind
the ''UndocuBus,'' volunteers kept busy last week updating calendars and working
phone banks. They made papier-mache masks and silk-screen posters, and decorated
plastic buckets for drumming. There was packing to be done, a bus to be painted.
Saturday was the day for a march, Sunday will be for the gathering in a city
park, for eating, singing and saying goodbyes. After that, the bus will roll.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For U.S. Team's Leader, Victories on Court and Off

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; VOLLEYBALL | MEN'S POOL PLAY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 625 words


LONDON -- The stew of cultures served up by the Olympics is comfort food for
Donald Suxho, the starting setter for the United States Olympic men's volleyball
team who immigrated from Albania in the 1990s and met his Ukrainian-born wife in
2005 while playing professionally in Greece.Multiculturalism is the spice of
Suxho's life, but a pinch of politics threatened to poison his second Olympics.
Suxho's wife, Eleni, who said she was in the final stages of becoming a
permanent resident of the United States, was denied a visa when she applied for
one in Kiev in late July, in advance of her trip here from Ukraine on Aug. 3.

She said she did not have her marriage certificate and was carrying a new
passport, with no stamps. Her application was flagged by British officials
intent on stemming the tide of illegal immigration from Eastern Europe.

''Maybe they didn't trust that I'm wife and I'm coming here only to support my
husband,'' she said.

Several frantic Skype conversations with Suxho ensued, each one more fraught
than the last.

''She was crying, and I didn't know what to do,'' Suxho said Monday night after
helping the defending champion United States squad to a 25-15, 25-19, 25-19
victory over Tunisia.

Upon hearing of Suxho's predicament, a fund-raiser for USA Volleyball reached
out to Representative Dana Rohrbacher of California, who pleaded Suxho's wife's
case to the British embassy in Washington, after which she was issued the visa
in time to make her scheduled flight to Heathrow. There she met up as planned
with Suxho's parents, Peter and Vera, who traveled from their home in Boston.

''I was upset, but in the end, it's O.K.,'' said Suxho's wife, who stood after
the match in the concourse outside Sections 115-116 at the Earls Court
exhibition arena to steal a few minutes with her husband before he returned with
his teammates to the Olympic Village.

When the 6-foot-5 Suxho showed up, his wife, who is also a professional
volleyball player, did not have to stand up on her toes to kiss him. After they
embraced, he hugged his parents and brother and draped his arm around his
11-year-old son, Shane, who also attended his father's first Olympics, in Athens
in 2004. ''But I don't remember anything except running around the stadium,'' he
said. ''It's really fun this time watching my dad.''

Suxho, 36, was already a promising volleyball player when he came to the United
States with his family as a teenager. He starred at Southern California and
backed up Lloy Ball at the 2004 Games. This is the first Olympics since 1992
that the United States team has someone other than Ball running the offense.

Suxho and his wife, the former Eleni Gkortsaniouk, met the year after Suxho's
Olympic debut when he returned to Athens to play professionally. She was new to
the country and playing on a pro women's team.

Suxho asked her out and they sat at a cafe for nine hours sipping their coffees
and drinking each other in.

''She spoke very bad English, but it didn't matter,'' Suxho said. ''You always
find a way when you feel good with somebody. After cafe, we got in taxicab and
the driver asked, 'How long have you guys been together?' I believe in destiny,
in chemistry, in love at first sight.''

When Suxho was transferred to a team in Italy three months later, Gkortsaniouk
accompanied him. They have been together ever since. Their one-year wedding
anniversary is on Thursday, but the celebration may have to wait. The Americans
finished pool play atop their group with a 4-1 record and will face Italy in the
quarterfinals on Wednesday, with the semifinals Friday.

''I'm still worried about games only,'' Suxho's wife said, ''so we'll see about
our anniversary.'' At least they're in the same country. That's all that
matters.

2012 LONDON

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/07/sports/olympics/us-volleyball-teams-donald-sux
ho-has-wins-on-court-and-off.html

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald Suxho, the starting setter for the United States men's
volleyball team, the defending Olympic champion, after his team's victory over
Tunisia.
Suxho's Ukrainian-born wife, Eleni,who is also a volleyball pro, was
initiallydenied a visa into London.
 Suxho, who immigrated to the United States from Albania in the 1990s,
settingthe ball in the team's three-set win. The U.S. faces Italy on Wednesday.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC: A First for Cyprus:
Pavlos Kontides won the silver medal insailing's Laser class, giving Cyprus its
firstOlympic medal. Cyprus beganparticipating in the Olympics in 1980.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Among Readers In Polyglot City, 50 Shades Of Best Sellers

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1169 words


The Chinese immigrants in Flushing, Queens, devour books with titles like
''Romantic Flower'' and ''The Heart With a Million Knots.'' The Russian women in
Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, clamor for a diet guide advocating plenty of meat. In
Greenpoint, Brooklyn, a bookseller cannot keep a tell-all by the wife of an
adored Polish politician on the shelves.Serialized romance digests are popular
in Jackson Heights, Queens, in languages spoken by the area's Indians and
Pakistanis. So, too, are books on Muslim topics. Khursheed Hassan, the owner of
Mansoor Book Store, has arranged the two inventories so the religious books are
high on upper shelves, and the romances in a row along the floor, to keep the
two genres' very different readerships from taking offense.

In the Babel that is New York City, where nearly 200 languages are spoken and
read within the public school system and nearly 40 percent of the population was
born abroad, literary tastes among immigrant cultures turn out to be as
different as their cuisines.

But what is popular in foreign languages is not always what is selling well back
home in Bahrain or Bucharest. Sometimes they are books that are contraband under
authoritarian regimes. Sometimes readers far from home seek out the classics as
comforting reminders of their roots. Still others delve into their new culture
with translations of school staples like ''Adventures of Huckleberry Finn'' that
were never on the curriculum back home.

Though American best sellers are often reprinted in many languages, many times
the accompanying buzz does not translate with it. For example, on Monday there
were 1,120 holds, or requests, for the entire New York Public Library's 121
English-language hard copies of ''Fifty Shades of Grey,'' the erotic novel and
runaway best seller. But there was no waiting list for the library's 20
Spanish-language e-books. (Fifty hard copies of the Spanish edition have been
ordered.)

''There are very different cultural tastes,'' said Jason Baumann, the
coordinator of world languages for the New York Public Library, which serves
Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island.

Scanning the usual industry indicators like Publishers Weekly magazine will not
reveal what will be popular for New Yorkers from say, Mali or Nepal. Mr. Baumann
relies instead on the expertise of foreign-language booksellers based in the
United States to figure out what is hot in a particular country.

As the city has exponentially diversified, so have the foreign-language stacks,
which now include 60 languages spread across the New York Public Library's 87
branches.

In the Queens Borough Public Library system, the number of foreign-language
books has doubled over the last decade and now includes Bengali, Croatian and
multiple languages spoken in Afghanistan. The Brooklyn Public Library caters to
cardholders in about 30 languages, according to its Web site, and has a special
multilingual center at the main Grand Army Plaza branch.

As the compositions of the city's immigrant populations have changed, so, too,
have the books that are carried. Mr. Baumann increasingly buys books in French
as the city's population of Francophone Africans has increased. Harlequin
Romances are their top request. A Lower East Side branch, once in the heart of
Little Germany, has a longstanding endowment to buy books in German, now little
used.

At Saint Petersburg Trade House in Brighton Beach, where each supermarket along
Brighton Beach Avenue carries caviars from Russia's Bering Sea priced by grade
like gasoline, classical Russian literature, like Dostoevsky and Tolstoy, in
Russian are requested daily, said Violet Lazareva, 48, the store's literary
consultant. ''All the parents teach their children that they should read Russian
classics in Russian,'' she said. ''They're better in Russian, really.''

(Also wildly popular is a French diet book by Pierre Dukan translated into
Russian, roughly titled, ''I Don't Know How to Lose Weight.'')

Many children of immigrants do not read their parents' languages, said Andrzej
Szymanik, the owner of Polish Bookstore and Publishing in Greenpoint. He stocked
Polish translations of the ''Twilight'' series, but the books hardly budged.
''It was a big sensation in the States,'' he said, but in his Java Street store,
''there wasn't any craze about it.''

Even his own daughter gobbled up the vampire trilogy in English.

''Teenagers don't come to the store,'' he said. ''They don't read in Polish if
they live here. They forget. That's the fact of life.''

But Chinese-speaking teenage girls come out in force in the Flushing branch of
the Queens library, as do their mothers and grandmothers and some men. Every
weekend, legions of them cram into an aisle along the far wall of the top floor.
They lean on shelves or sit cross-legged on the floor, thumbing through hundreds
of slim volumes of highly addictive serial romance novels from Taiwan.

Long a craze in China, and, many readers admit, somewhat schmaltzy, the romances
are some of the hottest items in the city's libraries. The scene is similar at
the New York Public Library's Chatham Square branch in Chinatown, where, Mr.
Baumann said, ''you'll have people just tearing through the shelves searching
for the most recent Taiwanese romance novel.''

The most popular serialized Chinese-language romance was checked out about 300
times in the library system in June. The library's most popular English-language
fiction book, ''The Help,'' which has sold over five million copies, was
circulated only about 195 times in all 87 branches that month. (Foreign language
books also tend to last twice as long in the library system; they rarely return
dog-eared or food-splotched.)

Also popular are contentious or scandalous books, as New Yorkers seek to keep up
with books that have relatives back home talking. At Mansoor it is the
autobiography of Pervez Musharraf, the former Pakistani president; at the Polish
bookstore in Greenpoint, it is an autobiography by the wife of Lech Walesa that
exposes the cracks in their family life. At Slovak-Czech Varieties, a tiny store
at the Queens-side foot of the Pulaski Bridge, there are books by Jozef Heriban,
stocked because of the sensation he caused in Slovakia as one of its first
authors to use homosexual protagonists, said Barbora Mina, 26, an employee.

Many request books that are censored in their homelands. Mr. Baumann said that
at a Chinatown bookstore that supplies many of the New York Public Library's
Chinese-language books, visiting tourists often asked for books that were
considered subversive or anti-Communist and therefore not available at home.

But as the readership of physical books is replaced by tablets and e-readers and
the Internet's myriad distractions, the foreign-language book industry has also
been affected. Three years ago, Mr. Szymanik of the Greenpoint bookshop said, he
turned to selling Polish foods over the Internet from his base at the store,
because book sales slumped.

The bookstore's current best seller, he said, is kielbasa.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/10/nyregion/in-new-york-best-selling-books-vary-b
y-ethnic-group.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yap Anny travels from Manhattan's Chinatown to Flushing,
Queens, to check out Chinese-language romance novels. Mansoor Book Store in
Queens, which caters to South Asian immigrants, keeps romances and books on
Muslim topics, many in Urdu, far from each other. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD
HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In '12 Race, Mayor Seeks Immigration Discussion

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 662 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wants the presidential candidates to talk more about
immigration policy. So on Tuesday, he will be visiting the cities where their
campaigns have headquarters, pressing them on the issue.In the morning, Mr.
Bloomberg will go to Chicago, home to President Obama's campaign organization,
to hold a public discussion on immigrants and their role in the economy with
William M. Daley, a former chief of staff in the Obama White House.

In the evening, Mr. Bloomberg will hold a similar discussion with Rupert
Murdoch, the chief executive of News Corporation, in Boston, where Mitt Romney's
campaign has its headquarters. Mr. Murdoch and Mr. Bloomberg lead a group of
mayors and chief executives called the Partnership for a New American Economy,
which supports immigration changes as an economic issue.

Whether Mr. Obama or Mr. Romney will heed Mr. Bloomberg's views on immigration
is another story. Neither candidate will be anywhere near his headquarters on
Tuesday. They will instead be campaigning in swing states: Mr. Obama in Iowa,
and Mr. Romney in Ohio.

''If we are going to create jobs in this country, we have to have immigrants,''
Mr. Bloomberg said Sunday as he prepared to march in New York's Dominican Day
Parade. ''We're going to need immigrants to start new businesses. We're going to
need immigrants to do the things that Americans just aren't willing to do. We're
going to have to have immigrants to give us new ideas and tell us what's going
on elsewhere.''

Mr. Bloomberg offered modest praise for Mr. Romney's choice of Representative
Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin as his running mate, saying Mr. Ryan's budget plan,
which calls for drastically shrinking the size of government, would at least
force the campaigns to talk specifically about their approach to reducing the
federal deficit.

Noting that he had met with Mr. Ryan this year to discuss the congressman's
budget proposal, Mr. Bloomberg said, ''At least he had a plan,'' while adding,
''I don't think I agreed with most of his plan.''

''In all fairness, I think he was one of the few who had a concrete plan, other
than Simpson-Bowles,'' the mayor said, referring to the debt-reduction plan of
Mr. Obama's bipartisan fiscal commission, led by Alan K. Simpson and Erskine B.
Bowles.

On the subject of immigration, Mr. Bloomberg advocates giving green cards to
foreign-born graduates of master's or doctoral programs in science, technology,
engineering or math at American universities, and allowing foreign-born
entrepreneurs who are backed by American venture capital to develop their
inventions or build their companies here. He has described the country's
practice of sending such talent and ideas somewhere else as a form of ''national
suicide.''

Mr. Bloomberg also supports making it easier for the agricultural and
hospitality industries to hire temporary foreign workers for jobs that they
cannot fill otherwise.

The mayor's chief policy adviser, John Feinblatt, said in an interview that the
mayor's choice of Mr. Daley and Mr. Murdoch to join him in discussing
immigration was intended to show that people on opposite sides of the political
spectrum can be aligned on the subject.

''What we want to show is that there can be unanimity,'' Mr. Feinblatt said.
''This doesn't have to be an issue fought at the extremes, like it usually is.''

Mr. Bloomberg said Sunday that he would also continue demanding that the
candidates say what they planned to do about gun violence. Since the recent mass
shootings at a movie theater in Aurora, Colo., and at a Sikh temple in Oak
Creek, Wis., Mr. Bloomberg has criticized Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney for failing
to say what they would do to prevent such tragedies.

On his weekly radio show on Friday, Mr. Bloomberg said that neither candidate
had addressed the issues of greatest concern to New York City, like illegal
guns.

''You just have to be able to be safe walking down the street, and neither
candidate has come up with a plan,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/13/nyregion/bloomberg-to-press-obama-and-romney-c
ampaigns-on-immigration.html

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Bloomberg's Immigration Road Trip

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 440 words


Mayor Michael Bloomberg took his pro-immigration views on the road on Tuesday to
public forums in Chicago and Boston, where he urged President Obama and Mitt
Romney to make immigration a central issue in the presidential campaign.Mr.
Bloomberg, never shy about pressing his priorities on others, deserves credit
for hammering on this one. At a time when politicians try to outdo one another
for harshness on immigration, he was pushing another approach -- one that is
more generous with visas and puts the 11 million or so illegal immigrants in the
United States on a path to citizenship for the sake of national prosperity.

''There is no way to help the economy as quickly and as cost-free as opening the
borders to create jobs and create business,'' he said in Chicago. He has often
called the alternative -- tighter immigration restrictions and mass deportation
-- a form of ''national suicide.''

The mayor said that for all the rancor surrounding immigration, it remained one
of the few issues where bipartisan agreement was possible -- a point shown by
the two partners who joined him on Tuesday: Rupert Murdoch, the chairman and
chief executive of the News Corporation; and William Daley, the former chief of
staff to Mr. Obama.

Mr. Bloomberg is pushing a four-point reform plan: giving green cards to
foreigners who earn graduate degrees in the United States in science,
technology, engineering and math; increasing the percentage of visas based on
economic need; creating a special visa for entrepreneurs; and devising a
guest-worker program for seasonal and labor-intensive industries. Mr. Bloomberg
chided both Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney for offering nothing ''more than lip
service'' about immigration and the economy. But while Mr. Obama has often been
disappointing as an immigration advocate, Mr. Romney and his party have been
colossal failures.

After a long period of vagueness, Mr. Romney moved in the primary to embrace the
extremist notion that illegal immigrants should be made so miserable that they
deport themselves. By contrast, Mr. Obama has endorsed the sensible reforms that
Mr. Bloomberg is seeking.

The kind of guest-worker reform Mr. Bloomberg wants has languished in Congress
for more than a decade, stymied by Republican opposition. Likewise, a bill to
legalize young immigrants who go to college or serve in the military has been
blocked by Republicans; Mr. Romney vowed to veto it should it ever pass. (Mr.
Obama is achieving the bill's goals through executive action.) When Mr.
Bloomberg talks about bringing common sense to the immigration debate, it's Mr.
Romney and his fellow Republicans who most need to listen.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/15/opinion/mr-bloombergs-immigration-road-trip.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lining Up in Chicago With Hopes of Gaining Legal Status

BYLINE: By DANIEL BORRIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 150 words


An estimated 13,000 young illegal immigrants showed up at Navy Pier in Chicago
on Wednesday for Dream Relief Day. The one-day workshop was organized to help
them with the application process to gain temporary legal immigration status
under the Obama administration's measure known as Deferred Action for Childhood
Arrivals.Wednesday was the first day that applications could be filed, and the
coordinator of the event, the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights, had expected a much smaller turnout. But people began camping out on
Tuesday night to be among the first to receive information packets, forms and
place numbers. In the end, only 1,500 people were able to have their
applications reviewed by volunteers.

Katerin Zuniga, a 19-year-old nursing student in Chicago, was No. 1,500. Her
cousin, standing just behind her with No. 1,501, did not get extensive help with
the paperwork.

URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KATERIN ZUNIGA, 19: A nursing student who came to the United
States from Honduras at age 7.
ZORYA ZORIADA PUENTE, 26: A mother of three who came to the United States from
Mexico at age 9.
JUAN SUCHIL, 18: A student who came to the United States from Mexico at age 6.
JOSE ORTIZ, 18: A high school student who came to the United States from Mexico
at age 3.
FERIMA SAMAKE, 21: A nursing student who came to the United States from Mali at
age 13.
J. SANTOS, 20: A restaurant server and student who came to the United States
from Mexico at age 9.
DANIEL CORNEJO, 17: A high school student who came to the United States from
Mexico at age 4.
 STALIN AZURO, 18:  A student who came to the United States  from Ecuador at age
10. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BORRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 31, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Nation

BYLINE: By DANIEL KANSTROOM.

Daniel Kanstroom, a professor of law at Boston College, is the author, most
recently, of ''Aftermath: Deportation Law and the New American Diaspora.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1120 words


Newton Centre, Mass.

IT would have taken a hard heart not to be moved this month as tens of thousands
of ''Dreamers'' -- young undocumented immigrants who were brought to this
country as children -- emerged from the shadows to apply for temporary work
permits and deportation deferrals under a new policy by the Obama administration
that has delighted immigrant advocates and enraged conservatives.

Though generous and humane, the policy represents only one side of the
deportation story. Barack Obama has presided over a record increase in the
number of removals, in many cases on legal grounds that offend our basic notions
of fairness. These injustices predate him; they started in 1996, when
immigration policy was changed in a draconian fashion so that noncitizens --
including permanent legal residents -- became vulnerable to deportation even for
minor crimes committed years ago, with little regard for procedural rights or
judicial discretion.

Consider Marco Merino-Fernandez, a 35-year-old client of a clinic at the law
school where I teach. He was brought from Chile to the United States legally,
when he was 5 months old, but like many legal permanent residents, he never
became a citizen. He speaks English fluently and got a G.E.D. in Florida.
Returning from a vacation abroad, in 2006, he presented his green card to
immigration agents, who discovered that Mr. Merino-Fernandez, more than a decade
earlier, had been convicted of two misdemeanors for drug possession, small
amounts of marijuana and LSD.

He was detained for months. After a brief hearing, a judge ruled that he was
''an aggravated felon'' and ordered him deported to Chile, where he had not been
since infancy and where only a few relatives remained. After arriving in Chile,
in 2007, Mr. Merino-Fernandez learned that his mother had died in Florida; he
wasn't able to return for her funeral.

Before 1996, deportation was a comparatively small enterprise, with safeguards
that allowed judges to exercise compassion and recognize rehabilitation. Since
then, one of history's most open societies has developed a huge, costly, harsh
and often arbitrary system of expulsion. Between 2001 and 2010, more than one
million people were deported from the United States because of post-entry
criminal conduct.

These homesick exiles can be found around the world. In the Azores, off the
coast of Portugal, are New Englanders who sport Red Sox caps and speak English
with thick Boston accents. Most know no Portuguese. ''Honestly, it stinks,'' one
of them told me. Other men teared up as they recalled their families in the
United States.

New Yorkers abound in the Dominican Republic, where the United States has sent
around 30,000 deportees. Their distinct dress, walk and language mark them as
outcasts, the social scientists David C. Brotherton and Luis Barrios found in a
book published last year.

In a study of Latin American deportees who had lived for long periods in the
United States (on average, 14 years), the sociologists M. Kathleen Dingeman and
Rubén G. Rumbaut found that deportees who had emigrated as children suffered the
most. Deportees to El Salvador (a country many had fled during the civil war of
the 1980s) encountered discrimination because of their accents, style of dress
and California gang-themed tattoos.

In 2004, a New Yorker, Calvin James, 45, was separated from his partner and
their young son and deported to Jamaica, where he hadn't lived since he was 12,
because of past convictions for selling drugs. As the journalist Julianne Ong
Hing described it, the local police asked Mr. James standard questions -- ''Do
you have family you will be contacting? What address will you be staying at?''
-- but Mr. James had no one to call. He landed in Spanish Town, a crime-ridden
community he described as ''a battle zone,'' before eventually finding
low-paying work.

Hundreds of Cambodian youths whose families survived the Khmer Rouge's killing
fields have been deported to a land about which they had heard nothing but
horror stories. The documentary ''Sentenced Home'' tells of Loeun Lun, who was
brought to the United States at age 6. He served 11 months in jail for having
fired a gun in a shopping mall (no one was hurt) when he was 19, but he turned
his life around. Even so, he was deported in 2003, at the age of 27.

Deportation can be inhumane, even life-threatening. In 2000, the Haitian
government imposed mandatory, indefinite detention on criminal deportees
arriving from the United States. In Haitian prisons, deportees have suffered
from a lack of basic hygiene, nutrition and health care, and from outbreaks of
diseases like beriberi and cholera.

This vast experiment in deportation hasn't deterred undocumented immigration,
which increased steadily from 2000 to 2007. Nor has it substantially reduced
serious crime rates; a 2007 study found that American-born men between 18 and 39
were five times more likely than foreign-born men to be imprisoned. What it has
done is forcibly separate hundreds of thousands of families -- an especially
harsh fate for children or elderly parents left behind in America.

''Well, that's tough,'' some say, ''but they broke the law -- period.'' Laws
have certainly been broken. But law is not a one-size-fits-all enterprise.
Discretion, as the jurist Felix Frankfurter noted, makes law enforcement more
humane and more efficient.

To be sure, some deportees have been convicted of serious crimes. But most are
guilty of drug offenses, or misdemeanors like petty larceny, simple assault,
drunken driving. Lifetime banishment is an inhumane and disproportionately harsh
sentence, particularly for nonviolent drug offenses and crimes committed when
the offenders were minors.

What vision of law justifies the deportation of those who have grown up,
attended school and raised families in the United States? What purpose is served
by permanently barring them from returning home, even for family visits?

In a 2010 decision, Padilla v. Kentucky, the Supreme Court recognized that many
criminal defense lawyers had a poor understanding of immigration law and that if
they advised clients about deportation at all, they often gave bad advice. As a
result, many people have agreed to guilty pleas that unnecessarily resulted in
deportation. But the Board of Immigration Appeals has held that once they are
deported, their cases cannot be reopened. The rule of law, it seems, ends at the
border.

Though most experts agree that we need visa reform, better border control and a
large-scale legalization program for those already here, no comprehensive
legislation has passed. The plight of the deportees is even further down on the
legislative agenda, if it is there at all. And so the deportations go on.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/31/opinion/deportation-nation.html

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 2, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Top Official At ICE Quits Over Claims In Lawsuit

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 419 words


WASHINGTON -- A senior official at the Department of Homeland Security resigned
on Saturday after accusations that she had created a sexualized office culture
that was hostile to men. The official, Suzanne Barr, is a longtime aide to the
department's secretary, Janet Napolitano, and had been on leave from her
position as chief of staff to the director of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement because of the allegations.

In a letter to the ICE director, John Morton, that was obtained by The New York
Times, Ms. Barr denied the accusations as ''unfounded and without any merit,''
but said she had decided to move on.

''In recent weeks, I have been the focus of unfounded allegations designed to
destroy my reputation, but of greater concern, however, is the threat these
allegations represent to the reputation of this agency and the men and women who
proudly serve their country by advancing ICE's mission,'' she wrote. ''As such,
I feel it is incumbent upon me to take every step necessary to prevent further
harm to the agency and to prevent this from further distracting from our
critical work. Therefore, it is with great regret that I submit my resignation
as chief of staff for Immigration and Customs Enforcement.''

The accusations against Ms. Barr came to light as part of a discrimination
lawsuit filed by James T. Hayes Jr., a top federal immigration official in New
York, against Ms. Napolitano, contending that he had been pushed out of a senior
management position to make room for a less-qualified woman and then was
retaliated against when he threatened to sue. The lawsuit also accused Ms. Barr
of creating ''a frat-house-type atmosphere that is targeted to humiliate and
intimidate male employees.''

The resignation -- amid a three-day holiday weekend sandwiched between the
Republican and Democratic national conventions -- came at a time when the public
was likely paying little attention to events in Washington. But Representative
Peter T. King of New York, the Republican chairman of the House Homeland
Security Committee, released a statement in which he vowed to continue to
scrutinize the matter when Congress returns from its August break.

''The resignation of Suzanne Barr raises the most serious questions about
management practices and personnel policies at the Department of Homeland
Security,'' Mr. King said, adding that the committee would review ''all the
facts regarding this case and D.H.S. personnel practices across the board.''

Brian Hale, an ICE spokesman, confirmed the resignation.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/02/us/ice-official-quits-over-discrimination-clai
ms.html

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trust, Immigrants and Gov. Brown

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 502 words


There is a significant and immediate step Gov. Jerry Brown of California can
take to protect community safety and civil liberties in his state.

He can sign the Trust Act, a recently passed state bill that prevents local
police departments from turning their jails into immigration holding cells for
noncriminals or minor offenders whose sentences are up or who should otherwise
be out on bail. The act would require the police to let such people go, even if
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have issued voluntary requests,
known as detainers, that they be held until they can be picked up for
deportation. Only those who have been convicted of or charged with serious or
violent felonies would continue to be detained at ICE's request.

The purpose of the act is to bring state enforcement in line with federal
deportation priorities -- which is to focus on dangerous criminals,
national-security threats and repeat offenders. It was prompted by a troubled
ICE program called Secure Communities, which enlists local authorities in
immigration enforcement by doing checks on everyone they fingerprint. The
program has led to the deportation of tens of thousands of minor offenders or
those with no criminal records. The Trust Act is one state's way to prevent such
overkill.

''We want police to distinguish between the woman selling tamales and the gang
member who has a record,'' said the measure's sponsor, Assemblyman Tom Ammiano,
a San Francisco Democrat. Mr. Ammiano wants to spare local police the burden and
expense of confining the wrong people on ICE's behalf. He also wants to avoid
the damage done to public safety when immigration enforcement is indiscriminate,
and when deportation decisions are, in effect, delegated to the local police. He
says that crime victims and witnesses in immigrant communities will be too
afraid to cooperate with the police if they fear that any encounter could mean
being handed over to ICE.

But the bill is facing strong opposition from some sheriffs who claim that the
Trust Act would force them to choose between violating federal law and violating
state law, based on their mistaken view that detention requests from ICE are
mandatory, not voluntary. About two dozen law professors have written to
Governor Brown explaining that this interpretation is simply wrong, given the
statutory language, legislative and regulatory history of federal immigration
law, and the constitutional principle that the federal government cannot
commandeer state law enforcement for its own purposes.

The Trust Act has the support of civil rights organizations, local governments,
the Los Angeles mayor and other city officials, and the Catholic bishops -- all
of whom favor a bright line between local law enforcement and federal
immigration enforcement. On Friday, the Los Angeles City Council voted 11 to 0
for a resolution endorsing the bill. Its sensible approach to limit unfair
detentions and help conserve local resources for fighting crime deserves the
governor's support.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/03/opinion/trust-immigrants-and-gov-brown.html

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U Visas Hit a Ceiling

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 356 words


Although the federal government's fiscal year doesn't end until Sept. 30, the
Department of Homeland Security has already reached the annual 10,000 limit on
special visas for undocumented immigrants who are victims of domestic violence
and sexual assaults and who also assist in investigations or prosecutions. This
is the third consecutive time that the cap has been reached, and the earliest.

These visas, known as U visas, grant victims and their close relatives temporary
legal status and work eligibility for at least four years. The program, which
has built-in safeguards against fraud, has proved a valuable tool for
encouraging immigrant victims to come forward and testify against their
attackers.

Victims' advocates and law enforcement officials are worried that the suspension
in issuing visas until the new fiscal year begins on Oct. 1 could discourage
some women from speaking out and put some victims who have pending visa
applications in further jeopardy.

This dilemma is a direct consequence of the Congressional logjam over
reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, the landmark 1994 law central to
the nation's efforts to combat domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking. A
strong bipartisan reauthorization bill approved by the Senate in May includes
provisions to raise the yearly U visa cap from 10,000 to 15,000.

Instead of embracing the Senate's work, unfortunately, House Republicans pushed
through a regressive measure that omits the Senate's U visa increase, along with
new protections for gay, bisexual or transgender victims of domestic abuse. The
House bill also calls for eliminating the existing ability of U visa holders to
apply for permanent residency after three years, reducing the incentive for
frightened victims to come out of the shadows.

Speaker John Boehner and his Republican colleagues blame the Democratic-led
Senate for the stalled reauthorization. The real problem remains the refusal of
House Republicans to let their chamber vote on the Senate bill and their
insistence on an approach that puts politics and prejudices before the needs of
domestic violence victims and public safety.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/04/opinion/special-visas-for-abused-women-hit-a-c
eiling.html

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 7, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Out Of the Shadows: A Speech Makes History

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 584 words


Benita Veliz was only at the lectern at the Democratic convention for a few
minutes on Wednesday night. CNN did not even turn its cameras on the stage
during her brief speech. But for many Latinos in the hall, her moment under the
lights was a stunning surprise.

Ms. Veliz, 27, who is from San Antonio, is a leader of a group of young
undocumented immigrants who call themselves Dreamers, because they would be
eligible for legal status under a bill, long stalled in Congress, called the
Dream Act. Her speech was the highest profile public appearance to date by an
immigrant from that movement, and it was a measure of how young people have
emerged from the shadows despite their illegal status.

Like Julian Castro, the mayor of San Antonio, a Latino who gave the convention's
keynote address on Tuesday, Ms. Veliz narrated an immigration story.

"I was brought here as a child. I've been here ever since," she said. "I
graduated as valedictorian of my class at the age of 16 and earned a double
major at the age of 20. I know I have something to contribute to my economy and
my country."

But Ms. Veliz's story had a catch: "I've had to live almost my entire life
knowing I could be deported just because of the way I came here," she said.

She praised President Obama for an executive action he took in June to suspend
the deportation of undocumented students and give them work permits. As many as
1.7 million young immigrants could be eligible, and in an interview after her
speech, Ms. Veliz said she was one of them and was preparing her application.

Until recently Latinos were showing signs of disappointment with Mr. Obama,
because he failed to keep a promise to pass an immigration overhaul and deported
large numbers of immigrants. But to many Latino and immigrant advocates, Ms.
Veliz's time on the stage was a sign that the Obama campaign will not shy away
from the thorny issue of illegal immigration, but will work to rally Latino
voters with pledges to pass the Dream Act in a second term.

"It was a sign of acceptance for Dreamers at the highest political levels that
would have been unthinkable even three years ago," said Frank Sharry, executive
director of America's Voice, which advocates for legislation to give legal
status to illegal immigrants. "The president leaned in to the issue instead of
steering clear of it, and it is putting a lot of pressure on Republicans who
labeled these immigrants as criminals in their platform."

Not everyone in the Dreamer movement is so enthusiastic. On Tuesday, 10
undocumented immigrants were arrested as they blocked traffic near the
convention center in protest. They came to Charlotte after a two-month journey
on a bus from Phoenix to demand that Mr. Obama do more to help those immigrants
gain a legal foothold in this country. They came straight to the Democratic
convention without stopping at the Republican convention in Tampa, Fla., saying
they held no hope for help from Republicans.

The Republicans said little on illegal immigration during their convention,
since it has been divisive for them and statements by the candidates during the
nominating fight distanced the party from Latino voters who could be a major
factor in several swing states in November.

Dan Stein, the president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
group that favors many tough curbs on illegal immigration that Republicans have
endorsed, said Ms. Veliz's appearance at the Democratic convention was "nothing
more than a celebration of lawlessness."

PHOTO

URL:
http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/06/a-dreamer-addresses-the-democratic
-convention/

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quick Start to Program Offering Immigrants a Reprieve

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1127 words


One month after the Obama administration started a program to suspend
deportations of young illegal immigrants, more than 72,000 of them have applied
for the temporary reprieve, senior immigration officials said on Tuesday, and
this week the first approvals have been granted.

The figures for applications received so far -- the first results the
administration has released since a federal agency began receiving the documents
on Aug. 15 -- show that large numbers of young immigrants are ready to take the
risk of coming forward, administration officials and immigrant advocates said,
and that the agency in charge has been able to manage the rush of paperwork.

The immigrants requesting two-year deportation deferrals do not reach the high
estimates of 250,000 that officials had said they were prepared to handle in the
first month of the program, which is President Obama's most significant
immigration initiative.

But at the current rate, at least 200,000 young immigrants could have
applications in the pipeline by the time of the presidential election on Nov. 6,
and many thousands will probably have received deferrals and the work permits
that go along with them. Officials originally predicted that it could take
several months for the immigration agency, United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, to issue the first deferrals.

The intense activity around the program in immigrant communities, especially
among Latinos, has already yielded some political benefits to Mr. Obama, with
Democrats repeatedly highlighting the initiative during their convention last
week, to cheers from the floor. Initiated by an executive action, the program
grants deportation deferrals that must be renewed after two years, and it does
not provide any legal immigration status.

Pressure is increasing on Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate, to clarify his
position on the program. He has not said whether he would continue it if he is
elected, although he has said he would prefer ''a more permanent solution'' for
young illegal immigrants.

The surge of applicants has not been greater, lawyers and advocates said,
because of difficulties many young immigrants have encountered in gathering the
documents they need to meet the program's requirements and in mustering the $465
application fee, a hefty sum for many. Since the program has no filing deadline,
eligible young people are taking time to consult with their families, weighing
the benefits for them against possible risks for parents and siblings here
illegally who are not eligible.

''There has been huge interest in community programs where people can get
information,'' said Laura Lichter, president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, who practices in Denver. ''But these applications are not something
you would be ready to go with in one day. They take a fair amount of work. And
we have to be sure people understand the risks they are taking.''

To qualify, illegal immigrants must be under 31 years old and have come to the
United States before they were 16. They must show that they have lived here
continuously since June 15, 2007, and be currently in school or have earned a
high school diploma or have been honorably discharged from the military. They
must pass a background check to show they do not have any significant criminal
record or pose a threat to national security.

The program posed a test for the immigration agency, known as U.S.C.I.S., which
has not been known for brisk efficiency. According to the Migration Policy
Institute, a nonpartisan research group, as many as 1.2 million illegal
immigrants could be immediately eligible for the program.

Given only two months to prepare, Alejandro Mayorkas, the director of the
agency, worked to rally its 18,000 employees, including some 11,000 federal
workers, to rise to the task. The applications -- sheaves of school transcripts,
utility and other bills, rental contracts or other documents immigrants can find
to track their daily lives over the past five years -- have to be submitted by
mail.

Operating in the bureaucratic equivalent of a blitz, the agency has been issuing
receipts for applications within 48 hours after they were logged in, Mr.
Mayorkas said. Fingerprints and photographs are taken for background checks,
generally within three weeks after an application is received.

The first applicants gave their fingerprints last Thursday, Mr. Mayorkas said,
and the checks were completed by Monday. The agency is equipped to perform the
criminal checks, Department of Homeland Security officials said, because those
are required for most visas the agency routinely issues.

Completed applications first reached the decision-making officers on Monday. By
that afternoon the first few approvals were issued, Mr. Mayorkas said, with
several dozen more on Tuesday. Some immigrants were notified immediately by text
message.

''If somebody submits documents that show by the preponderance of the evidence
that they meet the guidelines, we are poised to move the cases as quickly as
possible,'' Mr. Mayorkas said.

Mr. Mayorkas said he expected the first work permits, which are approved in a
separate but parallel process, to be issued in coming weeks.

Administration officials have said the program will be paid for by fees, with no
taxpayer money invested. California is leading in applications, not
surprisingly, followed by Texas, New York, Florida and New Jersey. By far the
largest number of applicants was born in Mexico. But officials said a
surprisingly large number of applications came from South Koreans, a much
smaller population of immigrants.

As the deferral program expands, resistance to it has grown among Republicans in
Congress, who say it is undermining the administration's broader enforcement
against illegal immigration and making it difficult for immigration agents to do
their jobs.

In a letter on Tuesday to John Morton, the director of the agency in charge of
enforcement, Senator Jeff Sessions, a Republican from Alabama, wrote, ''There is
no question that the administration's unilaterally decreed policy is contrary to
codified federal law and places our law enforcement officers in an untenable
position.''

PHOTOS: Young illegal immigrants waited in line last month to meet with a lawyer
in Phoenix before applying for President Obama's deportation deferral program.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); A file box of applications
requesting temporary relief from deportation and the opportunity to live and
work legally in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A19); Cyndi Ramirez, left, Orfa Peralta, center, and Ali Peralta with
their papers relating to deferments last month in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GRANT HINDSLEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A22)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/12/us/program-offering-immigrants-reprieve-is-off
-to-quick-start.html

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Limits Placed On Immigrants In Health Law

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words


WASHINGTON -- The White House has ruled that young immigrants who will be
allowed to stay in the United States as part of a new federal policy will not be
eligible for health insurance coverage under President Obama's health care
overhaul.

The decision -- disclosed last month, to little notice -- has infuriated many
advocates for Hispanic Americans and immigrants. They say the restrictions are
at odds with Mr. Obama's recent praise of the young immigrants.

In June, the president announced that hundreds of thousands of illegal
immigrants who came to the United States as children, attended school here and
met other requirements would be allowed to remain in the country without fear of
deportation.

Immigrants granted such relief would ordinarily meet the definition of
''lawfully present'' residents, making them eligible for government subsidies to
buy private insurance, a central part of the new health care law. But the
administration issued a rule in late August that specifically excluded the young
immigrants from the definition of ''lawfully present.''

At the same time, in a letter to state health officials, the administration said
that young immigrants granted a reprieve from deportation ''shall not be
eligible'' for Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program.
Administration officials said they viewed the immigration initiative and health
coverage as separate matters.

Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, said in the
Federal Register that the reasons offered for the immigration initiative ''do
not pertain to eligibility for Medicaid,'' the children's health program or
federal subsidies for buying private health insurance.

Nick Papas, a White House spokesman, said the deferred-deportation policy ''was
never intended'' to confer eligibility for federal health benefits. The White
House describes that policy as ''an exercise of prosecutorial discretion,''
allowing law enforcement officers to focus on immigrants who pose a threat to
national security or public safety. Administration officials declined to
elaborate as to why beneficiaries of the new immigration policy were ineligible
for coverage under the new health law.

The move might help Mr. Obama avoid a heated political debate over whether the
health law is benefiting illegal immigrants. The possibility of such benefits
has drawn criticism from many Republicans, including Representative Joe Wilson
of South Carolina, who shouted ''You lie!'' as Mr. Obama addressed the issue
before a joint session of Congress in 2009.

The restrictions on health coverage may also save money by limiting the number
of people who receive health insurance wholly or partly from the federal
government. Federal subsidies for insurance under the new health care law are
expected to average $5,300 a year for each person subsidized in 2014, and the
cost is expected to rise to $7,500 a person in 2022, the Congressional Budget
Office says.

Several immigration lawyers and health policy experts have criticized the
restrictions, saying they will make it more difficult to achieve the goals of
the health law and the immigration initiative, which Democrats consider two of
Mr. Obama's most significant achievements.

Jennifer M. Ng'andu, a health policy specialist at the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic rights group, said: ''We do not understand why the
administration decided to do this. It's providing immigration relief to children
and young adults so they can be fully integrated into society. At the same time,
it's shutting them out of the health care system so they cannot become
productive members of society.''

Ricardo E. Campos, 23, of Wheaton, Md., an illegal immigrant who came to the
United States from El Salvador at the age of 12, applied for the
deferred-enforcement program two weeks ago with help from a community
organization, Casa de Maryland.

He is attending a community college and said he desperately needs affordable
health insurance. After doctors discovered that he had bone cancer, he underwent
a 36-hour operation in 2009 and was in a wheelchair for a year.

''I want to become a doctor, in internal medicine or oncology, so I can save
lives just as my life was saved,'' Mr. Campos said.

''What if one day the cancer comes back and I don't have health insurance?
That's scary.'' (Just before his surgery, Mr. Campos got coverage through a
state-sponsored plan with high premiums, after commercial insurers had turned
him down.)

Under the new federal health law, insurance subsidies are available not only to
citizens, but also to low-income immigrants ''lawfully present'' in the United
States. That group will still include green card holders and people granted
asylum.

The Pew Research Center estimates that up to 1.7 million unauthorized immigrants
could eventually seek deferrals of deportation under the exercise of executive
authority announced in June by Mr. Obama. Those immigrants will continue to be
able to receive health insurance from employers, but many are likely to struggle
to obtain coverage if they do not have a job that provides it.

In the absence of a significant change in immigration law, young immigrants
granted temporary relief from deportation have no clear path to green cards or
citizenship.

When he announced the new immigration policy in June, Mr. Obama hailed the
patriotism and promise of young ''dreamers'' -- illegal immigrants who could
have gained legal status under a bill known as the Dream Act, which has been
bottled up in Congress for 11 years. Mr. Obama said the young immigrants were
Americans at heart and should be able to work legally and live openly in this
country without fear of being expelled.

Marielena Hincapié, the executive director of the National Immigration Law
Center, an advocacy group for low-income immigrants, said: ''We had been working
closely with the administration, so we were quite surprised and shocked by the
new restrictions on health coverage. This is a shortsighted, reactionary and bad
public policy.''

Republicans in Congress have criticized the deportation deferrals as a form of
backdoor amnesty for immigrants who broke the law by entering the United States
illegally or by overstaying visas. They say Mr. Obama does not have the legal
authority to do what he did -- a claim also made in a lawsuit by 10 immigration
law enforcement officers who are challenging the policy in Federal District
Court.

The politics of the issue cut in several directions. The Gallup tracking poll
shows Mr. Obama with a wide lead over his Republican opponent, Mitt Romney,
among Hispanic voters. At the same time, administration officials have tried to
avoid alienating swing voters who are concerned about illegal immigration, and
they have emphasized steps taken to secure the borders.

In the primary campaign, Mr. Romney said he would veto the Dream Act because it
could create a magnet for illegal immigration. Ryan M. Williams, a spokesman for
Mr. Romney, said Mr. Obama's deferred-deportation policy had ''ruined an effort
in Congress to forge a bipartisan long-term solution'' for illegal immigrants
brought here as children.

Some immigrants and their allies worry that the restrictions on federal health
benefits could be used to justify similar actions by state officials. Gov. Jan
Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, has issued an executive order denying driver's
licenses and public benefits to young immigrants who are granted relief from
deportation.

PHOTOS: Jennifer M. Ng'andu, a health policy specialist at the National Council
of La Raza, and Ricardo E. Campos, 23, a student in Maryland, are dismayed at
the White House's decision on health care. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/18/health/policy/limits-placed-on-immigrants-in-h
ealth-care-law.html

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans Push Bill to Help Foreign Scienc e Graduates Stay

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 867 words


Republican leaders in the House of Representatives, hoping to pass a measure
before the November elections to impro ve legal immigration, are pushing for a
vote this week on a bill that would incr ease the number of permanent resident
visas for foreigners graduating from Ameri can universities with advanced
degrees in science and technology.

The largely partisan bill was introduced on Tuesday by Representative Lamar
Smith of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. It
would allocate up to 55,000 visas, known as green cards, each year to graduates
with master's or d octoral degrees from American universities, by means of a
trade-off. The bill wo uld abolish a lottery run each year that distributes the
same number of green ca rds randomly to applicants from countries that do not
have large immigrant popul ations in the United States.

The nearly 50 other sponsors of Mr. Smith's bill include only one Democrat --
Representative Henry Cuellar of Texas . Mr. Smith and Representative Eric Cantor
of Virginia, the majority leader, hav e said the House will vote on Thursday.

A partisan fight broke out over Mr . Smith's approach, which would not increase
the overall number of green cards i ssued annually. On Friday Representative Zoe
Lofgren of California, a Democrat w hose district is home to many technology
companies, introduced a measure that wo uld create 50,000 new green cards for
advanced graduates in the so-called STEM f ields: science, technology,
engineering and mathematics. That bill would not red uce the visas available to
the lottery.

On Tuesday, Charles E. Schumer of N ew York, the Democrat who is chairman of the
Senate Judiciary immigration subcom mittee, introduced a bill that was close to
Ms. Lofgren's measure, creating a tw o-year pilot program to give 55,000 new
green cards each year to foreign graduat es.

Democrats in both houses, especially Hispanic and black lawmakers, are reluctant
to end the lottery without some compromise, for example giving additi onal green
cards to family members of legal immigrants already here. Many winner s of the
lottery, which was created in 1990, come from African countries.

Behind the partisan maneuvering over details, there was notable bipartisan accor
d -- rare in this polarized Congress -- on the broad goals of the legislation: t
o offer visas so science and technology graduates could remain here and start bu
sinesses to create jobs.

''In a global economy, we cannot afford to educat e these foreign graduates in
the U.S. and then send them back home to work for o ur competitors,'' Mr. Smith
said on Tuesday.

Currently, when foreign studen ts finish their graduate studies they either have
to leave or head into a labyri nth of temporary visas, where it can take years
to get a permanent green card. < PA> Last week, 165 leaders of American
universities sent a letter to President Obama and to Congress warning that the
lack of visas for advanced science gradua tes was ''a critical threat to
America's pre-eminence as a global center of inno vation and prosperity.'' Among
those signing were presidents of Stanford, Harvar d, Cornell, the California
Institute of Technology and M.I.T.

According to the university leaders, in 2009 foreigners made up about 45 percent
of all grad uate students in engineering, math, computer and physical sciences,
and they ear ned 52 percent of all new doctoral degrees in those fields.

All three of th e new proposals include labor market tests that would require
employers to show they could not find a qualified American worker before they
sponsored a foreign graduate for a green card and a job.

With Congressional lawmakers expectin g this to be their last week in session
before they head out to campaign, Republ icans said they want to show they are
working to make good on pledges made at th eir convention last month. The
Republican candidate, Mitt Romney, said he would focus on fixing the system for
legal immigration.

President Obama has also said he supports more green cards for science
graduates.

Technology groups watched the partisan jockeying with worry, fearing that no
legislation would pa ss.

''We have a new class graduating in December and we don't want to lose those
people,'' said Keith Grzelak, a vice president of the Institute of Electr ical
and Electronic Engineers, a group with more than 200,000 members. ''If we b ring
one superstar from another country who starts a company here, there could b e
thousands of jobs that didn't exist before.''

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, a strong advocate of high-skilled
immigration, urged lawmakers not to miss the moment. ''There are real options
for immigration reform on the tabl e now, and from both sides of the aisle,'' he
said on Tuesday.

It was not clear Republicans had enough votes to pass the bill this week.

''Republica ns are only willing to increase legal immigration for immigrants
they want by el iminating legal immigration for immigrants they don't want,''
said Representativ e Luis Gutierrez of Illinois, a leading Hispanic Democrat.
But if Mr. Smith's bi ll passes, Mr. Schumer's measure may point to a compromise
in the Senate when Co ngress reconvenes after the Nov. 6 election.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/19/us/repu
blicans-push-bill-to-help-foreign-science-graduates-stay.html

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An i mmigration bill from Rep. Lamar Smith is one of three in
Congress. (PHOTOGRAPH B Y MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill to Keep Graduates In U.S. Fails In the House

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 709 words


A Republican bill to provide permanent resident visas for foreigners who
graduate from American universities with advanced degrees in science and
technology failed to pass the House on Thursday, a setback for technology
companies that had strongly supported it.

Republican leaders called the vote under a fast-track procedure that limits
debate but also requires a two-thirds majority to pass. The final tally was 257
to 158, with all but a few Republicans joined by 30 Democrats in voting yes,
well short of passage.

The bill, sponsored by Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, would have eliminated an annual lottery and
instead allocated 55,000 visas for legal permanent residency, known as green
cards, each year to foreigners who have completed master's and doctoral degrees
from American universities in the STEM fields: science, technology, engineering
and mathematics. The lottery now distributes the same number of green cards to
foreigners from countries with low rates of immigration to the United States.

While Congressional Republicans have taken a hard line on illegal immigration,
they said they wanted to show before the November elections that they were ready
to pass a measure to fix a widely acknowledged flaw in the legal immigration
system.

A fierce fight broke out during the brief floor debate on Thursday, with
Democrats strongly opposed to ending the lottery. Democratic leaders accused
Republicans of partisan posturing by rushing a vote on an immigration issue
when, they said, bipartisan accord was within reach. There is uncommonly broad
consensus in Congress on the legislation's underlying goal -- keeping talented
and highly educated foreign science graduates in the country so they can work
and start businesses.

The bill would ''help us create jobs, increase our competitiveness and spur our
innovation,'' Mr. Smith said after the vote. ''Unfortunately, the Democrats
voted today to send the best and brightest foreign graduates back home to work
for our global competitors.''

Democrats had voted ''against economic growth and job creation,'' Mr. Smith
said.

Democrats were led in their challenge by Representative Zoe Lofgren of
California, whose district includes many Silicon Valley technology companies and
who had offered a competing bill last week. While saying ''it pains me greatly''
to vote no, Ms. Lofgren said the Republican proposal had ''another, in my
opinion, more sinister purpose -- to actually reduce legal immigration levels.''

Ms. Lofgren's proposal would have created 50,000 new green cards for foreign
science graduates, without eliminating or reducing the lottery.

Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the
Judiciary Committee, said, ''We strongly oppose a zero-sum game that trades one
legal immigration program for another.''

Democrats want to preserve the lottery because many immigrants who come through
it are from Africa and small Asian nations. Leaders of the black, Hispanic and
Asian-American caucuses in the House released a letter this week opposing the
bill.

Mr. Smith said the lottery was vulnerable to fraud and created security risks,
since he said terrorists could use it to gain residence in the United States.

Technology and business groups had mobilized an all-out show of support for the
bill. Several dozen major employers, including Adobe, Apple, Microsoft and
Oracle, sent their own letter on Wednesday appealing for a bipartisan effort to
pass some legislation to provide new visas.

Currently, many foreign science and technology graduates who finish their
advanced studies either have to leave the country or remain on restrictive
temporary visas and wait, sometimes for years, for permanent green cards.

After the vote, Democrats appealed to Republicans to return to negotiations to
find a compromise. ''There is too broad a consensus in favor of this policy to
settle for gridlock,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York,
who presented his own proposal this week to add new green cards for highly
skilled foreigners.

But disappointed Republicans predicted there would be little time to take up a
visa measure again in a year-end session that is already overloaded with major
business.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/21/us/bill-to-keep-graduates-in-us-fails-in-the-h
ouse.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 23, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1282 words


International

MALTA STRUGGLES TO MANAGE

WAVE OF AFRICAN MIGRANTS

The tiny Mediterranean nation of Malta has the highest ratio of immigrants per
capita of any European Union member, but it lacks the resources to house them
and by law cannot let them move to the mainland, leaving many of them in limbo,
unable to find jobs or afford housing -- and unable to move off the island. Page
6

ISLANDS IN THE STORM

The islands are remote, believed to be surrounded by shark-infested waters. To
reach them from either Japan or China involves an arduous, unpleasant journey.
They have also become the center of one of Asia's most dangerous territorial
disputes. It remains unclear how far the longstanding conflict could escalate
now that it has flared again. Page 6

RULING ON EGYPT PARLIAMENT

The Supreme Administrative Court of Egypt has upheld a ruling in June that
dissolved Parliament just days before Mohamed Morsi, whose Muslim Brotherhood
group controlled the most seats, was declared the winner in the country's
presidential election. Page 12

IRAN SEES SABOTAGE

Iran accused the German technology company Siemens of planting tiny explosives
inside equipment Iran bought for its disputed nuclear program, but Siemens
denied the charge and said its nuclear division had had no business with Iran
since its 1979 revolution. Page 12

UNLIKELY ALLIES IN DRUG CASE

Venezuela's national drug police took part in an unlikely international
operation to capture one of South America's most wanted drug lords, on
Venezuelan soil. Not only did it involve American drug agents and the Central
Intelligence Agency, but it was also directed from Washington. Page 14

National

SENATE HOPEFUL MAKES

DEFENSE CUTS HIS ISSUE

The Republican nominee in Virginia, George Allen, who is in a tight race against
Tim Kaine, has made opposition to the threat of automatic cuts in military
spending the centerpiece of his campaign. Page 16

PUSH TO REPORT MALPRACTICE

The Obama administration wants consumers to report medical mistakes and unsafe
practices by doctors, hospitals, pharmacists and others who provide treatment.
Hospitals say they are receptive to the idea, despite concerns about malpractice
liability. Page 20

U.S. CHESS LEAGUE THRIVES

Some of the nation's top players are in the Unites States Chess League, which
has doubled in size to 16 teams since its founding in 2005. Page 20

GUN RULING CAUSES UNEASE

Ever since a State Supreme Court ruling in March forced the University of
Colorado to allow those with concealed weapon permits to carry their guns on
campus, faculty members have found themselves increasingly uneasy. Page 22

Metropolitan

IN BROOKLYN, BRACING

FOR HURRICANE BARCLAYS

The Barclays Center arena is set to open on Friday, and residents,
small-business owners and community leaders are anxious, excited and resigned to
the inevitable changes coming to their backyard. Page 1

SATIRE LOSES ITS BITE

Economic disparity, especially in New York, is hardly diminishing, but pop
culture's attempts to satirize the rich have gained little real traction. Big
City. Page 1

Sports

KNUCKLEBALLER STANDS OUT

IN A CROWDED RACE

R. A. Dickey, despite having fewerthan 20 victories this season, strikes out a
lot of hitters, and few reach base. He has also mastered baseball's most
unpredictable pitch. Extra Bases. Page 3

PUNTERS SEE MORE RETURNS

Though N.F.L. punters are booting the ball farther than ever, returners scored
20 touchdowns in 2011, their second-highest season total, and have five already
this season. Page 6

A ROOKIE IN A NEW WORLD

Stephen Hill, the Jets' rookie wide receiver, is seeing things he never did
while playing three seasons in a run-oriented offense at Georgia Tech. Page 7

INJURIES SHAKE TEAMMATES

To fans watching on television, football injuries can seem temporary. But
injuries can be difficult for teammates to forget, especially when they must
start blocking and tackling again moments later. Page 9

PLAYERS' ASSOCIATION SUED

The parents of Derek Boogaard, the N.H.L. enforcer who died in May 2011 of an
accidental overdose of prescription painkillers and alcohol, have sued the
league's players association. Page 10

Obituaries

CLAUDINE MAWBY, 90

Ms. Mawby, her twin, Claudette, and their other sister, Angella, were three
English girls who were child stars in the days of Jackie Coogan and the Little
Rascals. Page 26

HAIM HEFER, 86

Mr. Hefer was a songwriter and poet who for many Israelis embodied the spirit of
the generation that fought for their nation's independence. Page 27

Sunday Business

EITHER TO PAMPER OR PAY,

THE MYSTERY OF C.E.O.'S

The argument that C.E.O.'s will leave if they aren't compensated well is bogus,
according to a new study. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. Page 1

EXAMINING THE PRICE OF EASE

The growing economy of mobile apps can conveniently deliver almost anything with
the flick of a finger, but it also raises questions about tech's haves and
have-nots. Bits, Jenna Wortham. Page 4

CONQUERING THE KITCHEN

Learning to cook for himself was frustrating for Alok Ranjan, but he would
eventually be co-founder of a Web site with how-to videos for many types of
cuisine. The Boss. Page 9

Automobiles

IN THE SEAT OF STYLE,

A STAID AUTOMOTIVE SHOW

It may be a temporary condition -- restraint in the face of daunting economic
headwinds -- but the Paris Motor Show this year shows little prospect for the
fanciful design studies that it is known for. Page 1

Magazine

IN CUBA, A MURKY VIEW

OF LIFE AFTER THE CASTROS

Not long ago, people doubted that a post-Fidel Cuba could ever exist. What comes
after the Castros is as much of a mystery as ever. Page 26

T Magazine

OFF DUTY IN ISRAEL,

AN ACTRESS EXPLORES

Claire Danes plays an endearingly intense spy on ''Homeland,'' and so the
decision to film Season 2 of ''Homeland'' in the work-hard-play-hard city of Tel
Aviv makes perfect sense. Page 98

Arts & Leisure

AT HOME IN HIS HEAD,

TIM BURTON REFLECTS

On the occasion of his new feature, ''Frankenweenie,'' which is derived from his
1984 short film, the director Tim Burton reviews his life and oeuvre to date
over a career that spans 16 features and nearly 30 years and introduced the word
Burtonesque to the cultural lexicon. Page 1

A VIOLIN'S STRANGE JOURNEY

A trail of whispers has followed the Japanese violinist Nejiko Suwa and her
violin, a gift from Hitler's propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels. Page 1

Book Review

JUNOT DíAZ COLLECTION:STORIES OF LOVE AND LOSS

Junot Díaz's new collection of stories, ''This Is How You Lose Her,'' features a
familiar character, Yunior, and themes of family history, cultural mores and
infidelity, writes Leah Hager Cohen. Page 1

A GREATER ASIA

Pankaj Mishra's ''From the Ruins of Empire,'' is a group portrait of the
thinkers whose ideas shaped contemporary China, India and the Muslim world,
writes Hari Kunzru. Page 10

Editorial

CALIFORNIA CONFRONTS

THE RETIREMENT CRISIS

Gov. Jerry Brown could put his state to greater economic security if he signs a
new retirement plan. Sunday Review, Page 12

STUDENT LOAN DEFAULT

The government needs to do a better job of getting out the word about federal
programs that help students in debt. Sunday Review, Page 12

GPS AND PRIVACY RIGHTS

A damaging court ruling obliterates privacy rights and the Fourth Amendment's
warrant requirement. Sunday Review, Page 12

Op-Ed

THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

Aung San Suu Kyi hit the nail on the head last week when she said it was the
fear of losing power that corrupted. It's everywhere these days. Sunday Review,
Page 13

NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

Christians didn't riot after seeing a photograph of Jesus steeped in urine, so
why are Muslims up in arms about insults to the Prophet Muhammad? Sunday Review,
Page 13

ROSS DOUTHAT

Washington has gotten rich, but it has come at the rest of the country's
expense. Sunday Review, Page 14

URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visas for Scientists, With a Catch

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 339 words


It isn't hard to find Republicans in Congress willing to support immigration
generally, but rarer to hear them talk about actually allowing more foreigners
to come here. When they do, you have to listen for the catch. Take
Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, leader of the Republican immigration
restrictionists, who recently offered a bill to provide 55,000
permanent-residency visas, or green cards, each year to immigrants with advanced
degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.

These so-called STEM graduates are the immigrants everybody likes. Even Mitt
Romney, a defender of Arizona-style deportation crackdowns, says he'd happily
staple a green card to every advanced STEM diploma.

But the Smith bill was a cynical exercise. It supported one visa program by
killing off another. It eliminated the diversity visa, which distributes 55,000
green cards by lottery to countries with low immigration rates. And it ruled
that any unused STEM green cards could not be redistributed to ease backlogs in
other visa categories -- a common practice under current law.

In effect, Mr. Smith was willing to consider approving a few thousand STEM visas
only as long as the net effect on immigration was zero, or less than zero. The
bill was brought to a vote last week by a fast-track method and needed a
two-thirds majority to pass; thankfully it didn't.

The noxious thinking behind the bill, however, survives. It considers
immigration a zero-sum game, and that America should allow in only a subset of
educated elites.

Senator Charles Schumer and Representative Zoe Lofgren each have bills to
increase STEM immigration while preserving the green-card lottery. That's a fair
approach, but better still would be a far broader deal that gives immigrants
multiple legal paths into the country, is generous in reuniting families and
legalizes millions of valuable workers who are already here. Building the kind
of immigration system the American economy needs takes a lot more than
cherry-picking workers for technology industries.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/27/opinion/visas-for-scientists-with-a-catch.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Flood of Applications, With a Trickle of Approvals

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 876 words


Justino Mora had been checking his e-mail several times a day for weeks to see
if there was any word from a federal immigration agency on his application for a
reprieve from deportation.

Mr. Mora, who was born in Mexico but has been living illegally in California
since he was 11, was one of the first immigrants to send in his supporting
documents for a new program that started on Aug. 15. But he was still stunned on
Tuesday when he received a new message from the agency, containing one crucial
word: ''Approved.''

''I was a little surprised,'' said Mr. Mora, now 23. ''It definitely was
overwhelming.''

Mr. Mora is one of the first immigrants nationwide to receive approval for a
two-year deferral of deportation under the program, which President Obama
announced in June. As of Thursday the agency, United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, had received more than 100,000 applications, officials
said, with more than 63,000 in the last stages of review. But so far the agency
has confirmed only 29 approvals.

Some of those people have chosen to remain under the radar, not wanting to
publicize that they had been in this country illegally for years. But Mr. Mora
is not reluctant. As it happens, he is a leader of the California Dream Network,
a movement of young illegal immigrants who had been staging very visible
protests to pressure Mr. Obama to offer some relief from the high numbers of
deportations during his term.

Mr. Mora said he had no difficulty meeting an application requirement that
immigrants show they were in this country on June 15, when the president
unveiled the program. That morning Mr. Mora joined a sit-in by undocumented
students blocking a major street in downtown Los Angeles.

As his proof, Mr. Mora said, he submitted news clips quoting his defiant
comments that day.

Along with the temporary deferred action, as it is officially known, approved
immigrants also receive two-year work permits. They do not gain any legal
immigration status. Among other requirements, illegal immigrants must be under
31 and show they had come to the United States before they were 16, have lived
here at least five years, and have graduated from high school or are in school,
or were honorably discharged from the military.

Speaking by telephone this week from Los Angeles, Mr. Mora said he was taking
some credit for the program. ''This is basically the fruit of so many of our
actions and civil disobedience to make sure this administration recognized that
separating families was not the right thing to do,'' he said.

Mr. Mora said the new documents would allow him to apply for financial aid so he
could finish college at the University of California, Los Angeles. He said that
he was an honors student and a track team captain at his California high school,
but that he initially had to turn down offers from two elite University of
California campuses because he could not afford the tuition without aid.

For Carlos Martinez, another immigrant who disclosed his approval, the work
permit will mean he can apply for jobs with technology companies to make use of
the master's degree in software engineering he obtained from the University of
Arizona in 2005.

Mr. Martinez, who lives in Tucson, told The Arizona Republic that he was 9 when
his family brought him here illegally from Mexico. Now 30, he said he had been
working as a landscaper.

By independent estimates, some 1.2 million immigrants are immediately eligible
for the program. Some have struggled to compile evidence of lives lived in
shadows during the last five years and to raise the $465 fee. But applications
have also been slowed by bottlenecks that arose due to a crush of demand.

In Los Angeles, schools were deluged with requests for transcripts, creating a
logjam that coincided with the frenetic opening days of the new academic year.
Lydia L. Ramos, a top official of the Los Angeles Unified School District who
was assigned to handle the crisis, said the district calculated that as many as
200,000 current or former students could be eligible for deferrals.

After scrambling and clarifying the requirements with immigration officials, Ms.
Ramos said, officials last week inaugurated a one-stop Web site where young
people can obtain their grade and enrollment records.

''These students walk, talk and think American, and this is their opportunity to
work and contribute to American society,'' Ms. Ramos said. ''We want to make
sure they have a fair shot at this.''

School districts in Albuquerque, Dallas, Las Vegas, Miami and San Diego also
reported a surge in demand for documents.

Since June, more than 100,000 Mexicans have approached their consulates, seeking
information and identity documents like passports and consular cards. Carlos M.
Sada, the Mexican consul general in New York, said consulates had worked late
hours and weekends and dispatched mobile units to rural areas to handle the
work.

But there is still a wait for appointments and some documents, especially birth
certificates, which must come from municipal records in Mexico. About 68 percent
of eligible immigrants were born in Mexico.

''We feel this is a very good possibility for Mexicans,'' Mr. Sada said. ''Our
decision is to ensure that every Mexican who could benefit has proof of
identity.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/28/us/a-flood-of-applications-with-a-trickle-of-a
pprovals.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Justino Mora, a leader of a movement of young illegal
immigrants, is among the first to benefit from a program offering a two-year
deportation deferral. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A21)
 In Los Angeles in June, celebrating the announcement of relaxed immigration
rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK UT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A25)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Same-Sex Couples Granted Protection in Deportations

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 487 words


The Department of Homeland Security has stated in writing that foreigners who
are same-sex partners of American citizens can be included under an Obama
administration policy suspending deportations of some immigrants who pose no
security risk.

In letters sent late Wednesday to several Democratic lawmakers, Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said she was clarifying guidelines that
enforcement officers had used when applying a policy of prosecutorial discretion
in cases of illegal immigrants with no criminal convictions.

Under the guidelines, which were first issued in June 2011, officers can
consider ''ties and contributions to the community, including family
relationships'' when deciding whether to halt a deportation.

Ms. Napolitano wrote that she had ordered her department to issue written
instructions specifying that those ''family relationships'' include ''long-term
same-sex partners.''

Gay rights groups hailed the letter as a small change with large implications
for foreigners in same-sex relationships who were facing deportation.

''This is the first time the government has recognized in writing that the
relationship between a gay American and a gay immigrant is a real and positive
factor in an immigration case,'' said Rachel B. Tiven, the executive director of
Immigration Equality, a group that supports gay immigrants' causes.

Homeland Security officials have long said that gay partners will be considered
family members under the prosecutorial discretion policy. Under that policy,
Obama administration officials say they are focusing enforcement resources on
deporting convicts and foreigners who pose threats to national security.

''This written guidance will simply reiterate existing policy,'' said Peter
Boogaard, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security.

But Ms. Tiven said the policy had remained ambiguous, and gay organizations and
Democratic lawmakers had been pressing Ms. Napolitano since last year to put
something in writing.

In a letter to the secretary on July 31, more than 80 Democrats from the House
of Representatives wrote, ''It would be beyond senseless to see L.G.B.T. persons
with family ties here in the United States deported'' because immigration
officers were unaware of the policy on gay families. Signers included the
minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, and Michael B. Honda, both of California. Mr.
Honda was one of the lead organizers of the effort.

Under prosecutorial discretion, many thousands of deportation cases have been
closed, allowing the immigrants to remain in the United States indefinitely. But
they do not gain any legal status.

Ms. Napolitano's clarification does not have any impact on the more difficult
issue of allowing immigrants in same-sex marriages with American citizens to
obtain permanent resident visas, known as green cards. Under current law,
same-sex immigrant spouses cannot apply for those visas and they can face
deportation.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/29/us/homeland-security-puts-it-in-writing-on-imm
igration-policy-and-gay-couples.html

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary Janet Napolitano clarified guidelines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MANDEL NGAN/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2012 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Right-Wing Extremists' Popularity Rising Rapidly in Greece

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1271 words


ATHENS -- The video, which went viral in Greece last month, shows about 40 burly
men, led by Giorgos Germenis, a lawmaker with the right-wing Golden Dawn party,
marching through a night market in the town of Rafina demanding that
dark-skinned merchants show permits.

Some do, and they are left alone. But the action quickly picks up, as the men,
wearing black T-shirts with the party's name, destroy a stall with clubs and
scatter the merchandise. ''We saw a few illegal immigrants selling their
wares,'' Mr. Germenis says in the video. ''We did what Golden Dawn has to do.
And now we're going to church to pay our respects to the Madonna.''

Just a few months ago, the name Golden Dawn was something to be whispered in
Greece.

But three months after the extremist right-wing group won an electoral foothold
in Parliament, talk of Golden Dawn seems to be on everybody's lips.

In cafes, taxis and bars, Greeks across the political spectrum are discussing
the palpable surge in Golden Dawn's popularity, which has risen in recent
political polls even as the group steps up a campaign of vigilantism and attacks
against immigrants.

The poll gains come amid growing disenchantment over rising illegal immigration,
and with the government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, which is being forced
by its international lenders to push through $15 billion in additional, highly
unpopular, austerity measures. If Greece were to hold new elections soon, Golden
Dawn could emerge as the third-largest party in Parliament, behind Mr. Samaras's
New Democracy and the left-wing Syriza. Currently, Golden Dawn is the fifth
largest, with 18 out of 300 seats.

''We have a major socioeconomic crisis in which several hundred thousand Greeks
are losing ground,'' said Nikos Demertzis, a professor of political sociology at
the University of Athens. ''And you have a rising number of immigrants in
Greece, many illegal. This is creating a volcanic situation where all the
classic parameters for the flourishing of a far-right force like Golden Dawn are
present.''

Golden Dawn's tactics are similar to ones it used before parliamentary elections
in June. Preying on fears that immigrants are worsening crime rates and economic
hardship, the group has been stepping up attacks against immigrants, many of
whom are legal citizens, with the police frequently standing by. It is also
trying to expand its reach with the Greek diaspora.

The group recently opened an office in New York, announcing its presence with a
sleek Web site depicting a stylized Swastika against a darkened Manhattan
skyline. The Web site was disabled by hackers less than a day later and remains
down, and the American Hellenic Educational Progressive Association condemned
the group's outreach, saying that ''fascism has no place in the United States.''

Golden Dawn has also established an outpost in Australia, where Greeks have been
emigrating by the thousands to escape the crisis in their homeland.

The group is still far from being a major threat to Mr. Samaras's party, or to
his fragile three-party coalition government. Most Greeks express alarm at the
group's rise, and anti-fascist organizations in Athens are continuing efforts
neighborhood by neighborhood to counter its increased vigilantism.

Yet, rising political and social discontent is rich fodder for Golden Dawn as it
tries to cultivate a larger base. These days, it is not uncommon for
conversations to evolve into laments about the ineffectiveness of Mr. Samaras's
government, before a mention of Golden Dawn's rise in the polls slips in.

''People have no faith in the political system,'' said Dimitris Kaklamanos, 41,
a worker at a Shell gas station in the town of Piraeus, on the outskirts of
Athens.

Mr. Kaklamanos said he had long voted for Pasok, the Socialist party, but grew
disillusioned with corruption and the ineptitude of its politicians. Now, he
feels attracted to Golden Dawn, he said, whose popularity he expects to continue
to rise, especially as the group replaces police and government services in poor
areas where the state has almost ceased to function.

Other political parties ''know that Golden Dawn is gaining power and they see
that as a threat,'' Mr. Kaklamanos said. ''But Golden Dawn are the only ones out
there demonstrating they care about the Greek people.''

He cited food and clothing drives conducted by the group across a widening area
of Athens, as well as protections it extends to vulnerable Greeks in
neighborhoods where crime has surged in tandem with illegal immigration.

Kaiti Lazarou, 55, the owner of a newspaper and cigarette kiosk in Piraeus,
agreed. ''I myself have gotten food and potatoes from them in Syntagma Square,''
she said. ''I would not be surprised if they become the government one day, and
why shouldn't they? They protect the Greeks, while Samaras and the government
are out of touch with the people.''

In an interview last week, Mr. Samaras said that hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants fleeing hardship in Africa, South Asia and now Syria were
creating ''major distress'' in Greece, which they use as a gateway to the
European Union after entering through Turkey. He appealed to Greece's European
partners to modify immigration accords so that other countries could take on a
greater share of Greece's immigration burden.

With more than 1.5 million immigrants in a country of about 11 million, ''this
is creating extremism'' that feeds the popularity of Golden Dawn, Mr. Samaras
said. Outlawing the group could backfire by fueling their popularity, he added.

Mr. Demertzis, the University of Athens professor, said Golden Dawn was
effective because it did more than just utter political platitudes. Its members
''do their propaganda through deeds, exactly the same way that the Muslim
Brotherhood in Egypt does, or Hezbollah in Lebanon.''

In Golden Dawn's case, the most high-profile activities center on anti-immigrant
campaigns, like the one documented in the video, depicted as the actions of good
Samaritans.

In another raid, filmed and posted on YouTube, in the town of Missolonghi, Greek
shopkeepers shout at Golden Dawn members as they walk through a fruit and
vegetable market kicking over stands loaded with produce. The raid was led by
another Golden Dawn lawmaker, Costas Barbarousis. ''These tactics were used in
the dictatorship!'' one woman cries.

After the episodes, Golden Dawn lawmakers were barred from receiving the
protection of the police, who human rights groups say are increasingly looking
the other way when confronted with evidence of violence by Golden Dawn
sympathizers, with some officers seeming more sympathetic to them than to their
victims. Mr. Samaras played down concerns that the Greek police were sympathetic
to the group. ''I'm very happy with the way they've done their job,'' he said in
the interview.

Justice Minister Antonis Roupakiotis condemned the Golden Dawn attacks, saying
they created ''conditions for the growth of neo-fascist practices in the
country.'' He added that his ministry would consider tougher penalties for
racist violence. New Democracy, Pasok and independent Greeks also condemned the
attacks.

But such talk may only go so far.

''It's the current government that brought more power to Golden Dawn because the
people are angry at what the government is doing,'' said Iakovos Zorzios, 73, a
retiree whose pension has been cut as part of Greece's austerity measures.

''How can we not be angry when the government cuts our earnings so much?'' said
Mr. Zorzios, who is bracing for yet another reduction in the latest austerity
plan forged this week. ''How can they expect us not to support Golden Dawn?''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/01/world/europe/amid-greeces-worries-the-rise-of-
right-wing-extremists.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visas for Top Graduates: A View From Capitol Hill

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 307 words


To the Editor:

In ''Visas for Scientists, With a Catch'' (editorial, Sept. 27), you claim that
there is a catch with the STEM Jobs Act, which I sponsored, but you are simply
fishing for opposition.

According to a recent poll, three in four likely voters think that we should
allow the top foreign graduates of American universities with advanced degrees
in science, technology, engineering and math -- known as STEM fields -- to
remain in the United States. And that's exactly what the STEM Jobs Act does.

Gallup recently reported that four out of five Americans also do not want to see
higher levels of immigration. That's why the STEM Jobs Act eliminates the
fraud-ridden diversity visa program and reallocates these visas to those who
could help make us more competitive in the global economy.

We should eliminate the diversity visa lottery because it bases our immigration
system on the luck of the draw by selecting people at random to receive green
cards. No family ties to the United States or strong skill set are required to
be eligible. And former State Department officials and the nonpartisan
Government Accountability Office have found the lottery to be an open invitation
to fraud and a jackpot for terrorists.

The United States has the most generous legal immigration system in the world;
we admit more than one million legal immigrants each year. We should maintain
this generosity, but we need to make our immigration system smarter by allowing
the best and brightest foreign graduates to stay here.

Unfortunately, some Democrats voted to send the best and brightest foreign
graduates back home to work for our global competitors. Their vote against this
bill is a vote against economic growth and job creation.

LAMAR SMITH Washington, Sept. 27, 2012

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/02/opinion/visas-for-top-graduates-a-view-from-ca
pitol-hill.html

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 809 words


International

RIGHT-WING EXTREMISM

GROWING POPULAR IN GREECE

With anger bubbling over austerity measures, the extremist Golden Dawn party is
gaining more support, even as it undertakes a campaign of vigilantism and
anti-immigrant violence. Page A4

U.S. OSPREYS IN OKINAWA

The United States military sent the first batch of a sophisticated but
accident-prone aircraft to an air base on Okinawa, despite opposition and
warnings that a crash could threaten the American military presence on the
island. Page A4

SYRIA FAULTS FOES FOR CRISIS

Syria's foreign minister told the United Nations that the violence racking his
country was entirely the fault of nations who are supplying the armed
opposition, that the refugee crisis was concocted by Syria's enemies and that a
dialogue on a political transition was still possible. Page A6

CHINA NEARS TRANSITION

With only six weeks to go before the formal unveiling of a new set of leaders,
Communist Party elders are still deciding on who will ascend to the top ruling
bodies and what policy direction they will adopt for the new team. Page A6

GREECE SUBMITS BUDGET

Greece's draft budget of $10 billion in spending cuts faces deep revisions to
meet approval by the country's foreign lenders. Page A10

BRITISH DETECTIVE CHARGED

Detective Chief Inspector April Casburn, a senior Scotland Yard detective, was
charged with misconduct in public office and violating the Official Secrets Act.
She was accused in court of illegally leaking information to a newspaper about a
2010 police inquiry into phone hacking. Page A11

National

BATTLE OVER UNIONS

MOVES TO CALIFORNIA

The battle to curb labor's political clout has moved from Wisconsin to
California, where wealthy conservatives are championing a ballot measure that
would bar unions from donating to candidates. Page A12

WEAKER EL NIñO POSSIBLE

A season of warmer ocean waters that has been expected to produce a Niño episode
and perhaps bring relief from a drought may turn out to be weaker than
advertised, according to experts. Page A18

MEDICAID PUSH IS ON

The Obama administration is putting pressure on states to expand Medicaid,
telling them they may lose federal money if they delay. But federal health
officials have also told states that if they choose to expand Medicaid, they are
free to reverse the decision at any time. Page A19

New York

AT BARCLAYS CENTER,

GIANT SODAS ARE OUT

At the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, hungry concertgoers can dine on
fresh-from-Maine lobster rolls, barbecue brisket and slices of cheesecake from
Junior's. What they cannot buy is a jumbo soda. Page A24

LOVELY, BUT NOT A LANDMARK

In a city that shifts as rapidly as New York, it may be tempting to enshrine
favorite portions in the streetscape, but not every beloved corner makes the
cut. The Appraisal . Page A24

Obituaries

JAMES E. BURKE, 87

Mr. Burke is best known for his handling of the Tylenol crisis in 1982, when
seven people in the Chicago area died after taking capsules of Extra-Strength
Tylenol that had been laced with cyanide. Page B15

Business

AMERICAN EXPRESS AGREES

TO REFUND $85 MILLION

About 250,000 customers will get reimbursements as a result of accusations that
American Express violated federal law in its marketing, billing and debt
collection. Page B1

ZUCKERBERG VISITS RUSSIA

In his first visit to Russia, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief of Facebook, met with
the country's prime minister in a market that is important commercially but that
has traditionally heavily regulated its old media. Page B2

WARNING ON HIP PROCEDURE

A study published in The Lancet found that women experienced ''unacceptably
high'' failure rates with a technique that is used instead of traditional hip
implants. Some men were also affected. Page B4

WI-FI IN GREATER DEMAND

People increasingly expect constant connectivity, and as airlines race to make
Wi-Fi available on all flights, the ability to stay online in the skies will
only increase. Page B9

Sports

COACH EASY ON MANNING

AFTER A POORLY CHOSEN PASS

Coach Tom Coughlin wasn't about to call out Eli Manning for a throw that cost
the Giants a makable field goal attempt at the end of a 2-point loss to the
Eagles, Harvey Araton writes. On Pro Football. Page B14

Arts

HOMAGE TO HAIR,

A CHARM AND A CURSE

''The Art of Hair: Frivolities and Trophies,'' which opened last month in Paris,
celebrates the importance of hair in art, fashion, style, ritual, sexuality,
religion and culture, from antiquity to today. Page C1

Science Times

IN BUSINESS, NONDRINKING CAN BE A COSTLY EXPENSE

For professionals who abstain from alcohol, it can sometimes seem harder to get
ahead if you're not willing to throw one back. Page D1

MISCONDUCT ON THE RISE

The number of retractions of scientific papers has risen sharply, and a new
study suggests that misconduct was the cause in three-quarters of the cases,
when a reason could be determined. Page D3

Op-Ed

JOE NOCERA PAGE A27

FRANK BRUNI PAGE A27

URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bills Signed In California In a Flurry

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 381 words


LOS ANGELES -- Facing a deadline of midnight Sunday to take action on bills the
California Legislature passed this session, Gov. Jerry Brown signed dozens of
them over the weekend on issues ranging from health care to corporate taxation,
while vetoing dozens more.

The most explosive bills on Mr. Brown's desk concerned immigration. He signed
legislation that would allow young illegal immigrants who qualify for the new
federal work-permit program to obtain driver's licenses. Gil Cedillo, the
Democratic state assemblyman who sponsored the bill, said it would dramatically
improve life for up to 500,000 eligible young people and their families.

''We have to do at the state level all that we can to assimilate immigrants into
the mainstream, in the absence of action and leadership out of Congress,'' Mr.
Cedillo said. ''That's our duty. That's the American project. We are a nation of
immigrants.''

Mr. Brown vetoed several other bills that had been pushed by immigrant rights
advocates, including one that would have prohibited law enforcement officers
from detaining illegal immigrants for deportation unless they had been charged
with a serious or violent crime. In addition to the Trust Act, as it was called,
he vetoed bills that would have offered greater protections to farm workers and
domestic workers.

''He passed bills that we needed, but it became a bittersweet win,'' said
Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights
of Los Angeles.

Those bills, and many others that Mr. Brown vetoed, came from his own Democratic
Party, which controls both houses of the Legislature.

Dan Schnur, the director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the
University of Southern California, said Mr. Brown has emerged over the past two
years as one of the few centrists in California politics.

''He's obviously a strong Democrat, but he's much more centrist than most
members of his own party in the Legislature,'' Mr. Schnur said.

In addition to the bills on immigration, Mr. Brown signed legislation that would
allow juveniles sentenced to life in prison to be eligible for early release
after 25 years. He rejected a bill, backed by some gay rights advocates, that
would have allowed judges to recognize more than two legal parents for a given
child.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/02/us/gov-jerry-brown-of-california-signs-dozens-
of-bills.html

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jerry Brown of California in August. He faced a Sunday
night deadline to act on legislation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Right-Wing Party Is Growing Rapidly As Greece Simmers

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1284 words


ATHENS -- The video, which went viral in Greece last month, shows about 40 burly
men, led by Giorgos Germenis, a lawmaker with the right-wing Golden Dawn party,
marching through a night market in the town of Rafina demanding that
dark-skinned merchants show permits.

Some do, and they are left alone. But the action quickly picks up, as the men,
wearing black T-shirts with the party's name, destroy a stall with clubs and
scatter the merchandise. ''We saw a few illegal immigrants selling their
wares,'' Mr. Germenis says in the video. ''We did what Golden Dawn has to do.
And now we're going to church to pay our respects to the Madonna.''

Just a few months ago, the name Golden Dawn was something to be whispered in
Greece.

But three months after the extremist right-wing group won an electoral foothold
in Parliament, talk of Golden Dawn seems to be on everybody's lips.

In cafes, taxis and bars, Greeks across the political spectrum are discussing
the palpable surge in Golden Dawn's popularity, which has risen in recent
political polls even as the group steps up a campaign of vigilantism and attacks
against immigrants.

The poll gains come amid growing disenchantment over rising illegal immigration,
and with the government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, which is being forced
by its international lenders to push through $15 billion in additional, highly
unpopular, austerity measures. If Greece were to hold new elections soon, Golden
Dawn could emerge as the third-largest party in Parliament, behind Mr. Samaras's
New Democracy and the left-wing Syriza. Currently, Golden Dawn is the fifth
largest, with 18 out of 300 seats.

''We have a major socioeconomic crisis in which several hundred thousand Greeks
are losing ground,'' said Nikos Demertzis, a professor of political sociology at
the University of Athens. ''And you have a rising number of immigrants in
Greece, many illegal. This is creating a volcanic situation where all the
classic parameters for the flourishing of a far-right force like Golden Dawn are
present.''

Golden Dawn's tactics are similar to ones it used before parliamentary elections
in June. Preying on fears that immigrants are worsening crime rates and economic
hardship, the group has been stepping up attacks against immigrants, many of
whom are legal citizens, with the police frequently standing by. It is also
trying to expand its reach with the Greek diaspora.

The group recently opened an office in New York, announcing its presence with a
sleek Web site depicting a stylized Swastika against a darkened Manhattan
skyline. The Web site was disabled by hackers less than a day later and remains
down, and the American Hellenic Educational Progressive Association condemned
the group's outreach, saying that ''fascism has no place in the United States.''

Golden Dawn has also established an outpost in Australia, where Greeks have been
emigrating by the thousands to escape the crisis in their homeland.

The group is still far from being a major threat to Mr. Samaras's party, or to
his fragile three-party coalition government. Most Greeks express alarm at the
group's rise, and anti-fascist organizations in Athens are continuing efforts
neighborhood by neighborhood to counter its increased vigilantism.

Yet, rising political and social discontent is rich fodder for Golden Dawn as it
tries to cultivate a larger base. These days, it is not uncommon for
conversations to evolve into laments about the ineffectiveness of Mr. Samaras's
government, before a mention of Golden Dawn's rise in the polls slips in.

''People have no faith in the political system,'' said Dimitris Kaklamanos, 41,
a worker at a Shell gas station in the town of Piraeus, on the outskirts of
Athens.

Mr. Kaklamanos said he had long voted for Pasok, the Socialist party, but grew
disillusioned with corruption and the ineptitude of its politicians. Now, he
feels attracted to Golden Dawn, he said, whose popularity he expects to continue
to rise, especially as the group replaces police and government services in poor
areas where the state has almost ceased to function.

Other political parties ''know that Golden Dawn is gaining power and they see
that as a threat,'' Mr. Kaklamanos said. ''But Golden Dawn are the only ones out
there demonstrating they care about the Greek people.''

He cited food and clothing drives conducted by the group across a widening area
of Athens, as well as protections it extends to vulnerable Greeks in
neighborhoods where crime has surged in tandem with illegal immigration.

Kaiti Lazarou, 55, the owner of a newspaper and cigarette kiosk in Piraeus,
agreed. ''I myself have gotten food and potatoes from them in Syntagma Square,''
she said. ''I would not be surprised if they become the government one day, and
why shouldn't they? They protect the Greeks, while Samaras and the government
are out of touch with the people.''

In an interview last week, Mr. Samaras said that hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants fleeing hardship in Africa, South Asia and now Syria were
creating ''major distress'' in Greece, which they use as a gateway to the
European Union after entering through Turkey. He appealed to Greece's European
partners to modify immigration accords so that other countries could take on a
greater share of Greece's immigration burden.

With more than 1.5 million immigrants in a country of about 11 million, ''this
is creating extremism'' that feeds the popularity of Golden Dawn, Mr. Samaras
said. Outlawing the group could backfire by fueling their popularity, he added.

Mr. Demertzis, the University of Athens professor, said Golden Dawn was
effective because it did more than just utter political platitudes. Its members
''do their propaganda through deeds, exactly the same way that the Muslim
Brotherhood in Egypt does, or Hezbollah in Lebanon.''

In Golden Dawn's case, the most high-profile activities center on anti-immigrant
campaigns, like the one documented in the video, depicted as the actions of good
Samaritans.

In another raid, filmed and posted on YouTube, in the town of Missolonghi, Greek
shopkeepers shout at Golden Dawn members as they walk through a fruit and
vegetable market kicking over stands loaded with produce. The raid was led by
another Golden Dawn lawmaker, Costas Barbarousis. ''These tactics were used in
the dictatorship!'' one woman cries.

After the episodes, Golden Dawn lawmakers were barred from receiving the
protection of the police, who human rights groups say are increasingly looking
the other way when confronted with evidence of violence by Golden Dawn
sympathizers, with some officers seeming more sympathetic to them than to their
victims. Mr. Samaras played down concerns that the Greek police were sympathetic
to the group. ''I'm very happy with the way they've done their job,'' he said in
the interview.

Justice Minister Antonis Roupakiotis condemned the Golden Dawn attacks, saying
they created ''conditions for the growth of neo-fascist practices in the
country.'' He added that his ministry would consider tougher penalties for
racist violence. New Democracy, Pasok and independent Greeks also condemned the
attacks.

But such talk may only go so far.

''It's the current government that brought more power to Golden Dawn because the
people are angry at what the government is doing,'' said Iakovos Zorzios, 73, a
retiree whose pension has been cut as part of Greece's austerity measures.

''How can we not be angry when the government cuts our earnings so much?'' said
Mr. Zorzios, who is bracing for yet another reduction in the latest austerity
plan forged this week. ''How can they expect us not to support Golden Dawn?''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/01/world/europe/amid-greeces-worries-the-rise-of-
right-wing-extremists.html

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOCIAL SUPPORT:  People received  cartons of milk  and other
groceries from the  Golden Dawn  party in Syntagma Square in  Athens in August.
Members  of the party have  also attacked immigrants.  (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YORGOS
KARAHALIS/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 884 words


International

ISRAEL'S ONCE VIBRANT MEDIA

ENTERS A DARK PHASE

Newspapers like Haaretz and Maariv are being squeezed by the pressures of the
global digital age and a small, crowded Hebrew-language market that is
undergoing changes of its own. Media experts speak of a news bazaar that is
becoming more concentrated and prone to political influence. Memo from
Jerusalem. PAGE A4

TENSION OVER ISLANDS

South Korean tourists have been traveling to the Dokdo/Takeshima islands --
barely inhabited islets that are administered by South Korea but also claimed by
Japan -- to express their patriotic sentiments amid a flare-up of long-simmering
tensions over the territory. PAGE A8

CALL FOR RECOUNTS IN GEORGIA

Georgia's fragile postelection calm was shaken as triumphant members of the
Georgian Dream coalition challenged a dozen regional vote counts in hopes of
gaining more parliamentary seats, and others began to call for punishing
officials from the departing government. PAGE A10

National LOS ANGELES TO CEASE

TRANSFERRING IMMIGRANTS

The police in Los Angeles will soon stop turning over illegal immigrants
arrested for low-level crimes to federal immigration officials for deportation,
Police Chief Charlie Beck announced. Those arrested would not be turned over
unless they were part of a street gang or had a criminal record. PAGE A14

TOUGH TEST FOR TEA PARTY

Representative Steve King's troubles show the effects of a national profile
built largely on Tea Party credentials and incendiary statements. Tea Party
candidates across the country in districts with a mix of voters are finding a
far less hospitable environment this time, especially in swing states. PAGE A11

New York

POLICE SHOOT UNARMED MAN

ON GRAND CENTRAL PARKWAY

A New York City police detective shot and killed an unarmed man whose hands, a
witness said, were on the steering wheel of his Honda after the man had been
pulled over for cutting off two police vehicles on the Grand Central Parkway in
Queens, the authorities said.

PAGE A17

HORSE MEAT OFF THE MENU

M. Wells Dinette, the highly anticipated reincarnation inside MoMA PS1 of a
celebrated Queens restaurant, has already removed a controversial item planned
for the menu. The restaurant will not serve horse meat tartare, in response to
outrage from animal rights advocates and changing government policies. PAGE A18

Business

IN CLOSED GAS CAN FACTORY,

TWO SIDES OF LIABILITY

The closing of Blitz USA, a bankrupt gasoline can manufacturer, has become a
rallying point for proponents of tort reform. But a new commercial avoids the
complexities of the product liability cases surrounding Blitz by making no
mention of the casualties linked to explosions while people used the cans in
recent years. PAGE B1

ONE BILLION FACEBOOK USERS

Facebook said that it had a billion users worldwide who logged in at least once
a month. The number is all the more remarkable considering that the social
network was created only seven years ago and has doubled its user base in the
last two years alone. PAGE B1

DATA PRIVACY EFFORT BLOCKED

An effort to develop an easy way for consumers around the world to avoid being
tracked by Internet advertisers appeared to hit an impasse as privacy advocates
and industry representatives accused each other of scuttling the process. PAGE
B6

Sports

WILD-CARD GAME

TO MAKE BASEBALL DEBUT

Two wild cards in each league will meet in a knockout game for the right to
advance to the division series. The new rules give two more teams the chance for
the title, while emphasizing the importance of winning the division. PAGE B9

RED SOX FIRE VALENTINE

Red Sox Manager Bobby Valentine was fired after Boston concluded its worst
season in a generation. The team went 69-93, and Valentine was hindered by
injuries and a midseason trade of high-salaried players after taking over a club
that collapsed the previous September. PAGE B11

Weekend

EXPLORING FAITH AND DOUBT

AND HUMAN SCARS

The latest production of ''Grace,'' Craig Wright's tale of a Christian
entrepreneur in Florida, stars Michael Shannon and Paul Rudd at the Cort
Theater. This play deals with really big subjects seldom addressed onstage these
days, writes Ben Brantley. PAGE C1

NEW YORK DURING WARTIME

The new exhibit ''WWII & NYC'' at the New-York Historical Society looks at how
the conflict affected city residents. It features 300 objects, ranging from
prewar protest pamphlets to postwar artworks, that show how central New York was
to the war effort and how powerfully the conflict affected the city's evolution.
Exhibition Review, Edward Rothstein. PAGE C23

MARBLE'S FIRST TWISTS

''Bernini: Sculpting in Clay'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art looks at 39
models from which many of his great marble sculptures emerged. The clay itself,
visibly imprinted by Bernini's fingers and variously worked with sculpturing
tools, seems as alive as the figures it embodies. Review by Ken Johnson. PAGE
C23

Obituaries

ROBERT F. CHRISTY, 96

As a young physicist working on the Manhattan Project, he came up with one of
the crucial insights that led to the creation of the atom bomb. PAGE B14

MICHAEL HENRY HEIM, 69

He was a distinguished translator who helped bring to an English-speaking
readership the work of Central and Eastern European authors like Günter Grass,
Milan Kundera and Anton Chekhov. PAGE B14

Op-Ed

DAVID BROOKS PAGE A21

PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A21

URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Documented Life

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 359 words


President Obama's decision to suspend the deportations of young immigrants who
were brought here illegally as children has stirred a lot of hope and
exhilaration. It has also created a daunting paperwork challenge, both for the
people seeking the reprieve and for the agency charged with granting it.

Applicants need to prove that they arrived in the United States before turning
16 and have lived here continuously for the last five years, among other
requirements. But it's not always easy to document the undocumented life --
especially for people not long out of childhood, who often work off the books
and who lack driver's licenses, credit cards and other fundamental papers.

Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency handling the applications,
deserves credit for posting detailed guidance on the Web about the documents and
procedures needed to win a deferral. It would have been easy -- and much in
keeping with the agency's old reputation -- to throw up rigid hurdles to give
administrators the easiest route to saying no. But the director of Citizenship
and Immigration Services, Alejandro Mayorkas, seems to be taking seriously the
job of making this program work -- and quickly, in the 60 days between the
announcement in June and when the first applications were received.

The agency won't say how many people have applied, but rough estimates put it at
about 150,000 so far, with a fraction having won deferrals. The number is sure
to grow as the pipeline swells; an estimated 1.4 million are eligible.

Many might be afraid to apply because they don't want to admit having done
unlawful things, like using a fake ID, to survive. Those are understandable
concerns. But making this important program succeed will take confidence and
courage on both sides. Those who oppose it may well seize on administrative
fumbles to stymie future efforts at immigration reform. There are 11 million
Americans-in-waiting: If sweeping legalization ever happens, bringing them out
of the shadows will be a difficult task. The country needs to show the
competence and understanding to get it right. These young students are a dry run
for much-needed reform.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/05/opinion/the-documented-life-of-immigrants.html

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 10, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Passenger Arrested

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 76 words


A man was arrested at Los Angeles International Airport after a smoke grenade, a
gas mask, leg irons, body bags, knives and other weapons were found in luggage.
The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency said Tuesday that Yongda Huang
Harris, 28, was arrested Friday on suspicion of transporting hazardous materials
en route from Japan to Boston. He drew suspicion when officers noticed that he
was wearing a bulletproof vest and flame-retardant pants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/10/us/california-passenger-arrested.html

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 13, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nearly 4,600 Get Deportation Reprieves

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WASHINGTON; Pg.
15

LENGTH: 108 words


Two months after the Obama administration started giving reprieves from
deportation and work permits to young immigrants here illegally, 179,794
applications have been received and 4,591 have been approved, according to new
figures from the Department of Homeland Security. The number of approvals
increased significantly since officials reported on Sept. 14 that 29 immigrants
had been the first ones granted the two-year deportation deferrals. But Peter
Boogaard, a department spokesman, said immigrants should now expect that the
average time to process an application would be four to six months. As many as
1.2 million immigrants could be eligible.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/13/us/nearly-4600-get-deportation-reprieves.html

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 18, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Groups Protest Operation By Immigration Agents

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 605 words


An operation by federal immigration agents in Detroit set off protests from
Latino and church groups on Wednesday after the officers stopped two illegal
immigrants as they were dropping off their children at school.

Agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement followed both immigrants, who
are from Mexico, as they left their homes in southwest Detroit on Tuesday
morning, officials from the agency said. Both men had children in their
vehicles.

One man, Jorge Hernandez, said he was pulled over by agents in unmarked cars
across the street from his 4-year-old daughter's school, the Manuel Reyes Vistas
Nuevas Head Start center in southwest Detroit. Mr. Hernandez was questioned but
eventually released.

The other man, Hector Orozco Villa, told immigrant advocates that he had been
detained by agents near the elementary school of two of his children, Cesar
Chavez Academy, a few blocks from the Head Start center. Mr. Orozco remains in
the custody of the agency, which is known as ICE.

The presence of the agents spread alarm among arriving parents and children in
the Latino neighborhood, school officials said. More than 100 people rallied on
Wednesday to protest, according to a report in The Detroit News, saying the
immigration agency had broken an earlier promise to avoid arrests near schools
and other community gathering points.

''It is very alarming to me to have this happen during the rush hour of people
taking their children to school,'' said Rashida Tlaib, a Democratic state
representative who attended the rally. ''We are really worried about the impact
on these United States citizen children.'' Several of Mr. Hernandez's and Mr.
Orozco's children were born in the United States.

The incident revealed the raw sensitivities in some immigrant communities as
federal agents carry out the increasingly complex deportation policy of the
Obama administration. Agents have been instructed to focus on capturing illegal
immigrants who are convicted criminals or repeat immigration violators, and to
avoid detaining those who have committed no serious crimes and have strong
family ties to the United States.

After investigating, immigration officials said that the officers' actions were
consistent with agency policies.

''After a thorough review of facts, the arrest of a priority target today in the
Detroit metro area adhered to, and was in full compliance of, the stated
policies and procedures of the agency,'' said Ross Feinstein, a spokesman for
the agency. ''This includes ICE policy regarding enforcement actions at or near
sensitive locations.''

Immigration officials said agents had moved to arrest Mr. Orozco because he had
a criminal conviction in 2008 for driving under the influence and had also
returned to the United States after being formally deported, which is a felony.
The officials said that Mr. Orozco had been detained four blocks from the Chavez
Academy.

The officials said that Mr. Hernandez was not a primary target of their
operation, but that he had two convictions for driving with an expired license.

In an interview, Mr. Hernandez said his 7-year-old son had also been in his
vehicle, along with his wife, when he was stopped. He said his son had become
distraught and said, in English, to the officers: ''Please don't take my dad. We
want to go to school.''

The episode was reminiscent of a similar confrontation last year when immigrant
rights organizations accused immigration agents in Detroit of patrolling near
schools and, in at least one instance, setting off a panic. The agency
determined that agents had violated no policies but clarified its guidelines for
operations near schools.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/18/us/groups-protest-operation-by-immigration-age
nts.html

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russian Room

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL DEUTSCH.

Abigail Deutsch's reviews have appeared in The Times Literary Supplement, Poetry
and other publications.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 622 words


HOW TO GET INTO THE TWIN PALMSBy Karolina Waclawiak

191 pp. Two Dollar Radio. Paper, $16.

Immigration novels often work like playground swings, pitching characters
forward into a new culture even as the old maintains its backward pull. The
nostalgic tug of the homeland -- Henry Roth's Austria, Jhumpa Lahiri's India --
counters the beckoning excitements of the adopted country, creating a tension
that keeps the apparatus moving.

Karolina Waclawiak's ''How to Get Into the Twin Palms'' propels its protagonist
in an unexpected direction. Rather than oscillate between her Polish past and
American present, Zosia, a 25-year-old immigrant living in Los Angeles, yearns
to become something else entirely: Russian. As if giving birth to a new self,
she plucks the name Anya out of a baby book. ''I am taking off all my American
skin,'' she declares, and means it literally: throughout the book, she shaves,
scrapes and even sands her body. Less arduously, she dyes her hair, paints her
face and buys new clothes -- all with the goal of winning entry into the Twin
Palms, an alluring Russian nightclub in her neighborhood.

Just as Anya reinvents herself, Waclawiak's novel (her first) reinvents the
immigration story, shaving off some bits, accentuating others and dressing the
whole thing up in a fresh outfit. Anya seeks not to break into American culture
but to become a different kind of outsider. She lands in California not to
fulfill a dream of stardom but because she dreams of nothing in particular:
having lost her interest in seeing all of America, she ''just stopped here.''

And rather than ''pull herself up by her bootstraps'' -- a feat known to
frustrate even the native-born -- Anya is tranquilly unemployed, spending her
government checks on carrot cake and discounted bras. Waclawiak captures
joblessness well: her narrative unfurls in short, sharp chapters, as though the
novel itself refuses to commit to long projects. Without a day job, Anya can
devote her energy to wondering which hot dog to buy and how fast her fan would
need to spin to detach from the ceiling (concerns familiar to anyone who's
endured unemployment). And she can become a peculiarly Californian flâneur,
coasting up and down the highways.

Anya nonetheless remains, in a sense, the consummate immigrant, a permanently
impermanent resident. Someone else's hair balls and bobby pins linger in her
rented apartment; she lounges by the pool of a motel where she is not a guest.
We often catch her staring at strangers, as if becoming a tourist in their lives
-- moments that transform ''Twin Palms'' into its own manner of spy novel.

Yet for all its fascination, this book sometimes lacks finish. While the novel's
improvisational quality complements the character, it confounds the reader: If
Anya is so intent on passing as Russian, why does she quickly tell her Russian
beau -- her key, she hopes, to the Twin Palms -- that she is Polish? Why does
she declare her lack of interest in the Twin Palms only to recommit to the idea
six pages later? Why, most crucially, does she want to pretend to be Russian at
all? Waclawiak offers a quick explanation that fails to justify such a
historically loaded gesture, and we close the book thinking -- as Anya notes on
the first page -- ''It was a strange choice to decide to pass as a Russian.''

Like the nightclub in its title, ''Twin Palms'' brims with smoke: characters
puff cigarettes, eat smoked fish and watch ash fall from nearby forest fires.
Anya gets burned both by the man she pursues and by the California sun. At its
most illuminating, ''How to Get Into the Twin Palms'' movingly portrays a
protagonist intent on both creating and destroying herself, on burning brightly
even as she goes up in smoke.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/books/review/how-to-get-into-the-twin-palms-by
-karolina-waclawiak.html

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Young Immigrants, Turmoil Over a Romney Stance

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1207 words


An immigration stance that Mitt Romney took with little fanfare this month has
created turmoil for many young immigrants living in the country illegally,
lawyers and immigrant advocates say.

Mr. Romney said that if elected president, he would end the program that offers
hundreds of thousands of those immigrants two-year reprieves from deportation,
which the Obama administration began in August.

Mr. Romney's statements have prompted many young people to hold back from
applying, worried that if he won the presidency, those who applied and were not
approved by the time he took office could be pursued by immigration authorities.

His position ''has created a lot of confusion and a lot of anxiety,'' said
Cheryl Little, the executive director of Americans for Immigrant Justice, a
legal aid group based in Miami that has assisted hundreds of young immigrants
applying for reprieves.

Mr. Romney has said that he would honor any reprieves already approved by the
government, and that he would not order the deportation of immigrants who did
not get deferrals.

Even so, his position on the reprieves has heightened already existing doubts
about how he would handle the program, said Gregory Chen, the director of
advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, which has monitored
it closely. ''For young people who have been living in the shadows for years,
coming forward now to the authorities is a big act of faith,'' Mr. Chen said.
''They are concerned their information could be used at a later date against
them.''

Also, at least 800,000 young people, according to estimates by immigrant
organizations, will be unable to apply in time to be approved before the
inauguration in January because of document requirements and filing fees. They
are now facing the possibility that if Mr. Romney prevailed, they could miss out
on the deportation deferrals and the work permits that come with them.

By independent estimates, as many as 1.2 million illegal immigrants are
currently eligible for President Obama's deportation reprieves. Since Aug. 15,
when the program began, 179,794 immigrants have applied, according to official
figures published on Oct. 12. But only 4,591 deferrals have been approved,
despite what lawyers praise as unusually fast work by the federal agency in
charge, Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Alberto Martinez, an adviser to Mr. Romney, said the candidate's goal was to
eliminate ''perpetual uncertainty'' for young immigrants. Since the deferrals
are based only on a presidential action and do not provide any path to legal
immigration status, he said, ''it is just another stage of limbo for these young
people.''

In the general campaign, Mr. Romney has moderated his immigration positions as
he tries to appeal to Latino voters, hoping to chip away at Mr. Obama's big lead
among that group. In the presidential debate on Tuesday, Mr. Romney endorsed
proposals giving legal status to young immigrants who have been in the country
illegally since they were children.

''The kids of those that came here illegally, those kids I think should have a
pathway to become a permanent resident of the United States,'' Mr. Romney said.

Without providing much detail, Mr. Romney said he would work with Congress on
''real, permanent immigration reform'' to give legal status to young immigrants.
He has said that illegal immigrants who serve in the military should get
permanent residency.

But Mr. Romney has criticized the temporary reprieves, which Mr. Obama created
in June by executive action, as a political ''stopgap measure.''

For young people who have grown up without documents, the deferrals and permits
allow them to work legally and, in some states, obtain driver's licenses and
attend college at in-state tuition rates. In a recent poll by the Pew Hispanic
Center, 86 percent of registered Latino voters said they approved of the
program.

To qualify for the program, immigrants must be under 31, have come to America
before they were 16 and have lived here for at least five years. They must also
be current students or high school graduates. Since there is no filing deadline
and no appeal if an application is denied, administration officials have urged
young people to take their time to get it right. Many immigrants have also
struggled to gather the papers they need and to raise the $465 filing fee.

Leading Republicans who are concerned about the party's standing with Latino
voters have differed on Mr. Romney's position on the deferrals. In a recent
interview on Spanish-language radio, Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida,
lauded Mr. Romney's plan for broader legislation. But he said, ''I think it
makes all the sense in the world to maintain what exists right now.''

But Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said at an event on Tuesday that he agreed
with Mr. Romney. ''We are not going to give out new permits because we are going
to replace the system with a new one,'' Mr. Rubio said. ''And I think that is
very promising.''

Mr. Romney's statements have prompted some immigrants to rush to apply, hoping
they could still gain approval before January. Many more are hanging back,
lawyers said.

And then there is Claudia Trejo, 18, one of those who could miss the chance to
apply. Born in Mexico and raised in Denver, she said she had been living in this
country illegally since arriving with her parents when she was 10. Both she and
her 16-year-old sister qualify for deferrals. They want to apply together so
that neither would be left unprotected from deportation.

But their parents, also here illegally, do not have the money for two $465
filing fees. Ms. Trejo has been working odd jobs to raise the cash, hoping to
apply at the end of the year. ''Honestly, the only thing I am waiting on is the
money to apply,'' she said.

Ms. Trejo graduated from high school in May but cannot afford the out-of-state
tuition rates she must pay to go to college in Colorado. With a deferral, she
said, she could get a driver's license and a regular job, and a chance to earn
her tuition.

''I just want to go to college as soon as possible,'' Ms. Trejo said. ''The
things Romney is saying are devastating.''

But groups opposing amnesty for illegal immigrants praised Mr. Romney's stance
on the deferrals. ''We have been hopeful he would immediately stop them,'' said
Roy Beck, the president of NumbersUSA, which advocates reduced immigration. He
contends that Mr. Obama exceeded his authority with the mass deferrals, and his
organization has supported a federal lawsuit in Texas to try to stop the
program.

In the final weeks of the presidential campaign, Mr. Romney wants to hold on to
Republicans who supported his early calls for tough immigration enforcement. He
also hopes to draw some Latinos, who are likely to cast crucial ballots in at
least three battleground states: Colorado, Florida and Nevada.

''We understand the power our communities have,'' said Maria Fernanda Cabello, a
leader in Texas of the United We Dream Network, a national youth organization,
who said she received one of the earliest deferrals. Although she cannot vote,
Ms. Cabello, 21, said she had been busy organizing Latino citizens to do so.
''We urge both candidates to continue this program,'' she said, ''and we will be
mobilizing.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/us/politics/romneys-stance-on-obama-reprieves-
panics-young-immigrants.html

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pentagon Reopens Program Allowing Immigrants With Special Skills to Enlist

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 913 words


Thousands of immigrants were so eager to enlist in the American military during
the last two years, despite the strong odds that they could be sent to combat
zones, that they signed a petition on Facebook asking the Pentagon to let them
join.

Now they will have the chance. Late last month, the Pentagon reopened a program
to recruit legal immigrants with special language and medical skills, which was
active for a year in 2009 but was suspended in January 2010.

The program is small; it will enlist a total of 1,500 recruits each year for two
years, mainly in the Army. But military officials said the yearlong pilot
program brought an unusually well-educated and skilled cohort of immigrants into
the armed services.

''Their qualifications were really stellar,'' said Naomi Verdugo, assistant
deputy for recruiting for the Army. ''And we have been very pleased about how
these folks have been performing.''

The program is open to immigrants on temporary visas, who otherwise would not be
eligible to enlist. Its powerful lure is that it allows them to naturalize as
United States citizens quickly, in most cases at the end of basic training,
which lasts about 10 weeks. Most immigrants on temporary visas, whether they are
students or workers with particular skills, must wait years -- for some
nationalities, more than a decade -- to become citizens.

Eileen Lainez, a Pentagon spokeswoman, said the program was intended to fill
''some of our most critical readiness needs.'' This time around, the Army is
looking for dentists and surgeons, and for psychology professionals to help with
the severe emotional strains soldiers have undergone in the wars in Afghanistan
and Iraq.

Officials are also looking for native speakers of 44 languages, including
Azerbaijani, Cambodian-Khmer, Hausa and Igbo (both spoken in West Africa),
Persian Dari (spoken in Afghanistan), Portuguese, and Tamil (spoken in South
Asia). Spanish is not on the list of languages.

Recruiting officers were quietly frustrated that Pentagon officials took more
than two years to restart the program. The renewal became tangled in a broad
security review after the shooting rampage in 2009 at Fort Hood, Tex., according
to accounts from military officials. The background checks for the immigrants
were scrutinized with added caution, even though the man charged in the
killings, Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, is a native-born American.

In renewing the program, military officials added a new layer of security
screenings, Ms. Lainez said.

To make their case to the Pentagon, recruiting officers compiled dossiers on the
first class of immigrants, of whom 943 out of 1,000 were in the Army. On
average, immigrants who enlisted in the Army language program scored 17 points
higher (on a scale of 99) than other applicants on an entrance test, said Capt.
Carol Stahl, who manages the program for the Army. One-third of the first class
of recruits had master's degrees or higher.

One-third of the class went into the Special Forces, a highly selective
assignment that can often lead to combat missions, Captain Stahl said. Attrition
was one-quarter the rate of other soldiers who entered at the same time.

A soldier from Nepal who entered with the first class, Sgt. Saral Shrestha, just
won the Army's Soldier of the Year award after a grueling four-day competition
involving fighting skills at Fort Lee, Va.

''This was a boost of very high quality people,'' said Margaret Stock, an
immigration lawyer in Alaska who is a retired lieutenant colonel in the Army
Reserve and helped devise the program. Even before they enlist, she said, the
immigrants have been screened because they have to pass background and
occupational checks for their temporary visas.

To qualify, immigrants must have been living in the United States legally for at
least two years. They must be high school graduates and pass the entrance test.

The program -- known as Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest, or
Mavni -- is not open to illegal immigrants, who are barred by law from
enlisting. In general, immigrants who are not citizens must have a permanent
resident visa, known as a green card, to enlist.

The first round filled up quickly, and the Army turned away thousands of people.
Many of them signed the Facebook petition and were hoping the program would
start again.

Health care professionals, who enlist as officers, must serve either three years
of active duty or six years in the Reserves. Immigrants who enlist based on
their language skills must serve for a minimum of four years of active duty.
Participants who fail to serve their term can lose their citizenship.

One of the first temporary immigrants the Army accepted this year was Dr. Amen
Dhyllon, 33, a dentist practicing in Philadelphia who was born in India and came
to the United States in 2006. Dr. Dhyllon said he completed a postdoctoral
program at the University of Pennsylvania in June combining two dental
specialties.

Dr. Dhyllon said he was eager to become an American citizen.

''Even in the position where I am today,'' he said, ''no one would appreciate me
as much as people appreciate me here. This country does not differentiate
between color or accent. Here, if you are good, people will put you to the
front.''

Dr. Dhyllon said he was not worried about the risks of service. He said he was
attracted to the Army because of the wide range of patients he would see.

''I can be part of the culture,'' he said. ''I can learn everything about this
country from the root.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/28/us/pentagon-reopens-program-allowing-immigrant
s-with-special-skills-to-enlist.html

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Amen Dhyllon, a dentist practicing in Philadelphia, said
that joining the  Army appealed to him because of the wide range of patients he
would see. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Innovative Immigrants

BYLINE: By THOMAS K. McCRAW.

Thomas K. McCraw is a professor emeritus at Harvard Business School and the
author, most recently, of ''The Founders and Finance: How Hamilton, Gallatin,
and Other Immigrants Forged a New Economy.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1057 words


Boston

SOME 70 million immigrants have come to America since the first colonists
arrived. The role their labor has played in economic development is widely
understood. Much less familiar is the extent to which their remarkable
innovations have driven American prosperity.

Indeed, while both Barack Obama and Mitt Romney have lauded entrepreneurship,
innovation and ''job creation,'' neither candidate has made comprehensive
immigration reform an issue, despite immigrants' crucial role in those fields.
Yet understanding how immigrants have fueled innovation through history is
critical to making sure they continue to drive prosperity in the future.

At the country's beginning, the three most important architects of its financial
system were immigrants: Alexander Hamilton, from St. Croix, then part of the
Danish West Indies; Robert Morris, born in Liverpool, England; and Albert
Gallatin of Geneva. Morris was superintendent of finance during the
Revolutionary War, using every resource at his command to support the army in
the field. Hamilton, as the first secretary of the Treasury, rescued the country
from bankruptcy and designed its basic financial system. Gallatin paid down much
of the national debt, engineered the financing of the Louisiana Purchase and
remains the longest-serving Treasury secretary ever.

Immigrants' financial innovations continued through the 19th century. In 1808
Alexander Brown, from Ireland, founded the nation's first investment bank, and
his immigrant sons set up Brown Brothers. The Lehman brothers, from Germany,
began as dry-goods merchants and cotton brokers in Alabama, then moved to New
York just before the Civil War and eventually founded a bank. Many other
immigrants, including Marcus Goldman of Goldman Sachs, followed similar paths,
starting very small, traveling to new cities and establishing banks. Meanwhile,
''Yankee'' firms like Kidder, Peabody and Drexel, Morgan -- whose partners were
native-born -- remained less mobile, tied by family and high society to Boston
and New York.

Immigrant innovators were pioneers in many other industries after the Civil War.
Three examples were Andrew Carnegie (Scotland, steel), Joseph Pulitzer (Hungary,
newspapers) and David Sarnoff (Russia, electronics). Each came to America young,
poor and full of energy.

Carnegie's mother brought the family to Pittsburgh in 1848, when Andrew was 12.
He became a bobbin-boy in a textile mill, a telegram messenger, a telegraph-key
operator, a low-level manager at the Pennsylvania Railroad, a division
superintendent for the same railroad and a bond salesman for the railroad in
Europe.

Recognizing the limitless market for the rails that carried trains, Carnegie
jumped to steel. His most important innovation was ''hard driving'' blast
furnaces, wearing them out quickly. This violated the accepted practice of
''coddling'' furnaces, but he calculated that his vastly increased output cut
the price of steel far more than replacing the furnaces cost his company. In
turn, an immense quantity of cheap steel found its way into lucrative new uses:
structural steel for skyscrapers, sheet steel for automobiles.

Pulitzer was the home-tutored son of a prosperous Hungarian family that lost its
fortune. He came to the United States in 1864 at age 17, recruited by a
Massachusetts Civil War regiment. Penniless after the war ended, he went to St.
Louis, a center for German immigrants, whose language he spoke fluently.

He worked as a waiter, a railroad clerk, a lawyer and a reporter for a local
German newspaper, part of which he eventually purchased. In 1879, he acquired
two English-language papers and merged them into The St. Louis Post-Dispatch.

In 1883, he moved to New York, where he bought The New York World and began a
fierce competition with other New York papers, mainly the Sun and, later,
William Randolph Hearst's New York Journal. The New York World was pro-labor,
pro-immigration and, remarkably, both serious and sensationalist. It achieved a
huge circulation.

Sarnoff was just 9 years old when he arrived from Russia in 1901. He earned
money selling Yiddish newspapers on the street and singing at a synagogue, and
then worked as an office clerk, a messenger and, like Carnegie, a telegraph
operator. From there he became part of the fledgling radio firm RCA and rose
rapidly within its ranks.

Sarnoff was among the first to see radio's potential as ''point-to-mass''
entertainment, i.e., broadcasting. He devoted a huge percentage of profits to
research and development, and won an epic battle with CBS over industry
standards for color TV. For decades, RCA and electronics were practically
synonymous.

As these men show, one of the key traits of immigrant innovators is geographic
mobility, both from the home country and within the United States. Consider the
striking roster of 20th-century immigrants who led the development of fields
like movies and information technology: the Hollywood studios MGM, Warner
Brothers, United Artists, Paramount and Universal; the Silicon Valley companies
Intel, eBay, Google, Yahoo and Sun Microsystems.

The economist Joseph Schumpeter -- yet another immigrant, and the most
perceptive early analyst of innovation -- considered it to be the fundamental
component of entrepreneurship: ''The typical entrepreneur is more self-centered
than other types, because he relies less than they do on tradition and
connection'' and because his efforts consist ''precisely in breaking up old, and
creating new, tradition.'' For that reason, innovators always encounter
resistance from people whose economic and social interests are threatened by new
products and methods.

Compared with the native-born, who have extended families and lifelong social
and commercial relationships, immigrants without such ties -- without businesses
to inherit or family property to protect -- are in some ways better prepared to
play the innovator's role. A hundred academic monographs could not prove that
immigrants are more innovative than native-born Americans, because each spurs
the other on. Innovations by the blended population were, and still are,
integral to the economic growth of the United States.

But our overly complex immigration law hampers even the most obvious innovators'
efforts to become citizens. It endangers our tradition of entrepreneurship, and
it must be repaired -- soon.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/02/opinion/immigrants-as-entrepreneurs.html

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEVIN STANTON)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 3, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Inquiry Into Immigrants' Shooting Expands

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTHWEST; Pg.
15

LENGTH: 119 words


The state police said Friday that they had asked for a federal investigation of
a chase in which a trooper fired on a fleeing pickup from a helicopter,
resulting in the deaths of two Guatemalan immigrants who were hiding in the
truck's bed. The Texas Department of Public Safety has said the troopers
believed that drugs were hidden under a sheet in the truck's bed when the shots
were fired. Instead, there were nine Guatemalans in the truck, including six
under the sheet. The chase on Oct. 25 started after Texas Parks and Wildlife
game wardens spotted the red pickup near La Joya, near the Mexico border and
about 250 miles south of San Antonio. The wardens requested help, and the
helicopter joined the pursuit.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/03/us/texas-investigation-into-shooting-deaths-of
-immigrants-expands.html

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Military's Swift Path to Citizenship

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 448 words


The Pentagon has just restarted a program to enlist skilled immigrants into the
Army, giving recruits a swift path to citizenship in return for their special
abilities in languages and medicine.

The program was suspended nearly three years ago as part of a broad security
review prompted by the 2009 shooting rampage at Fort Hood, Tex. To have
squelched a good idea so quickly and for so long was surely an overreaction (the
man charged in the Fort Hood killings is a native-born American). But now that
it's back, we hope that the Army swiftly makes up for lost time with new classes
of high-caliber recruits, and that the other service branches ramp up their own
participation.

The program will accept 1,500 people a year for the next two years -- good for
the Army, but only a sliver of America's untapped supply of immigrant talent and
patriotic yearning.

We hope, too, that those who recognize the Army's success concede the bigger
point. The happy confluence of opportunity and skills is not a phenomenon
peculiar to the Defense Department but is the essence of America's immigrant
history, whether the newcomer is an Army surgeon or translator or an Oregon
entrepreneur or a Long Island landscaper. America's economy and society benefit
mightily when immigration works, but the system today is a mess of bottlenecks
and frustrations, stymied by political paralysis and a sour, restrictionist
mood.

The program, called Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest, or
Mavni, seeks immigrants who speak certain high-priority languages -- from
Albanian to Yoruba -- and dentists, surgeons, psychiatrists and other health
professionals.

Undocumented immigrants and people with criminal records are not eligible, but
people in other categories previously denied military service, like
natural-disaster survivors with temporary visas, are welcome to apply. Those who
are accepted can be naturalized in record time -- right after basic training, or
in about 10 weeks.

The Army's study of the first Mavni class found that recruits were highly
educated (a third had master's degrees or higher) and highly motivated (their
attrition was one-fourth that of other recruits).

The program could not have a finer standard-bearer than Sgt. Saral Shrestha, who
came to the United States from Nepal at age 17 and joined the Army through Mavni
in 2009, when he was 21. Sergeant Shrestha, who repairs power-generation
equipment, is with Special Forces at Fort Bragg, N.C. According to the Army News
Service, he has a bachelor's degree in computer information science and wants to
earn a master's in computer engineering and become an officer. On Oct. 22, he
was named the Army's 2012 Soldier of the Year.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/04/opinion/sunday/the-militarys-swift-path-to-cit
izenship.html

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Speaker 'Confident' of Deal With White House on Immigration

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 390 words


WASHINGTON -- Fresh off an election in which Hispanic voters largely sided with
Democrats, Speaker John A. Boehner said Thursday that he was ''confident''
Congress and the White House could come up with a comprehensive immigration
solution.

Immigration reform is ''an important issue that I think ought to be dealt
with,'' Mr. Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in an interview with Diane Sawyer
on ''ABC World News.''

''This issue has been around far too long,'' he said, ''and while I believe it's
important for us to secure our borders and to enforce our laws, I think a
comprehensive approach is long overdue, and I'm confident that the president,
myself, others, can find the common ground to take care of this issue once and
for all.''

The words conveyed a new sense of urgency from Mr. Boehner, who said earlier
this year that he thought it would be politically impossible to tackle a
Republican proposal on the Dream Act, which sought to open a path to citizenship
for some students in the United States illegally.

According to exit polls by Edison Research, President Obama won 71 percent of
the Hispanic vote compared with Mitt Romney's 27 percent, a gap greater than Mr.
Obama's 36-point advantage with those voters over John McCain in 2008.

Though Mr. Boehner did not elaborate on his ideas, nor give a time frame, many
lawmakers want to tackle immigration legislation in the next session of
Congress. The lame-duck session starting next week will be devoted to dealing
with pressing tax and deficit issues.

Mr. Boehner's comments caught the attention of Senate Democrats.

''This is a breakthrough to have the speaker endorse the urgency of
comprehensive immigration reform,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York
in a statement. ''Democrats in the Senate look forward to working with him to
come up with a bipartisan solution.''

Just seven months ago, when Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, first
floated his compromise version of the Dream Act, Mr. Boehner called the idea
''difficult at best'' to take up in the House, saying ''the problem with this
issue is that we are operating in a very hostile political environment.''

But, after the election, Republicans could be more open to taking their cues
from Mr. Rubio, whom many see as their best hope for helping to expand their
voter base and guide the way on immigration.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/09/us/politics/boehner-confident-of-deal-with-whi
te-house-on-immigration.html

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Young Illegal Immigrants Apply for, and Receive, Reprieves

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 544 words


Three months after the Obama administration started a program that gives
temporary reprieves from deportation to young immigrants here illegally, nearly
309,000 of them have applied and 53,273 have received deferrals, according to
figures the Department of Homeland Security released on Friday.

The number of approvals increased from 4,591 one month ago, signaling a rapid
acceleration in a program that both Democrats and Republicans -- including Mitt
Romney -- have credited with bolstering President Obama's standing among
Latinos, earning him decisive votes for his electoral victories in at least four
swing states.

The program, which began receiving applications Aug. 15, did not attract much
news coverage during the presidential campaign, but it had a far-reaching effect
in Latino and other immigrant communities. Young people continued to come
forward to apply despite uncertainty created by Mr. Romney, who said he would
stop issuing reprieves if he was elected.

Under the program, young immigrants in the United States illegally who came to
the country as children can receive two-year deportation deferrals and work
permits.

According to the department's figures, more than 273,000 immigrants are in the
final stages of the approval process. To date, 10,101 applications were rejected
before they were evaluated because they were incomplete.

Homeland Security officials did not say how many applications were denied.
Republicans in Congress warn that the agency in charge, United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services, could be rushing to approve reprieves
without performing thorough background checks.

But immigration lawyers, who have been wary of the risks the program could pose
for young immigrants who have long lived without legal papers, said they had
been favorably surprised by its progress.

''The application process has been a model of government efficiency,'' said Don
Lyster, a director in Washington of the National Immigration Law Center, an
advocacy group for immigrants. Mr. Lyster said the numbers should reassure young
immigrants ''that the government is invested in ensuring the success of this
program.''

California, Texas and New York were the top states where applicants lived. The
fourth was Florida, where Mr. Obama eked out a victory based largely on Latino
votes.

With the campaign over, immigration officials said they might face a new surge
in applications from young people who had been waiting to see if Mr. Obama won
re-election.

Mr. Obama said this week that he wanted to take up a comprehensive immigration
bill soon after his inauguration, which would include a permanent path to
citizenship for young immigrants who are eligible for the temporary reprieves.

In a post-mortem conference call with Republican donors on Wednesday, Mr. Romney
cited the program as one of the ''gifts'' that he said Mr. Obama gave to his
supporters. For Hispanics, Mr. Romney said, ''The amnesty for children of
illegals, the so-called Dream Act kids, was a huge plus for that voting group.''

The deferrals do not provide any pardon or legal status. Senator Marco Rubio,
Republican of Florida, said Thursday that he thought Congress could move quickly
to enact a version of the Dream Act, a bill tailored to give legal status to
young immigrants.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/17/us/obama-immigration-program-sees-rapid-rise-i
n-applications.html

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roberto Larios, 21, of Los Angeles, applying in August for the
new federal program that allows young immigrants to receive deportation
deferrals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 19, 2012 Monday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Party's Base Is the Reason Romney Lost

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG NEWS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg.

LENGTH: 877 words


The Republican hand-wringers and recriminators are taking to Washington salons
and opinion columns to lament the party's failure to appeal to Latinos in the
2012 election. Instead, they ought to go to Hampton or Grundy Center, Iowa.

It was there in the summer of 2007 that Mitt Romney, seeking the Republican
presidential nomination, went to town meetings and got an earful on illegal
immigration. He had generally been a supporter of comprehensive immigration
overhaul; after a series of town halls he became the leading immigration basher
in the 2008 and 2012 Republican primaries.

''He morphed into that position to make a connection with these voters,'' says
Douglas Gross, who ran Mr. Romney's Iowa presidential campaign in 2007.

The Republican problem on immigration and other issues won't be solved with just
a Washington fix, like passing an immigration bill or nominating Senator Marco
Rubio of Florida as the party's presidential candidate. The Republican political
base is intolerant, stridently so, on issues like immigration, religion and gay
rights.

Mr. Romney and the people around him may have been soft on principle; they were
not dumb. Because conservatives were suspicious of the candidate anyway, the
Romney camp felt compelled to play the immigration card.

Last autumn, he savaged Governor Rick Perry of Texas as being too soft on
immigration; his ''super PAC'' then ran 1,501 commercials in Iowa attacking Newt
Gingrich, a former House speaker, on the issue. The campaign later ran 2,300 ads
assailing another rival, former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, on
immigration.

Then, in the general election, Mr. Romney ran spots, including one featuring his
Spanish-speaking son, pledging support for a bipartisan solution on immigration.

Hispanics did not buy it: 71 percent of Latino voters backed President Barack
Obama, and 27 percent Mr. Romney.

Mr. Romney's experience with the issue -- success in the primaries, failure in
the general election -- encapsulates the Republicans' core constituency problem.
It is similar to what Democrats faced a generation ago, when their base was well
to the left of the country, especially on cultural matters.

Polls over the past year have shown that almost half of Republicans believe the
false charge that Mr. Obama was not born in the United States; almost a third
said he was Muslim, also demonstrably false.

The same sort of extreme views are evident among the party's core supporters on
issues involving women.

Republicans lament losing two Senate seats they expected to win. One was in
Missouri, where the party's candidate, Todd Akin, talked about ''legitimate
rape,'' and the other was in Indiana, where Richard Mourdock suggested that
pregnancy resulting from rape was ''God's will.'' Yet these two right-wing
Republicans had defeated more moderate opponents in primaries not in spite of
such views but because of them.

These attitudes are out of step with the changing face of U.S. politics.

In 1980, the electorate was 88 percent white; in 2000, it was 83 percent white.
On Nov. 6, it was 72 percent white, and within several elections it will be less
than two-thirds.

Mr. Obama won 80 percent of the nonwhite vote. Republicans never expected to do
well with African-Americans, though the huge turnout surprised them. At one
time, they had hoped to do better with Hispanics. Yet almost every expert on
that electorate says a requisite for consideration by many Latinos is that a
candidate possesses a reasonable view on immigration.

One Republican re-elected this year was Representative Steve King of Iowa, a
virulent immigration-basher who once likened immigrants to dogs. Those town hall
meetings that Mr. Romney attended in the summer of 2007 are in Mr. King's
district, the most Republican in the state. It will be interesting to see if any
of the 2016 presidential hopefuls take on Mr. King.

A bright young Republican luminary, Bobby Jindal, the governor of Louisiana and
the new head of the Republican Governors Association, called on his party last
week to be more inclusive, to reach out to minorities and ''not be the party
that simply protects the rich so that they get to keep their toys.''

In that interview with Politico, he said Republicans have to ''stop being the
stupid party'' and ''cease this dumbed-down conservatism and stop insulting the
intelligence of the voters.''

This may be good advice from a former Rhodes Scholar. Yet this is the same Bobby
Jindal that signed a bill that his right-wing legislature passed encouraging the
teaching in Louisiana schools of creationism alongside evolution. And when the
Birthers threatened to require a candidate to present a copy of a birth
certificate to get on the ballot, Mr. Jindal said he would sign such a measure.

Mr. Gross, the former Romney campaign chairman for Iowa, recalls trying to
persuade his candidate that there was space for a pro-immigration candidate,
urging him to engage in a ''Sister Souljah moment.'' That's a reference to when,
20 years ago, the Democratic presidential candidate, Bill Clinton, took on a
violence-spewing rap singer before a black audience, reversing the tendency of
party leaders to pander to or gloss over such bad behavior. Mr. Romney
''wouldn't do it,'' lamented Mr. Gross.

Your move, Mr. Jindal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/19/us/19iht-letter19.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ellis Island And Beyond: Ah, America

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 369 words


''The Golden Land'' has a lot of historical plot to condense as it chugs through
a two-hour rendition of the entire New York Jewish immigrant experience, from
the 1880s to the 1940s. In montages and medleys, partly in Yiddish and partly in
English, we are transported to Ellis Island, the Lower East Side, the Triangle
shirtwaist factory fire, union protests, two world wars, the Holocaust, the
migration to Harlem, an adaptation of ''King Lear,'' a confrontation with Ivy
League admissions quotas and the founding of a Jewish state.

A seven-piece band infuses the history lesson with rousing period music from
klezmer, Tin Pan Alley and various other Yiddish pop and folk traditions. Many
of the original Yiddish lyrics have been translated into English by Zalmen
Mlotek, Moishe Rosenfeld and Jacques Levy, who developed earlier productions of
the show in the 1980s.

And while I don't usually condone unsolicited audience singalongs, it was
endearing to hear older audience members perk up and warble along with some old
Yiddish chestnut, usually sputtering out, once the familiar chorus was over.

The upbeat six-person acting ensemble in this National Yiddish
Theater-Folksbiene production seems game for such reminiscing. Their characters
are more or less generic immigrant archetypes, but the actors do a great job of
hiding how exhausted they must be from the constant march of history and costume
changes.

A particular standout was the sassy and raspy-voiced Daniella Rabbani, whose
exuberant ''Oy, I Like Him'' will leave you twirling in the streets after the
show.

That musical moment notwithstanding, the characters' highs and lows often don't
register because there is simply too much plot to cover.

But this show isn't really about individuals, anyway. As evidenced by Roger
Hanna's tremendous set, whose steel-wire suspension backdrop evokes the Brooklyn
Bridge, the musical is actually a love letter to America and, particularly, New
York, for all the opportunities they have given to immigrants of all faiths.

Gebentsht iz Amerike -- ''America is blessed'' -- indeed.

''The Golden Land'' continues through Dec. 2 at Baruch Performing Arts Center,
55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street; nationalyiddishtheatre.org.

URL:
http://theater.nytimes.com/2012/11/24/theater/reviews/the-golden-land-at-baruch-
performing-arts-center.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Golden Land: Clockwise from left: Andrew Keltz, Sandy
Rosenberg, Cooper Grodin, Stacey Harris, Bob Ader and Daniella Rabbani, of
National Yiddish Theater-Folksbiene, at Baruch Performing Arts Center.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL PRIEST)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The G.O.P. and Violence Against Women

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 422 words


If Republicans are serious about repairing their party's standing among women,
gay and Hispanic voters, they need to adjust some policies and stop sending
hostile messages. A good place to start would be for Republicans in the House to
stop blocking reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act over provisions
deemed too protective of gay and immigrant victims of domestic violence and
sexual assault.

The 1994 law remains crucial to the nation's efforts to combat domestic
violence, sexual assault and stalking. Previous reauthorizations sailed through
Congress.

A thoughtful renewal measure introduced by Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat and Judiciary Committee chairman, and Senator Michael Crapo, an Idaho
Republican, cleared the Senate in April with strong bipartisan support. But it
has hit a wall in the Republican-led House. Instead, House Republicans pushed
through a regressive version of the measure that omits new protections for gay,
bisexual or transgender victims of abuse.

The House bill also left out a needed increase in the number of visas, known as
U visas, available for undocumented immigrants who are victims of domestic
violence and sexual assaults. And it would reduce the incentive for frightened
victims to come forward by ending the current ability of U visa holders to apply
for permanent residency after three years.

Speaker John Boehner and his Republican colleagues blame Democrats for the
impasse, suggesting the Democrats inserted changes to invite opposition and
score political points. But the provisions at issue respond to real humanitarian
and law enforcement needs identified by experts working in the field.

By refusing to accept the principle of protecting all victims of domestic
violence, House Republican leaders are conveying a belief that rapes of gay
people and immigrant women are not ''legitimate'' rapes, as Representative Todd
Akin, the failed Republican candidate for the Senate from Missouri, put it so
appallingly. Is that really what Republicans want to stand for?

The act's reauthorization is must-do business for the lame-duck session. Failure
to agree on a bill would mean having to start the legislative process all over
again next year. Mr. Boehner should relent and allow the House to vote on the
Senate bill. There is a chance it would not muster sufficient Republican votes
to pass. But at least it would give Republican representatives who value
moderation a chance to dissociate themselves from the narrow-minded prejudices
and politics hurting their party.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/25/opinion/sunday/the-gop-and-violence-against-wo
men.html

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young Immigrants Say It's Obama's Time to Act

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1962 words


NEW HAVEN -- It has been a good year for young immigrants living in the country
without legal papers, the ones who call themselves Dreamers.

Their protests and pressure helped push President Obama to offer many of them
reprieves from deportation. So far about 310,000 youths have emerged from the
shadows to apply, with numbers rising rapidly.

Door-knocking campaigns led by those immigrants, who could not vote, mobilized
many Latinos who could, based in no small part on the popularity of the reprieve
program. After Latinos rewarded Mr. Obama with 71 percent of their votes, the
president said one of the first items on his agenda next year would be a bill to
legalize 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States, which would offer a
path to citizenship for young people.

Behind the political momentum, administration officials and advocates say, is an
extensive and surprisingly adroit movement of youthful immigrants. Because of
their illegal status, however, they have often been more influential than they
have been visible. In the past two years, they pursued their goal of legal
recognition through a calibrated strategy of quiet negotiations, public
''coming-out'' events where youths declared their status, and escalating street
protests.

Now, movement leaders say, it is payback time. When Congress last debated broad
reform, in 2007, populist energy was on the side of those opposing amnesty for
illegal immigrants. Angry resistance from Republicans defeated a legalization
proposal by President George W. Bush.

This time the young immigrants are the rising force, and they seek legislation
to give them a direct and permanent path to citizenship. But recalling that Mr.
Obama also promised at the start of his first term to move swiftly on
immigration overhaul, they say their attitude toward him is wait-and-see.

''People are not going to hug the president right now,'' said Carlos Saavedra,
26, an immigrant from Peru and national coordinator of United We Dream, the
largest network of young immigrants here illegally. ''They are waiting for him
to take some action.''

This weekend, United We Dream will gather more than 600 leaders (most still
without legal status) from 30 states at a meeting in Kansas City, Mo., to work
out their strategy to keep the heat on the White House and Congress during the
coming immigration fight.

Even some adversaries acknowledge the youth movement's successes. ''They have
framed their story in a very popular way, and they've leveraged that story very
effectively,'' said Roy S. Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, a leading
group opposing amnesty.

There have been other banner moments this year for young people who take their
name from the Dream Act, a bill before Congress that would create a formal path
to citizenship for young people here illegally who came to this country as
children. In June, Jose Antonio Vargas, a journalist born in the Philippines,
appeared on the cover of Time magazine along with a dozen others without legal
status. In August, Benita Veliz, who is from Mexico, spoke at the Democratic
National Convention about growing up without legal status.

Overcoming Fear

The high profile is recent for organizers whose work has often been clandestine.
In the early years of the movement, even convening a meeting was a challenge,
since so many youths, lacking papers, could not fly or drive without risking
deportation.

''They put at risk their own safety and being sent back to a country they
haven't seen since they were in diapers,'' said Angela Kelley, an advocate and
veteran of many immigration wars on Capitol Hill, now at the Democratic-leaning
Center for American Progress in Washington.

For many Dream leaders, activism began in the last years of high school, when
they realized that their status might prevent them from going to college.

Here in New Haven, Lorella Praeli, the director of advocacy for United We Dream,
said she was 2 years old when she came from Peru. Her father brought her for
medical treatment after her leg was amputated following a car crash. Ms. Praeli
attended Quinnipiac University on scholarship, and she graduated last year with
honors. Now 24, she said exasperation with Congress's inaction on the Dream Act
propelled her to join the movement.

Mr. Saavedra, from Boston, was in high school in 2004 when he joined a campaign
for an in-state resident college tuition discount for illegal immigrants in
Massachusetts. He said he became a full-time activist after the bill passed the
state legislature but was vetoed by the governor, Mitt Romney.

Gaby Pacheco, 27, originally from Ecuador, hoped to teach children with autism,
but without papers could not be certified. In 2010 she joined a four-month
protest walk from her home in Miami to Washington with three other students.

In California, Justino Mora, 23 and Mexican-born, was an honors student and
track team captain in high school. Because of his status, Mr. Mora said, he had
to postpone college studies in aerospace engineering. He joined a California
branch of the Dream network.

The leaders had another moment of truth when they publicly revealed their
illegal status.

Ms. Praeli's moment came before television cameras at a news conference called
at the last minute in New Haven in 2010. ''I wasn't prepared and I'm thinking, I
haven't even talked to my mom yet,'' she said. Improvising, she recounted her
personal story. Soon, she felt relief.

''Once you're out in public,'' she said, ''there is no hiding, there is no fake
narrative. The overwhelming feeling is, I don't have to worry about being
someone I'm not.''

The Power of Stories

United We Dream was founded in 2009 by local groups that banded together into a
national network. The leaders realized that encouraging young people to recount
the stories of their lives in hiding and of their thwarted aspirations could be
liberating for them, and also compelling for skeptical Americans.

Now, in tactical sessions, young immigrants are trained to tell their stories to
anyone who will listen, from a voter to a United States senator. Two years ago
Dreamer groups began holding coming-out ceremonies where students defied the
immigration authorities with signs announcing they were ''undocumented and
unafraid.''

''One of our successes has been that we have created a shared identity about
being a Dreamer,'' said Cristina Jimenez, 28, who was born in Ecuador and
graduated from Queens College in New York and is now the managing director of
United We Dream.

A turning point for the movement was the lame-duck session of Congress in late
2010. The Dream Act passed the House of Representatives. In the Senate, it
failed by five votes. More than 200 immigrants watched from the Senate gallery.

''A lot of us stepped out of the gallery and we were crying,'' Ms. Praeli said.
''And it was like that, I think, for five minutes. And then the attitude just
changed.'' Many left Washington feeling more determined, she said.

Ms. Pacheco said she concluded that day that it was time to shift strategies.
The House majority would pass to Republicans, who rejected the Dream Act as a
reward to immigrant lawbreakers. The movement would have to concentrate on the
president, Ms. Pacheco believed, to press him to stop deportations using
executive powers.

In a meeting after the vote with Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority
leader, Ms. Pacheco said she grabbed him and whispered in his ear. ''You know
the president has the power to stop deporting us,'' she said. ''You know you
could tell him to do this.'' Startled, Mr. Reid gave her a hug and walked away.

In March 2011, United We Dream gathered hundreds of youths at a meeting in
Memphis, a city chosen for its connection with the civil rights movement. The
group embraced the strategy of focusing on the president. By early 2011, more
than one million people had been deported under Mr. Obama's administration. The
immigrants were convinced a president who had overseen so many deportations
could stop them.

Mr. Obama saw the results in July in Washington, at the annual conference of
N.C.L.R., or the National Council of La Raza. When he said in a speech that he
could not bypass Congress to help young illegal immigrants, activists in the
audience erupted in shouts: ''Yes you can! Yes you can!''

In the summer of 2011, administration officials began to ease up on enforcement,
steering federal agents to concentrate their efforts on removing immigrants who
had been convicted of crimes. Seizing that leverage, Dreamer groups stopped
dozens of deportations, getting news coverage and rallying communities around
young people facing removal.

That made more young immigrants feel confident they could protest without being
detained, Ms. Jimenez said. New organizations, including the National Immigrant
Youth Alliance, embraced confrontational tactics, inviting arrest with sit-ins
on streets and in public offices.

In the spring of this year, United We Dream held demonstrations in two dozen
cities. A group of walkers set out from San Francisco, heading to Denver where
they occupied the office of the Obama campaign.

The political equation changed when Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a
Republican, said in April that he was preparing a new bill to give visas to
young immigrants. Ms. Pacheco met with Mr. Rubio and his staff, and United We
Dream praised his efforts.

Emboldened

Worried, White House officials scheduled a meeting in mid-April with United We
Dream leaders. In a Washington church (since illegal immigrants could not enter
the White House), Valerie Jarrett, the president's senior adviser, and Cecilia
Muñoz, the domestic policy adviser, insisted that Mr. Obama had no legal
authority to issue an order granting deportation protection.

''With all due respect,'' Ms. Praeli replied, ''I disagree.''

According to several participants, an emboldened Ms. Praeli confronted the
officials. ''I was talking about the president's authority; that was my role,
challenging him,'' Ms. Praeli said.

In late May, Dreamer group leaders marshaled more than 90 immigration law
professors to sign a letter to Mr. Obama specifying legal precedents he could
evoke for a large-scale program deferring deportations. United We Dream
announced new protests with civil disobedience, the first to be held in Los
Angeles on June 15.

That day, President Obama announced the reprieve program, officially known as
deferred action for childhood arrivals. The two-year deferrals provide no legal
status. Senior administration officials noted that Mr. Obama did not issue an
executive order, instead framing the program as a further easing of his
deportation policy.

To Dream leaders, the victory was theirs. ''It was a lot of emotions, full of
tears,'' Ms. Jimenez said. ''We worked so hard, and we got something.''

In Los Angeles, about 300 students went ahead with their protest, blocking a
busy intersection. ''We wanted to make sure the program goes well and we
actually see change happen,'' said Mr. Mora, the California activist who took
part.

Dreamer groups quickly began organizing legal clinics to advise immigrants on
applying for the two-year deferrals and work permits, which would let them be
employed legally for the first time. As youths came forward, the groups
recruited them, with many sent to mobilize voters in battleground states.

''We were just using our stories to motivate people to go to the polls,'' Mr.
Saavedra said.

This week United We Dream flexed its muscle, rejecting as ''a cynical political
gesture'' a bill proposed by two Republican senators, Kay Bailey Hutchison of
Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona, that would have offered visas but no path to
citizenship.

Now they are watching Mr. Obama. ''The president must deliver change on
immigration,'' Ms. Jimenez said. ''Dreamers will hold him accountable on that.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/01/us/dream-act-gives-young-immigrants-a-politica
l-voice.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of United We Dream protested outside a Republican
presidential debate in Mesa, Ariz., in February. The group is meeting this
weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gaby Pacheco in a Hispanic Day Parade in New Jersey in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
In 2010, supporters of the Dream Act consoled each other after the measure
failed in the Senate. Activists decided to then focus on the president.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Outside the federal Metropolitan Detention Center in Los Angeles on June  15,
2012, celebrating the Obama administration's reprieve program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
NICK UT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Activists Cast a Wider Net

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 837 words


KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- After a boisterous three-day congress here, more than 600
leaders of a national movement of young immigrants living in the country without
legal papers voted to expand beyond their past demands for citizenship for young
people, and to mobilize in support of a bill to legalize 11 million illegal
immigrants in the United States.

The leaders of the United We Dream network, the largest organization of youths
here illegally, decided to push President Obama and Congress next year for
legislation to open a path to citizenship for them and their families. The move
will increase pressure on Mr. Obama and lawmakers to pass a comprehensive
overhaul, rather than taking on the debate over immigration in smaller pieces to
try to gain more support among Republicans.

The network's platform calling for an ''inclusive pathway to citizenship,''
which the leaders adopted unanimously in a vote on Sunday morning, is likely to
have a large influence on the debate Mr. Obama said he planned to kick off soon
after his inauguration in January. The young people, who call themselves
Dreamers, generally attract more sympathy from American voters than other
immigrants here illegally, because most were brought to the country as children
and many became activists after their illegal status thwarted their plans for
college.

They take their name from the Dream Act, a bill that would create a pathway to
citizenship for young people, which lawmakers on both sides of the aisle view as
having a better chance than broader legalization measures. This year several
Republicans, including Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, worked on alternative
proposals that could attract support from their party. An estimated 1.7 million
young immigrants would be eligible for legal status under the Dream Act.

But the youths opted to fight for broader gains, concluding that events were
working in their favor after the Nov. 6 election, when Latino voters turned out
in large numbers, overwhelmingly in favor of Mr. Obama.

''We have an unprecedented opportunity to engage our parents, our cousins, our
abuelitos in this fight,'' said Cristina Jimenez, a leader of the United We
Dream organization, using the Spanish word for grandparents.

Although most of the young people who attended the conference do not have legal
papers, it was a sign of their new confidence that the network held its congress
in the convention center downtown, in a conservative state where most voters
oppose amnesty for illegal immigrants.

In June, Mr. Obama announced two-year reprieves from deportation and work
permits for hundreds of thousands of young immigrants, an initiative that they
saw as a victory for their protests over the past two years. Some participants
here already had their reprieve documents.

For many young people, getting here was still a challenge. Some who came from
California said they had taken the risk of flying for the first time, passing
security with state identity documents. Others came by car from places like
Florida, New York and Texas, driven by the few among them who have valid
licenses.

Their decision to push for legal status for their families was intensely
emotional. When they were asked at a plenary session how many had been separated
by deportation from a parent or other close family member, hundreds of hands
went up. They were critical of Mr. Obama for deporting more than 1.4 million
people during his first term.

''When Obama is deporting all these people, separating all of our families, I'm
sick and tired of that,'' said Regem Corpuz, a 19-year-old student at the
University of California, Los Angeles, who was born in the Philippines.

''Our families' dreams were to get a better future,'' said Ulises Vasquez of
Sonoma County, Calif., ''but our future is with our families together.''

On Sunday, six immigrant parents, also here illegally, joined a ''coming out''
ceremony where they spoke in public for the first time, as many youths have done
in recent protests.

One father, Juan Jose Zorrilla, 45, who is from Mexico, recounted how he had
entered the United States several times by swimming across the Rio Grande. ''For
parents, there is no sacrifice so large that we won't make it for our
children,'' Mr. Zorrilla said. A mass of youths jumped up from their chairs to
embrace Mr. Zorrilla and the other parents.

Much of the debate centered on how the movement would navigate hard realities in
Washington. Opposition to legalization remains strong among Republicans, who
control the House.

Network leaders said the election results, in which Mitt Romney won only 27
percent of the Latino vote, give them new influence with both parties, but
particularly with Republicans.

''The Republican Party alienated Latino voters in ways they hadn't done
before,'' said Lorella Praeli, a leader of the United We Dream organization.
''Our leverage is that our community is growing,'' Ms. Praeli said. She
suggested that young immigrants ask Republicans: ''Do you want your party to see
the inside of the White House again?''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/03/us/young-leaders-cast-a-wider-net-for-immigrat
ion-reform.html

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Delegates at the United We  Dream congress for young immigrants
took a moment to reflect  on Saturday in Kansas  City, Mo. Left, a participant
took a picture of a banner on  Friday. More photographs are  at
nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN GILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Praising Immigrants, Bush Leads Conservative Appeal for G.O.P. to Soften Tone

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Peter Baker contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 857 words


WASHINGTON -- Looking for new footing on immigration before a debate on the
volatile issue in Congress next year, Republicans and conservative leaders spoke
out this week, raising arguments that immigration is good for the ailing economy
and consistent with family values.

Former President George W. Bush weighed back in to the discussion on Tuesday by
calling on policy makers in Washington to revamp the law ''with a benevolent
spirit'' that recognized the contribution of those who moved here from other
countries.

Mr. Bush spoke at the opening of a conference highlighting the benefits of
immigration hosted by an institute in Dallas that bears his name and by the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. He described immigrants as a bedrock of the
nation's economy, providing new skills and ideas while filling critical gaps in
the labor market. But he also presented the question in more human terms in a
state that has been a home to huge numbers of immigrants.

''Not only do immigrants help build our economy, they invigorate our soul,'' Mr.
Bush said. Growing up in Texas, he said, he had ''the honor and privilege of
meeting the newly arrived.''

''Those whom I've met love their families,'' he said. ''They see education as a
bright future for their children. Some willingly defend the flag.''

Mr. Bush, who has remained largely out of the policy arena since leaving office,
issued an appeal. ''As our nation debates the proper course of action relating
to immigration,'' he said, ''I hope we do so with a benevolent spirit and keep
in mind the contributions of immigrants.''

His tone contrasted sharply with the prevailing views and language of
Republicans during the presidential campaign, when Mitt Romney said he favored
policies that would force illegal immigrants to ''self-deport.''

In Washington, leaders of a coalition that unites conservative law enforcement
officials and clergy with business leaders -- they described themselves as
''Bibles, badges and business'' -- held a strategy session Tuesday on how to
push for a comprehensive overhaul of immigration laws, which would include ''a
road to lawful status and citizenship'' for 11 million illegal immigrants.

While several of the conservatives meeting here had expressed their support for
legalization measures, they sought to enhance their influence in the coming
debate by joining forces.

President Obama, acknowledging the central role of Latino support in his
re-election, has said he intends to start the immigration debate early next
year. Already, groups that favor legalization are assessing whether they should
push for a path to citizenship as well as an overhaul of the immigration system,
which is widely regarded as dysfunctional.

Some organizations argue that taking the thorny issues in smaller parts would be
more likely to produce results, particularly since many House Republicans remain
opposed to any amnesty for illegal immigrants.

But Richard Land, the president of the Southern Baptist Convention's policy arm,
the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, said Tuesday at a news conference
here that immigration was a ''moral issue.'' He warned Republicans that ''if
they want to be a contender for national leadership, they are going to have to
change their ways on immigration reform.''

The Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, the president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, the largest organization of Latino evangelicals,
portrayed the Republicans' dilemma in biblical terms. ''They must cross the
proverbial Jordan of immigration reform,'' he said, ''if they want to step into
the promised land of the Hispanic electorate.''

The conservatives argued that the outcome of the election, in which Latinos gave
Mr. Romney only 27 percent of their votes, should force Republicans to
reconsider their support for enforcement-only policies that offer no path to
legal status for illegal immigrants. They argued that an overhaul would also
stop the breakup of Hispanic families by deportation.

The Rev. Luis A. Cortés Jr., the president of Esperanza, an organization based
in Philadelphia that includes 13,000 Hispanic churches, said conservatives had
misread Latinos in the election. ''In this election, the Hispanic voter moved
away from social values to family values,'' Mr. Cortés said.

Sheriff Mark C. Curran of Lake County, Ill., which includes the Chicago suburb
of Waukegan, said he had undergone ''a conversion'' on immigration since taking
office. He said law enforcement officials should ''be honest'' in recognizing
that the borders could not be secured without giving legal documents to
immigrants already here.

Tuesday's strategy session was called by the National Immigration Forum, which
favors an overhaul.

Steve Case, a co-founder of AOL who now runs a firm that invests in start-up
companies, told the session that immigrant entrepreneurs were vital to bringing
innovation that had spurred American growth in the past. ''The data says they
are job makers, not job takers,'' Mr. Case said.

But he said both parties in Congress should focus on results. ''My view is it's
important to get as much done as we can as quickly as we can,'' Mr. Case said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/05/us/praising-immigrants-george-w-bush-leads-con
servative-appeal-for-gop-to-soften-tone.html

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young Immigrants Want 'Dream Warrior' Army

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 801 words


KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- The movement of young immigrants in the country without
legal papers, who call themselves Dreamers, is held together by more than a
commitment to push Congress for a pathway to citizenship.

More than 600 leaders of United We Dream, the largest national network of those
young people, came together for their congress here last weekend to celebrate
and reinforce a common culture, based on their experience living with hidden
identities and with a low-grade but constant fear of deportation.

Their goal, they said, is to build an army of Dream warriors. They had Dream
warrior T-shirts, Dream warrior chants and the prayer of the ''four
Tezkatlipokas,'' an amalgam of wisdom drawn from gods of the ancient Aztecs of
Mexico, the birth country of many of the young people. The sometimes exuberant,
sometimes tearful, consistently cathartic three-day gathering was framed by
rituals defining what it means to be one of those warriors.

''If you could not go to your abuelita's funeral, stand up and tell me you are a
Dream warrior!'' Daniel Rodriguez, 26, a leader of the movement from Arizona,
said from the stage in the big hall in the convention center in Kansas City.

''I am a Dream warrior!'' shouted many of the young people, rising to their
feet, recalling that they had missed visiting a grandmother before she died in
the country where they were born. Without legal documents, they cannot return if
they leave the United States.

Many of the young people proclaimed they were warriors because they had to turn
down publicly financed college scholarships, which required legal residency and
''a social'' -- Social Security numbers they did not have.

The Dream Act, from which they take their name, was first introduced in Congress
in 2001. Since then, the young activists have had setbacks, including the
failure of the bill in a vote in the Senate in late 2010. It would open a path
to citizenship for young immigrants here illegally who came to the United States
as children.

But this year they saw gains. President Obama granted them temporary reprieves
from deportation and work permits, although no legal immigration status.
California passed laws expanding their access to college. In November, Maryland
adopted a ballot measure allowing them to pay in-state resident tuition for
college.

Mr. Obama has pledged to start a debate early next year on a comprehensive
overhaul of the immigration laws, including the Dream Act. To judge from the
display they put on here, young immigrants will come to that fight with
distinctive resolve and esprit de corps.

Not all their talk was of hardship. As the playful host of a mock television
news show called Dream-Span, Mr. Rodriguez cited a list of the most exciting new
opportunities young people now savor after they receive their deportation
deferrals.

''Hanging your rosary again in your rearview mirror'' and listening to Mexican
ranchera music with the windows down, Mr. Rodriguez said, to delighted applause.
Many of the young people come from Catholic families, and they drive even though
they cannot obtain driver's licenses, but they are careful not to do anything
that might attract the traffic police.

Speakers who took the stage invariably began by narrating a ''story of self''
about their lives. The tales showed that the movement had attracted people
beyond the high school honor students in caps and gowns who have been its public
face up to now.

An outspoken contingent was Latino and Asian young people who are gay, the
''undocu-queers,'' as they call themselves proudly. Many had been through two
moments when they revealed their identities to friends and to the public.

''Coming out as undocumented wasn't as hard as coming out being queer,'' said
Hafid Dumet, who said he had to summon courage to discuss his sexuality in front
of the gathering.

In smaller group sessions, young people confessed that they had come to the
network to get away from the lure of violent street gangs or from domestic
abuse. Giovanna Hurtado, 22, a Mexican-born immigrant who lives in North
Carolina, recounted how she fell in love with a man who turned out to be
violent. Four months after they were married, she said, ''he tackled me and
knocked me out.''

Ms. Hurtado said her husband had spurned her, calling her ''a worthless
illegal.'' But after becoming active in a Dreamer organization, Ms. Hurtado
said, she left the marriage.

Advocacy campaigns in California and other states gave many of the young people
immersion training in legislative politics. But they will also come to the
debate in Washington with their own zeal. ''My favorite thing about us is that
we're crazy believers,'' said Renata Teodoro, an immigrant born in Brazil.
''This isn't about Democrats or Republicans. This is about our lives, and we're
not going to be put on hold.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/06/us/young-immigrants-want-dream-warrior-army.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giovanna Hurtado, 22, an immigrant who lives in North Carolina,
discussing  political goals at the United We Dream Congress in Kansas City, Mo.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN GILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats Block Visa Legislation For Highly Educated

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WASHINGTON; Pg.
25

LENGTH: 89 words


Senate Democrats on Wednesday blocked Republicans from bringing up a
House-passed immigration bill offering permanent residence visas for foreigners
with advanced degrees. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, sought
unanimous consent to consider a bill that would provide 55,000 visas a year to
some graduates with masters and doctorate degrees from American colleges. But
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, objected because it eliminated
a visa program that benefits less-educated people, particularly from Africa.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/06/us/democrats-block-visa-legislation-for-highly
-educated.html

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                              June 8, 2012 Friday

Opinion Report: Political-Message Bills

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 108 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



The electoral process in Egypt is in chaos.

Dean Skelos, the majority leader of the New York State Senate, shows a serious
lack of good sense in opposing the governor's plan to decriminalize possession
of small amounts of marijuana in public view.

An Immigration and Customs Enforcement review of more than 411,000 deportation
cases has had negligible results.

Political-message bills have sprouted like weeds in the last few years, the
product of extreme polarization and stalemate.


     ·    Opinion Report: The Egyptian Election
     ·    Opinion Report: Marijuana in Public View
     ·    Opinion Report: Rove's 'Social Welfare' Group
     ·    Shhh, Don't Mention Immigration
     ·    Alabama Doubles Down


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Media Decoder)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

Reporter Interrupts Obama During Statement on Immigration

BYLINE: BRIAN STELTER

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 916 words



HIGHLIGHT: Neil Munro of The Daily Caller interrupted the president as he was
making his statement from the Rose Garden. "It's not time for questions, sir,"
Mr. Obama said. "Not while I'm speaking."


4:40 p.m. | Updated The interruption stunned White House correspondents and
television viewers. And it clearly surprised President Obama, too.

As Mr. Obama was making a statement from the Rose Garden about a new immigration
policy on Friday afternoon, a reporter from The Daily Caller, a conservative
news Web site, repeatedly raised his voice and tried to interrupt. The reporter,
Neil Munro, tried to ask whether the policy -- intended to help young illegal
immigrants get work -- was good for legal American workers.

"Excuse me, sir," Mr. Obama said when Mr. Munro initially spoke up. He put his
hand in the air and raised a finger, as if to say "wait."

"It's not time for questions, sir," Mr. Obama continued. "Not while I'm
speaking."

A few minutes later, Mr. Obama referenced the incident by saying, "And the
answer to your question, sir, and the next time I'd prefer you let me finish my
statements before you ask that question, is this is the right thing to do for
the American people."

Mr. Munro then apparently interrupted again.

"I didn't ask for an argument, I'm answering your question," Mr. Obama said.

By shouting out and repeatedly interrupting the president during a speech, Mr.
Munro violated decorum at the White House and generated online shouts of
disapproval from other reporters, analysts and historians. The incident took
place two weeks after the president's top strategist, David Axelrod, was nearly
drowned out at a campaign event by hecklers who had come to support Mitt Romney.

Another incident that came to mind to some was when Representative Joe Wilson,
Republican of South Carolina, shouted "You lie" during an address to Congress by
Mr. Obama in 2009.

The White House press office did not immediately comment on the exchange. But it
quickly became evident that Mr. Munro had distracted from the president's point
by becoming part of the story himself.

Diane Sawyer, who co-anchored ABC's live coverage of the presidential statement,
said afterward that Mr. Munro, despite his White House credentials, was "clearly
considered a heckler."

In astatement posted to The Daily Caller's Web site about an hour after the
exchange, Mr. Munro said: "I always go to the White House prepared with
questions for our president. I timed the question believing the president was
closing his remarks, because naturally I have no intention of interrupting the
president of the United States."

Mr. Obama had only been speaking for about five minutes when Mr. Munro first
shouted. He continued speaking for another five minutes afterward.

The White House grants credentials to reporters and columnists from a wide range
of media outlets, including some that have openly liberal and conservative
bents.

Mr. Munro did not specify what he shouted, but other reporters who were present
said the initial question was, "Mr. President, why do you favor foreign workers
over Americans?"

Earlier, the editor in chief of The Daily Caller, Tucker Carlson, defended Mr.
Munro's behavior as an act of journalism. Mr. Carlson, who was on an airplane at
the time of the presidential statement, said he had not seen the incident, but
"as far as I'm concerned, not having seen it, as a general matter, reporters are
there to ask questions."

He added, "No politician wants to answer questions, but that's not our concern."

Mr. Carlson, a former co-host of a show on CNN, "Crossfire," where the
interruption of others was a part of the formula, started The Daily Caller in
early 2010 to publish political news and commentary, frequently through a
conservative prism. Among Mr. Carlson's investors is Foster Friess, the
financier who has donated millions to Republican
candidates this year.

The Daily Caller has highlighted what it calls liberal media bias, and Mr.
Carlson said he expected the "Obama worshipers in the press" to attack Mr.
Munro. When told that his reporter was being called a heckler, Mr. Carlson
answered, "That's what it's called when you try to get the president to answer
your question?"

Mr. Carlson said Mr. Munro did not discuss any plan to interrupt Mr. Obama with
him in advance.

Of course, it's common for reporters to shout questions to presidents - but only
after they have finished speaking.

While there was widespread criticism of Mr. Munro's behavior, including from
some conservatives, there was also some criticism of Mr. Obama for not being
willing to formally answer questions from reporters in a news conference
setting.

Access to Mr. Obama in question-and-answer settings has been relatively limited,
according to a study earlier this year by a professor who works alongside
reporters at the White House. The president has tended to favor one-on-one
interviews with select reporters over news conferences and informal Q.&A.'s.

Paul Brandus, a White House reporter who posts to the Twitter account West Wing
Reports, wrote that it was "an extraordinary exchange." He wrote that Mr. Munro
was wearing a temporary press credential, not a permanent one.

"Essential to ask all presidents questions. Sometimes we have to raise our
voices as they walk away. But let him finish his remarks," Mr. Brandus wrote on
Twitter after the exchange, calling Mr. Munro's behavior "boorish."


     ·    Obama to Appear on 'Late Night With Jimmy Fallon'
     ·    In Terms of Web Traffic, It's Obama in a Landslide
     ·    The Breakfast Meeting: Teens From 'Bully' Protest R Rating, and
          Lessons of 'Kony 2012'
     ·    The Breakfast Meeting: Obama's YouTube Strategy, and 'Luck' Ends
     ·    The Occupy Movement May Be in Retreat, but Its Ideas Are Advancing


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

TimesCast Politics: Changes in Immigration Policy

BYLINE: BEN WERSCHKUL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 19 words



HIGHLIGHT: Richard W. Stevenson on the political implications of President
Obama's announcement.


Richard W. Stevenson discusses the political implications of President Obama's
announcement on immigration policy.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

Immigration Announcement May Overshadow Romney Bus Tour

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON and MICHAEL BARBARO

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 542 words



HIGHLIGHT: As he begins his bus tour Friday, Mr. Romney, who has lain low and
focused much of his time on fund-raising since winning the Republican
nomination, now will likely be forced to wade into an issue that he had steered
clear of for most of the campaign.


BOSTON - Mitt Romney begins a five-day bus tour on Friday, during which he had
hoped to make his case to small-town voters that President Obama's economic
policies are failing everyday Americans. But the Romney campaign may find it
more difficult to stay on message in the wake of the Obama administration's
announcement that it would stop deporting younger immigrants who came to the
United States as children.

Mr. Romney, who has lain low and focused much of his time on fund-raising since
winning the Republican nomination, now will likely be forced to wade into an
issue that he has steered clear of for most of the general election campaign
after a nominating fight in which he took positions that alarmed some immigrant
rights groups. A Romney spokesman said on Friday that the campaign would be
issuing a statement on the policy change.

Four buses will carry Mr. Romney, his aides and the press to rural New Hampshire
on Friday, with later stops in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Iowa, Wisconsin and Michigan.

"All six of those states were won by President Obama in 2008, " said Russ
Schriefer, a senior strategist, during a rare on-the-record briefing at Mr.
Romney's headquarters here. "So we're certainly campaigning on their turf, as
opposed to what would be considered our turf."

The Romney campaign is entering a new phase in the general election. Its
fast-growing staff, which already fills a few floors of a former furniture
warehouse in Boston's north end, just spilled over into a new building nearby.
Now it is trying to expand its voter base, as well.

The bus tour is a departure from Mr. Romney's recent approach to campaigning in
two key ways. While the Republican nominee has recently focused on highlighting
the woes of small businesses in and around big cities, his outreach this time to
small-town America is deliberate and conspicuous. Among these "smaller towns off
the beaten path," as Mr. Schriefer put it, are Troy, Ohio, Quakertown, Pa., and
DeWitt, Mich. His first stop - the 300-acre Scamman farm in Stratham, N.H. - is
where he officially began his campaign a year ago.

"Lot of ice cream, lot of cheeseburgers, lot of classic retail," said Rick
Gorka, Mr. Romney's traveling spokesman. (Incidentally, one of those
cheeseburgers will be with Representative John A. Boehner in the House speaker's
home state of Ohio.)

Also, as the Romney campaign has sought to capitalize on President Obama's
recent gaffes, the Republican is opening himself up to the types of moments that
have led him to stray from his intended message in the past.

Rather than relying on rallies of handpicked party loyalists, "we're expecting
people who are not traditional Republicans to come out and listen," Mr.
Schriefer said. That effort to reach a broader audience includes a Father's Day
interview on CBS's "Face the Nation," Mr. Romney's first Sunday interview of the
2012 cycle not on "Fox News Sunday."

Mr. Romney's rapport with his big-name surrogates will be scrutinized just as
much as his interactions with everyday voters. His list of guests include those
who appear to have received callbacks in the vice-presidential audition process,
including Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire and former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of
Minnesota in New Hampshire on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

U.S. to Stop Deporting Some Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 55 words



HIGHLIGHT: The policy, effective immediately, will apply to people who are
currently under 30 years old, who arrived in the country before they turned 16
and have lived in the United States for five years.


Hundreds of thousands of immigrants who came to the United States illegally as
children will be able to obtain work permits and will no longer have to fear
deportation under a new policy announced by the Obama administration.  President
Obama is expected to discuss the new policy in the White House Rose Garden
Friday afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday

Campaigns Turning Focus to Borders

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 565 words



HIGHLIGHT: The politics of immigration seems likely to play a big role in the
campaign this week.





OBAMA IN MEXICO: Mr. Obama left on Sunday for Los Cabos, Mexico, for the G-20
summit meeting of the world's major economies.

Topics other than immigration are likely to dominate the two-day meeting: the
economic crisis in Europe, a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia,
and the political and military crises in Egypt and Syria.

But the location of Mr. Obama's trip provides the backdrop for a discussion of
immigration between Mexico and the United States. And by announcing his new
deportation policy just days before arriving, Mr. Obama all but ensured that it
will come up in discussions with other leaders and with reporters.

What he says in Mexico will immediately echo on the campaign trail, where Mitt
Romney has already criticized Mr. Obama's new policy. But on Sunday, Mr. Romney
dodged the question of whether he would repeal it if he got into the White House
next year.

"What the president did - he should have worked on this years ago," Mr. Romney
said on "Face the Nation" on CBS. "If he felt seriously about this, he should
have taken action when he had a Democrat House and Senate, but he didn't. He
saves these sort of things until four and a half months before the general
election."

THE COURT: Any day now, the Supreme Court is expected to announce its decision
on the constitutionality of an Arizona law that expanded the powers of police
officers in the state to enforce immigration laws.

The decision could have far-reaching implications for illegal immigrants. A
ruling upholding the law could be seen as a green light for other states to
follow suit. If the court strikes the law down, it may help immigration
activists who say Arizona went too far.

On the campaign trail, either decision could supercharge the issue. Mr. Romney
must contend with conservative supporters who do not want him to embrace amnesty
or comprehensive immigration reform. Mr. Obama faces Hispanic voters already
suspicious of his commitment to the issue.

For months, both candidates have largely sidestepped the issue (though they have
each released ads in Spanish). A Supreme Court decision will be hard to ignore.

DUELING SPEECHES: But perhaps the most direct engagement on the issue of
immigration is likely to come at the end of the week, when Mr. Obama and Mr.
Romney are both scheduled to deliver remarks to the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials annual conference in Orlando, Fla.

Mr. Romney is scheduled to go first, addressing the group on Thursday. It will
be an opportunity him to expand - or not - on his response to Mr. Obama's new
immigration policy.

It will be a tricky moment for Mr. Romney, who appears to be trailing Mr. Obama
badly among Hispanic voters. Several top aides have said he must find ways to
narrow that gap. But doing so too aggressively could undermine his support among
conservatives.

For Mr. Obama, who is to speak on Friday, the appearance is likely to be less
contentious because of his new policy on deportations.

Some Latino supporters have expressed frustration with the president for not
pushing harder to achieve a comprehensive immigration overhaul that would
provide a pathway to citizenship for many of the illegal immigrants already in
the country.

That may still be an undercurrent on Friday. But many Hispanic activists have
cheered his new policy, making it more likely that he will be received warmly at
the event.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday

Romney Doesn't Say Whether He Would Overturn Obama Immigration Order

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 813 words



HIGHLIGHT: Appearing on CBS's 'Face the Nation' on Sunday, Mitt Romney was
equivocal about overturning President Obama's order.


Responding to the challenge that President Obama posed in his order last week to
stop deporting some illegal immigrants, Mitt Romney declined to say on Sunday
whether he would reverse the president's decision if he takes up occupancy of
the White House.

Although Mr. Romney said during the Republican primary debates that he would
veto the Dream Act, which would provide a path to citizenship for some illegal
immigrants, he was more equivocal about Mr. Obama's order last week. It allows
work permits and prevents deportation for as many as 1.4 million undocumented
immigrants not more than 30 who were brought to the United States as children.

"With regards to these kids who were brought in by their parents through no
fault of their own, there needs to be a long-term solution so they know what
their status is,'' Mr. Romney said on "Face the Nation" on CBS.

Echoing Republican lawmakers, Mr. Romney accused the president of a purely
political move in issuing the order and bypassing Congress. "If he felt
seriously about this," Mr. Romney said, "he should have taken action when he had
a Democratic House and Senate, but he didn't."

The president supported passage of the Dream Act in 2010, but it was blocked by
Republicans in the Senate.

Mr. Obama was in danger of losing the enthusiasm of Hispanics, a crucial voting
bloc, over immigration policies that have focused on deportations.

The president put Mr. Romney on the defensive, and may have pre-empted him on a
solution to illegal immigration that he was edging toward -- an embrace of a
Republican alternative to the Dream Act proposed by Senator Marco Rubio of
Florida that would offer work visas to some immigrants, but not a path to
citizenship.

Advisers to Mr. Romney had said in recent days that he was working on a platform
that would include immigration policies, and they expected him to unveil them on
Thursday when he speaks to the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials in Florida.

Ana Navarro, an adviser on Hispanic issues to Senator John McCain in 2008, said
in a Twitter message on Sunday: "After Obama move, it's time. Romney NALEO
speech Thurs is I-Day.''

Mr. Romney, granting his first interview to a Sunday morning news show other
than on Fox News, told Bob Schieffer of CBS that the president also failed to
work in a bipartisan way on health care, and he said that he would bring a
different spirit to the White House.

"I'm really not a guy that's going for the next step in my political career,''
he said. "I am in this race because I want to get America back on the right
track. I don't care about re-elections, I don't care about the partisanship that
goes on. I want to get America right.''

Concerning another big news story of the day, the European economic crisis, Mr.
Romney said he favored a hands-off approach. "Well we're not going to send
checks to Europe,'' he said. "We're not going to bail out the European banks.''

He said the best economic defense for the United States was to strengthen its
own economy and blamed the president for policies that have "made it harder for
our economy to reboot.''

Mr. Romney was skeptical about another round of monetary stimulus, known as QE3,
from the Federal Reserve, which is reported to be on the table for discussion
when the Fed meets this week.

He reiterated economic proposals familiar from the primary season -- lowering
tax rates and cutting government from 25 percent of the economy to 20 percent,
which he said would "ignite growth.''

Pressed by Mr. Schieffer to cite tax deductions and exemptions that he would cut
to maintain the progressivity of the tax code, which Mr. Romney has pledged, he
said, "Well, we'll go through that process with Congress.''

Mr. Romney is midway through a six-state bus tour of small towns meant to
connect him with everday Americans. Mr. Schieffer mentioned an alternative image
of Mr. Romney from Saturday: the success of a dressage horse that his wife, Ann
Romney, co-owns. The horse, Rafalca, won a berth on the United States Olympic
team.

"I joke that I'm going to send her to Betty Ford for addiction to horses,'' Mr.
Romney said.

An earlier version of this post about the Obama administration's new policy
allowing some younger immigrants to avoid deportation and obtain work permits
misstated part of the age qualifications established by the new rule. It applies
to people who came to the United States as children and were no more than 30
years old - in other words, younger than 31 - when the policy was changed by the
administrative action last week. It is not restricted to people who are less
than 30 years old.


     ·    Supreme Court Could Pose New Challenge for Romney on Immigration
     ·    Scared of Clowns? Congressional Republicans Wait for Romney on
          Immigration
     ·    Bachmann Renews Attack on Gingrich Over Immigration
     ·    Perry Wrestles With His Political History
     ·    The Latino Vote, California and Immigration


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Ross Douthat)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

The Media and Obama's Immigration Gambit

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 815 words



HIGHLIGHT: Is the press exaggerating the political brilliance of the White
House's new immigration policy?


A month ago, I wrote a Campaign Stops column laying out the political risks
associated with a presidential "evolution" on gay marriage. That same afternoon,
President Obama formally endorsed same-sex marriage. Last week, I wrote a
Campaign Stops piece explaining why the politics of immigration aren't as
favorable to various forms of legalization as many elites in both parties tend
to assume. Three days later, President Obama unilaterally ordered a kind of
provisional legalization (an end to deportation, and with it the possibility of
work permits) for under-30 illegal immigrants who were brought to America as
children.

You may be detecting a pattern here. Clearly the White House has a slightly
different reading of the politics of various hot-button issues than yours truly,
and clearly they think what I've dubbed "the social issues strategy" carries
more benefits than costs. And they're being confirmed in this perspective by
much of the press coverage of their various culture-war forays: In both
center-left and mainstream outlets, there has been consistent admiration for the
administration's maneuverings on these issues, and a consistent implication that
the political risks are marginal-to-nonexistent.

This passage from Matt Taylor's Slate dispatch on the decision's political
consequences distills that conventional wisdom to its essence:

The dexterity with which Obama and his team have been able to repeatedly put
Republican nominee Mitt Romney in a box, forcing him to awkwardly cater to his
party's rigid, out of the mainstream views on gay rights and immigration rules,
is helping to ease fears on the part of some Democrats that the economy would
drag their man down in November.

The headline of the piece is "Obama's immigration move already paying
dividends," and even though the author doesn't actually cite any such evidence
(unless you count quotes from two Democratic consultants and the "co-founder of
the polling firm Latino Decisions") there is a new poll out that shows the
president's gambit boosting Hispanic enthusiasm. But Hispanics aren't the
entirety of the electorate, and Taylor's piece only references the possibility
that some voters might be less than thrilled with the decision in order to
dismiss it. "The president's immigration shift," he writes, "confirms he has no
intention of getting drawn into a fight over the working class white voters of
campaign lore, but instead changing the composition of the electorate like he
did four years ago."

Now it's true that Obama's easy 2008 win was built in part on youth and minority
turnout, and that the president cruised to victory even though he didn't perform
particularly well among working class whites. But Hispanics were still only
about 10 percent of the electorate four years ago, whereas whites without
college degrees were almost 40 percent. This meant that even though Obama won
about 67 percent of Hispanics and only 40 percent of white working class voters,
he still won millions more working class white votes in total - and needs to win
at least some of those millions again. Given that anxieties about immigration's
impact on native employment tend to be concentrated among working class voters
(and particularly among  working class voters, who happen to be in direct
competition for jobs with the beneficiaries of this policy change), it seems at
least possible that the White House's gambit will hurt in states like Ohio and
Wisconsin as much as it helps the campaign in states like Nevada and Florida.

One reason that this possibility has found its way into so little of the press
coverage, I suspect, is that the media has persistent difficulty recognizing
that there are swing voters who lean rightward on the social issues (broadly
defined to include immigration as well as abortion, gay marriage, etc.) as well
as swing voters who fit the Acela Corridor's "socially liberal, economically
moderate" paradigm of what a good centrist should be. Thus the "secure the
borders first" position on immigration is defined as incorrigibly right-wing and
potential general election poison by reporters, even though a plurality of
independents prioritize border security over a path to citizenship and a
substantial minority of Democrats do as well. (Likewise on abortion, of course,
where the press has difficulty even acknowledging that pro-life women exist.)
Whether the White House really knows what they're doing politically, then - both

 with this policy shift and with the social issues strategy, generally - depends
on how thoroughly they've dug into the underlying numbers and gamed out their
state-by-state implications, versus how much they've allowed themselves to be
swaddled in a comfortable media cocoon.


     ·    The Social Issues Strategy Revisited
     ·    Obama and the Steelworkers
     ·    Why "Julia" Is Dangerous For Obama
     ·    The Success of the Gay Marriage Movement
     ·    Nothing to Fear but Medicare Cuts


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (FiveThirtyEight)

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday

Hispanic Voters Less Plentiful in Swing States

BYLINE: NATE SILVER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1013 words



HIGHLIGHT: On the immigration issue, in key states up for grabs that may
determine this presidential election -- like, for instance, Virginia and Ohio --
there is a below-average number of Hispanic voters.


As I wrote on Tuesday morning, President Obama's decision to suspend
deportations of some young illegal immigrants should entail mostly upside for
him from a political standpoint.  Based on polls about his decision and the way
that Republicans are reacting to it, the evidence that public opinion is on Mr.
Obama's side is reasonably clear.

So I don't agree with other analysts who have termed the decision risky or
puzzling. Mr. Obama has learned this year that being the incumbent at a time
when most voters think the country is on the wrong track is not necessarily an
advantageous position. But an incumbent president can still help himself at the
margin with his policy and agenda-setting powers.

I do agree with Sean Trende of Real Clear Politics about one key point, however.
It is one reason why the caveat "at the margin" very much applies to Mr. Obama's
decision, and may somewhat diminish its electoral importance.

As Mr. Trende writes, "Latinos are underrepresented in swing states".

Below is a table showing an estimate of Hispanic turnout in 2008. These figures
were determined by multiplying a state's overall turnout by the share of voters
who described themselves as Hispanic or Latino in exit polls. In total, about 11
million Hispanics turned out to vote in 2008, according to these estimates.

However, almost 40 percent of the Hispanic vote was in one of just two states -
California and Texas - that don't look to be at all competitive this year. The
fact that Democrats are winning clear majorities among Hispanics is one reason
that California is no longer competitive, of course. And perhaps Texas will
become more competitive in another 8 or 12 or 16 years.  (Although note that
many Hispanics in Texas have been there for generations and might not be thought
of as immigrant communities.) But voters in these states just aren't likely to
sway the Electoral College outcome in 2012.

New York and Illinois, which also aren't at all competitive, and New Jersey,
which is only very marginally so, also have a decent number of Hispanic voters.
You do see Florida up near the top of the list, however, and Arizona and
Colorado not far down, so I will need to be a bit more precise about my analysis
to defend my claim.

The way that the FiveThirtyEight presidential forecasting model measures the
competitiveness of a state is through what it calls the tipping point index.
This is a measure of the likelihood that a state will make the marginal
difference in the election, giving a candidate the decisive 270th electoral
vote.

The list of tipping point states is narrower than you might expect. The relative
order of the states just doesn't change very much from election to election,
especially when an incumbent is running again and we know what voters thought
about him four years earlier.

Many states might be , meaning that they might plausibly be won by either
candidate, but most of their electoral votes would be superfluous in an election
that truly came down to the last vote. The tipping point index accounts both for
how close a state is relative to the national trend, and how many electoral
votes it has.

Right now, the model thinks that the odds are about 50/50 that one of just two
states, Virginia and Ohio, will play the tipping point role. Each of these has a
below-average number of Hispanic voters.

Colorado is third on the tipping point list, and it has an above-average number
of Hispanic voters. But Pennsylvania is fourth, and it has a below-average
number again.

Nevada, with an above-average number of Hispanics, is fifth on the list, but it
is followed by three very white-dominated states (Iowa, New Hampshire and
Wisconsin).

Then comes Florida, which is lower on the list than you might expect, especially
since it has 29 electoral votes. The model "thinks" about the different
electoral combinations very carefully when it runs its simulations, and
considers how the states might move in relationship to one another based on
their demographics, as well as in comparison to the national trend.

Mr. Obama could certainly win Florida - we give him about a 35 percent chance of
doing so -- but these simulations find that he usually has easier paths to the
victorious 270 electoral votes. The president's polling and the "fundamentals"
factors that the model considers are more favorable to Mr. Obama's in each of
the eight states that appear above Florida on the tipping point list. Most of
the time that he wins states like Virginia, Ohio and Colorado, for instance, Mr.
Obama will already have a winning map unless he takes some unexpected losses
elsewhere.

Moreover, many of the Hispanics in Florida are Cuban-Americans, and they do not
always behave like the predominantly Mexican-American population of the
Southwest, or the Hispanic populations of the Northeast, which include many
Puerto Ricans and Dominicans.

The model also doesn't think much of New Mexico as a tipping point state. It
really wasn't close at all in 2008, and polls there have shown Mr. Obama with a
double-digit lead at a time when he is barely ahead of Mitt Romney nationally.
Mr. Obama could lose New Mexico in a landslide, but it just doesn't meet the
definition of a tipping point state. Even the broader term "swing state"
probably mischaracterizes it somewhat.

Nor does the model think that Arizona is a tipping point state. If has a fairly
large Hispanic population, but the white population there is old and quite
conservative. Arizona is something of the opposite of New Mexico - a state Mr.
Obama could win this year, but probably only in a landslide where it does not
provide the decisive electoral votes.

On the whole, if you take a  average of the Hispanic turnout in each state based
on its tipping point index, it comes out to about 6 percent, less than the 9
percent Hispanic turnout throughout the country as a whole. That means a
Hispanic voter is somewhat less likely to swing the Electoral College outcome
than if they were evenly distributed (as a share of the population) throughout
all 50 states.


     ·    What Obama's Immigration Decision Might Mean for 2012


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday

Scared of Clowns? Congressional Republicans Wait for Romney on Immigration

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 307 words



HIGHLIGHT: Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, seemed to find
humor in the Republicans' strategy and used the opportunity to channel Bryce
Harper of the Nationals.


Those waiting to see what Congressional Republicans will do, in response to
President Obama's order that stops deportations of some illegal immigrants who
came to the United States as children, should pay attention to Mitt Romney.

While the presumed Republican nominee for president has not crafted an official
counter to Mr. Obama's plan - other than to indicate he did not think it was an
appropriate long-term immigration policy -- Republicans are waiting for his
lead.

"Most of my members are interested in what Governor Romney has to say about this
issue," said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, in a news
conference on Tuesday, "and we're going to withhold judgment, most of us, until
that time."

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, seemed to find humor in this
strategy. When asked minutes later at his own news conference for both his
thoughts on Mr. McConnell's remarks as well as whether or not he intended to
bring the Dream Act to the Senate floor once again, Mr. Reid, channeling the
19-year-old Washington Nationals baseball star Bryce Harper's reply to the
question of his if he intended to drink a beer to celebrate a home run, said,
"That's a clown question, bro."

Mr. Reid did follow up with: "Well, it's too bad that he's campaigned for a year
and a half. He should have some semblance, idea of what he, how he feels about
that. We have brought it up twice. It's been killed by the Republicans."

Mr. Romney is expected to meet with a group of Hispanic leaders on Thursday, and
it is anticipated that he may give a more clear position on Mr. Obama's plan at
that time.


     ·    2008: Iowa Remains a Destination
     ·    The Immigration Debate
     ·    Romney Doesn't Say Whether He Would Overturn Obama Immigration Order
     ·    Bachmann Renews Attack on Gingrich Over Immigration
     ·    Romney Blames Obama for the Collapsing Deficit Talks


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (FiveThirtyEight)

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday

What Obama's Immigration Decision Might Mean for 2012

BYLINE: NATE SILVER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 967 words



HIGHLIGHT: If Mitt Romney moves closer to a lukewarm acquiescence of President
Obama's decision, he may be accused of flip-flopping. But candidates flip-flop
when they conclude that the alternative might be more costly.


Even in an era where partisanship is on the rise, demographic changes exert a
gravitational pull on policy and politics and are occasionally enough to
overcome political divisions. What is more remarkable than President Obama's
decision on Friday to suspend deportations of some illegal immigrants is
Republicans' relatively passive reaction to it.

Although some Republicans, like Rick Santorum and Alberto Gonzales, have
denounced Mr. Obama's decision, others have had a more equivocal response -
unusually so in an election year in which both parties have responded to the
smallest gaffe or the slightest opening with jaded and hyperbolic critiques.

A few influential Republicans, like William Kristol, have praised Mr. Obama's
decision outright. Others like Marco Rubio have pushed back on the circumstances
of the decision, but less so its substance.

The presumptive Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, has so far taken
an ambiguous standon Mr. Obama's decision, largely avoiding questions about it.
This is despite Mr. Romney having run to the right of his Republican adversaries
on immigration during the primaries, often having used the issue to assert his
conservative credentials.

If Mr. Romney eventually comes closer to a lukewarm acquiescence of Mr. Obama's
decision, he may be accused of flip-flopping. But candidates sometimes flip-flop
when they conclude that the alternative might be more costly.

In the years leading up to the 2008 presidential election and the months
immediately following it, a number of mostly liberal-leaning scholars proposed a
theory called the "emerging Democratic majority,"which pointed out that some
groups that were more favorably inclined toward Democrats were becoming more
plentiful as a share of the American population.

The theory relies heavily on Hispanic voters, who represented about 9 percent of
voters in the 2008 election, according to exit polls. Hispanics represented just
2 percent of the turnout in the 1992 presidential election, but the percentage
has risen slowly but steadily since then.

A critique of the theory, and one which I mostly find persuasive, is proposed in
various forms by analysts like  Sean Trende of Real Clear Politics and  Jamelle
Bouie of The American Prospect.

Mr. Trende and Mr. Bouie make a number of arguments, but a simple one is that
"permanent" majorities are usually an illusion. Instead, demographic and
cultural changes produce shifts in public opinion, and the parties respond to
them by changing their positions accordingly, in such a way that they gravitate
toward splitting the electorate about 50-50.

This may be an example of exactly the sort of adaptation that Mr. Trende and Mr.
Bouie describe. Republicans, like any political party, are often guilty of
prioritizing short-term tactical goals over long-term strategic ones. But many
of them seem to see the writing on the wall on the immigration issue. The
Republican nominees in 2000, 2004 and 2008, George W. Bush and John McCain, took
relatively moderate stances on immigration, and it would not be surprising if
Mr. Romney softened his position as well.

From 2009 to 2011, about 2 million people became naturalized citizens of the
United States. Few of these new citizens (about 13 percent) represented
demographic groups like Europeans or Canadians that would traditionally be
considered white. Instead, about 40 percent came from Asia, and 35 percent came
from Latin America.

It would be a mistake to conclude that Hispanic and Asian-American voters care
solely about immigration, as news media accounts sometimes suggest. Instead, a
survey in December by the Pew Hispanic Center found that only about one-third of
Hispanic registered voters listed immigration as an extremely important issue,
whereas close to 50 percent said the same of jobs, education and health care.

Still, most Latinos in the Pew survey had disapproved of Mr. Obama's handling of
deportation policy, and most were aware that deportations had increased during
Mr. Obama's time in office.

In the Pew survey and in others, Mr. Obama's approval ratings have not always
been outstanding among Hispanic voters. But relatively few have said that they
plan to vote for Mr. Romney.

The danger for Democrats was that these voters, unenthusiastic about both
choices, might not have turned out to vote at all. Historically, Hispanics have
not been as likely to register to vote as other groups, in part a reflection of
the fact that a fair number of them are not United States citizens. However,
voting participation has been  relatively low,even among those Hispanics who
were registered to vote.

Mr. Obama's decision could motivate some additional turnout among these voters.
If, for instance, Hispanic turnout increases by 5 percent, and 5 percent of
Hispanics who might otherwise have voted for Mr. Romney now vote for Mr. Obama
instead, it would swing a net of about 1 percentage point in support to Mr.
Obama. That is hardly a game-changer, but it could matter in an election that
could be very close.

If Mr. Romney treads softly on the issue, it may be to return the focus more to
the economy. Many Hispanics were hit hard by the recession, and they are more of
a swing vote than they are given credit for. The percentage of Hispanics voting
for Democrats has varied in recent elections, from as low as 53 percent in 2004
to as high as 73 percent in 1996. A charge of flip-flopping on immigration
policy might be the lesser of evils for Mr. Romney if he wants to maximize his
competitiveness among these voters.


     ·    Where Electoral Forecasts Agree and Disagree
     ·    Readers See Obama Slightly Ahead, With Ohio Crucial for Romney
     ·    Romney's Michigan Win Stands as Climactic Moment in Campaign
     ·    Romney Could Net 50 Delegates From Maryland and D.C.
     ·    G.O.P. Campaign Could End Soon - But Not in Louisiana


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            June 20, 2012 Wednesday

Speaking of the Economy, Let's Talk About Immigration

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 448 words



HIGHLIGHT: Campaign aides wanted to discuss what it called President Obama's
"record of failure on the economy." Reporters wanted to know about Mr. Romney's
views on immigration. The conference call abruptly ended.


What's on the mind of a campaign's message machine may not be the burning issue
in journalists' minds. When Mitt Romney's campaign held a conference call with
reporters on Wednesday morning to discuss what it called President Obama's
"record of failure on the economy," the first three questions from reporters
were about Mr. Romney's views on immigration. Campaign press aides abruptly
ended the conversation.

Lanhee Chen, Mr. Romney's policy director, and Tom Stemberg, the founder of
Staples, anchored the press call. Both gave brief opening statements on recent
grim economic statistics, the latest being a report on Tuesday by the Labor
Department that job openings in April fell by the most in nearly four years.

"All of this can be traced to the failed economic policies of the Obama
administration,'' Mr. Stemberg, a longtime supporter of Mr. Romney's, said. Mr.
Romney often cites his early investment in Staples while at Bain Capital and the
office supply company's explosive growth as Exhibit A in his case that he knows
how to create jobs.

Journalists on the call immediately changed the subject. The first, from The
Wall Street Journal, asked if Mr. Romney would address immigration at a speech
in Florida on Thursday to a national group of Hispanic elected officials. Since
President Obama's order last weekthat young people brought illegally into the
country would not be deported - a move designed to cement support with Hispanic
voters - Mr. Romney's response has been eagerly sought. Over the weekend, Mr.
Romney said he would prefer to seek a long-term solution, but he has not said if
he would reverse Mr. Obama's order.

Mr. Chen replied that Mr. Romney "will have a few more things to say about
immigration" in Florida, but he stressed that much of the message to Hispanic
voters at the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials
meeting on Thursday would be consistent with the campaign's economic message up
to now - that Hispanic Americans are suffering more in the struggling economy
than other groups.

Asked a follow-up question about immigration by The New York Times, Mr. Chen
replied that he had already answered.

A press aide, Kristy Campbell, said "these questions should be specific" to the
subject of the economy.

A third questioner asked Mr. Chen if the president's action, which among other
things will allow hundreds of thousands of immigrants age 30 and under to work
legally, if temporarily,  "would help or hurt the United States economy.''

Ms. Campbell, representing a campaign that prides itself on message discipline,
then ended the press conference. "Well have more information on the run-up to
the governor's speech tomorrow,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday

Poll Roundup: Swing States and Health Care

BYLINE: ALLISON KOPICKI

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 386 words



HIGHLIGHT: Several new surveys mine voters' attitudes toward immigration and the
health care legislation.


A new Quinnipiac University Swing State Poll of three battleground states shows
President Obama ahead of Mitt Romney by nine points in Ohio  and six points in
Pennsylvania, while his four-point edge in Florida is within the survey's margin
of sampling error.

In May, Quinnipiac's polling in these three states showed an even race in
Florida and Ohio, and Mr. Obama ahead by eight points in Pennsylvania.

A majority of voters in all three states agreed with Mr. Obama's recently
announced policy allowing the children of illegal immigrants to stay in the
United States rather than be deported and to obtain work permits. While voters
in the three states were more likely to view Mr. Obama favorably and as better
on immigration issues, voters were divided on which candidate will handle the
economy better.

In Pennsylvania and Ohio, voters showed preference for the incumbent Democrat
senators by large margins: in the Keystone State, Bob Casey led Tom Smith, the
Republican, by 17 points and Ohio's Sherrod Brown led Josh Mandel, the
Republican, by 16 points. In Florida, Senator Bill Nelson, the Democratic
incumbent, is running even with Representative Connie Mack, the Republican, 41
percent to 40 percent.

From June 19-25, Quinnipiac University conducted live interviews by landline and
cellphone of  1,200 registered voters in Florida; 1,237 voters in Ohio; and
1,252 voters in Pennsylvania, all with a margin of sampling error of plus or
minus 2.8 percentage points.

Other polls have been released in the last few days. A new ABC News/Washington
Post national survey  found that while most Americans express dissatisfaction
with the health care law, about the same number are dissatisfied with the
nation's health care system.

As the country waits for the Supreme Court to issue its decision on the
legislation, 56 percent rate the nation's health care system unfavorably, and 52
percent of Americans have an unfavorable opinion of the health care law. Yet 75
percent of Americans express a favorable view of the health care they personally
receive.

The ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted by landline and cell phone June
20-24 of 1,022 adults. Results have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus
3.5 percentage points.

Results of the NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey were reported in a post on
Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday

D-Day

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1178 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Arizona immigration decision amounted to a major reaffirmation of
federal authority, which could foreshadow the health care decision on Thursday.



 The most useful way to read a Supreme Court decision, I figured out years ago,
is to start with the dissents. That way, you can proceed to the majority opinion
as a better informed reader, with the full range of possibilities in view: What
arguments did the majority reject? Which did it respond to, and which did it not
even bother to acknowledge? Most important, what was the disagreement really
about?

Taking that approach to the Arizona immigration decision the court issued on
Monday, it is pellucidly clear from the dissenting opinions of Justices Antonin
Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. that Arizona lost big and that
the decision amounted not to the split decision of early news reports but a
major reaffirmation of federal authority. There has been considerableattention
to Justice Scalia's political rant - which he delivered from the bench as well
as on paper -- against President Obama's immigration policies. It was a
cringe-making screed for sure, even if not altogether surprising given that
Justice Scalia had actually stooped to invoking the broccoli threat during the
health care argument.

But aside from his self-indulgent posturing, what was most revealing about
Justice Scalia's dissenting opinion was what passed for actual legal analysis,
his charge that Justice Anthony M. Kennedy's majority opinion was so dismissive
of Arizona's effort to "protect its sovereignty" through the invalidated
provisions of S.B. 1070, the law that was at issue, that "we should cease
referring to it as a sovereign state."

Pretty strong stuff. I turned to the majority opinion with mounting
anticipation. What on earth had the court done? The first thing that jumped out
at me was the name of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. on Justice Kennedy's
opinion, along with the expected names of Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen
G. Breyer, and Sonia Sotomayor. The chief justice was, apparently, in complete
agreement with the majority as evidenced by his silence - the dog that didn't
bark, you might say. He felt no need to write separately to express even a shade
of difference from the majority or a hint of sympathy with the dissenting views
of his usual allies. Beyond Justice Scalia's transparent dislike for the
president, perhaps it was the chief justice's apostasy that drove him around the
bend.

In fact, Chief Justice Roberts has never shown himself to be a nativist (not for
him the description offered by Justice Scalia of Arizona's citizens who feel
"under siege by large numbers of illegal immigrants who invade their property,
strain their social services, and even place their lives in jeopardy"). More to
the point, this man of the Beltway and veteran of the White House counsel's
office has never assumed the guise of a committed states-righter. He shares many
of the views of his mentor and predecessor, the late Chief Justice William H.
Rehnquist, but an appetite for reigniting the federalism wars hasn't seemed to
be one of them, at least not yet.

There is one passage in Justice Kennedy's opinion that struck me as notably -
although not unduly - mistrustful of the state's motives. It was in the portion
declaring unconstitutional Section 6 of S.B. 1070, which authorized local police
to arrest, without a warrant, someone they had probable cause to believe had
committed a deportable offense - in other words, turning Arizona police into
immigration police. "This would allow the state to achieve its own immigration
policy," Justice Kennedy wrote, adding that "the result could be unnecessary
harassment of some aliens" whom the federal government would elect not to
deport.

"Unnecessary harassment" is a harsh prediction. There were undoubtedly other
ways to explain why the state shouldn't be given the authority it had grabbed:
state police officers might make mistakes, there might be misunderstandings. But
"unnecessary harassment"? This dump on Arizona, from a justice who has written
expansively in the past about the "dignity" and sovereignty of the states,
didn't seem to bother the chief justice a bit.

All of which, of course, leads to the question: what about the health care
decision?

Since this column will be coexisting in cyberspace with the court's Affordable
Care Act ruling, due on Thursday morning, it's undoubtedly foolhardy to repeat
my prediction that the court will uphold the law. Well there, I just did.

Chief Justice Roberts was not completely silent on Monday. He filed an opinion
dissenting from the court's other decision that day, Miller v. Alabama, which
barred mandatory sentences of life without parole for those convicted of
committing murder before the age of 18. Noting that the federal government and
most states have such sentencing laws on their books, the chief justice
criticized the court's majority for having failed to "display our usual respect
for elected officials." Courts "must presume an Act of Congress is
constitutional" barring some obvious reason it isn't, he said, citing a
19th-century precedent for that proposition. And quoting the 1976 Supreme Court
decision that reauthorized capital punishment, he said there was a "heavy
burden" on "those who would attack the judgment of the representatives of the
people."

The court heard argument in the life-without-parole case during the same March
sitting in which it heard the Affordable Care Act case - which at its core comes
down to the authority of judges to substitute their views on matters of economic
policy for those of the people's elected representatives. There were other
grounds on which to object to Justice Kagan's majority opinion -- Justices
Thomas and Alito found some in their separate dissenting opinions - so it's of
at least passing interest that the chief justice chose a theme of judicial
deference to legislative policy choices.

Thursday promises to be a rare day of Supreme Court theater. While there are
frequent dramatic moments at the court, they occur randomly, because the
justices don't announce in advance which decisions they will hand down on a
given day. But once a decade or so, the last day of the term arrives with a
momentous case still undecided, so there is no secret about what the day holds
in store. I remember the almost unbearable tension in the courtroom on June 29,
1992, when Planned Parenthood v. Casey was due to be decided and there was a
distinct prospect that the court would use that case to overturn Roe v. Wade.

And on June 26, 2003, everyone knew the court would announce its decision in
Lawrence v. Texas, the gay rights case. Gay members of the Supreme Court bar, a
number of them former law clerks, filled the bar section of the courtroom, and
some wept openly as Justice Kennedy announced that Bowers v. Hardwick had been
wrongly decided 17 years earlier and that gay men and lesbians were "entitled to
respect for their private lives."

If there are tears in the courtroom on June 28, 2012, will they be tears of
relief, or of regret? And whose?


     ·    Breathing While Undocumented
     ·    The Fire Next Term
     ·    Total Eclipse
     ·    My Mom Was My Roommate
     ·    In Arizona, Censoring Questions About Race


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                              June 29, 2012 Friday

Soccer's Lost Boys, Stranded in Istanbul

BYLINE: ADAM MCCAULEY

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 933 words



HIGHLIGHT: In 2010, several Nigerians jumped at what they thought was a chance
to play soccer professionally for Turkey. Upon arriving, they learned they had
been swindled. Jason Andrew photographed these stranded players.


The light was dim, and the room dank. The photographer Jason Andrew descended
the basement steps. A single television displayed the English Premier League
match between Chelsea and Tottenham, as flickering light of the television
illuminated nearly a dozen dark faces in the room.

They watched intensely, their eyes fixed intently on the white ball being kicked
back and forth across the field's brilliant green grass.

In March 2010, more than 40 Nigerians flew to Istanbul, carrying an invitation
to try out with Turkey's professional soccer teams. Within a week of arriving,
the players realized that the promises had been false, that their money had been
stolen and that they had nowhere to go but the streets. They've been there ever
since.

Mr. Andrew, 36, flew to Turkey in late April 2011 searching for his next photo
project. He wanted to find migration stories along the country's Edirne border.
He soon found himself in an Internet cafe in Istanbul, talking with African
migrants to whom few had paid any attention.

"I've always been interested in getting deep into human lives." said Mr. Andrew,
who studied history at San Diego State University before completing a
certificate program at the International Center of Photography in 2007.

Born and raised in Alameda, Calif., Mr. Andrew said he grew up alongside
immigrants. Driven by a desire to travel and explore, he said that issues of
immigration, and cross-border transit, became significant parts of his personal
and professional lives.

Mr. Andrew said photography was his attempt to explore important issues like,
"Where people come from, and why they do the things they do?" In his latest
project, "Football's Lost Boys," Mr. Andrew quickly uncovered some answers.

The African players said a manager they called Okpos had advertised a training
camp with ties to European soccer. The program was simple: if the players were
good enough, and they paid a fee, they would have their shot at playing
professional soccer in Europe.

Turkey was their dream, Mr. Andrew said. "It was their gateway to Europe and the
height of professional soccer," he said. So when the aspiring players arrived in
Istanbul only to find that their manager had fled the country with their money,
they were left with nothing more than a fake invitation, and receipts for the
nearly $5,000 they had spent on the trip.

Mr. Andrew said this project has become a modern meditation on the question of
immigration.

"We always picture illegal immigrants as people who have jumped the fence," he
said. "In Turkey, these individuals were invited into the country. Immigration
is no longer black and white."

Beyond the missed opportunities on the field, the African soccer players felt
considerable animosity on the Turkish streets. They were often cursed at, spat
at and could rarely hail taxis, said Mr. Andrew, who, as a Caucasian, witnessed
this treatment.

In one of Mr. Andrew's favorite photographs (), four players lay in a single
bed, a tiger-print blanket pulled up over them, each set of eyes scanning a
different direction, as three of the four men listened to music. There is little
in the photograph that identifies this as Turkey, were it not for the large
photograph of a woman praying at Mecca hanging crookedly above them.

This single frame hints at the complexity of their experience in Istanbul, Mr.
Andrew said. They have been stranded in a country that speaks a different
language, and many of them live without visas necessary for gainful employment.
Yet in their marginalization, the Nigerians have carved out a niche, he said.

When Mr. Andrew visited the players last year, they were sleeping eight to a
room, crammed into an old converted industrial building with unreliable water
and electricity. They nicknamed the complex "The African Ghetto." Players said
that their landlord would threaten to assault tenants whose rent was late, and
was said to have once stabbed a tenant.

The aggressive tactics continue, in part, because of lacking police response to
issues facing African immigrants, the players said.

"When you go to these stations to make complaints, they ignore your reports,"
Jerry, a 22-year-old player who works in textiles to try to pay the bills, said
about the police. He asked to not be fully identified because of his precarious
visa status. "They just tell you that you are a foreigner and that your rights
don't matter here," he added.

Despite the challenges they face, many of the Nigerians choose to stay in
Istanbul, Mr. Andrew said. Not because they believe it is the best option or
that it provides the best opportunities in the long-term, but because the shame
involved in returning home is too overwhelming, he said. Instead, the players
suffer quietly.

"I don't open up to my family about this," said Akeem, an 18-year-old still
battling for a spot on a Turkish soccer team. "I don't want to make my mother
cry."

As Mr. Andrew prepares to return to Turkey next month, he'll do so with a 2012
Photographer Giving Back award in the sports category for this body of work. He
hopes that these accolades will stimulate discussion about the soccer players
the world may never see.

"This is the ugly underbelly of professional sport, and one of my biggest
struggles is to make sure that my photography can communicate that to the
audience." he said. "I want my photographs to tell the story that my eyes and
ears and heart have witnessed."



     ·    A Whirling Document of Turkish Culture
     ·    Pictures of the Day: Bangladesh and Elsewhere
     ·    Vietnam War Images, Photosynthesized
     ·    Pictures of the Day: Indonesia and Elsewhere
     ·    Pictures of the Day: Kyrgyzstan and Elsewhere


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                              July 1, 2012 Sunday

Playing It Dangerously Safe

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1741 words



HIGHLIGHT: Can Mitt Romney be everything to everyone on immigration?


In October, 1999, as George W. Bush prepared for the Republican presidential
primaries, he took the unexpected step of denouncing a House Republican proposal
to cut the Earned Income Tax Credit, a benefit for the working poor.

"I don't think they ought to balance their budget on the backs of the poor,"
Bush declared, while campaigning in California. "I'm concerned for someone who
is moving from near-poverty to middle class."

When Bill Clinton was preparing for the Democratic presidential primaries in
1992, he challenged the liberal wing of his own party over and over again. He
declared that he would "end welfare as we know it"; he sanctioned the execution
in Arkansas of Ricky Ray Rector, a mentally disabled murderer; and he denounced
the appearance at a conference sponsored by Jesse Jackson ofSister Souljah, a
political activist and rapper who had become notorious for her comments in the
wake of the riots in Los Angeles earlier that year: "If black people kill black
people every day, why not have a week and kill white people?"

Bush and Clinton, both of whom went on to win two terms in the White House,
dealt head-on with one of the most difficult problems presidential candidates
face: How to address issues which divide the candidate's core constituencies.

Now Mitt Romney faces a similar dilemma: the issue of immigration. In this case,
Romney's choice has been to avoid making a choice; he is trying to have it both
ways.

Immigration is a complicated problem for Romney because the issue pits hard-core
anti-immigration forces on the right against two distinct constituencies:
Hispanic voters; and the business wing of the Republican party, which wants
legal access to the services of millions of low-wage workers. All three groups
are crucial to Romney.

By ducking the issue, Romney may be taking what seems like the safest route, but
equivocation carries its own liabilities.

Perhaps most dangerously, Romney makes himself vulnerable to the same charge of
failed leadership that he has frequently leveled against Obama.

The immigration issue surfaced on June 15 when the Obama administration
announced its new enforcement policy, which exempts from deportation young,
undocumented but law-abiding people brought to the United States before the age
of 16.

Two days after the Obama announcement, Romney appeared on "Face The Nation" on
CBS where Bob Schieffer asked him, "Just to make sure I understand, would you
leave this" - the Obama policy - "in place while you worked out a long-term
solution or would you just repeal it?"

Romney replied:

We'll - we'll look at that - we'll look at that setting as we - as we reach
that. But my anticipation is, I'd come into office and say we need to get this
done on a long-term basis, not this kind of a stopgap measure. What the
president did, he should have worked on this years ago. If he felt seriously
about this, he should have taken action when he had a Democrat House and Senate,
but he didn't. He saves these sorts of things until four and a half months
before the general election.

The full interview is worth reading. Schieffer is courteous but persistent.
Romney's performance is consistently evasive.

On June 25, shortly after the Supreme Court released its decision on the
constitutionality of Arizona's tough immigration law - headline news across the
country - the Romney campaign issued the following statement:

Today's decision underscores the need for a President who will lead on this
critical issue and work in a bipartisan fashion to pursue a national immigration
strategy. President Obama has failed to provide any leadership on immigration.
This represents yet another broken promise by this President. I believe that
each state has the duty - and the right - to secure our borders and preserve the
rule of law, particularly when the federal government has failed to meet its
responsibilities. As Candidate Obama, he promised to present an immigration plan
during his first year in office.  But four years later, we are still waiting.

The statement was worthy of the famous 1980 headline in the Boston Globe
describing a speech by President Jimmy Carter: "More Mush From the Wimp."

Later on the 25th, Romney told a group of donors in Scottsdale, Ariz. that he
would have "preferred to see the Supreme Court give more latitude to the states,
not less."

Liberal commentators have had a field day carving up Romney's equivocations.

Salon's Alex Seitz-Wald summed it up well in a story headlined "Romney plays
immigration dodgeball: A comprehensive guide to everything Romney has refused to
say about immigration."

Think Progress's Igor Volsky continued the full court press: "Romney's Campaign
Co-Chair Spends Four Minutes Dodging Direct Questions On Arizona Immigration
Law."

The Romney campaign dismisses sniping from the left, but perhaps they took note
of a tweet from Mark Levin, the right-wing talk show host: "Romney on illegal
immigration and Arizona's law - weak."

Levin read Romney's statement aloud on his radio show, then said:

Here we are in the face of tyranny, a president of the United States acting
outside immigration statutes, acting outside the Constitution's separation of
powers doctrine, flipping the bird to the Supreme Court - this is the best he
could do?

W. James Antle, of the conservative American Spectator, published a blog post,
"Pinning Romney Down on Arizona," that reprinted a lengthy, agonized effort by
Rick Gorka, a Romney spokesman, to explain his boss's position. It is worth
reading in its entirety.

Here is a key exchange:

Question: Does [Romney] support the law as it was drafted in Arizona?

Gorka: The governor supports the right of states, that's all we're going to say
on this issue.

Question: Does he have a position on the law, or no position?

Gorka: The governor has his own immigration policy that he laid out in Orlando
and in the primary, which he would implement as president, which would address
this issue. Whereas Obama has had four years in the office and has yet to
address it in a meaningful way.

Question: But does the Governor have a position on the Arizona law besides
supporting the right of states?

Gorka: This debate is sprung from the president failing to address this issue,
so each state is left and has the power to draft and enact their own immigration
policy.

Question: But the Arizona law does very specific things, does the governor
support those things that the Arizona law does?

Gorka: We've addressed this.

During the Republican primaries, in which almost no Hispanics vote, Romney
declared himself Mr. Hardline on immigration. A Romney commercial titled "Takes
Guts" told viewers:

Mitt Romney. He said no to drivers' licenses for illegals, no to instate
tuition, fought for English in the classroom. The only candidate with a proven
record of fixing the big problems. From day one, Mitt Romney will do what he
does best, take charge, demand results, no excuses.

Now, contemplating a general election contest in which millions of Hispanics
will cast ballots, Romney has gone rubber-kneed.

Romney's commitment to the safe route is a core aspect of his political style.

In an unusual moment of candor last April, Romney explained his rationale for
caution to Stephen F. Hayes of the conservative Weekly Standard:

One of the things I found in a short campaign against Ted Kennedy was that when
I said, for instance, that I wanted to eliminate the Department of Education,
that was used to suggest I don't care about education. So I think it's important
for me to point out that I anticipate that there will be departments and
agencies that will either be eliminated or combined with other agencies. So for
instance, I anticipate that housing vouchers will be turned over to the states
rather than be administered at the federal level, and so at this point I think
of the programs to be eliminated or to be returned to the states, and we'll see
what consolidation opportunities exist as a result of those program
eliminations. So will there be some that get eliminated or combined? The answer
is yes, but I'm not going to give you a list right now.

Romney also told Hayes exactly why he believes his evasive tactics will work:

One thing I can assure you is that the one group that will certainly be with me
in the general election if I'm the nominee will be conservatives and very
conservatives. Because they're certainly not going to vote for Barack Obama.

Romney is right that conservatives will not be pulling Democratic levers, but
there is no guarantee that they will turn out in the numbers he needs. A June
7-12 Pew survey showed that lukewarm backing could prove to be a serious problem
for Romney.

Most Obama backers support him strongly, while most Romney voters support him
only moderately. Similarly, Democrats are more satisfied with the choice of
candidates than are Republicans: 68% of Democratic voters say they are satisfied
with the field compared with 60% of Republican voters.

In addition, while the survey found that Obama held a modest 50-46 lead over
Romney, the percentage of voters who "strongly" back Obama, 30 percent, was
nearly twice the 17 percent who strongly support Romney.

Although poll data does not specifically link Romney's vacillation on
immigration to the lack of enthusiasm for his bid, it is virtually certain that
a reluctance to take a stand is not an effective tool for building voter
intensity.

Romney's stance - or lack thereof - speaks in part to his character, but more
significantly it speaks to the slow-motion struggle within the Republican Party
about coming to terms with the fact that its white base is shrinking while
Hispanics, as a proportion of the electorate, are steadily gaining traction.

In this respect, Romney's fears of taking a more pro-immigrant stance - a
posture roughly 90 percent of Republican strategists I have spoken with believe
is essential - are possibly realistic. George W. Bush ran in 2004 on a platform
calling for liberal immigration reform, winning a higher percentage of Hispanic
votes than his Republican predecessors while simultaneously maintaining the
backing of socially conservative whites. Romney lacks Bush's glad-handing charm,
his gift for electioneering. Bush's comfort with the cadence and rhetoric of the
southern vernacular gave him leeway with low- and middle-income whites, leeway
Romney may sense he does not have.



     ·    The Great Immigration Reform Mirage
     ·    Candidate Blank
     ·    For the Ron Paul Wing, Now What?
     ·    Campaigns and Crankiness
     ·    Romney the Cautious


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

Immigrants in Mayberry!

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 298 words



HIGHLIGHT: In honor of the late Andy Griffith, here's a story of tolerance and
immigration.


In honor of the late Andy Griffith, here's a story of tolerance and welcome, and
that all-American topic, immigration. Sheriff Arpaio, Mitt Romney, this one's
for you.

In the final episode of "The Andy Griffith Show" before it spun off "Mayberry,
R.F.D.," a farmer, Sam Jones, played by Ken Berry, is waiting at the train
station with Sheriff Andy Taylor, Mr. Griffith's character, for Sam's friend
Mario Vinchenti, whom he met in Italy in the war. Mario is moving to Mayberry to
work on Sam's farm.



SHERIFF TAYLOR: Sam, you know, it's nice of you to bring him over here like
this.

SAM JONES: It's good for me, too, Andy. You know the trouble I've had getting
somebody to help me. Farm life just doesn't seem to appeal to too many people
around here anymore.

SHERIFF: Too rugged, I guess.

SAM: Yeah, well, it won't be too rugged for Mario. He's a hard worker. Good
farmer. Real nice fella.

SHERIFF: That's good. Well, I hope he likes it here. Is he leaving any family
back there?

SAM: Uh, yeah. As I recall, he's got a sister and a father. I've never met 'em,
though. They always stayed down on their farm. I suppose he'll keep sending
money back to 'em, make sure they're all right.

SHERIFF: Yeah. Take care of the folks back home. (Laughs.)

SAM: (Laughs.)

(Moments later, Mario gets off the train, to hugs and smiles all around.)

SAM: Mario, I'd like you to meet a good friend of mine. Andy Taylor.

MARIO: Mr. Taylor (points to his badge) - policeman! I love to be your friend.
We love policemen! I will stay out of trouble with you.

SHERIFF: Oh, we'll get along fine. We'll get along just fine.


     ·    Opinion Report: An O.K. Transport Bill
     ·    Republican Reactions to the Arizona Decision
     ·    Opinion Report: Supreme Court Rulings
     ·    Arizona's Immigration Law and Mandatory Life Terms
     ·    Opinion Report: Fleeting Expletives


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday

George P. Bush Says G.O.P. Needs 'Honest Solution' on Immigration

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 507 words



HIGHLIGHT: George P. Bush, who is urging younger voters to increase their
participation in the 2012 election through his political action committee called
MavPAC, said in an interview that he hoped Mitt Romney would still "formulate a
plan - a more comprehensive plan" on immigration.


6:33 p.m. | Updated  George P. Bush said on Tuesday that "it's never too late"
for Mitt Romney to take a leadership role in the immigration debate, but he
acknowledged Republicans were outflanked by President Obama's election-year
decision to allow hundreds of illegal immigrants to remain in the country
without fear of deportation.

"Governor Romney had an opportunity to get in front of the president on the
issue," said Mr. Bush, 36, the son of former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. "But the
president clearly has taken the initiative on it."

Mr. Bush, who is urging younger voters to increase their participation in the
2012 election through his political action committee called MavPAC, said he
hoped Mr. Romney would still "formulate a plan - a more comprehensive plan" on
immigration. But he added, "Leading up to Election Day, it's very difficult to
get anything so controversial through, so we'll see."

The White House announced a policy last month that would clear the way for young
illegal immigrants to come out of the shadows, work legally and obtain driver's
licenses and many other documents they have lacked. The temporary reprieve could
benefit at least 800,000 young people.

The decision fell short of Mr. Obama's pledge to pursue a broad overhaul of the
nation's immigration laws during his first term. Yet Republicans concede the
move is likely to help the president's appeal to Hispanic voters who could play
an influential role in the presidential race.

Mr. Bush, who was on a trip to Washington to promote his political action
committee, said the Republican Party needed to broaden its outreach to younger
voters. In an interview with reporters after a breakfast meeting, he said
Republicans needed to find an "honest solution to the immigration problem," and
both parties should commit to a bipartisan plan that recognized a "need for
labor in our country and the need of enforcing, for purposes of national
security, our immigration laws."

Like his father, Mr. Bush is a fluent Spanish speaker who has been an outspoken
advocate for overhauling the nation's immigration laws. His mother, Columba
Bush, was born in Mexico.

"Regretfully, this has become an issue that has ended and created political
careers," Mr. Bush said. He added, "This is such a complicated question, it's
not going to be solved by one party alone."

Mr. Bush, the nephew of George W. Bush and grandson of George H.W. Bush, is a
lawyer and managing partner of an investment firm in Texas. He and Jay Zeidman,
who worked in the Bush White House, are national co-chairmen of MavPac, a
political action committee to help younger political candidates and to increase
activism among younger voters.

The committee is focusing its work on Ohio and Florida, two key battleground
states in the 2012 presidential election.

Mr. Bush, who has worked on the campaigns of his father and uncle, demurred when
reporters asked whether he intended to enter the family business of politics. He
said, "I'd be open to it. I just don't have an overwhelming urge to do it right
now."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Economix)

                             July 12, 2012 Thursday

Children of Immigrants Study More

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 403 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a typical week, children of immigrants spend about 27.7 hours in
educational activities, while children of native-born Americans spend about 24.6
hours, according to the Labor Department.


Whether because of Tiger Moms or otherwise, the children of immigrants really do
study more than the children of native-born Americans.

That chart is based on data from the Labor Department's American Time Use
Surveys from 2003 to 2010. It shows that teenagers whose parents were immigrants
spent an average of 26 minutes more per day on education-related activities than
their counterparts with native-born parents.

That means that over the course of a week, children of immigrants spend about
27.7 hours in educational activities, whereas children of native-born Americans
spend about 24.6 hours.

This gap in time spent on educational activities reflects both more time spent
in school (181 minutes for immigrants' children versus 167 minutes for children
of the native-born) and more time spent studying (50 minutes versus 38 minutes).

By contrast, children of native-born parents spend more time in paid work
activities. Given theeconomic mobility benefits of education, this contrast does
seem to fit the stereotype of immigrants' working long hours to help their
children rise to a higher socioeconomic class in adulthood.

That doesn't mean life is all work and no play for the children of immigrants.
Immigrants' children spend a few more minutes watching television and shopping
than the progeny of native-born Americans do. The children of native-born
Americans do spend more time playing sports, though.

By the way, since I'm guessing this question will come up: Bigger educational
time commitments are true for children of both Asian immigrants and Latin
American immigrants.

Children of Asian immigrants spend about 51 minutes more per day on educational
activities than do children of native-born whites. That's true even when you
control for family characteristics like income, parents' education and number of
siblings.

Children of Latin American immigrants spend on average 18 more minutes per day
in educational activities than the children of their white, non-Hispanic
native-born counterparts, although that gap is not statistically significant.
Once the Labor Department's researchers controlled for differences in family
composition, the gap widened to a statistically significant 35 minutes per day.


     ·    The Old and Uneducated Watch the Most TV
     ·    Unemployed Immigrants
     ·    Are You Better Off Than Your Parents Were?
     ·    Only Half of Americans Exceed Parents' Wealth
     ·    How to Escape a Lowly Socioeconomic Class: Go to College


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                              July 30, 2012 Monday

Want to Immigrate to France? Better Know Slam Poetry.

BYLINE: OLIVIA SNAIJE

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 966 words



HIGHLIGHT: Either there was a complete disconnect between Immigration and the
team that devised the questions or the test is designed to leave behind a large
portion of the immigrant population.


A recent study found that an estimated one in three native-born Americans could
not pass the civics test immigrants have to pass to become naturalized citizens.
The British government has announced a major update to its citizenship test, to
include questions about British history from the Roman times to the present. And
this year France started requiring anyone applying for French citizenship to
take an oral comprehension and expression test.

As an American who has spent more time living in France than in the United
States, I finally decided early this year to apply for French nationality. This
meant that to complete my already hefty application dossier, I also had to take
this new test, which was described this way in news reports:

Candidates will be tested on French culture and history, and will have to prove
their French language skills are equivalent to those of a 15-year-old mother
tongue speaker.

Fair enough. But the requirements for the test, which is called TCF-ANF (French
Knowledge Test for Access to French Nationality), were fairly vague and the
sample exercises that various websites recommended I take had me either in a
state of panic because I had forgotten the rules of the direct-object
complement, or had me yawning with boredom. Just recently the official website
posted sample questions which are similar to the real test, but you would only
realize this once you had already taken the TCF-ANF.

Before taking the test it would be impossible to understand why one would be
listening to a 58-second tape of a man with a Marseilles accent rambling on
about the role of young fathers in France today.

The TCF-ANF is administered in independent test centers all over France, which
then relay the tests to the Ministry of Education to be corrected. When I tried
to sign up for the TCF-ANF I found there was a four-month wait and that the test
took six weeks to be corrected. After paying 100 euros I was told I had to clear
my entire day for the test.

When the day finally came about 25 of us filed into the classroom looking
slightly embarrassed. Most of us were over 30 and school exams were far behind
us. Our names and nationalities were on stickers on the various desks but in no
particular alphabetical order, so we had to look on each desk before finding our
place.

An African man wearing a colorful wax print cloth outfit mopped his brow
nervously while a veiled woman leaned over and asked her neighbor in a loud
whisper if he had done the practice questions online. Most people seemed fluent
in French and had obviously lived in France long enough to be familiar with the
ins and outs of the administrative processes, but when the test began we were
all thrown.

The first test consisted of 30 minutes of listening exercises - a scratchy
recording of various situations was played to the classroom followed by timed
multiple-choice questions. Not only was it difficult to hear the tape
(compounded by the persistent grumbling of the middle-aged Algerian taxi driver
sitting behind me), the situations being discussed in the recordings were
decidedly bizarre. One consisted of two people discussing slam poetry, and the
question at the end was "is slam poetry a collective activity?"

Now, how was the average immigrant from a rural area supposed to know what slam
poetry was? Or the average French person for that matter? Another recording was
a radio announcement for a special deal for two people who could win Eurostar
tickets plus free entrances to a Turner exhibition at a London museum. Eurostar?
Turner?

The one-on-one 15-minute oral examination that we were called back to take that
afternoon was even stranger. An African student doing her PHD in linguistics (I
later found out she was Kenyan) was the administrator who was going to interview
and record me. I wouldn't have batted an eye had the student been from the
former French colonies of Senegal or Cameroon, where French is widely spoken,
but this particular student's French was slightly iffy, and had me a little
worried.

One of the first questions was: "Men are often said to be jealous, what do you
think of this?"

Was this a trick question? Was it something to do with polygamy or honor
killings?

Another question was: "Is having bilingual parents an advantage or a
disadvantage?"

Well, obviously an advantage, I answered, but then had my doubts about how I
should have answered.

There were a few role-playing exercises in which I had to interview a
prospective nanny for my children, and then it was over. When the test
administrator told me where she was from, we immediately switched into English.
She would not be correcting me, she reassured me; the Ministry of Education
would listen to the tape.

"The Ministry of Education will think the Kenyan student is you," remarked my
husband.

So, the French culture and history test boiled down to listening to recordings
of people conversing about slam poetry and the Eurostar played on a scratchy
tape and then answering multiple choice questions? All of the recordings
involved cultural or professional situations one might encounter in France but
had nothing to do with French history or specific French culture. It was
entirely frustrating and mystifying.

Either there was a complete disconnect between Immigration and the team that
devised the recordings and questions or else the test is very, very perverse
and, in fact, specifically designed to leave behind a large portion of the
immigrant population.

The more I thought about it the more it meshed with the French administrative
process: opaque and complex, leaving you in a permanent state of doubt.

Yesterday I picked up my test results. With great relief I saw I had passed all
levels and could now add this certificate to my bulging application folder. How
lucky I knew what slam poetry was.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                             August 10, 2012 Friday

After a New Immigrant's Killing, Conflict in a Coal Town

BYLINE: SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 814 words



HIGHLIGHT: For a new documentary, the Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer and
filmmaker David C. Turnley went to Shenandoah, Pa., where he found a town
struggling to make sense of an immigrant's death.


The four young men were star athletes in Shenandoah, a hardscrabble Pennsylvania
town where high school football had provided one of the few bright spots since
the coal mines shut down.

Luis Ramirez, a Mexican farmhand, was part of a new wave of immigrants that had
settled in Shenandoah and found work on farms and in factories.

In July 2008, the four football players attacked Mr. Ramirez in a dark
playground. Mr. Ramirez died soon after, and the four boys were charged with
murder. The killing split the town in two, threatening Shenandoah's self-image
as an all-American hamlet, and staining the Blue Devils football team, revered
by toddlers and grandparents alike.


David C. Turnley's "Shenandoah" trailer.

It was a tragedy that touched upon several great national themes - the
dislocation wrought by fading industry, the turmoil of immigration, the
endurance of sports - and David C. Turnley, a Pulitzer Prize-winning
photographer, was there to grapple with them all. He turned the story of the
murder and how it shook the town into "Shenandoah," a wrenching documentary that
he shot, directed and produced.

"It was just an amazing opportunity to try and understand just where we're at in
this country today," he said. "The proverbial American melting pot had never
exactly melted in Shenandoah. It had always been a boiling pot."

Mr. Turnley spent four years burrowing into the lives of people on all sides of
the story, whether the burly football players who participated in the attack,
their parents who struggled to understand it, or Mr. Ramirez's family both in
Shenandoah and in Mexico.

Mr. Turnley has worked in some 75 countries, covering the biggest stories of the
past 35 years - apartheid in South Africa, the war in Bosnia, the fall of the
Berlin Wall. But as a native of Fort Wayne, Ind., an industrial town that knows
hard times, he calls "Shenandoah" the most personal work of his career.

"This was a coming-home story for me," he said. "Of all the world conflict and
stories I've covered, I'm not sure that I've covered such acutely intense human
drama in one small town."

The film weaves the football team's struggles on the field with scenes of tense
anti-immigrant protests, trial preparation and quiet, confessional interviews on
darkened porches. In the months after the murder, Shenandoah, called Shen'doh by
the locals, becomes a national flash point as immigration advocates come to
town, television cameras in tow, demanding justice.

But the film also steps back to explore the larger story of Shenandoah's rise
and fall. Old-timers looking out on deserted streets describe a lost world where
everyone had work and knew one another's families. Now, the coal mines are
closed, unemployment is high and some neighbors speak only Spanish.

The conditions may be ripe for resentment, but it is especially striking to see
the tension in Shenandoah, which celebrates the generations of European
immigrants that made the town vibrant.

Mr. Turnley is a photographer's photographer: "Once you've done what we do, it
becomes your identity, and it's in our blood," he says. The movie is filled with
the stuff of dramatic photographs: the empty trays of a too-quiet doughnut
store; the trophies and jerseys decorating a childhood bedroom. But filmmaking
has allowed him to add another layer to his work.

"I'm making images, always, but I'm also engaging people in conversation, and
I'm trying to get to know not only what I experience in terms of what I see, but
also tapping into the hearts and minds of people," said Mr. Turnley, who has
made two previous films.

He spent months talking to Brian Scully, who was charged in the attack and
emerges as the film's most compelling character. Mr. Scully was a football idol
who testified against his friends and finds a redemption of sorts in, of all
things, musical theater.

Many of the most pointed moments in "Shenandoah" show Mr. Scully trying to
understand his responsibility for the murder. "We needed to get in trouble for
this," he says in the film. His voice softens as he continues: "I started to
think about Luis as a person."

Mr. Turnley hopes to show "Shenandoah" at a film festival in the coming months.
There are no plans yet for a wider distribution, but he is eager for the world
to see his work.

"The human drama of the story kept unraveling in ways start to finish that you
never would have imagined," he said.

James Estrin contributed reporting.

Follow @ShenandoahFilm, @samdolnick and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. The film,
"Shenandoah," has a Facebook page, as does Lens.

An earlier version of this blog post misstated the surname of the immigrant who
was attacked and later died in Shenandoah. He is Luis Ramirez, not Luis
Gonzales.


     ·    Life on Both Sides of the Border
     ·    Modern Agonies in Ancient Mexican Villages
     ·    The Opportunity, or Not, to Be American
     ·    A Reckoning at the Frontier
     ·    Pictures of the Day: Nigeria and Elsewhere


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday

Opinion Report: Voting in Ohio

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 92 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



Ming Du was grimy at the edges, but it never had the get-me-out-of-here vibe
that some greasy spoons exude.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg took his pro-immigration views on the road on Tuesday to
public forums in Chicago and Boston.

Too often bias-motivated violence is underreported to state and local police
departments.

In Ohio counties likely to vote for President Obama, Republicans have blocked
extended hours at the polls.


     ·    The Spanish Campaign
     ·    Joe Arpaio's American Dream
     ·    Chicago, the Next Anti-Arizona
     ·    Immigrants in Mayberry!
     ·    Opinion Report: An O.K. Transport Bill


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

Ex-Senator Criticizes Republicans' Tone on Immigration

BYLINE: ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 337 words



HIGHLIGHT: Former Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, said the
immigration debate during the presidential primary season "did a lot of damage"
to the party, and urged Mitt Romney to reach out to Hispanics.


TAMPA, Fla. - Mel Martinez is a former United States Senator from Florida,
served as chairman of the Republican Party under President George W. Bush, and
is one of the highest-level Hispanic Republicans in public life. So it was
striking on Wednesday morning to hear him speak starkly about his party's
problems with Latino voters after a primary season in which all the candidates
stressed measures that would severely curb immigration

"We went through a tough period of time when the primary did the exact opposite
of what we needed to be doing," Mr. Martinez said, "which polarized the
electorate in a terrible way."

"I think the tone has been wrong," he said. "And I think the tone in the primary
really did a lot of damage."

Mr. Martinez stopped short of criticizing Mitt Romney, the Republican
presidential nominee, for his own rhetoric on the subject, and acknowledged that
Mr. Romney had largely avoided the issue since winning the nomination. "In my
view he has decided he is going to deal with this issue as president, and not as
a candidate," he said. "And I think that's probably smart politics. But I still
think he needs to reach out to Hispanics."

He said Mr. Romney should talk about immigration, but not get pulled into the
details of a difficult debate during the campaign. "The immigration issue is too
difficult to deal with in a public contest," he said, speaking on a panel on the
Republican Party and Latino voters sponsored by National Journal, Univision News
and ABC News.

"Tomorrow night is about winning an election," Mr. Martinez said of Mr. Romney's
acceptance speech. "What I would have him say is, have him speak to Hispanics in
the country about what he is going to do about jobs in this country."

Mr. Martinez noted that his former boss, Mr. Bush, had done particularly well
with Latino voters. He said part of that was because Mr. Bush was from Texas, a
border state. But there was something else.

"He got more mileage out of the Spanish he knew that anyone else I have ever
known," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Latitude)

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday

Coming to Australia

BYLINE: LUKE HUNT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 792 words



HIGHLIGHT: Catering to an immigration-sensitive electorate, the Australian
government is making it harder for Afghan refugees to make a new home on a land
they've risked death to reach.


MELBOURNE - A takeaway kebab shop in a leafy Australian suburb seems a far cry
from the troubles of Afghanistan. But even here the anguish of war and
centuries-old prejudices bite.

The sinking of another boat carrying asylum seekers from Afghanistan - almost
100 died last week in Indonesia's Sunda Strait - has left the Hazara community
here anxious and disturbed.

"More boats will come," the 29-year-old Hasan Jafari forecasts from the relative
comfort of the Doner Kebab Inn, a shop he opened two months ago amid the
middle-class comforts of the suburb of Ormond. "It is better to die at sea
trying to get here than to be killed in Afghanistan or Pakistan."

Hazaras, a predominantly Shiite and Persian-speaking group, have a long history
of being persecuted in Afghanistan at the hands of overwhelmingly Sunni rivals:
Pashtuns, Tajiks and Turks. They have been landing on the northwestern coast of
Australia in significant numbers since the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan in
late 2001.

The number of Hazaras in Australia has swelled to approximately 50,000, about
one-third of them arriving by boat, alongside non-Hazaras from Afghanistan, as
well as Pakistan, Iraq and Sri Lanka.

Few of these refugees want to criticize the country that has given them a home.
However, some find it difficult to remain silent about a government that claims
to be acting in the interest of hard-pressed asylum seekers but has recently
decided to send them to third countries whose lack of prominence in the
international system and poor track record on human rights is unlikely to
deliver much hope.

After successive Australian governments failed to come to grips with the influx
of boat people, Prime Minister Julia Gillard endorsed a new policy: In the
future, refugees will be diverted to detention centers in Nauru and Papua New
Guinea for screening and processing.

Ostensibly designed to curtail human smuggling, this move really seems to be a
response to an electorate that is threatening to end Gillard's tenure at the
next election. (A vote must be held by Nov. 30 of next year.)

According to Home Affairs Minister Jason Clare, the policy shift has prompted a
kind of "going-out-of-business sale," with smugglers offering cheap last-time
deals to those contemplating the treacherous voyage. In August alone a record
1,933 asylum-seekers landed in Australia in 34 boats.

Once they arrive, refugees face highly polarized attitudes from Australians.
Some are dismissed as illegal or economic migrants. Others are welcomed,
particularly if they have arrived from Afghanistan where Australian soldiers
have been fighting alongside U.S. troops since 2001.

Jafari, the kebab-shop owner, says doubts about the status of some asylum
seekers - be they from Afghanistan and elsewhere - might be legitimate. But not
so with Hazaras. In his view, violence against Hazaras in Afghanistan and
Pakistan is escalating because Al Qaeda had adopted a policy directly targeting
them.

"Seven Hazaras have just been killed in Quetta," Jafari said, referring to a
recent incident in the Balochistan province of Pakistan. "It happens all the
time. People don't accept us. Countries don't accept us. But Australians do
accept us, and so they must come," he said of fellow Hazaras, all in an
impeccable Aussie accent.

He knows what he speaks of. Twelve years ago, the Taliban raided his home in the
city of Uruzgan. Finding his mother and a sister not wearing their
all-encompassing burqas, the Taliban ordered the family to provide one son,
Jafari, to fight on the frontline against Ahmed Shah Massoud, the leader of the
anti-Taliban resistance.

An uncle sold a family plot and gave Jafari $3,000. Jafari, then 16, fled to
Karachi and flew to Jakarta, where he was loaded onto a boat licensed to carry
40 for a six-day voyage. There were 97 refugees onboard. By day nine, they had
run out of food. "You can't think," Jafari said describing the ordeal. "You're
dizzy, distressed and sea sick all the time."

After 17 days at sea his boat was picked up by the Australian navy at Ashmore
Reef, between Timor and northwestern Australia, and escorted to safety. Jafari
was among the first Hazara refugees to land in this country. Now, he is a pillar
of the Shamama Association of Australia, a group created to assist Hazara
refugees. Between grilling kebabs he plays soccer, supports Geelong's team in
Australian football. Occasionally he deejays at local nightclubs.

"Life here can be little boring," Jafari conceded with a smile. "But it is nice.
Everyone comes into my shop. There are Russians, Greeks, Indians and lots of
Jews. This would never happen in Afghanistan. That is why the Hazaras must take
a chance and come to Australia.

If only Australia would let them in.


     ·    Bangladesh's Right of Refusal


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday

The UndocuBus

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 314 words



HIGHLIGHT: A rolling platform for immigration activism, painted aqua, has
reached Charlotte after more than a month on the road.


The UndocuBus, a rolling platform for immigration activism, painted aqua and
covered with butterflies, has reached Charlotte, N.C., after more than a month
on the road. It started in Arizona in late July and wove its way through states
where there have been immigrant crackdowns: New Mexico, Colorado, Texas,
Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee.

Riders, most of them undocumented immigrants, staged protests and musical events
on the way. They sang, marched and peacefully got in the way of police and
sheriff's departments. A few were arrested. Now they are in Charlotte to put
pressure on Democrats, who they say share the blame with Republicans for
inaction on immigration reform.

As The Times editorialized in July, this civil disobedience should not have been
necessary. In 2006, Congress entertained comprehensive reform that had strong
bipartisan support. But Republicans killed the bill, and Democrats have done
little to revive it, crushing immigrants' hopes while reinforcing the broken
status quo.

Some Democrats may be skittish about bringing up immigration, but these migrants
-- whose motto is No Papers, No Fear -- are not. They are insisting on speaking
out, trying to get the country to confront their plight. This is a courageous
act, especially in the South.

The protest made its way to a day-labor corner, in Charlotte, where members of a
day-laborer band, Los Jornaleros del Norte, sang a corrido, a Mexican ballad,
about the day-labor life.

It was by a Charlotte day laborer, Roberto, who wrote it on that corner. It
tells the immigrant story -- hope, hard labor, dignity, good humor -- very well.
Watch it through, to get to the part about the Hindi guy who agreed to let the
Latinos gather in peace.


     ·    What Should the President Say?
     ·    Aggressive on Abortion
     ·    'I Love My Husband. So Vote for Him' - The Sequel
     ·    Anti-Abortion, Pro-Democrat
     ·    Tell Me Something New


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

Visas-for-Dollars Program a Boon to Hotel Developers

BYLINE: JANET MORRISSEY

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1199 words



HIGHLIGHT: A federal program that grants so-called EB-5 visas to foreigners who
invest at least $500,000 in an American business has become a popular source of
cheap financing for hotel companies.


When Marriott International wanted to open a new hotel in downtown Seattle, the
company's developers didn't sell bonds, take out a mortgage or tap other
traditional forms of financing for the $88 million project. Instead, it raised
the bulk of the money from wealthy immigrants who wanted a green card.

A government program, which grants so-called EB-5 visas to foreigners who invest
at least $500,000 in an American business, is now a popular source of financing
for new Marriott hotels. Since the Seattle deal in 2008, the company has
endorsed 14 projects that use EB-5 financing, including the downtown Milwaukee
Marriott, a Courtyard Marriott in Midtown Manhattan and a $168 million hotel
near the Staples Center in Los Angeles.

"It's created liquidity in a relatively illiquid market," said Anthony Capuano,
the chief development officer at Marriott.

The EB-5 program has been around since 1990, but small hotel developers started
flocking to it in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2008. They didn't
have much choice. With the economy in tatters and the travel market tanking,
many projects stalled or were canceled altogether when financing evaporated.
Even now as the industry fundamentals improve and room occupancy rates rise,
money is hard to come by - expensive for some, nonexistent for others.

The federal government offers an alternative. Under the Citizenship and
Immigration Services' Immigrant Investor Program, foreigners can obtain EB-5
visas - essentially temporary residency status - by investing $1 million, or
$500,000 in high unemployment areas, in a commercial venture that generates 10
jobs over two years.

It has proved to be a relatively cheap source of financing. Hotel developers can
raise money through the EB-5 program by offering returns of less than 4 percent.
In contrast, the interest rates on debt starts at 6 percent, with some riskier
forms of financing running at 10 percent or higher. Investors who take an equity
stake in a hotel project aim for returns of 20 percent.

"Foreigners are buying visas and are much less concerned about the rate of
return they earn on their investment," said David Loeb, a senior analyst at
Robert W. Baird.

Despite the potential advantages, big industry players were reticent at first.
Many dismissed it as a marginal program for questionable projects that couldn't
get financing any other way. They also wondered how developers could round up
200 investors to pay for a $100 million project.

"We would go to conferences and talk about the program, and people just didn't
believe it was real - they didn't believe you could raise that much money," said
Catherine D. Holmes, partner at the law firm Jeffer Mangels Butler & Mitchell.
Once Marriott was in the picture, "people started to take it more seriously,"
said Ms. Holmes, whose firm is helping clients use EB-5 financing for 40
different hotel projects.

Over the last 18 months, developers for Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt Hotels and
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide have turned to EB-5 financing. In July,
FelCor Lodging Trust announced plans to raise $45 million through EB-5 financing
as part of its planned $230 million redevelopment of the Knickerbocker Hotel in
Times Square. Sam Nazarian, the hospitality magnate known for his
celebrity-packed hotels, restaurants and nightclubs in Los Angeles, plans to
build the first SLS hotel in New York with EB-5 money.

"It's a method of financing that's current, available and very credible," said
Craig Mance, Hilton's senior vice president for development for North America
"It's helping deals move forward." Hilton has 10 projects relying on EB-5
financing.

EB-5 financing has been a boon to development broadly.

So far this year, the government has issued 3,002 temporary visas through the
program, up from 640 in 2008. Most have gone to Chinese immigrants, with a
number handed out to investors in Britain, India, the Netherlands and South
Korea.

Developers often work with so-called regional centers, federally approved
organizations that help them draw up business plans and recruit potential
investors.

While the regional center program is slated to end on Sept. 30, the Senate
approved a bill to extend it for three years. It is expected to pass Congress,
although a date has not been set for the vote in the House.

The program has been a good fit for hotels, which create direct jobs - desk
people, housekeepers and managers - as well as indirect employment for the
companies providing towels and other supplies. "Hotels are 24-hour-a-day,
365-day businesses," said Mr. Capuano of Marriott. "They're ideal for driving
job growth."

Marriott's 377-room hotel under construction in Los Angeles is estimated to
generate 4,240 direct and indirect jobs by 2016, above its EB-5 goal of 3,360.
The developers benefit in part from the hotel's proximity to the Staples Center,
which houses four professional sports teams; Marriott guests are expected to
help drive the sales of tickets and team souvenirs. The project even gets a
boost from the jumbo electronic billboard outside the hotel, which should lead
to jobs for advertising, marketing and leasing the sign.

"The idea is that more money in the economy equates to more jobs," said Henry
Liebman, the president of American Life, a regional center that worked with
Marriott's developers.

The program has had its share of problems. It was suspended from 1998 to 2003
over complaints of fraud and corruption, according to the government agency that
oversees that program. In some cases, a foreign investor would commit money with
a promissory note, then never hand over the cash. There were also cases where
middlemen would siphon off cash, leaving little for the developers. Other times,
developers took the cash but never built the project.

"There were some issues with investors trying to circumvent the capital and
job-creation requirements," said Claire Nicholson, a spokeswoman for Citizenship
and Immigration Services.

The government has worked to clean up the program. Investors are now required to
pay the full amount upfront and any fees to middlemen must be paid separately.

"We're committed to ensuring the program achieves its job creation mission
efficiently and effectively," Ms. Nicholson said.

As Marriott and other big hoteliers have jumped on board, they have also helped
improve the credibility of the program, according to industry players.

The hotel companies closely analyze each project, whether or not they use EB-5
financing. They want to ensure the hotel meets brand standards and the debt
levels are manageable.

"If someone tells me they've got a $10 million project and they've got $10.5
million in debt, that's a project that I'm going to question because it's
overleveraged," Mr. Mance of Hilton said. It's up to the developers and the
regional centers to ensure the project meets the EB-5 requirements.

Even after traditional financing comes back significantly, Marriott, Hilton and
others say they are likely to continue using the EB-5 program. It's relatively
cheap and stable, and it complements other financing sources. Said Mr. Mance:
"If it works, why not use it again?"


     ·    Hyatt Shares Jump in Debut on N.Y.S.E.
     ·    Hyatt I.P.O.: Not Such a Bargain, After All?


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

The Count and the Gymnasts

BYLINE: C. KAY LARSON

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1420 words



HIGHLIGHT: How a Swedish nobleman came to lead a regiment composed of German
athletes in the Civil War.


During the Battle of Antietam on Sept. 17, 1862, Col. Ernst von Vegesack, the
commander of the 20th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment, sat prominently on
horseback, while the unit's banner, emblazoned with the words "Bahn Frei,"
German for "clear the way," streamed high over a ridge near the Dunker Church.

For three hours, the 20th New York was reportedly "exposed to the heaviest fire
in line, which it bore with unyielding courage." Colonel Vegesack himself came
under fire repeatedly, but "his calm courage gave example" to his men. The next
day Gen. Robert E. Lee retreated back across the Potomac; this "strategic Union
success" gave political room for Abraham Lincoln to issue the Preliminary
Emancipation Proclamation. The day Vegesack rallied his men was his and their
finest hour.

Vegesack is virtually unknown today, and his background - Swedish nobleman,
leading mostly German  immigrant soldiers - seems out of place in the history of
America's civil war. And yet Vegesack's and the 20th New York's story underlines
how the war belonged not just to native-born Americans, but to but to European
volunteers; hundreds of thousands of men, rich and poor, who were to become
Americans through payments in blood.

At the outbreak of the Civil War, Swedes were a small immigrant group in the
United States, numbering about 16,000, mostly farmers residing in the northern
Midwest and scattered around the East. Some 2,200 joined the Union Army and
Navy, but could barely be found in Confederate ranks. Coming from a poor
country, these immigrants were agape at the land available; thus they strongly
supported the Union and antislavery causes. They also personally identified with
Lincoln as the son of a working man.

Adding to the ranks of Swedish immigrants already settled in the United States
came came unknown others eager to enlist after the war began. The American
consul in Stockholm wrote that he could approve passage for 1,000 men a month,
if transportation could be paid for. Professional military officers sought
commissions as well. Thus, an agreement was reached whereby the Swedish foreign
ministry would recommend officers like Vegesack to the State Department and in
some cases pay their transportation - an interesting arrangement for an
officially neutral nation.

The Swedish officers, and other foreign volunteer officers like them, made
contributions out of proportion to their numbers. Given their backgrounds and
the fact that many, like Vegesack, had participated in or observed prior
European conflicts, they provided impressive skills as trainers, artillery
specialists, armament designers and fortification and operations planners.

Count Ernst Mattias Peter von Vegesack was among the most impressive of the lot.
Born in 1820 in Gotland, Sweden, he joined the Army at 15 years old and rose
through the ranks. He fought with the Danes during the 1848 Schleswig-Holstein
War against Prussia and was named captain in the National Guard in 1857.

Vegesack immigrated to the United States shortly after the firing on Fort Sumter
and was assigned duties at Fortress Monroe in 1862. He petitioned to be given
command of the 20th New York, a unit composed of German immigrants that
Vegesack, being fluent in German, thought he was a natural to lead. When his
petition was denied, he resigned his commission and fought as a private in the
Peninsula campaign, eventually joining Gen. George B. McClellan's staff as a
major.

Vegesack was finally appointed colonel of the 20th New York in July 1862. He
commanded a brigade at the Second Battle of Bull Run and attained his due fame
at Antietam. As Vegesack's reputation spread, increasing numbers of Swedes chose
to enlist with the Germans.

In a further irony only possible in the crucible of an American war, Vegesack, a
member of the Swedish nobility, led a regiment formed by republican ideologues.
The United Turner Rifles, the regiment's nom de guerre, was mustered into
service in April 1861, with members hailing from Manhattan, Brooklyn, Albany,
Poughkeepsie, Newark and other towns. The men were united in their membership in
Turner societies, a widespread movement that melded physical fitness with
democratic reform activism. The first Turner Society  was founded in 1811 by a
teacher in Berlin named Frederick Ludwig Jahn. The physical fitness program,
which included women, offered varied training, but gymnastics was the signature
sport. Turner leaders like Franz Sigel and Francis Lieber, who would later play
important roles in the Civil War, spearheaded the 1848 German revolution.

In America the members promoted an agenda around free speech, workingmen's and
women's rights and opposition to slavery. As antislavery societies spread
nationwide, Turner Clubs were some of the few venues that opened their doors to
speakers. Turner men acted as secret bodyguards for Lincoln and the abolitionist
Wendell Phillips. By the end of the Civil War, Turners counted among top
military leaders and had signed 21 infantry regiments, 2 cavalry regiments and 2
batteries of artillery in the Union Army.

On June 13, 1861, when the 20th New York left for Fortress Monroe, the German
community turned out en masse. More Turner Club members; musical, theatrical,
and choral groups; and fire companies escorted the newly minted soldiers to New
York City Hall where they received their flags. A New York Daily Tribune
reporter effused: "The regiment is not only thoroughly equipped and sworn for
the war, but every man is perfectly and completely drilled in the manual and
maneuvers." After the Turner Rifles underwent their first formal inspection at
the fort, they hosted a festive reception. Besides affording food and music,
they treated the amazed Gen. Benjamin F. Butler and guests to a gymnastics
demonstration, featuring tumbling and a human pyramid.

Following the Battle of Antietam, Vegesack and his Turners served with further
distinction at the battles of Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville, and in
smaller actions. At Gettysburg Vegesack served as adjutant to commanding Gen.
George G. Meade.

In May 1863, the 20th New York Infantry Regiment was mustered out of service,
although many soldiers intended to re-enlist. The men honored their colonel at a
dinner in New York. During the unit's service, of the original 1,200 men
enrolled, 111 enlisted men and 9 officers had died from combat or disease, 201
had been wounded and 174 were missing.

Following Gettysburg, Vegesack failed to gain promotion to brigadier general.
Thus, he resigned his commission to resume his old command in Sweden, where he
was eventually promoted to major general. In August 1893, though long since
returned to Sweden, he was awarded the Medal of Honor for his "distinguished
gallantry and meritorious service," in covering Maj. Gen. Fitz-John Porter's
retreat at the 1862 Battle of Gaines Mills in Virginia.

By the end of the war, many other Swedish-Americans had also achieved senior
rank, including Brig. Gen. Charles J. Stohlbrand of Chicago, who had attended
the Royal Vendes Artillery School in Sweden before immigrating in 1850.

Turner clubs continue to thrive across the country; the New York club eventually
moved from Manhattan to the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx, where its Civil
War regimental list is still posted at its front door.

Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.

Sources: Alexandria (Va.) Gazette, May 9, 1863; The New York Daily Tribune, June
14, 1861; John and David Eicher, "Civil War High Commands"; William F. Fox,
"Regimental Losses in the American Civil War"; Nels M. Hokanson, "Swedish
Immigration in Lincoln's Time"; C. Kay Larson, "South Under a Prairie Sky: The
Journal of Nell Churchill, US Army Nurse & Scout"; Ella Lonn, "Foreigners in the
Union Army and Navy"; James M. McPherson, "Battle Cry of Freedom"; C. Eugene
Miller and Forrest F. Steinlage, "Der Turner Soldat; A Turner Soldier in the
Civil War"; Thomas Poffenberger, "Germany to Antietam"; Ernst A. Weier, "The
Work of the American Turner Societies."

C. Kay Larson is a member of the board of the New York Military Affairs
Symposium and the author of "Great Necessities: The Life, Times, and Writings of
Anna Ella Carroll, 1815-1894," "A World on Fire: Britain's Crucial Role in the
American Civil War" and "South Under a Prairie Sky: The Journal of Nell
Churchill, U. S. Army Nurse and Scout."


     ·    The Wars of Carl Schurz
     ·    Evangelicals, Republicans and the Civil War
     ·    The Dead of Antietam
     ·    Lincoln's Great Gamble
     ·    The President and the Pastors


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday

Gov. Brown Should Sign the Trust Act

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 420 words



HIGHLIGHT: Governor Jerry Brown of California should sign the Trust Act and help
fix America's flawed immigration system.


Gov. Jerry Brown of California has until this weekend to sign the Trust Act,a
bill that seeks to restore concern for public safety and sensible
law-enforcement to an immigration system that has strayed from those ideals.

The bill requires state and local authorities to be more prudent when the
federal government wants to use their jails as immigration holding cells.

Presently, when Immigration and Customs Enforcement runs inmates'  fingerprints
through its databases and finds someone it believes is deportable, it often asks
local authorities to hold that person to be picked up for deportation. Most
police departments try to comply, though doing so is voluntary.

Under California's bill, local police would agree to hold inmates for ICE only
if they have been convicted or charged with a serious or violent felony. If the
inmates are noncriminals or minor offenders who would otherwise be let go, they
would not be turned over to ICE.

As the bill's sponsor, Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, said: "We want police to
distinguish between the woman selling tamales and the gang member who has a
record."

In theory this is not a problem for ICE, which supposedly shares Mr. Ammiano's
priorities. Its officials insist that their main focus is catching "the worst of
the worst" - dangerous and violent felons, not peaceable violators of civil
immigration laws. In reality, immigration has become a numbers game of mounting
arrests and deportations. The Obama administration is deporting 400,000 people a
year, tens of thousands of whom have no criminal records or only minor
convictions.

The Trust Act is important. It's not, by itself, going to solve a grossly
dysfunctional national immigration system. It's just one state trying to be
level-headed and proportionate about who gets deported, which families get split
up, and which policing strategies are smartest, most effective and most humane.

Other states like Arizona and Alabama are doing the opposite, fighting to force
their cops and sheriff's deputies to join the federal crackdown through expanded
police-state tactics and racial profiling. Mr. Brown should listen to the voices
of the immigrants, civil-rights advocates, police chiefs and sheriffs, local
elected officials, members of Congress, Catholic bishops and other religious
leaders who have implored him to lead California out of that wilderness. He
should sign the Trust Act.


     ·    Opinion Report: Foreign Aid
     ·    Mitt Romney's Secret Plan
     ·    The UndocuBus
     ·    The Hurricane and the Undocumented
     ·    The G.O.P.'s Message to Latino Voters


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Green)

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday

A Barrier for South Texas Wildlife

BYLINE: MELISSA GASKILL

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1044 words



HIGHLIGHT: A barrier in the Lower Rio Grande Valley has blocked animal corridors
in an already-fragmented landscape.


A line of 18-foot-high steel posts spaced four inches apart flank the entrance
of part of one of the most biodiverse ecosystems in the United States, and one
of the most endangered. Bifurcated by the fence is the Nature Conservancy's
Southmost Preserve near Brownsvillle, Tex., whose threatened species include the
Southern yellow bat, the Texas tortoise and the ocelot, an endangered cat whose
estimated American population is under 50. One of the few remaining stands of
native sable palms in the United States grow there as well.

The posts are part of a 70-mile "pedestrian barrier" between Falcon Dam and the
Gulf of Mexico that was built to deter illegal immigration and drug trafficking.
It lies anywhere from hundreds of yards to several miles north of the border.
Before construction started in 2009, experts expressed concern about the effects
of the fence on so-called wildlife corridors in the Rio Grande Valley. Now they
are taking stock of the impacts.

"All wildlife roam along corridors," said Laura Huffman, director of the Texas
branch of the Nature Conservancy. "These are nature's highways. Any time you put
an obstacle in a highway, it's going to affect mobility, the ability of animals
to move back and forth."

At the Southmost Preserve, the bottom of the fence is pierced by 8-by-11-inch
openings every 500 feet.These aren't large enough for many animals, biologists
say, nor were they positioned on the basis of existing data on wildlife
corridors.

"Smaller animals - young coyotes, weasels, jackrabbits -  can get through the
holes, but larger animals can't," Ms. Huffman said. "The wall seems to have
caused changes to movement patterns of many wildlife. We're seeing tracks of
deer and javelina where we weren't before. I suspect they are having to follow
along the fence to attempt crossings."

The federal Fish and Wildlife Service has used cameras and collars to monitor
bobcats in the Rio Grande Valley for more than 12 years. So far it has no
evidence that bobcats are using the openings.

Ms. Huffman said the wall also seems to have changed some animals' movement
patterns. "We're seeing tracks of deer and javelina where we weren't before,"
she said. "I suspect they are having to follow along the fence to attempt
crossings."

For the ocelot and the jaguarundi, another small cat, interbreeding between
populations on both sides of the Rio Grande river is considered ciritical to
maintaining genetic diversity.

Officials at the Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge, which spans
90,000 acres in 115 separate units, have also expressed concern about the
barrier's effect on an already fragmented landscape.

"I don't think the openings are effective -- nobody does," said Kelly McDowell,
the Fish and Wildlife Service's refuge supervisor for Oklahoma and Texas. She
said it was unlikely that ocelots would even find them. "This is a heavy
forest-dwelling species that stays in cover, and you're talking about an area
that is cleared out with roads on both sides," she said. "As a wildlife
biologist, I can't say there is any likelihood that the openings will maintain
the connectivity that we think a species like ocelot needs."

When the barrier went up, Maxwell Pons, the Southmost Preserve's manager,
sprayed fox urine around the openings to help animals find them. But not all
species would pick up on the scent, he said.

The barrier also bisects the Anacua Unitof the Texas Parks and Wildlife
department's Las Palomas Wildlife Management Area, isolating 48 acres on its
south side. "The fence limits the travel of larger animals," said the
department's regional director, Len Polasek. "It also prevents animals from
getting to the river for water."

When construction got under way, the department's biologists identified species
likely to be affected by the barrier; among them were 10 plants and animals on
federal and state endangered lists, 23 on the state's threatened list, and
dozens of species of concern.

"The border fence and roads associated with it reduce ability of animals to move
on the landscape," said Jon Beckmann, a scientist with the Wildlife Conservation
Society. "That isolates populations, which reduces genetic variation."

Some sections of barrier in the Lower Rio Grand Valley are solid concrete walls
intended to retain floodwaters, increasing the possibility that wildlife could
be trapped in high water, environmentalists also point out. Even the post-style
barrier can worsen flooding by trapping debris.

Mr. Beckmann said that many animals would be deterred from crossing anyway by
the increased lighting and the vehicles of border guards and others traveling
along the line of posts.

Mr. Pons and Ms. Huffman also worry what will happen to the Southmost Preserve's
native plant nursery, which has provided 70,000 seedlings of 16 trees and scrub
to help restore native landscapes. "A lot of people had worked hard and put
together a pretty remarkable mosaic of lands protected by state, federal and
local agencies and organizations," Ms. Huffman said.

Several studies support environmentalists' arguments about the potentially
destructive effect of the barriers. A 2009 study in the journal Conservation
Biology suggested that the barrier would disrupt movement and distribution of
ferruginous pygmy-owls, bighorn sheep and similar species. Another by scientists
from the University of Texas and Yale identified three regions where wildlife
was most at risk from pedestrian barriers: coastal California, Arizona's Madrean
Sky Island Archipelago and the Rio Grande Valley. (The barriers, mandated by the
Secure Fence Act of 2006, extend intermittently across 650 miles of the border,
from California to Texas.)

Still, Mr. Beckmann of the Wildlife Conservation Society says he remains
optimistic that a solution will be found as the impacts are further documented.
"If we get the right constituents together, we can address national security
concerns and maintain functioning ecosystems at the same time," he said. "It can
be done. It's just whether we as a nation decide it is something we want to do."


     ·    On the Migratory Trail, Leaders and Followers
     ·    Indonesia's Furtive Snake Trade
     ·    An Unlikely Welcome Wagon, Back in Suburbia
     ·    On Our Radar: A Twist on Eating Local
     ·    Fukushima vs. Chernobyl: How Have Animals Fared?


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Opinion Report: Screening Firefighters

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 128 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.


 From the editorial page

American military commanders are trying to set the stage for eventual peace
talks between the Afghan government and the insurgency.

Last week, the Federal District Court in Brooklyn approved a well-designed
nondiscriminatory screening test for the city's firefighters.

New York's chief judge is moving ahead with his rule requiring law students to
perform 50 hours of pro bono legal services as a condition of admission to the
bar.

The president's decision to suspend the deportations of young immigration who
were brought here illegally as children has created a daunting paperwork
challenge.


     ·    Mitt Romney's Secret Plan
     ·    Opinion Report: Political-Message Bills
     ·    Romney's Immigration Clarification (Re-clarified)
     ·    Romney Has a Visa Problem
     ·    The 'Illegal' Trap


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

U.S. Customs Workers to Switch to iPhones From BlackBerrys

BYLINE: IAN AUSTEN

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 483 words



HIGHLIGHT: Even after the popularity of BlackBerrys among consumers went into a
tailspin, it was widely assumed that their security features would keep law
enforcement agencies loyal to the brand. But the decision by the Department of
Homeland Security to switch 17,676 employees to iPhones from BlackBerrys
suggests even that assumption no longer holds true.


 Even after the popularity of BlackBerrys among consumers went into a tailspin,
it was widely assumed that their security features would keep law enforcement
agencies loyal to the brand.

But the decision by the Department of Homeland Security to switch 17,676
employees at its Immigration and Customs Enforcement branch to iPhones from
BlackBerrys suggests even that assumption no longer holds true for Research in
Motion, the maker of BlackBerry.

The $2.1 million iPhone contract was awarded in late September and revealed last
week in a government document explaining why it was not opened to competitive
tenders.

After eight years of using BlackBerrys, the agency concluded that the
once-leading smartphones were too far behind the times to meet its needs.

The agency said it had "evolving mobile law enforcement business requirements
that require the use of more capable and dynamic mobile technology."

RIM's decline has also prompted concerns at the agency that the company, like
its competitor Nokia, may not survive. Products from those two companies, the
document said, "help to define the smartphone market."

But it added: "Both companies failed to innovate and consumers have rejected
them. The net effect is that both firms have been relegated to laggards in the
consumer market which has made them too risky for adoption as a 'go-to' choice
for enterprise use."

The report's analysis praised RIM, along with Apple, for controlling both the
hardware and software sides of their phones, ranking both equal in terms of
security. But it gave Apple extra points for consistency.

"A hallmark of Apple's technology and business strategy is the strict adherence
to product uniformity," the report said.

The report noted that ICE is not the only federal agency with law enforcement
duties to find that the iPhone now best meets its needs. It indicated that the
Federal Air Marshall Service, the Coast Guard and the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives have all made the switch.

In a statement, Paul Lucier, the vice president of government solutions at RIM,
did not directly address the decision by ICE. But he said: "We have one million
government customers in North America alone who depend on BlackBerry, and more
than 400,000 government customers worldwide upgraded their devices in the past
year."

On Monday, RIM separately released a study it had commissioned indicating that
the British government would initially increase its smartphone costs by 39
percent if it allowed employees to use a variety of phones rather than just
BlackBerrys. The paper, which was written by the firm Strategic Analytics,
concluded that a BlackBerry-only workplace would costs 14 percent less to
operate.

The report also argued that limiting employees to BlackBerrys would still
provide superior security compared to allowing a variety of different phones to
connect with the government's computer systems.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

Bilingual Lies

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 464 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney has a new Spanish-language campaign ad that's misleading
even by his own slippery standards.


Mitt Romney has a new Spanish-language campaign ad, about immigration reform,
that's misleading and fraudulent even by his own slippery standards. Univision,
among others, conducted a fact-check that reveals how the ad uses vagueness,
misdirection and omission to create the false impression that a President Romney
would enact reforms that immigrants favor.

"As governor, Mitt Romney worked with Democrats to achieve solutions," the ad
says - which may be true about some things, like health care, but not
immigration. Governor Romney wasn't about achieving immigrant-friendly
solutions. He vetoed the Massachusetts version of the Dream Act, which would
have given in-state tuition to undocumented students. He opposed giving
undocumented immigrants driver's licenses. And in the presidential campaign he
promised to veto the federal Dream Act, which would legalize youths who were
brought here illegally as children if they go to college or serve in the
military.


The ad continues: "Romney and the Republicans will fight for bipartisan reform
to bring families together. To establish a program for work visas. And to
achieve permanent solutions for undocumented youth."

Bipartisan reform? Family togetherness? Work visas and "permanent solutions"?
This is where the ad goes off the deep end, and why immigrant advocates have
called on the Romney campaign to take it down.

Mr. Romney has said he would end, not continue, President Obama's temporary
deportation reprieves for undocumented students, which are giving thousands of
young people the chance to work legally for the first time. This has left many
of them  feeling jerked around and anxious about the upcoming election, as Julia
Preston reported last week. It takes courage to come forward, but if President
Romney ends the program, those who did so will be heading back into the shadows,
surely feeling more vulnerable to arrest and deportation for having outed
themselves to the federal government. And they will also be out of work, or back
to working off the books.

As for reform, the Republican Party has spent much of the last decade beating
back efforts to streamline the system or to make life for the undocumented
easier, fairer, safer or more lawful. Former moderates like John McCain and
Lindsey Graham have retreated into hard-line restrictionism. Extremists like
Kris Kobach - a Romney supporter and adviser - have defined the party's
no-compromise immigration stance.

Mr. Romney is now making vague, unsupported promises of "solutions" in hopes of
snagging a few Latino votes. But the only solution he has offered so far is
"self-deportation," the choice to leave the country.


     ·    Mitt Romney's Secret Plan
     ·    The G.O.P.'s Message to Latino Voters
     ·    The Spanish Campaign
     ·    Romney's Immigration Speech
     ·    Shhh, Don't Mention Immigration


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                            October 29, 2012 Monday

Adios, Arpaio?

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 434 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sheriff Joe, who is seeking a sixth four-year term, faces a credible
challenger in Paul Penzone.


Election Day brings with it the tantalizing possibility that voters in Arizona
will do what should have been done years ago: end the career of Sheriff Joe
Arpaio of Maricopa County, the self-appointed, self-promoting scourge of illegal
immigrants whose five-term reign has been a disaster for law enforcement, county
budgets, the lives of immigrants and Latinos and the rule of law.

Sheriff Joe, who is seeking a sixth four-year term, faces a credible challenger
in Paul Penzone, a retired Phoenix police sergeant and Democrat. It's hard to
know the current state of the race --  The Arizona Republic reported that the
polls have varied, depending on which campaign paid for them, but said that the
sheriff's lead has ranged from 14 to 4 percentage points, unusually narrow for
someone who previously coasted to re-election with negligible opposition.

Anti-Arpaio forces see signs that the sheriff is breaking a sweat -- in the
abundance of outside money, ferocious negative ads and election-related
mischief.  A reporter for the local CBS-TV affiliate, for example, stated
wrongly on the air that it was a felony to possess someone else's ballot --
which, if true, would pose a huge problem for the dump-Arpaio groups that have
been scouring the county gathering early-voting ballots for delivery to election
officials. As long you have a voter's permission and don't pretend to be a
government employee, handling other people's ballots is perfectly legal, a fact
that the county recorder, a Republican named Helen Purcell, was urged to point
out (she eventually did). That didn't stop Sheriff Arpaio's campaign from
reportedly making robo-calls urging voters not to let anyone take their early
ballots -- you wouldn't want to break the law!

Anti-Arpaio groups have also argued that the sheriff's supporters are trying to
suppress the Latino vote. It's hard to blame them for being suspicious. This is
the county, after all, where supporters of a Republican state senator facing a
tough recall election put a fake opponent with a Spanish name on the ballot, to
dilute the opposition. The sham candidate, Olivia Cortes, eventually withdrew.

Ms. Purcell's office has already had to acknowledge that voting-information
cards and bookmarks it printed in Spanish gave the wrong date for Election Day:
Nov. 8, not Nov. 6. Ms. Purcell called it an error. ("I wish I could say we
never made a mistake in this office," her statement said.) The same mistake was
not made in the English-language materials.


     ·    Joe Arpaio's American Dream
     ·    Arizona's Immigration Law and Mandatory Life Terms
     ·    U.S. v. Arpaio
     ·    Bilingual Lies
     ·    Left Unsaid


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                            November 6, 2012 Tuesday

A Shooting in Broad Daylight, Rationalized

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 598 words



HIGHLIGHT: At Free Republic, an online forum for passionate right-wing
discussion, the commentariat's divided over how best to respond to a fatal
border shooting in La Joya.


There is widespread concern, disgust and outrage in Texas over a fatal border
shooting last month in La Joya, a few miles from the Rio Grande. A state trooper

  shot at a fleeing truck packed not with drugs - as he apparently believed -
but with Guatemalan immigrants, two of whom were killed. That the trooper was in
a helicopter, in broad daylight, and should have seen that the truck's apparent
contraband was human, not chemical, have intensified the calls for
investigations.

But at Free Republic, an online forum for passionate right-wing discussion at
talk-radio intensity, the commentariat's divided over how best to respond.

Freerepublic.com is where you go to express your loathing for liberals, taxes,
abortion, climate science and "aliens" of the human variety. The site calls
itself "the premier online gathering place for independent, grass-roots
conservatism," which seems right to me. It's an interesting place to visit,
though I wouldn't want to live there.

Some commenters have condemned the La Joya shooting, because they hate when
government sharpshooters in helicopters swoop from the sky and murder people in
their pickup trucks:

-- And how is this not murder?

-- Hang on... they shoot from helicopters now

-- I don't think a police sharpshooter in a helicopter shooting at people in a
speeding vehicle is quite what we want happening in America.

-- While I support most actions by border states to stem the flow, shooting from
a helicopter, or any where else for that matter, is akin to murder.

-- I'm just stunned. I would expect this from nazi Germany or soviet Russia...
but the US?? so much for being the last refuge on earth to run to for help
against evil and tyranny. just stunned

-- The problem isn't about illegal aliens, the problem is about Law Enforcement
Officers trying to summarily execute people. (That's a 5th and 6th amendment
violation, btw.)

But wait - the victims were Guatemalans, apparently trying to enter the country
illegally. (Some were hiding in the truck, which was racing from the police.)
Hence the tension on Free Republic, where the only good "alien" is a
captured-and-deported "alien."

On Free Republic, when extreme views collide, it's like Mentos meeting Diet
Coke. Here is the other side of the argument.

-- Looks like a lot of comments from liberals living well away from the combat
zone, doesn't it? They caught an illegal running a load of AK 47s from Dallas
down to the front the other day. With the feds ceding the territory, it's up to
Texas to defend itself.

-- I am becoming more ashamed that American citizens are willing to, not only
let the invasion of the United States continue, encourage further invasion by
demonstrating a weakness toward the invaders.

-- And how is this not justified enemy combatant casualties inflicted during an
in-progress criminal invasion (act of war) against U.S. sovereign territory?

-- They were fleeing arrest. Their death was the result of their attempt to
evade capture.

-- Their deaths are no biggie.

-- Sorry but it's hard to feel too much compassion when illegal aliens are
harmed while engaged in the act of violating our nations sovereignty. I would
suggest you reserved your anger for President Obama and his Administration for
putting this tragedy in motion due to his unconstitutional actions and mandates.
The blood is on his hands.

-- We can shoot invaders.

-- Bing...Bing...Bing! We have a winner! So simple even a caveman can understand
it. Unless it's an open border caveman.


     ·    The 'Illegal' Trap
     ·    Adios, Arpaio?
     ·    Romney's Immigration Clarification (Re-clarified)
     ·    Mitt Romney's Secret Plan
     ·    The UndocuBus


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

The South's Man in London

BYLINE: ANDRE M. FLECHE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1577 words



HIGHLIGHT: How a Swiss immigrant became the South's leading propagandist in
Britain.


In late 1861, a 27-year-old naturalized Alabamian from Switzerland named Henry
Hotze was sent on a secret mission to London. Officially, he would be a
Confederate commercial agent, negotiating trade deals between Britain and the
South. But his real task, given to him by the Confederate secretary of state,
Robert Mercer Taliaferro Hunter, was much more sensitive: to persuade the
British people to support the Confederate cause.

Hotze's mission represented a departure in Confederate foreign policy. When the
war began in April 1861, Confederate officials had hoped that the economic power
of cotton alone would force the British government to intervene on the
Confederacy's behalf. For much of the 19th century, Britain had carried on a
booming trade with the American South; Southern plantations supplied cotton
fiber to the bustling textile mills of Birmingham and Manchester, and, in
return, Southern planters furnished their homes with British goods and filled
their libraries with British books. Few Confederate patriots could have imagined
that Britain could long tolerate any disruption to this lucrative commerce.

To speed British action, early in the war the Confederate president, Jefferson
Davis, ordered growers and shippers to withhold cotton from the world market. He
imagined that his embargo would wreak financial havoc, causing factories to
close and throwing thousands of laborers out of work - and that, to save the
world financial system from collapse, the British government would have no
choice but to help arrange a cease-fire, or, better yet, join the war against
the Union. Davis's stratagem became known as "King Cotton Diplomacy."

It was a miserable failure. London was less reliant on Southern cotton than
Davis had assumed. A Union naval blockade began to gradually choke off Southern
ports, making the very premise of King Cotton diplomacy moot. The Royal Navy had
not taken to the seas to ensure the flow of cotton, nor had officials in London
committed troops to the cause of Southern independence. The British government
had not yet even agreed to officially recognize the Confederacy as an
independent nation. It was Henry Hotze's job to figure out what had gone wrong.

Hotze arrived in London in early 1862. What he found worried him. The lack of
Southern cotton had not troubled the English people nearly as much as the
Confederate leadership had assumed it would. A mild winter had allowed British
workingmen and -women to make ends meet, even while working fewer hours. Some
speculators, cotton wholesalers and merchants had actually profited by the
cotton shortage as prices rose and importers shifted to growers in India and
Egypt to meet demand. In general, Hotze found most Englishmen "cold and
indifferent" toward what he called the Confederacy's "great war for a nation's
life."

Though the picture looked bleak at the moment, Hotze didn't give up all hope.
British public opinion might seem apathetic, but he also found it "in a fusible
state." He concluded that Southern officials had put too much faith in economic
self-interest and had not spent enough time appealing to the hearts and minds of
the British people. Determined to seize the opportunity, he proposed to carry
out a propaganda campaign on behalf of the Confederacy.

To many white Southerners, Henry Hotze appeared to be the perfect person to
represent their cause abroad. In the years before the war, the young
European-born American had earned a growing reputation as an academic celebrity
in the South. After immigrating to the United States, he took up a career in
journalism and quickly embraced Southern causes. During the 1850s, he explained
that, as a native of the Swiss republic, he cherished the principles of local
self-government. "States rights and federal powers," he declared, had been
frequently "discussed over his cradle."

White Southerners found his views on slavery especially acceptable. As a student
in Switzerland, Hotze had developed a keen interest in history, anthropology and
the study of race, and he came to the United States convinced that racial
characteristics played a key role in determining a person's character,
capabilities and intellect. He first became widely known in the South when he
translated into English the work of the French count Arthur de Gobineau, who had
argued that mankind was divided into three different and inherently unequal
races, the white, the black and the yellow. Hotze left his reading of Gobineau a
believer in the superiority of the white race and a defender of slavery.

In England, Hotze came determined to employ his views in defense of the
Confederacy. He believed that if Englishmen only understood the principles
undergirding the struggle of the South, then they would enthusiastically embrace
the Southern cause. In early 1862, he published several editorials in British
newspapers arguing for recognition of the Confederacy, but in the weeks after
they appeared he began to work on a much more ambitious undertaking. In May, he
began publishing his own weekly newspaper, which he named the Index.

Under Hotze's direction, the Index became the leading expositor of the
Confederate cause in Europe, and one of the most important anywhere. Though the
front page always printed information on cotton markets to call attention to
English economic interests, the real substance of the paper came in its
editorial columns. Hotze recruited writers from Europe and America who shared
his intellectual commitments. He chose one of his English writers for his
"devotion to the cause of national independence," and he worked hard to recruit
famous Southern intellectuals, including the University of Virginia professor
Albert Taylor Bledsoe and John Rueben Thompson, former editor of the Southern
Literary Messenger.

Together, Hotze and his writers outlined the intellectual substance of the
Confederate cause. First and foremost, they seized on the right of national
self-determination. They proclaimed that 19th-century people lived in an "age of
liberal thought," in which no serious thinker could deny the right of any people
to establish their own government if they wished. The American Revolution of the
1770s and the French Revolution of 1789 had made that quite clear to the world,
and the Confederate revolution should benefit from the precedents they had set.
The South, one editorial maintained, fought for rights "which have never been
disputed to any people in modern times."

The editorials in Hotze's paper worked hard to depict Confederates as heroic
patriots fighting for home rule, and they pleaded with Englishmen to recognize
the fact. Southerners, one article reasoned, desired only "that self-government
which Englishmen practice themselves and usually commend in others." Hotze and
his contributors wholeheartedly believed that Southerners had already
established a nation, and it only awaited British action to secure its
well-deserved independence. "We have just witnessed in the New World," one
article declared, "the sublime spectacle of the birth and fiery baptism of a
nation."

While these articles appealed to the liberal sentiments of the British people,
ultimately Hotze and his collaborators refused to apologize that this new nation
was founded on a defense of slavery. In fact, they argued that slavery would
give the Confederate nation peculiar unity and strength. Slavery, the argument
went, would endow the South with the "intrinsic power to create wealth," while
at the same time managing the social inequality between whites that wealth
engendered. The British social system had not fared so well. In Britain, a
wealthy ruling class had shut out white workingmen from political power, which
led to class resentment and hatred. Southerners, however, had extended political
rights to all white men by basing social divisions on what Hotze believed to be
the natural fault lines of race. Hotze called the position "liberal
conservatism," and he believed it would redeem the world.

Despite Hotze's high-profile efforts, "liberal conservatism" did not work any
better than had "King Cotton Diplomacy" in persuading the British to join the
war. Though Hotze published his paper into April 1865 and beyond, Britain never
officially recognized the Confederacy as an independent nation.

Hotze's efforts did, however, effectively elucidate the principles of
Confederate nationalism by linking the achievement of self-determination with
the practices of racial subordination and slavery - principles that, in various
forms,  continued to shape nation-building efforts well into the 20th century,
as segregation, imperialism and the tragic history of the First and Second World
Wars amply demonstrated.

Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.

Sources: Robert E. Bonner, "Slavery, Confederate Diplomacy, and the Racialist
Mission of Henry Hotze," in Civil War History 51, no. 3 (2005); Lonnie A.
Burnett, "Henry Hotze, Confederate Propagandist"; Charles P. Cullop,
"Confederate Propaganda in Europe, 1861-1865"; The Henry Hotze Papers, Library
of Congress; The Index; The Official Records of the Union and Confederate
Navies.

Andre M. Fleche is assistant professor of history at Castleton State College. He
is the author of "The Revolution of 1861: The American Civil War in the Age of
Nationalist Conflict."


     ·    A Dangerous Neutrality
     ·    A Fateful Christmas Meeting
     ·    Lincoln's Mexican Visitor
     ·    Captain Higginson Takes Command
     ·    Grant's Contraband Conundrum


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday

The Weekend Word: New Wave

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 512 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at
the president's weekly address and the latest happenings in Washington.


 Today's Times


     ·    Young immigrants living in the country without legal papers are a
          rising force with political momentum, and they are working on a
          strategy to keep the heat on the White House and Congress during the
          coming immigration fight, Julia Preston reports.



     ·    The House passed a bill on Friday to ease visa restrictions for a
          limited number of foreign workers, previewing the immigration fight
          that leaders in both parties believe will be one of the biggest issues
          facing the new Congress, Jeremy W. Peters reports.



     ·    President Obama learned that advancing his policies using sit-down
          negotiations with the opposition does not work without turning up the
          public heat on lawmakers, Peter Baker and Jonathan Weisman report. So
          just weeks after his re-election, he is hoping to promote his plan to
          raise taxes on the wealthy and avert a year-end fiscal crisis by
          recreating the campaign magic.



     ·    The Obama administration said Friday that it would charge insurance
          companies for the privilege of selling health insurance to millions of
          Americans in new online markets, illustrating the rapidly growing role
          of the federal government in the nation's health care system, Robert
          Pear reports.



     ·    The Senate voted to prohibit the government from imprisoning American
          citizens and green-card holders apprehended in the United States in
          indefinite detention without trail, but rights groups are claiming
          that that it leaves the door open for other types of people inside the
          United States to be subjected to military detention, Charlie Savage
          writes.


 Weekly Address


     ·    President Obama talked about the impact the fiscal cliff could have on
          businesses and families from a factory in Pennsylvania in this week's
          address, saying that Congress can either do nothing and let taxes go
          up, or pass a law that would prevent a tax hike on the first $250,000
          of everybody's income. "Congress can do that right now," he said.
          "They can give families like yours a sense of security going into the
          new year. They can give companies like this one some certainty about
          what to expect down the road. And with the issue behind us, we'll have
          more time to work out a plan to bring down our deficits in a balanced
          way."


 Around the Web


     ·    There was another lottery drawing this week, but it didn't involve
          power balls and millions of dollars, Politico reports. It was the
          Congressional office lottery.


 Happenings in Washington


     ·    The 13th annual Holiday Parade of Lights, a procession of illuminated
          boats on the Potomac River, will take place in Alexandria, Va., on
          Saturday. The best-decorated boats will win prizes.



     ·    On Sunday, President Obama and the first lady, Michelle Obama, will
          host a reception for the Kennedy Center honorees in the East Room of
          the White House before attending the Kennedy Center Honors. Honorees
          include the actor Dustin Hoffman, the comedian David Letterman, the
          blues artist Buddy Guy, the rock group Led Zeppelin and the ballerina
          Natalia Makarova.



     ·    The Early Word: Paying Less
     ·    The Early Word: Frustrations
     ·    The Early Word: No Satisfaction
     ·    The Early Word: Give and Take
     ·    The Early Word: Inflection


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            December 2, 2012 Sunday

Transgender Latinas Find a Refuge in Queens

BYLINE: JULIE TURKEWITZ and JULIET LINDERMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1160 words



HIGHLIGHT: A weekly support group aimed at those who have emigrated from Latin
American countries provides comfort, acceptance and unity.


Two years ago, smugglers buried a woman named Joselyn in Matamoros, a Mexican
border city that attracts immigrants waiting to cross into the United States.
Several men encased her body in dirt, covered her face with leaves and told her
to wait until Border Patrol agents had disappeared to dig herself out.

For Joselyn, who is transgender, the process of being buried alive was nothing
new. Growing up in Guatemala, she had suffocated beneath a barrage of insults
and physical attacks from her family, her neighbors and her peers, she said. And
with Mexican gangs moving south, violence against gays and transgender people
was becoming more frequent. So at 19, Joselyn set off on an 18-day journey to
the United States and eventually made it to New York City.

She spent 10 months alone. "I isolated myself from everyone," Joselyn, who asked
that her last name not be used because she is here illegally, said in Spanish.
"I said, 'What's the point? If my mama didn't even love me, why should I seek
help?'"

But this summer, she met another transgender Latina who encouraged her to join a
support group started by the AIDS Center of Queens County. "I felt like a bird
when someone opens its cage and it can fly," she said.

Since 2008, a growing number of transgender Latinas have gathered in Queens
every Friday night, discussing challenges unfamiliar to many New Yorkers: Where
do I buy female hormones without a prescription? How do I avoid the police when
reporting a drug overdose? Who can help me find a lawyer familiar with asylum
petitions?

Conducted in Spanish, the sessions are aimed at those who have emigrated, most
illegally, from Latin American countries where violence toward gay and
transgender people is common. The group provides participants with concrete
knowledge and life skills. But above all, it is a refuge that helps build
self-esteem and unites a community.

The group meets in a tiny conference room in Jackson Heights. On a recent
Friday, the space was filled and the group's facilitator, Cecilia Gentili, stood
in front as Deyanira Santamaria told the story of a man she loved who scalded
her with boiling water. She still bears the scars.

When she finished, other participants surged toward Ms. Santamaria, stroking her
hair and squeezing her shoulders. "From that love you've lost," Ms. Gentili told
her, "you now have the love of all of us."

While nearly all members identify as transgender women, the group is as diverse
as any community in New York: A few participants are exploring a new identity
and look like men. Others are distinctly female and are taking hormones and
injecting silicone in their hips and breasts to alter their shape.

What they have in common is that being transgender and an immigrant has made a
steady paycheck and a stable home difficult to achieve.

"First of all, it's hard to find a job because you're trans," Ms. Gentili said.
"Second of all, it's hard to find a job because you're illegal. Third of all,
it's hard to find a job because maybe you don't speak English."

To make money, some have worked as prostitutes; to cope with stress, several
began doing drugs. They have had to find ways to finance their gender
transitions, which can include costly surgeries and silicone and hormone
injections purchased in back rooms along Roosevelt Avenue.

But Joselyn has no desire to go back home. In Jutiapa, Guatemala, she worked at
a carwash. After work one night, several men assaulted her because, she said,
they knew she was transgender. A two-inch gash on her right hand reminds her of
the attack.

While most countries do not track the killings of transgender people, the Trans
Murder Monitoring Project attempts to tally the deaths by compiling news
reports. According to the project, about 80 percent of the 806 homicides of
transgender people reported since 2008 occurred in Central and South America.

Experts offer a variety of explanations, including homophobia, rising gang
violence, broad impunity for perpetrators and a general mistrust of the police
in many Latin American countries. "These numbers only touch the surface" of the
problem, said Jessica Stern, the executive director of the International Gay and
Lesbian Human Rights Commission. "Only the most high-profile cases are counted."

When Dennis Camacho, who works for the AIDS Center of Queens County, created the
transgender support group, he did not intend to force anyone to stop using drugs
or leave behind prostitution. Instead, he aimed to create a space where people
could discuss their lives openly.

"It's up to the individual if she wants to stop," he said. "If they do, we help
them figure out where they want to go."

And during the group's four years, several members have applied for and been
granted political asylum and have found jobs.

In Argentina, Ms. Gentili lived a dual life, as a man during the day and a woman
at night, in an era before her country became a model for its progressive
policies toward lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender people.

When she arrived in New York in 2000, she discovered heroin and crack cocaine,
and plunged into a downward spiral that led to multiple arrests and, eventually,
a deportation order. "When I got into supervision my supervisor told me, 'Are
you going to wait to just be deported?'" Ms. Gentili said. "I didn't even know I
could get asylum." She was granted asylum in 2011.

Besides the AIDS Center of Queens County, she has a part-time job at the Asian
and Pacific Islander Coalition on HIV/AIDS. The support group, Ms. Gentili said,
was instrumental in her transformation.

Inspired by the group, Joselyn has also begun to apply for asylum.

At one meeting, she sat in the middle of the room wearing dark sunglasses. When
she lowered them, she uncovered a bloodied, blackened left eye. Red scratches
covered her chest. She had been beaten, she said, by a client who had come to
her for sex. Joselyn did not go to the police. Like many of the other women, she
feared deportation, assumed that violence against her would be ignored, and
believed that the police would treat her like a criminal instead of a victim.

In many ways, her life is just as dangerous as it was in Guatemala. But if
asylum is granted, all that could change. Armed with papers, she can find a job,
learn English, maybe open the bar she often dreams about. In Guatemala, "the
people in your family begin to cut you out, like you have a contagious disease,"
she said. "They don't love you or even see you."

In the transgender group here, "one can speak, one can express themselves, one
can explain how they feel," Joselyn said. "Generally other people won't
understand. But we understand each other. We're in the same situation,
understand?"


     ·    Councilman Switches to Democratic Party
     ·    In the Moments Before Deportation, Holding On to Hope
     ·    Made in the Bronx, Exiled From Manhattan and Queens, Statue Will Head
          to Brooklyn
     ·    Homeless Gay and Transgender Youths Find a New Home in Greenwich
          Village
     ·    Where Do You Come From?


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            December 3, 2012 Monday

Romney Campaign Manager Says He Regrets Immigration Stance

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 833 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's campaign manager said that the forceful posture taken
against immigration in the Republican primary inflicted lingering damage with
Latino voters in the general election.


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - Mitt Romney and his team are not eager to dwell on regrets.

But his campaign manager now says that the forceful posture taken against
immigration in the Republican primary inflicted lingering damage with Latino
voters in the general election.

The Romney campaign chief, Matt Rhoades, acknowledged that point during a forum
here at the Harvard University Institute of Politics, where advisers to all
candidates in the 2012 campaign gathered to discuss the race.

When asked directly whether Mr. Romney regretted tacking to the right on
immigration to appeal to conservative primary voters, the room fell silent.

Stuart Stevens, a senior strategist to Mr. Romney, shook his head no. But after
pausing for several seconds, Mr. Rhoades said, "I regret that."

He went on to explain that the campaign, in hindsight, had been too worried
about a potential threat from Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who jumped into the race
to challenge Mr. Romney as the jobs-and-economy candidate. For weeks in fall
2011, Mr. Romney hammered Mr. Perry on Social Security, particularly his calling
the program a "Ponzi scheme" that should be overtaken by state governments.

In retrospect," Mr. Rhoades said, "I believe that we could have probably just
beaten Governor Perry with the Social Security hit."

One month after Election Day, advisers in both parties are still studying
President Obama's victory by an Electoral College margin of 332 to 206. One of
the examinations took place last week at Harvard University, where strategists
gathered for a conference that has been held after every presidential election
since 1972.

The remarks were released on Monday, when organizers published a recording of
the forum. The future of the Republican Party was a subtext of the discussion,
including how the party can broaden its appeal to Hispanic voters, a group Mr.
Romney lost by a wide margin to Mr. Obama.

A few other nuggets from the conversation included:


     ·    A low point for the Romney campaign came in September when Mr.
          Romney's remarks at a May fund-raiser were disclosed, revealing his
          blunt suggestion that 47 percent of Americans saw themselves as
          victims who are dependent on the government. With reports of turmoil
          inside campaign headquarters in Boston, Mr. Rhoades said the candidate
          took the blame."There was a lot of negativity about our campaign as a
          whole, but he's a person who takes personal responsibility," Mr.
          Rhoades said. "He would tell me: 'You didn't say 47 percent, Matt.
          Stuart didn't say 47 percent. I did.' "



     ·    At the Obama headquarters in Chicago, advisers ranked Republican
          candidates. Mr. Romney was always seen as the likely Republican
          nominee, even as he struggled to defeat Newt Gingrich, the former
          House speaker, and Rick Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator."Every
          Friday we rated them," said Jim Messina, the president's campaign
          manager. "Romney was always at the top."



     ·    In February, the president eased his longstanding objection to "super
          PACs" and signaled to wealthy Democratic donors that he would be at
          deep financial disadvantage. The decision was too late, aides to Mr.
          Obama said."We waited too long to jump into super PAC world," Mr.
          Messina said. "When we did it, it looked like a flip-flop."



     ·     Heading into Election Day, most advisers to the Romney campaign said
          they believed they would win. But not Steven J. Law, the president of
          the conservative group American Crossroads, who declared, "I didn't."
          He said he believed Mr. Romney would fall short of Mr. Obama, saying
          he "could never get over the lip" in Virginia, Florida and North
          Carolina.



     ·    The selection of Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin as the
          Republican vice presidential candidate surprised the Obama campaign,
          which assumed that Tim Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor, or
          Senator Rob Portman of Ohio would be chosen. The decision to pick Mr.
          Ryan was rooted in a comfort level with Mr. Romney, aides said, not
          politics."The selection of Congressman Ryan was not a political
          choice," Mr. Stevens said.



     ·    Neil Newhouse, the chief pollster for Mr. Romney, said the campaign
          was taken aback by the composition of the electorate. He said that the
          "real hidden story from our side" came from the number of white men
          who did not vote in the election in some key states like Ohio."When
          you lose, you nitpick the numbers as you go through this stuff," Mr.
          Newhouse said. "The number of white men who didn't vote in this
          election compared to white women compared to four years ago was
          extraordinary."


The explanation from Mr. Newhouse was abruptly cut short last week after a power
failure in Cambridge knocked out the lights at the Kennedy School of Government.
He and other aides made their remarks while sitting in a dark room until the
building was evacuated.


     ·    Romney Visits the White House
     ·    For Obama and Romney, Lunch at the White House
     ·    Romney Returns to Iowa for One Last Shot at Victory
     ·    What Obama Said About Immigration in His Off-the-Record Interview
     ·    Coming Later Today: Coverage of the Second Presidential Debate


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           December 5, 2012 Wednesday

Republicans' Immigration Bill Blocked by Senate Democrats

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 353 words



HIGHLIGHT: Democrats say they support providing visas for those with advanced
degrees, but they don't want to take away spots for other immigrants.


     Democrats in the Senate on Wednesday blocked consideration of a bill
Republicans passed last week in the House of Representatives that would give
55,000 permanent resident visas to foreigners graduating from American
universities with advanced degrees in science or technology.

The bill, which passed the House on Friday, was opposed by most Democrats.  It
would have given the resident visas, known as green cards, to immigrants who
obtained master's or doctoral degrees in the so-called STEM fields, science,
technology, engineering and mathematics. To avoid increasing the overall number
of visas available each year, the measure would free up existing visas by
abolishing an annual lottery that distributes green cards to foreigners from
countries with traditionally low immigration to the United States.

Senator John Cornyn, a Republican from Texas, sought unanimous consent to bring
up the bill.  But Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Democrat who is
chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, objected. He said
Democrats were in favor of providing more visas for the graduates. "But what we
don't do is take away other visas," Mr. Schumer said.

The outcome was expected. Republicans had approved the STEM bill to show that
they are willing to act on measures to fix the immigration system.  The issue
became newly important after the presidential election, in which Latino and
immigrant voters, a fast-growing part of the electorate, gave their support
overwhelmingly to President Obama.

Passing the bill in the Senate "would be a signal to the American people that we
can work together to enact needed immigration reforms," said Senator Charles
Grassley, a Republican from Iowa.

Democrats argued that the diversity lottery, as it is officially known, gives
permanent residency to many immigrants from Africa and Eastern Europe who would
otherwise be excluded.


     ·    Democrats Threaten Saturday Night Debt Fever
     ·    Caucus Click: Dueling News Conferences
     ·    Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
     ·    Shutdown Watch: Five Days Out
     ·    Senate Democrats Put 'Dream Act' on Hold


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday

Romney's Chief Strategist Dissects Campaign

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 949 words



HIGHLIGHT: The first postcampaign book has yet to hit shelves, but Stuart
Stevens, the chief strategist of Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential bid, offered
his take on the race on "The Charlie Rose Show."


The first postcampaign book has yet to hit shelves, but on Wednesday, Stuart
Stevens, the chief strategist of Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential bid, offered
his own take on the race on "The Charlie Rose Show." In an extended and
wide-ranging interview, Mr. Stevens was by turns defiant, humble, philosophical
and revisionist.

Conceding a few mistakes - "Look, they won, we lost, they did a better job," Mr.
Stevens said - he  argued that the Republican Party in general faces a problem
with Hispanic voters, but that Mr. Romney was not hampered by his decision
during the early nominating contests to tack to the right, advocating a process
of "self-deportation" for illegal immigrants.

"You know, on immigration specifically, it's a very complicated issue," he said.
"And, if you look at the - the Republicans obviously have a lot of problems in -
with Hispanic voters, and we have to do a lot better and we have to work on it
on a number of fronts. Immigration is part of that. It's not the only issue,
though."

Still, Mr. Stevens added, he would be hesitant to say that Mr. Romney's early
immigration posture hurt him during the general election, "because I just don't
think it penetrated that much." (Matt Rhoades, Mr. Romney's campaign manager,
however, said last week during a forum at the Harvard University Institute of
Politics that he regretted the campaign's forceful stance against immigration
during the primaries).

Though Mr. Stevens told Mr. Rose that his show was "probably the only" interview
he would do, he has been the most visible member of Mr. Romney's Boston brain
trust following the candidate's Election Day defeat. Mr. Stevens recently penned
an op-ed article for The Washington Post, in which he concluded that on Nov. 6,
"Republican ideals - Mitt Romney - carried the day."

For better or worse, Mr. Stevens was largely credited during the campaign with
first settling on a strategy of painting the election as a referendum on
President Obama and the economy, only to switch his approach during the fall,
when the Romney campaign began trying to portray the election as a choice
between competing visions for the country. But Mr. Stevens rejected that
framework Wednesday, instead saying that Team Romney's strategy was "never one
or the other."

"The whole referendum choice thing was something that was always a bit of a head
scratcher because all referendums are choices and all choices are referendums,"
he said. "There's going to be two people on the ballot, it's a choice but also a
referendum in that you had to decide whether you wanted to fire this person or
rehire this person."

Echoing a frequent criticism, Mr. Rose asked Mr. Stevens if the Romney campaign
had been slow to respond to attacks from Mr. Obama's team in the months before
the conventions, allowing the candidate to be defined by his rival as a
heartless corporate titan.

"The problem with campaigns is - or the reality of campaigns is that you can't
do a lot of things at once," Mr. Stevens said. "It's very difficult when the
other side has a lot of money and is able to run two and three spots to every
one that you do because they can do a couple of things at once. So we ran those
spots in the spring and then when the Obama campaign attacked us, which they did
around June, we responded." (Mr. Stevens was critical of the campaign finance
system, calling it "atrocious" and saying "it has to be changed.")

Over all, he continued, the Romney campaign simply did not have the bandwidth to
do everything it might have liked.

"But it is difficult to establish a person and to be able to do all of these
things at once," he said. "And we had to be - make very tough choices, and try
to do what we are doing well. And with the hope that by the time we got into the
debates, that the impression that the governor could lead would be one that
could carry him to victory."

On the topic of Clint Eastwood, whose rambling and off-color convention speech
prompted much finger-pointing in Romney-world, Mr. Stevens conceded that, "to a
degree it was a distraction. It was bad."

However, he said that Mr. Eastwood had been given a clear set of instructions,
which he failed to follow. "We had a very specific thing that he was supposed to
say that he had said at fund-raisers before," Mr. Stevens said, before adding
that Mr. Eastwood, who spent much of his address talking to an empty chair, did
not deliver his talking points "in the same format."

In fact, shortly after the Republican convention, , he was not given a script or
any format or guidelines for his remarks, nor was he forced to rehearse his
speech.

On Election Day, Mr. Romney told reporters that he fully expected to win and had
not even bothered to write a concession speech. Mr. Stevens defended the
campaign's rosy view of the race, including their internal polling, which
ultimately proved off the mark, showing the race far closer than it actually
was.

"We had reason to be optimistic, I would say," he said. "We did not believe that
the turnout would be as Democratic as it was. It was plus seven I think; we
thought it would be closer to plus three Democratic advantage. And we thought
that it would go our way."

Mr. Stevens also made sure to credit Mr. Obama's operation.

"It was a campaign they could have lost and they won," he said. "I would say
they ran a better - listen, they ran - the person who wins always runs a better
campaign in my book."

He added, with a rueful laugh: "The person who wins the mile was the faster
runner."


     ·    Obama and Romney Campaigns Test Limits of Attacks
     ·    Romney Visits the White House
     ·    For Obama and Romney, Lunch at the White House
     ·    Romney Returns to Iowa for One Last Shot at Victory
     ·    The Caucus Click: Autograph Seekers


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                           December 11, 2012 Tuesday

The Fighting Irish Brigade

BYLINE: TERRY L. JONES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2104 words



HIGHLIGHT: One of the Civil War's most renowned immigrant-majority units was
also among its most battle-scarred.


When the Civil War broke out, thousands of Irish-born men in both the North and
the South volunteered for military service. Some 140,000 served in the Union
Army, and they dominated at least 20 regiments. The most famous belonged to
Thomas F. Meagher's Irish Brigade. Meagher (pronounced "Mar") was an Irish
native whom the British had banished to Tasmania after he became involved in
Ireland's 1848 uprising. After escaping from the island, he made his way to
America, where he became a popular lecturer on Irish independence.

Meagher believed it was important for the Irish-born to fight for the Union. The
anti-immigrant Know-Nothing party was still politically potent, and Meagher
promoted military service as one way Irishmen could demonstrate their loyalty.
An Irish veteran could "take his stand proudly by the side of the native-born,
and will not fear to look him straight and sternly in the face, and tell him
that he has been equal to him in his allegiance to the Constitution," he said.
Largely because of Meagher's influence, an Irish Brigade was authorized, with
Meagher its commanding general.

Three regiments - the 63rd, 69th and 88th New York - formed the core of the
Irish Brigade, along with the 116th Pennsylvania and the Irish-dominated 28th
Massachusetts (a few other regiments also rotated through the brigade). Before
leaving for battle, the three New York regiments were presented beautiful silk
flags in a ceremony held in front of Archbishop John Joseph Hughes' home. The
flags, with a gold harp, white clouds and sunburst on a green background, would
become conspicuous on many future battlefields. Across the bottom of each,
written in Gaelic, was the brigade's motto: "Who never retreated from the clash
of spears." The 28th Massachusetts was presented a similar flag.

The brigade first saw combat during the 1862 Peninsula Campaign, where it
participated in Gen. George B. McClellan's advance on Richmond. But it was
during the Seven Days Campaign that the brigade began to earn its reputation for
steadiness in battle. At the Battle of Malvern Hill, it engaged in a bloody
hand-to-hand fight with the Louisiana Tigers, many of whom were also Irish-born.
Afterward, one colonel requested new muskets to replace the ones damaged in the
melee, but the corps commander, Gen. Edwin V. Sumner, refused because he thought
the men had simply lost them. The general changed his mind when he was shown a
pile of muskets with splintered stocks, bent barrels and twisted bayonets.One
soldier told him, "The boys got in a scrimmage with the Tigers, and when the
bloody villains took to their knives, the boys mostly forgot their bayonets, but
went to work in the style they were used to, and licked them well, sir."

The Seven Days made the Irish Brigade's reputation. It was said that whenever
General Sumner prepared for battle he would ask, "Where are my green flags?" and
that he once quipped that if the Irishmen ever ran from the field he would have
to run as well. When Abraham Lincoln visited McClellan's army at Harrison's
Landing, Va., where it was preparing to ship back to Union territory, an officer
claimed the president picked up a corner of one of the Irish colors, kissed it
and said, "God bless the Irish flag."

At the Battle of Antietam, the Irish Brigade led its division in attacking the
infamous Bloody Lane. In preparation for the deadly work ahead, Father William
Corby, one of the brigade's chaplains and future president of Notre Dame, rode
down the firing line and administered a general rite of absolution to the men.

Meagher advanced to the crest of a hill overlooking a brigade of North
Carolinians hunkered down in the sunken road bed and let loose with two volleys.
The Confederates responded with a heavy fire of their own that killed or wounded
eight of the brigade's color bearers. When Capt. James McGee of the 69th New
York picked up his regiment's flag from the ground, a bullet cut the staff in
two. He reached down for the colors again and a bullet tore through his cap.
Despite the heavy fire, Captain McGee finally retrieved the flag and defiantly
waved it at the enemy.

Meagher drew his sword and shouted, "Boys! Raise the colors and follow me!" He
wrote in his after-action report that he believed "the impetuosity and
recklessness of Irish soldiers in a charge" would dislodge the rebels.
Meagher's men leveled their bayonets and got within 30 yards of the enemy
position before the Confederates stopped them with fierce musket volleys.

The brigade suffered a 60 percent casualty rate by the time it withdrew from
Bloody Lane. The division commander, the beloved Gen. Israel Richardson, was
among those lost, later dying of infection after being wounded by shell
fragments.

The Irish Brigade's most famous battle was at Fredericksburg, Va., on Dec. 13,
1862. Gen. Ambrose Burnside ordered repeated frontal assaults against Gen.
Robert E. Lee's veterans posted behind a stone wall on a rise above the center
of the city called Marye's Heights. Several attacks had already failed when the
Irish Brigade was sent in to try again. The brigade's distinctive Irish flags
had become so ragged from battle damage that all had been retired except the one
carried by the 28th Massachusetts. General Meagher, however, wanted his men to
be recognized as being Irish and ordered each soldier to put sprigs of evergreen
on his cap. Meagher, dressed in a tailor-made green suit with a yellow silk
scarf around his chest, was said to be "a picture of unusual grace and majesty."
Meagher, however, failed to accompany his men in the charge. He was suffering
from an ulcerated knee and had gone back to town for his horse when the advance
was made. Meagher's absence at Fredericksburg and accusations of being drunk on
several other battlefields caused many officers to hold him in low esteem.

Raising the old Irish cheer "Faugh-a-Bellagh" ("Clear the Way"), the Irish
Brigade advanced up Marye's Heights over its dead and wounded comrades. Waiting
behind the stone wall was Col. Robert McMillan's Georgia brigade. McMillan was
Irish himself, but he had no qualms about shooting his fellow immigrants. A
newspaper later reported that when McMillan saw the 28th Massachusetts' green
flag, he yelled excitedly to his men, "That's Meagher's Brigade" and drew his
sword. "His countenance lighted up," the account said, "and dashing along the
line among men, amid him a shower of balls, and waving his sword around his
head, shouted -'Give it to them now, boys! Now's the time! Give it to them!' And
never did men better respond to a call."

The Georgians cut the Irishmen to pieces. Of the approximately 1,400 men who
started up the hill, 545 became casualties. The 69th New York lost all 16 of its
officers. After the battle one Confederate wrote, "The last charge was made ...
o'er the bloody field by Meagher's celebrated Irish Brigade which was almost
destroyed. The gallant fellows deserved a better fate." In his description of
the battle, the brigade historian, Henry Clay Heisler, declared, "It was not a
battle - it was a wholesale slaughter of human beings."

The Irish Brigade's bravery at Fredericksburg received a great deal of
attention. The London Times correspondent William H. Russell (himself
Irish-born) wrote, "Never at Fontenoy, Albuera, or at Waterloo was more
undaunted courage displayed by the sons of Erin than during those six frantic
dashes which they directed against the almost impregnable positions of their
foe." A legend also arose that Lee was told that the New Yorkers had made a
brave attack against the stone wall, Lee recognized the regiment from the Seven
Days Campaign and was said to have replied, "Ah yes. That fighting 69th." In any
case, the "Fighting 69th" nickname stuck.

After the battle, the 69th's men were horrified to discover that their color
bearer was missing. They prided themselves in never having lost a flag in battle
and the next day went looking for him. The dead color sergeant was found sitting
against a tree with his hands clasped over his chest. The flag staff, stripped
of its national colors, lay near him. Upon preparing the body for burial, the
soldiers discovered the sergeant had wrapped the flag around his body to prevent
its capture. There was a bullet hole through it and his heart.

Fredericksburg shattered the Irish Brigade. By February 1863 there were only 340
men present for duty. Meagher repeatedly asked his superiors to allow the men to
go home to rest and recruit, but they denied his requests. When Joseph Hooker,
who had replaced Burnside as commander of the Army of the Potomac, refused
another entreaty after the Battle of Chancellorsville, Meagher resigned in a
huff.

Over the next two years, four officers led the brigade. Three were killed. All
were Irish-born. Col. Richard Byrne (often spelled Byrnes) was mortally wounded
at the Battle of Spotsylvania, and Col. Patrick Kelly was shot in the head and
killed at the Battle of Petersburg. Col. Thomas Smyth led the brigade for a
while and then was transferred to another unit. He was mortally wounded at
Farmville, Va., on April 7, 1865. Smyth died two days later - the same day
Robert E. Lee surrendered at Appomattox. He was the last Union general to be
killed in battle.

At the Battle of Gettysburg, the brigade numbered just over 500 men, but it was
ordered into the thick of the fight at the Wheatfield and Devil's Den. Once
again, Father Corby stood on a large boulder and gave general absolution to the
brigade before it advanced. By the time the Irishmen withdrew, they had lost 202
men. When a Gettysburg monument was dedicated to the brigade's New York
regiments in 1888, Father Corby held a mass for the veterans. Blessing the
monument, he noted its Celtic cross and declared, "It is an emblem of Ireland,
typical of faith and devotion, and the most appropriate that could be raised to
hand down to posterity the bravery of our race in the great cause of American
liberty."

Despite its repeated losses, the Irish Brigade again saw heavy action in the
1864 Overland Campaign. It participated in the fighting at the Wilderness,
charged the Mule Shoe at Spotsylvania, and joined in the near suicidal attack at
Cold Harbor. In June, the brigade accompanied the army south to Petersburg.

Col. Robert Nugent of the 69th New York replaced Kelly and was the brigade's
last commander. Nugent had been shot in the stomach at Fredericksburg and
afterward was sent to New York City to help supervise the draft. When the Draft
Riot erupted there in July 1863, he tried to calm the mobs even though rioters
looted and burned his own house.

Because of the heavy losses suffered in the Overland Campaign, the Irish Brigade
was combined with another small brigade to form the Consolidated Brigade. But
the unit kept its separate identity, and Nugent led it in the Grand Review in
Washington when the war ended. He then took the 400 New York survivors, where
they paraded for the people of New York City and were addressed by Thomas
Meagher.

Afterward, Meagher was appointed the territorial secretary for Montana. On July
1, 1867, he drowned under mysterious circumstances when he fell off a steamboat
on the Missouri River. Explanations for Meagher's death ran from an illness to
drunkenness to murder. His body was never recovered.

The Irish Brigade suffered the third-highest number of battlefield casualties of
any Union brigade. Of the 7,715 men who served in its ranks, 961 were killed or
mortally wounded, and approximately 3,000 were wounded. The number of casualties
was more men than ever served in its ranks at any one time. As a testament to
the Irishmen's bravery, 11 of the unit's members were awarded the Medal of
Honor.

Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.

Sources: John M. Hearne and Rory T. Cornish, eds., "Thomas Francis Meagher";
Henry Clay Heisler, "The Irish Brigade and its Campaigns"; Terry L. Jones, The
American Civil War; John F. McCormack, Jr., "Never Were Men So Brave," Civil War
Times; Kelly J. O'Grady, "Clear the Confederate Way! The Irish in the Army of
Northern Virginia"; Stephen W. Sears, "Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of
Antietam"; ""; and War of the Rebellion: The Official Records of the Union and
Confederate Armies.

Terry L. Jones is a professor of history at the University of Louisiana, Monroe
and the author of six books on the Civil War.

The Irish uprising that led to Thomas F. Meagher's banishment occurred in 1848,
not 1849.


     ·    The Angel of Marye's Heights
     ·    In Small Things Forgotten
     ·    Appointment at Fredericksburg
     ·    Lincoln, Colonization and the Sound of Silence
     ·    The Count and the Gymnasts


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          December 12, 2012 Wednesday

Latino Groups Warn Congress to Fix Immigration, or Else

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 773 words



HIGHLIGHT: The nation's largest Latino organizations said they will keep a
report card during the immigration debate next year, with plans to mobilize
their voters against lawmakers who do not support a comprehensive immigration
bill.


WASHINGTON - The nation's largest Latino organizations warned Congress on
Wednesday that they will keep a report card during the immigration debate next
year, with plans to mobilize their voters against lawmakers who do not support a
comprehensive immigration bill.

At a news conference here, seven Latino groups and one labor union were showing
their muscle, after the record turnout of Hispanic voters in the November
elections played a pivotal role in President Obama's re-election victory.

Janet Murguía, the president of N.C.L.R., also called the National Council of La
Raza, said the election had been a "game-changer" that conclusively "made the
political case for a bipartisan solution" on immigration.

"We have worked to build our power and now we intend to use it," Ms. Murguía
said. "The bottom line," she said, "is that Latino voters went to the polls with
the economy on their minds but with immigration reform in their hearts."

The leaders made it clear they expect quick action in 2013. They said the
president and Congress should take up an immigration bill soon after Mr. Obama's
inauguration in January, with an eye toward completing passage of legislation by
August.

The leaders said they would continue a joint campaign they led this year to
naturalize Latino immigrants and to register and mobilize Latino voters. They
said they would send results from the report card to those voters, to galvanize
them during the debate and to guide their choices in the midterm elections in
2014.

"Make no mistake, we will be watching," said Eliseo Medina, international
secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, which led one
of the most extensive Latino voter drives. The report card will show "who stood
with us and who stood against us" on immigration reform, Mr. Medina said.

Mr. Obama has said he intends to move quickly on immigration next year, after
Congress comes to some resolution on the year-end fiscal crisis and other budget
issues. A host of Republicans have come forward since the election to say their
party should take a new course on immigration, after Mitt Romney drew only 27
percent of the Latino vote.

Republican leaders who have studied voting statistics are concerned that their
party's chances to regain the White House will dwindle if they cannot attract
more Latinos. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, Latinos will account for as
much as 40 percent of the growth in the numbers of eligible voters in the
country between now and 2030.  By that year, the center predicts, 40 million
Hispanics will be eligible to vote, nearly double the 23 million eligible today.

The leaders said Latinos were spurred to the polls by the hard-line positions
that Mr. Romney and other Republicans took on immigration.

"We realized that people were attacking us personally," said Maria Teresa Kumar,
president of Voto Latino, a voter mobilization group. The Latino groups will
focus on lawmakers in states and districts where their voters can make a
difference. For those who do not support reform, Ms. Kumar said, "in 2014 it may
not look pretty for them."

Latino leaders argued that Washington has done enough to bolster enforcement
against illegal immigration.

"We can no longer see enforcement-only policies moving through Congress," said
Chris Espinosa, national advocacy director for the Hispanic Federation. "We have
secured our borders, now it's time to get to other elements of immigration
reform."

The leaders said they seek a single comprehensive bill, rather than several
bills addressing legalization for groups of illegal immigrants, like young
people or farmworkers. They said they would insist on a path to citizenship for
all 11 million illegal immigrants in the country, rather than a temporary legal
status that does not offer an eventual chance to naturalize.

The news conference also included leaders from the League of United Latin
American Citizens and the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials Educational Fund.

Mr. Medina, expressing some of the optimistic bravado Latinos are feeling,
promised a "massive" grass roots campaign next year. "It's going to be a doozy,"
he said.

"Failure is not an option," Mr. Medina said. "Comprehensive immigration reform
is going to happen. Whether it will be over the political bodies of some of the
current members of Congress," he said, "only they can decide."


     ·    Michelle Obama Debuts in Spanish-Language Ad
     ·    Latinos Favor Obama by Wide Margin, Poll Finds
     ·    A 'Dreamer' Addresses the Democratic Convention
     ·    Ex-Senator Criticizes Republicans' Tone on Immigration
     ·    Republican Immigration Platform Backs 'Self-Deportation'


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

14 Illegal Immigrants Are Killed When Pickup Truck Crashes in Texas

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 607 words


GOLIAD, Tex. -- Fourteen illegal immigrants were killed Sunday outside this
rural South Texas town after the pickup truck they were riding in veered off a
highway and struck two trees, the authorities said.

A total of 23 people, from Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico and all in the country
illegally, had been crammed into the cab and the bed of the pickup truck when
the driver lost control around 6:30 p.m. Sunday. The truck, a white 2000 Ford
F-250 Super-Duty extended cab pickup, slammed into the trees on the side of the
road off northbound U.S. Highway 59, about 10 miles southwest of Goliad,
officials said.

Eleven men, one woman and two young girls died. Nine others who were injured
remain in local hospitals, state and federal authorities said.

It was unclear why the driver veered off the road, but a spokesman for the Texas
Department of Public Safety, the state's top law enforcement agency, said a
crash reconstruction team was investigating whether tire failure might have been
a cause.

The crash was one of the deadliest single-vehicle accidents in South Texas,
where a series of crashes involving vehicles filled with illegal immigrants have
claimed numerous lives in recent months and years.

In April, a minivan crashed and rolled over near McAllen, killing nine people
inside. The vehicle had been filled with 16 illegal immigrants, all of whom had
been picked up from a so-called stash house and were being transported to their
next destination when Border Patrol agents pulled it over.

The smugglers of illegal immigrants often use the highways and roads to travel
from the border to Houston, Dallas and other cities north, or to head from the
border to a South Texas stash house -- an apartment or rental home where they
wait for the next leg of their journey.

''There have been a number of accidents,'' Gregory Palmore, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Homeland Security Investigations, which
was assisting in the investigation, said of fatal crashes involving illegal
immigrants. ''Even if there's one fatality, there's more than there should be.''

State officials said none of the 14 victims in the Goliad accident had been
identified, and it was too early in the investigation to say where the truck was
heading or where it had been coming from. The driver was among those who died.

At the site of the crash, about 145 miles from the Mexican border, there are two
northbound lanes of the highway and one southbound lane. Investigators marked
the truck's tire tracks with bright orange paint, highlighting its path as it
veered from the northbound passing lane and down a ditch to the line of trees at
the side of the road.

When state troopers and sheriff's deputies arrived at the scene Sunday evening,
only six people were found in the truck; the rest had been ejected. ''I've been
here stationed in Victoria for 36 years, and this is one of the worst ones I've
seen,'' said Trooper Gerald Bryant, who works in the nearby Victoria office of
the Department of Public Safety.

By Monday afternoon, the truck had been removed from the base of the two thick
trees, which were scuffed but still standing. The crash occurred on a straight
stretch of highway in the daylight in dry weather.

Though illegal immigration at the United States-Mexico border has declined in
recent years, the South Texas area has seen an increase in activity.

In the Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley sector, which includes
the site of the Goliad crash, more than 2,000 illegal immigrants were
apprehended this fiscal year as of May in nearly 80 stash houses, up from 1,012
in 69 stash houses in all of the 2011 fiscal year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A pickup truck, now stored at a Sheriff's Department lot, was
carrying 23 people on Sunday when it veered off a highway and crashed in rural
South Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDDIE SEAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A College Lifts a Hurdle For Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 824 words


DENVER -- Monday is the first day of the school year for Metropolitan State
University of Denver, a compact, urban campus in the heart of the city's
downtown.It also signifies the dawn of a controversial new policy for this
institution of 24,000. Among the crowd of students who will show up for class
next week are dozens of illegal immigrants who, as part of a specially tailored
tuition rate, can now qualify for a reduced fee if they live in Colorado.

The new rate, approved by the university's board of trustees in June, has
garnered praise from immigrant rights advocates here who have tried for years to
get legislation passed that would allow state colleges to offer discounted
tuition to local, illegal immigrant students.

But the policy has also drawn the ire of conservatives who are threatening to
sue the university to keep the rate from being put in place and have accused
Metro State of openly defying Colorado law.

Stephen Jordan, Metro State's president, said the board took action after
Colorado lawmakers failed to pass a similar tuition proposal this year.
''Clearly, from our perspective, these are young people who were brought here of
no accord of their own,'' he said.

''I think what our board was saying was, 'Why wouldn't we want to provide an
affordable tuition rate for these students?' '' he added. ''So that they can get
a college degree and become meaningful contributors to the economy of
Colorado.''

Under the new rate, illegal immigrants will pay $7,157.04 per year at Metro
State. That is nearly $3,000 higher than the tuition for legal Colorado students
but about $8,000 lower than what out-of-state students pay.

Only those students who attended high school in Colorado for at least three
years and received their high school or general equivalency diplomas here are
eligible. So far, more than 100 have qualified, university officials said.

Dalia Quezada, 18, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, will start her freshman
year at Metro State on Monday.

Ms. Quezada, whose family brought her to the United States when she was 6, said
she could not afford college if not for the discount.

''My dream was always to attend a big university,'' she said. ''But
realistically, it was too expensive. But when Metro made the change, it opened
up an opportunity. It's like my dream is becoming a reality.''

Still, in a state where about 20 percent of residents are Hispanic and where the
tuition issue generates rancor in the legislature, the new policy has provoked a
furor, largely among Republican lawmakers.

On June 20, university officials were called before a hearing of the
legislature's Joint Budget Committee to defend their plan.

That same week, Colorado's attorney general, John W. Suthers, issued a
nonbinding legal opinion criticizing the policy.

''The decision by Metropolitan State College of Denver to proceed on its own to
create a new tuition category, undeterred by the legislature's repeated
rejection of specific authorizing legislation, is simply not supported by
governing law,'' Mr. Suthers said in a statement at the time.

According to the Higher Education Alliance, a coalition of Colorado groups that
supports the new policy, 13 states offer in-state tuition for students who are
in this country illegally. But opponents have defeated similar measures in
Colorado six times.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Suthers, a Republican, declined to address Metro State's
tuition rate, saying in an e-mail that the attorney general's office would not
comment on ''matters that may potentially be litigated.''

Tom Tancredo, a former Colorado congressman and presidential candidate who now
heads the Rocky Mountain Foundation, a conservative research organization, said
his group intended to sue the university in the next few months.

Mr. Tancredo, a fierce proponent of tightening immigration laws, said: ''There
was a proposal to allow this in the legislature. It failed. In its failure, it
seems to me that a pretty strong signal was sent that you can't do this in the
absence of law.''

Terrance Carroll, a Metro State board member and former Democratic speaker of
the state House of Representatives, said there was always a concern about legal
action, but the school remained confident the policy was lawful.

University officials also said they were heartened by President Obama's
executive order deferring deportation of young illegal immigrants who have been
in the United States since they were children.

Though the deferral program, which began accepting applications this week, does
not directly affect Metro State, advocates hope it will help bolster support to
expand the tuition policy to other Colorado colleges.

Sarahi Hernández, 19, who is poised to start her sophomore year at Metro State,
said the reduced tuition would allow her to focus on school, rather than
worrying about drumming up enough money to enroll.

''It doesn't mean I won't have to work,'' Ms. Hernández said. ''But it will
allow me to get my dream going.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/18/us/denver-college-policy-aids-illegal-immigran
ts.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dalia Quezada, who will be attending Metropolitan State
University of Denver, says its new policy will enable her to afford college.
 Sarahi Hernández says she will have less anxiety about money and more time to
focus on school. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Strange Career of Juan Crow

BYLINE: By DIANE McWHORTER.

The author of ''Carry Me Home: Birmingham, Alabama, the Climactic Battle of the
Civil Rights Revolution.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1364 words


THE depth of my alienation from home hit me last January, when Alabama shut out
Louisiana State for the college football championship. Even in the familiar
afterglow of 'Bama's second title in three years, I had to ask myself, what
right did my state have to brag, about anything?

The pride of the Crimson Tide fan is just the relatively fun side of the state's
reason-blind tribalism, the same hard-wiring that produced its other recent
superlative, the ''toughest in the nation'' immigration law that made criminal
suspects of an entire class of human beings -- and turned those who tolerated
their presence into felon accessories. Thanks to H.B. 56 (the ''Beason-Hammon
Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act''), passed a year ago by the state's first
Republican Legislature since Reconstruction, I am ashamed of being from Alabama.

The contagion of Alabama's shame became apparent in April, during the oral
argument before the Supreme Court on Arizona's immigration legislation, the test
case for several similar state laws aimed primarily at Hispanics. All have been
substantially blocked by federal courts, except Alabama's, most of which went
into effect last fall, catastrophically achieving the goal Arizona calls
''attrition through enforcement'' -- also known as ''self-deportation.''

As the court seemed to cast a benign eye on the linchpin of the Arizona law --
the requirement that the police determine the immigration status of anyone they
stop who invites ''reasonable suspicion'' of illegal residency -- I realized how
dismayingly reliable Alabama remained as the country's moral X-ray, exposing the
broken places. So on the eve of the Arizona decision, expected this month, it is
useful to review what the imposition of ''states' rights'' on federal
immigration policy looks like in the one state where this has been accomplished.
If Alabama, the cradle of the civil rights movement, can retool Jim Crow as Juan
Crow, what have we learned?

Since Alabama has no foreign border and a Latino population of less than 4
percent, the main purpose of H.B. 56 seems to be the id-gratification of tribal
dominance and its easy political dividends. A bill co-sponsor, State Senator
Scott Beason, was frank about his motive: ''when their children grow up and get
the chance to vote, they vote for Democrats.''

Mr. Beason, who was later caught referring to blacks as ''aborigines,'' is from
a predominantly white suburb of my hometown, Birmingham, which is gearing up for
the 50th anniversary of our civil rights milestones of 1963: fire hoses and
police dogs turned on child marchers and a church bombing that killed four black
girls. For the 2013 ''celebration,'' the prize civic leaders were keeping their
eyes on was the redemption that flowed from those debacles, notably the Civil
Rights Act.

The city had nearly finessed that dialectic during the memorial in October for a
local civil rights legend, the Rev. Fred L. Shuttlesworth. Flying into the
Birmingham-Shuttlesworth International Airport, the protagonists of the movement
-- Andrew Young, John Lewis, Joseph Lowery -- were greeted at the funeral by
Gov. Robert Bentley with words of regret about his segregated youth. So cordial
was the network of mutuality that it was at least an hour into the six-hour
service before speakers pointed out that Governor Bentley had signed the
immigration law that reinvented the sin from which Mr. Shuttlesworth had
supposedly delivered us.

As a result, the yearlong anniversary is shaping up to be Groundhog Day. Among
other injustices, H.B. 56 bars undocumented residents from pursuing work or
entering into any state-related business transactions or private contracts,
depriving them of basic dignities and due process. When the Justice Department
investigated the state for demanding checks on schoolchildren, the defiant
reaction of Alabama's attorney general prompted comparisons to George C.
Wallace's 1963 ''Stand in the Schoolhouse Door'' at the University of Alabama.

At least one institution was primed to break out of the loop of bad history.
Leading with a reference to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s 1963 ''Letter
From Birmingham Jail,'' some 150 ministers formally condemned H.B. 56 for
preventing them from fulfilling the doctrine of the good Samaritan by making it
illegal to give assistance to illegal immigrants, the basis of a suit against
the state by three Christian denominations. A statement co-author, Matt Lacey,
received dozens of e-mails from the law's defenders beginning, ''I'm a Christian
but.'' They saw no distinction between the bureaucratic category of
''undocumented'' and the moral one of ''criminal'' -- a conflation that may also
explain Justice Antonin Scalia's incredulous question to the solicitor general:
''Are you objecting to harassing the people who have no business being here?''

Indeed, the suffering of Alabama's Hispanics went mostly unnoticed until
December, when Human Rights Watch issued a report describing entrepreneurs
shuttering businesses, crime victims opting not to go to the police, parents
fearing to seek medical help for children. These were the law's intended
consequences: to attack ''every aspect of an illegal alien's life,'' said a
co-sponsor, Micky Hammon, ''so they will deport themselves.''

Such unabashed malice made me realize that my shame was really a broken heart.
The South's culture of kindness is real and must account for the most poignant
theme of the Human Rights Watch report: how many of those repudiated ''aliens''
professed an attachment to Alabama. ''I love here,'' said a 19-year-old, in the
state since he was 9. Now the cycle of bigotry is renewed, poisoning a new
generation of Americans on both sides.

ALABAMA'S civic conscience stayed unperturbed until a media festival erupted
over H.B. 56's unintended consequences: the brief detention in November of a
German executive visiting the revered local Mercedes plant. Benz-gate, and the
subsequent Barney Fife-ish treatment of a Japanese manager for Honda, combined
with citizen annoyance over the new paperwork to convince the business community
and much of official Alabama that H.B. 56 had to be ''fixed.'' A University of
Alabama economist placed the law's damage to the state in the billions of
dollars.

The symbols of redemption rallied. Civil rights and labor leaders traveled to
meetings of shareholders, asking them to pressure Alabama for repeal. The annual
re-enactment of the 1965 Selma-to-Montgomery march for voting rights was
refashioned as an anti-H.B. 56 protest. My heart began to mend at a perverse
prospect: in half a century, would Alabama be honoring the remarkable community
uprising that overcame H.B. 56? The coup de grace seemed to occur in March, when
Mr. Beason lost his primary race for the House of Representatives.

''I had really hoped Alabama would be a place that could learn from its
mistakes,'' Mr. Lacey warned me, ''but it doesn't want to be that.'' In May the
Legislature passed an ''improved'' bill sponsored by Mr. Beason, even more
severe than the original. It forced the police to obtain papers from passengers
as well as drivers, and it ordered the state to maintain a database of known
''illegals,'' recalling antebellum ads spotlighting runaway slaves. The law
still exempts domestics, observing the plantation hierarchy of ''house Negroes''
and ''field hands.''

Mr. Beason was most likely emboldened by the forecasts of a constitutional
future for his Arizona template, which should impress the court with the gravity
of its responsibility. Tempting as it is to raise the specter of 1896 -- Plessy
v. Ferguson's ''separate but equal'' precedent -- the better analogy is the 1955
decision known as Brown II, which ordered Southern schools desegregated ''with
all deliberate speed'' but left that task to the segregationists who provoked
the humanitarian crisis in the first place.

We know how the fight will turn out, just as it was long obvious the
Constitution could not condone segregation forever. But the fight will be
ceaselessly reprised, shattering lives before the inevitable is allowed to
happen.

At least in Alabama, the civil rights movement, like the football team, knows
what it takes to win.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An illegal immigrant, the mother of two boys born in the United
States, in Alabama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 255 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

Michelle Obama Debuts in Spanish-Language Ad

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 174 words



HIGHLIGHT: In yet another sign of how important the Hispanic vote is to the
Obama campaign, Michelle Obama's first ad is aimed at Latino communities in
swing states.


In yet another sign of how important the Hispanic vote is to the Obama campaign,
Michelle Obama's first ad is aimed at Latino communities in swing states.

In the 30-second spot, Cristina Saralegui, a Cuban-American talk show host, asks
the first lady, in Spanish, why it is important for Latinos to vote this year.

Subtitles offer a translation of Mrs. Obama's response as she ticks off the
president's goal of immigration reform, keeping the health care law and
expanding education access.

The ad is running on both television and radio in Colorado, Florida, Nevada,
Ohio and Virginia.

President Obama is relying on Hispanic voters not only to win in those swing
states, but also to provide a mandate for his agenda. He told The Des Moines
Register on Tuesday that he would pass comprehensive immigration reform.

"Should I win a second term," Mr. Obama said, "a big reason I will win a second
term is because the Republican nominee and the Republican Party have so
alienated the fastest-growing demographic group in the country, the Latino
community."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
