
                               1 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 30, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

STUDY FINDS BIAS, FORCING A REVIEW OF 1986 ALIEN LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1400 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 29


Congress must thoroughly re-examine the merits of a landmark immigration law
because of a report today that said the measure had produced a ''widespread
pattern of discrimination.''

The report, by Congress's General Accounting Office, found that people with a
''foreign appearance or accent'' had experienced job discrimination ''across a
variety of industries in all areas of the nation and among employers of various
sizes.''

The finding forces reconsideration of the 1986 law, the Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which was intended to curtail illegal immigration. Among other
provisions, it established civil and criminal penalties for employers who hire
illegal aliens. The law, adopted after nearly a decade of study and impassioned
debate, called for the report issued today, and said a finding of bias would
require Congress to consider a bill to repeal the penalties for hiring illegal
aliens.

Illegal Entries Are Down

That reconsideration is not thought likely to result in quick repeal of the
penalties. But Congress may well move toward adoption of a national worker
identification card for citizens and illegal aliens alike. The lawmakers
rejected that step when they adopted the law four years ago, as they tried to
balance the protection of civil liberties with a desire to control illegal
immigration.

The accounting office is an independent, nonpartisan agency established by
Congress in 1921 to investigate all aspects of Government activity. The 1986
immigration law required the agency to look into whether American citizens or
legal aliens suffered discrimination as a result of the statute.

In its report, the accounting office also addressed an issue that was secondary
to its main task of determining whether there was wide job bias: whether the law
proved effective in fighting illegal immigration. The report said that contrary
to assertions of many of the law's critics, it ''has apparently reduced illegal
immigration.''

Not a Firm Conclusion

But that assessment was not presented as a firm conclusion. The report gave no
independent estimate of the extent of any such reduction, and it noted that the
assessment had been inferred only from private studies and the accounts of
employers and aliens.

Under the 1986 law, American citizens and aliens were, for the first time,
required to present identification documents before they could be legally hired.
Several studies by private groups and local government agencies have concluded
that the law increased job discrimination against people with a foreign
appearance or accent. But the G.A.O. report is the most comprehensive and
authoritative study to reach that conclusion.

Hispanic groups, Asian Americans, the United States Catholic Conference and
members of Congress, including some members who voted for the 1986 law, joined
the American Bar Association and the American Civil Liberties Union today in
calling for repeal of employer sanctions, the heart of the statute.

Under the law, Congress must reconsider the employer sanctions within the next
30 days. Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican who was chief sponsor
of the law, said, ''I do not believe the Congress will repeal employer
sanctions,'' and he exvoiced doubt that job bias was as widespread as the report
said.

Educating the Employers

Gene McNary, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said he
believed the Administration would oppose repeal of the employer sanctions.
Rather, Congress and the Administration are likely to take two other steps
recommended by the Congressional investigative agency - publicize the law so
more employers understand its ban on discrimination and establish a more secure
means of identification for citizens and aliens alike, perhaps through issuing
worker identity cards. This second step would combat the traffic in counterfeit
documents, everthing from Social Security cards to driver's licenses.

The Federal auditing agency estimated that as a result of the law, 461,000
employers, representing 10 percent of the total in the United States, adopted
practices that discriminate on the basis of national origin. In addition, the
agency said, 430,000 employers, 9 percent of the total, had decided that because
of the law they would hire only United States citizens and would exclude legal
aliens who are authorized to work in this country.

The law prohibits job discrimination against citizens and legal aliens on the
basis of either national origin or citizenship.

Higher in the Big Towns

The G.A.O. reported that the proportion of employers who adopted discriminatory
practices was higher in big cities: 21 percent in New York, 29 percent in Los
Angeles, 19 percent in Chicago, 18 percent in Miami.

The findings were based on questionnaires mailed to 9,491 employers and on the
experience of young job applicants sent out by the G.A.O. specifically to test
the hiring practices of employers in Chicago and San Diego. The testers were
similar in age, education, work experience and ''oral communication skills,''
but half were Hispanic and half were ''Anglo.''

The questionnaires asked employers to describe actions taken as a result of the
law, but did not ask them to judge whether their hiring practices were
discriminatory.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who was an architect of
the 1986 law, said the investigation had turned up ''a shocking amount of
discrimination, much more than anyone expected.''

Against Repealing Sanctions

''We must do something to stop it,'' he said. ''But repealing employer sanctions
would be a mistake. They are just beginning to work. We must provide more money
to the I.N.S. to assist employers in understanding the antidiscrimination
provisions of the law.''

Three other Democratic Representatives who voted for the 1986 law - Bill
Richardson of New Mexico, Robert T. Matsui of California and Albert G.
Bustamante of Texas - said today that sanctions on employers should be promptly
repealed because they had caused discrimination.

After the General Accounting Office sent college students with similar
qualifications to apply for the same job, as part of a carefully controlled
study, it found that the ''Anglo'' applicants ''received 52 percent more job
offers'' than the Hispanic students. Employers in the study offered jobs to 85
Hispanic students and 129 ''Anglos.''

The G.A.O. said that ''much of the reported discrimination appears to come from
employers who are confused about how to comply'' with the statutory requirement
to verify that job applicants are American citizens or legal aliens. Applicants
can now use any of 17 documents to show work eligibility.

Cutting Into the Documents

The report said the number of such documents should be sharply reduced, and
Senator Simpson said he would offer a bill to create a standard identification
card for job applicants. Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil Liberties Union
said his group would resist any such effort as a threat to privacy rights.

In debates on the original immigration bill, members of Congress warned
repeatedly that it might lead to discrimination, and they established a special
office in the Justice Department to investigate complaints. The office has
received 708 complaints and has opened 66 investigations on its own.

The number of complaints ''is not large relative to the millions of
job-seekers,'' the General Accounting Office said. But, it added, some victims
of discrimination may not realize they were harmed; others may be unaware of
their rights, and still others may be deterred by ''the time, trouble or legal
expense'' of pressing charges.

Fines of $13.2 Million

In the last fiscal year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service proposed
fines of $13.2 million against employers accused of hiring illegal aliens, and
it collected $4 million. In many cases, fines were reduced after negotiations
between employers and the Government, and some employers are still contesting
their citations.

The G.A.O. said that the immigration service and the Labor Department ''have
generally fulfilled their responsibilities to carry out the law.'' The Labor
Department has inspected more than 77,000 employers for compliance with the law.

Single copies of the report can be obtained at no charge from the General
Accounting Office, P.O. Box 6015, Gaithersburg, Md. 20877.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 8, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

New Law Curbs Illegal Aliens, Report Shows

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6


Nearly 1.3 million aliens crossed into the United States from Mexico illegally
from 1986 to 1988, but the figure would have been closer to 2 million if not for
an overhaul in immigration law, a new study reports.

The study, by the Urban Institute, a private research organization, said the
most important factor in the decline was the sanction imposed under the new law
against employers hiring illegal aliens.

The group's report is one of a number that have tried to determine whether the
law, the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, achieved its goal of reducing
the number of aliens illegally entering the United States. The act increased
border patrols, mandated action against employers who knowingly hire illegal
aliens, and provided amnesty for those who have lived in the United States
ccntinuously since Jan. 1, 1982.

''We think the law is doing what it intended to do,'' said Verne Jervis, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''It's deterring
people in trying to enter illegally. There's really no other way to account for
that decline other than the fact that there are fewer people coming.''

Heavy Fine, 6 Months in Jail

Many aliens are aware that employers would be penalized for hiring them, the
immigration service said. Employers can be fined up to $10,000 and sentenced to
six months in prison if they are found hiring undocumented aliens as a practice.

Research for the Urban Institute's report, ''U.S. Immigration Reform and Control
Act and Undocumented Immigration to the United States,'' was conducted under the
co-sponsorship of the Rand Program for Research and Immigration Policy.

The report, released last month, also found that the Government was succeeding
in legalizing aliens through the amnesty programs. Michael J. White, a senior
research associate at the Urban Institute, said the full effect of the new law
remained to be seen.

''We really can't make strong predictions for fiscal year 1989 or far beyond
that,'' he said. ''It will depend on how people comply with the law and relative
economic conditions between the United States and Mexico.''

Border Patrol Is Praised

The researchers reported that 12 percent of 700,000 illegal crossings were
averted because of the border patrols, that 17 percent were averted because of
the program that offered legal status to agricultural workers and 71 percent
were averted because of ''the deterrent effect'' of the new law.

''Legislation has bought time for everyone and made the problem more manageable
for a while,'' said Leonel J. Castillo, Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization in the Carter Administration. ''It seems, however, that time has
passed more quickly than expected, and so it is important to see where we stand,
because I think we will be dealing with the issue again soon.''

The report concluded that the flow of undocumented immigrants across the United
States border with Mexico is influenced by demographic, economic and seasonal
factors. The mounting Mexican population and the relative strength of the United
States economy serve as factors that may increase the number who seek to
immigrate.

But Some Feel It's Too Soon

Rick Swartz, a lawyer and past president of the National Immigration and Refugee
and Citizenship Forum in Washington, said of some of the report's findings that
the general opinion among those involved in immigration was that it was too soon
to draw conclusions about the new law.

While the legalization program was a success for those aliens who applied, Mr.
Swartz said, he faulted the program for not taking into account the ''shadow''
population of 3 million undocumented aliens. ''We clearly didn't reach
everybody,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 9, 1989, Monday, Late Edition - Final

JOBS BEING FILLED BY ILLEGAL ALIENS DESPITE SANCTIONS

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1376 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 8


Despite the Government's effort to turn the workplace into the front line in the
battle against illegal immigration, most illegal aliens are able to find jobs in
the United States.

Immigration officials and other experts say most companies are trying to comply
with the provisions of the 1986 immigration law that prohibit the hiring of
illegal aliens.

But many illegal aliens continue to find jobs using fraudulent identity papers.
Most of the rest are forced deeper into the underground economy, where few
questions are asked, no records are kept and the potential for workers to be
exploited is high.

''Like the undocumented workers already here who didn't qualify for amnesty, the
new arrivals have not become unemployable in this country because of employer
sanctions,'' said Wayne A. Cornelius, the director of the Center for United
States-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San Diego. ''It's just
that their range of job options may have been reduced somewhat.''

Fines or Jail for Employers

Congress imposed the sanctions in the hope that jobs would become impossible to
obtain and therefore no longer would be a magnet for illegal immigration. Two
years after the law began to take effect thousands of people continue to enter
the country illegally every day.

The ease with which the law is being violated is raising increasing questions
about whether migration from Mexico and other economically troubled nations can
be deterred by the 1986 law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act. In addition
to granting legal status to many illegal aliens, the law requires all employers
to demand that new workers show proof of legal residency or other evidence of
their right to work.

Employers who do not demand such documents or who are found to have knowingly
hired an illegal alien are subject to fines of $100 to $10,000 for each
violation. In the most severe cases, the law provides that employers may be
jailed for up to six months, although no such sentences have been imposed. After
a period of issuing warnings, the Immigration and Naturalization Service began
fining employers in June 1988, and it is prosecuting them more aggressively.

Officials of the immigration service acknowledge that the law has not yet had
its intended effect. But they say there are many promising signs, including a
decrease in the number of aliens apprehended while crossing the nation's
southern border and reports from illegal aliens themselves that good jobs are
harder to obtain.

''People are still coming here and looking for jobs, and some are still finding
jobs,'' said A. D. Moyer, Executive Associate Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization.''But it's not as easy as it used to be.''

Fraudulent Documents Abound

By all accounts, the law is being undermined primarily by the spread of
fraudulent Social Security cards, ''green cards'' signifying alien residency
status and other documents widely accepted by employers as proof of the right to
work. Employers are not required to verify the authenticity of the documents,
and critics of the law call this a gaping loophole.

''Compliance with the law has come to mean compliance with the paperwork
requirements,'' said Kitty Calavita, a sociology professor at the University of
California at Irvine who studies immigration. ''Because of the ready
availability of fraudulent documents, employers can comply and still employ the
same people they always have.''

The law's effect is most visible at places like the intersection of Pico
Boulevard and La Brea Avenue in Los Angeles, where dozens of illegal aliens wait
every morning for employers seeking day laborers for construction, gardening,
painting and cleaning jobs that generally pay less than $5 an hour.

Standing on the corner one recent morning, Francisco Javier Saldivar, a
38-year-old Mexican, who came here illegally about two months ago, said the law
is undoubtedly having an impact, but not enough to stop the flow of immigrants.

Work One Day but Not the Next

Mr. Saldivar, who also spent time in the United States last year and in 1980,
said: ''It was much easier then. Now it's hard to find work. In 1980 I could
make $500 in two weeks, and now I'm making $4.25 an hour. I make about $300 a
month because I'll work one day but not the next.''

''It's less secure,'' Mr. Saldivar said. ''Still, lots of people keep coming
because life is very tough in Mexico.''

Neither the immigration service nor other experts see evidence that the law is
prompting more than a handful of illegal aliens to return to their native
countries, where the few jobs available pay far less than those here.

Immigration officials acknowledge that their task in enforcing the law is
daunting. In Los Angeles, for example, about 70 agents are assigned to monitor
roughly half a million employers.

''The law will only work, like tax laws, if the majority of employers comply
voluntarily,'' said John Brechtel, the agency's assistant district director for
investigations in Los Angeles.

Mr. Brechtel said the agency had been unable to thwart the widespread sale of
fake documents. Although there have been nearly 100 convictions for the
counterfeiting of documents in Los Angeles in the last year, the price of false
documents has sharply fallen, Mr. Brechtel said. He said a fake Social Security
card and a green card could be bought for $35. But several workers put the cost
for a good set of the same documents at about $300.

Government Is Criticized

The immigration service's enforcement efforts have drawn considerable criticism.
Peter Larrabee, a lawyer in San Diego who represents many companies in
immigration cases, says the agency concentrates its enforcement on small
employers, ignoring big companies that can mount vigorous legal defenses.

He also says the agency avoids cases against chronic employers of illegal
aliens, because they keep no records.

''The employers whom the law was intended to go after are not being bothered at
all,'' Mr. Larrabee said. ''They simply don't keep the records the I.N.S. needs
to make a case. It's too difficult for the I.N.S. to make a case against
sweatshop owners and the employers who pay people off the books.''

Mr. Larrabee said the immigration service most often prosecutes companies that
try to comply with the law but inadvertently hire an undocumented worker or fail
to keep paperwork properly.

The feelings among those companies are ''unanimously of total and absolute fear
and confusion,'' Mr. Larrabee said. ''They don't understand why, when they fail
to dot an 'i,' cross a 't' or date a form, they should get a $1,000 fine.''

Officials Say Enforcement Is Fair

IMT Inc., a machine shop in Fullerton, Calif., that has 15 employees, was
recently fined $3,500 for knowingly employing one illegal alien and for failing
to complete all paperwork properly. Charles Hays, the company's manager, said
the company was fighting the fine, which he said was based on information the
company itself had provided.

''They should be helping us enforce the law and not coming after us and other
people who make a substantial effort to comply,'' Mr. Hays said.

Immigration officials say that they are fairly enforcing the law and that they
have gone after egregious violators as well as those employers who have failed
to meet paperwork and other technical requirements. Mr. Moyer cited the case of
a day-labor company in Chicago that was fined $60,000 after what he said was a
long and labor-intensive investigation.

''We'll work with an employer as long as that employer has made a good-faith
showing that they are trying to comply,'' Mr. Moyer said.

The immigration service said its most recent figures showed that as of June 30,
it had conducted 21,745 investigations of employers. The agency said it had
issued 4,634 warnings and 2,511 fines seeking a total of $11.8 million. Many
fines are settled for less than the agency first demands.

Mr. Moyer said the immigration service still believes that sanctions will
ultimately work as a deterrent to illegal immigration. ''I've said all along
that this law is going to take three to five or maybe even eight years to have a
full impact on immigration patterns to the United States,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

1986 AMNESTY LAW IS SEEN AS FAILING TO SLOW ALIEN TIDE

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1809 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 17


The most sweeping effort to halt illegal immigration in American history, the
1986 overhaul of immigration law, may have cut the flow of illegal aliens less
than expected and may have actually encouraged unlawful entry in several ways.

Two years after it began to take effect, experts around the country are starting
to draw conclusions about the law's effect. As thousands of people continue to
enter the country illegally every day, the first arguments are being entered in
a debate over whether the legislation has achieved its goals, and whether it
ever will.

Some in Congress seek more effective enforcement of the law; others want to
focus on the poverty and turmoil in the third world that force people out of
their homelands. Meanwhile, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
proclaimed the law a clear success, and the Bush Administration has yet to put
its own stamp on immigration policy.

''We have found no evidence that the 1986 immigration law has shut off the flow
of new undocumented migrants,'' said Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for
U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San Diego.

A Decade of Study

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, whose measures began to take
effect in May 1987, was the first nationwide response to a wave of illegal
immigration that began in the mid-1960's and created a resident population of
illegal aliens variously estimated between 6 million and 12 million people.

After a decade of study and argument in Washington, the 1986 law emerged as a
mixture of humanitarian and restrictive measures. Unlike the two previous
efforts to counter similar waves of illegal immigration in the 1930's and
1950's, there was no resort to mass deportations. The law offered legal status
to illegal aliens who had lived in the United States continuously since Jan. 1,
1982, and it imposed penalties on employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens.
It also allowed migrant workers to enter the United States during harvest
season.

''The legislation bought time for everyone and made the problem more manageable
for a while,'' said Leonel J. Castillo, who was Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization during the Carter Administration and is now president of Houston
International University. ''It seems, however, that time has passed more quickly
than expected, and so it is important to see where we stand, because I think we
will be dealing with the issue again soon.''

Torrents of People

According to indicators used by the immigration service to estimate traffic
across the southern border, this year there will be 1.7 million to 2.5 million
crossings. The most recent statistics signal that the flow may have increased in
April and May.

Separate surveys of illegal aliens conducted by researchers based in Mexico,
Texas and California all found that immigration by first-time travelers, as
against those who had previously been to the United States, has been on the rise
for at least a year. Experts also agree that the flow had dropped off through
most of 1987. As a result, immigration experts say they have identified a ''wait
and see'' response to the law among potential immigrants that may be producing a
new wave of illegal immigration.

Doris Meissner, an expert on immigration for the Carnegie Endowment, a
Washington research organization, said, ''There is evidence that many potential
immigrants waited for a while to see how the law worked and have since begun
moving again. If so, we should see the flow across the border accelerating any
day.''

A Magnet of Sorts

The 1986 law allowed 3.1 million previously illegal aliens to obtain legal
status here. Recent studies show that many thousands of people crossed the
border surreptitiously to take advantage of the program, some of them with
falsified documents and personal histories. The mass of newly legalized
immigrants is also acting as a magnet for illegal aliens who want to come to the
United States to join friends and relatives.

A plan to strengthen the Border Patrol was never fully carried out, and experts
reach widely differing verdicts on the effectiveness of the sanctions against
employers who hire illegal aliens.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who was instrumental in
shaping the law's final compromises, said, ''The legislation has had some effect
but not close to what it should have been.'' He complained that the Reagan
Administration favored passage of the law but never gave the immigration service
the resources to enforce it. ''So far, the law really has not been given a fair
test,'' he said.

The current debate over immigration policy is likely to affect not only future
law but also foreign policy. After hearings last month on the law's effect,
Representative Bruce A. Morrison, a Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and
International Law, said, ''Looking at what's happened the past few years it is
increasingly obvious that most of the reasons for illegal immigration are in the
countries people are leaving, and that unless those conditions change we may be
able to reduce the flow somewhat, but no enforcement scheme will stop the
tide.''

A Lonely Assertion

At those hearings Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the I.N.S., argued that a
steady decline in the number of people apprehended trying to cross the border
''continues to demonstrate that the law is working and employer sanctions are
having the intended effect of reducing illegal immigration.''

But the immigration service is now virtually alone in asserting that the
sanctions have substantially cut the flow of illegal immigrants. Mr. Nelson has
said repeatedly that the number of people apprehended on the border has dropped
at a rate of 40 percent a year since the law went into effect. But many scholars
dispute Mr. Nelson's statistics. Some researchers believe sanctions on employers
have cut the flow, but not by 40 percent, and other experts argue the sanctions
have had no effect at all.

The effects of the law are illustrated in the experiences of two recent illegal
immigrants.

A 30-year-old woman from El Salvador said that in February 1988 she left home to
live illegally in Texas in part because ''my cousin got papers under the
amnesty, and so she was able to help me with money and a place to stay and
generally in getting around.'' But as a result of the law, she said, ''there is
no way to get a good job, because they always ask for your papers.''

The woman, a secretary in El Salvador, cleans houses in Houston, and although
she would like better work here, she said she had no desire to return to the
poverty and political violence of her homeland. ''Yes,'' she said, ''it is more
difficult to get here and earn money now, but people still do it.'' Like other
illegal aliens interviewed, she asked not to be identified.

A Family Asunder

In the case of another woman from El Salvador, the law had contradictory
effects. She arrived here in 1981, qualifying for the amnesty, but her five
children, now 10 to 18 years old, arrived too late to be legalized. ''It is a
great worry for me,'' she said, ''because my two oldest have graduated from
American high school. Their home is with me here, but they cannot get real jobs.
What is their future?'' According to the immigration service, 3.5 million to 4
million illegal aliens live in the United States on an established basis, as
against 6.5 million to 7 million before passage of the 1986 law.

The drop is accounted for by the number of applicants for the amnesty programs.
In effect, the amnesty divided illegal immigrants into those who were suddenly
legalized and those who were not, but it did not physically separate these
people.

The immigration service expects that a vast majority of amnesty applicants will
receive permanent status as legal residents. If they then become citizens after
a five-year waiting period, they will be able to get legal status for their
spouses and children.

The Men Were First

In the meantime, however, the law has created a new and growing category of
illegal alien: the relatives of amnesty applicants. Noting that nearly 70
percent of the amnesty applicants are men, Nestor Rodriguez, a sociologist at
the University of Houston, said: ''Usually, the men were the first to migrate,
and so more of them qualified for the amnesty. Many woman and children who
followed along later did not qualify, and certainly the men who were here alone
and got papers are now bringing in their families illegally.''

The effect of the amnesty on illegal immigration goes beyond relatives, however.
''Illegal immigrants have a long history of following well-established routes,''
said Mr. Castillo, ''and the amnesty program gave those routes a little more
solidity. Now, instead of relying on other illegals, a new arrival is likely to
know people here who are legal and can offer help with all kinds of things. It's
my guess that it will take a generation to break those ties.''

Mr. Cornelius of the University of California at San Diego conducted extensive
surveys of three rural Mexican communities and has concluded, ''There has been
no significant return flow of illegals who suddenly found themselves jobless in
the United States.'' In the short term at least, he said, the 1986 law ''may
have kept more Mexicans in the United States than it has kept out'' because it
granted some kind of amnesty to about 3.1 million people.

Although immigration experts agree that the prohibition on hiring undocumented
workers has made it more difficult for illegal aliens to find work here, they
differ widely on how much the sanctions on employers have reduced the flow
across the border.

Arrest Rates Are Debated

Much of the debate over the rate of illegal immigration centers on statistics
for the apprehension of aliens along the Southern border because the immigration
service uses these figures to support its assertion that the sanctions have been
effective.

Almost all experts dismiss the immigration service view that proof of decreased
flow lies in the 40 percent drop in apprehensions each year since 1986. The
agency's critics say the number of Border Patrol agents assigned to watch the
border also decreased markedly in that time, and so fewer apprehensions were
inevitable.

Also, it is argued that since 1986 the agents remaining on the border have spent
more time tracking down drug smugglers, another reason why a decline in
apprehension would not necessarily mean there was a drop in the flow of illegal
aliens. Yet other researchers insist that a substantial part of the decline in
apprehensions is explained by the fact that most of the 3.1 million amnesty
applicants can move across the border as they have for years but do it legally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart of breakdown of legalization applicants and agricultural workers
by gender, type of work, age, and state they applied in (Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service) (pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 5, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Amnesty Law Cut Illegal Border Crossings

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 482 words


To the Editor:

You acknowledge the success of the legalization effort in the 1986 immigration
amnesty law, with more than three million applications filed under the
Legalization and Special Agricultural Worker programs (''1986 Amnesty Law Is
Seen as Failing to Slow Alien Tide,'' front page, June 18). But in a curious
twist of logic you suggest that because these millions may now legally move
across the border, the Immigration and Naturalization Service argument that
illegal border crossings have declined is undercut. This legal migration was the
purpose of the Immigration Reform and Control Act: to restore this country's
balanced and fair system of legal immigration.

It cannot be disputed that the cumulative totals of border apprehensions per
year show a 40 percent decline compared with levels before the reform act. You
suggest that if changes in officer hours are factored in, the decrease
disappears. This is not so. The service has analyzed its apprehension data,
controlling for officer hours and seasonal variation. The results show that
apprehensions per hour peaked just before enactment of the law and have declined
since. During a recent three-month period, apprehensions per hour have been the
lowest measured during the 1980's.

To look at the nonimmigrant side, the Immigration anbd Naturalization Service
has a new method to make detailed estimates of visa overstays. Before the new
law, the overstay rate tended to remain constant from year to year. Since 1986
the number of overstays has declined - by about 12 percent in 1987. Overstays
from many countries dropped even more sharply.

Equally promising are the results of our employer-sanction enforcement. As of
April 30, immigration officers had investigated 19,086 employers -13,840 based
upon leads and 5,246 through random selection. We found 91 percent of the
randomly selected employers and 59 percent of the employers investigated based
on leads to be in compliance with the law.

This fall, the country will take stock of the immigration law's prohibition
against the knowing employment of aliens not authorized to work. As you note,
experts agree that the law has made it more difficult for unauthorized aliens to
find work. I expect a full review of the evidence to show that sanctions have
been effectively implemented in a balanced manner, that the law is effective in
reducing illegal immigration and that no widespread discrimination has resulted
from its enforcement.

The experience other countries have had with similar laws suggests that the full
impact of employer sanctions is often not realized until the law has been
enforced five years or more. While we will need to give the law several more
years to observe its full effect, we are proud of the record achieved so far.

JAMES L. BUCK
Acting Commissioner, Immigration
and Naturalization Service
  Washington, July 17, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 3, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

New Measure Opens the Door a Bit Wider to Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2


Thousands of illegal aliens who are the spouses or children of legal immigrants
will be allowed to stay in this country under a new Government policy.

Under the policy, issued today by Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary, those
aliens may stay if they were in this country on Nov. 1, 1986, the effective date
of the Immigration Reform and Control Act, drafted to come to grips with the
illegal-alien problem.

The policy previously enforced by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
allowed family members who were illegal aliens to stay only if there was a
''compelling humanitarian reason'' against deportation.

Mr. McNary said the old standard was too ''nebulous,'' resulting in a policy
that ''has not been evenly and uniformly enforced throughout the country.''

Too Strict, Too Lenient

Some district directors of the immigration service were too strict and others
were too lenient in applying the standard, he told reporters. While only a
handful of people were deported under the old policy, he said a more consistent
policy might encourage more people to apply for the new status, which would
allow them to obtain work permits. The service will still enforce immigration
laws to deter border crossings, the Commissioner said, but ''we can enforce the
law humanely.''

''To split families simply encourages further violation'' of the Immigration
Reform and Control Act as the families try to reunite, Mr. McNary said.

The law granted amnesty to illegal aliens who could prove they were living in
the country before Jan. 1, 1982. It also provided immigrant status to illegal
aliens on farms if they could prove they had worked 90 days picking crops in
this country in any one of three years.

More than three million illegal aliens have been given legal status under the
amnesty program in the 1986 law. Of those, more than a million have applied for
permanent residence. The law also established sanctions for employers who hired
illegal aliens.

The spouses and children who are covered by the new order typically followed
their relatives here, but did not arrive in time to qualify for amnesty. Those
people technically remain illegal aliens.

Praised and Termed Belated

The decision was praised by representatives of groups that espouse immgrants'
rights, but it was also termed belated since it came so long after the amnesty
program ended. Illegal aliens had until May 1988 to apply for permanent
residency status under the amnesty program.

''It's just a shame that it has taken such a long time to ameliorate some of the
harsh and restrictive elements that had been used in the legalization program,''
said Arthur C. Helton, head of the asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights.

Many eligible aliens did not apply for permanent residence out of fear that
relatives who had entered the United States illegally would be caught and
deported, Mr. Helton said.

Arnoldo Torres, national political director of the League of United Latin
American Citizens, who had been harshly critical of the immigration service,
termed the order ''probably one of the most reasonable positions that I.N.S. has
taken.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Scrap Immigration Act's Backfiring Sanctions

SECTION: Section A; Page 32, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words


To the Editor:

If the employer sanctions of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act were
simply a failed effort to combat job discrimination, more education and
streamlined paperwork might counter employment discrimination (''Hasty Hysteria
on Aliens,'' editorial, April 3). However, the sanctions provisions were
designed to conscript all employers as border enforcers; antidiscrimination
measures were included only because critics knew the law's consequences could be
disastrous for United States minority and eligible foreign workers. The General
Accounting Office report, like the New York State study before it, confirms that
the antidiscrimination measures aren't working.

When a Government program is causing discrimination, more than patience and fine
tuning is called for. The program leading to new discrimination should be ended.

That the sanctions program isn't delivering on its promise is all the more
reason to call it off. The G.A.O. argues in the most tentative terms that the
law is reducing the number of immigrants coming to this country. The law,
however, was also intended to drive home those undocumented immigrants who
didn't qualify for the amnesty program by making it impossible for them to work.
The G.A.O. didn't even examine this matter, but all the evidence is that the
vast majority of the three million immigrants and refugees who remain
undocumented have stayed. They find the prospects of return to warfare,
political upheaval and dire poverty that they fled a poorer option than the
exploitative underground economy to which they have been driven in the United
States.

Finally, Congress promised organized labor that sanctions would ''save American
jobs.'' The G.A.O. report ignores this promise. No evidence has demonstrated
that the presence of one undocumented worker results in the loss of one native
worker's job or that one immigrant turned back saves one job. Indeed, by
strengthening the underground economy, employer sanctions have weakened the
status of organized labor and undermined conditions for all workers.

If Congress adopts your recommendations of more educational efforts to instruct
employers in the law and simplification of paperwork, Government-caused
discrimination will continue. Meanwhile the flaws in the sanctions policy will
remain untouched. Employer sanctions do not respond to the overwhelming push to
immigration in Central America, the Caribbean and Mexico, nor do they affect the
demand for cheap labor in the United States that continues to pull immigrants.

An end to war and repression in Central America and imaginative efforts to ease
the impact of debt burdens in Mexico, coupled with rigorous implementation of
tough labor protection laws at home, offer better and more humane strategies for
reducing the numbers of immigrants to the United States.

BONNY BUTLER
Philadelphia, April 9, 1990
  The writer is with the immigration policy issues working group, American
Friends Service Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 14, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Dip in Farm Workers Could Open Door for Aliens

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 639 words


Officials of the Departments of Agriculture and Labor have been meeting over the
last few days to determine whether there is a shortage of seasonal workers on
the nation's farms. Such a shortage could open the door for nonresident aliens
to gain legal status.

The two departments are expected to announce by the end of the month whether a
shortage of farm workers has been verified.

Under the 1986 immigration law, anyone who has worked for at least 20 days on
American farms from May 1, 1985, to Nov. 30, 1988, will be eligible to register
for the Replenishment Agricultural Worker program.

If a labor shortage is determined, those who register will be entered in a
lottery. Those chosen in the lottery can apply for a ''green card,'' signifying
permanent residency, if they work at least 90 days in seasonal agriculture each
year for the next three years.

Law Included Special Program

But if there is no shortage, there will be no lottery drawing this year.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which made it illegal to employ
illegal aliens, provided an amnesty program for aliens who could prove
continuous residence since before Jan. 1, 1982. It also included a special
amnesty program for illegal aliens who had spent 90 days working on farms in
this country but did not oblige them to continue in agriculture after achieving
legal status.

More than 1.2 million applications were received under that Special Agricultural
Workers program, said Duane Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Of these, 462,129 have been approved and 33,980 denied.
The remaining 750,000 applications are pending.

''But there is no way to predict how many of these special agricultural workers
will move out of agriculture,'' said Michael Durando, president of the
California Grape and Tree Fruit League in Fresno, Calif.

'Tightening in Supply'

Mr. Durando noted that ''there has been a tightening in the supply of workers in
California'' because employer sanctions have discouraged illegal aliens from
entering the country.

Don Schellenberg, a spokesman for the Oregon Farm Bureau Federation, said labor
shortages had occurred in strawberry fields in June and in cucumbers fields in
late August and early September. He said the new amnesty program was needed now,
and ''there's going to be an even greater need in the future.''

Apple growers in the Northeast have labor shortages, and there are reports of
spot shortages in Texas and Florida, said Sharon Hughes, executive vice
president of the National Council of Agricultural Employers in Washington. She
said the shortages ''aren't too bad so far but people are afraid of what will
happen if many of the special agricultural workers go mainstream.''

Registration for the new Replenishment Agricultural Worker program began Sept. 1
and ends Nov. 30. According to the 1986 immigration bill, other registration
periods may be set up if there appears to be a need for additional farm workers.
Any aliens 18 years or older, even those who have been denied legal status under
other programs, can register.

Aliens can get registration cards from organizations authorized by the service
to help with the program, or from any I.N.S. office. This form, along with a $10
registration fee, must be mailed to the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
P.O. Box 6004, London, Ky. 40742-6004.

If the Government rules that there is a shortage of farmworkers, the immigration
service will draw the number of workers needed at random from those registered.
Those selected will be asked to petition for special status, or temporary
residence. The petition fee is $175.

The selected workers will be free to accept any other employment if they perform
the mandatory 90 days seasonal agricultural work each year for three years, Mr.
Austin said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1989, Monday, Late Edition - Final

How Really to Cut Down Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words


To the Editor:

Your front-page report Oct. 9 on continuing heavy illegal immmigration despite
the Immigration Reform and Control Act enacted in 1986 highlights the defects of
that act. As forewarned by some of us who were consultants to the select
commission and the legislators, undocumented entries cannot be controlled and
halted by a simple procedure on the ''demand'' side, namely by requiring
employers to check legal-residence documents for all new hires.

Apparently, because fraudulent documents can be obtained by workers and accepted
by employers, only a portion of jobs for illegals has ''dried up.''
Consequently, there is little discouragement to surreptitious entries and little
pressure to return home. You report that thousands continue to enter the country
illegally every day; Immigration and Naturalization Service data for the first
six months of fiscal 1989 suggest about 800,000 a year are apprehended for
illegal entries across the borders. To that, add overstayers on visitor visas.

These trends are more ominous than you indicate. For one thing, the diversion of
some good jobs away from illegal aliens is not only pushing some migrants into
sweatshop work at substandard wages and conditions, but it may also drive others
into crime: burglaries, muggings, drug dealing. Furthermore, every new inflow
adds to the burdens on local communities and social infrastructure. Meanwhile
the pressures to migrate from Mexico, Central and South America, Southeast Asia
and other lands are intensifying, not only because of poverty but also economic
stagflation, foreign-debt burdens, political and military upheavals, increased
mobility, organized border crossing and highly profitable drug smuggling.

The promising signs immigration officials cite to allay criticism come down at
best to a vaunted decrease in apprehensions of about 55 percent for 1989
compared with 1986. But the 1986 figure represents a rise in crossings to beat
the passage of the new act and perhaps to qualify for ''amnesty.'' Apprehensions
have surged in recent months, so the estimated annual rate is not far from
mid-80's figures.

Reconsidering the 1986 act, we might ask, Why not adopt a real, fake-proof
identification card (with picture, fingerprint, height and weight) for all legal
residents? The usual protests about invasion of privacy sound increasingly
hollow.

If we are not prepared to apply massive enforcement - a Berlin Wall at the
borders and immigration agents in every business and tourist circuit - nor to
spend huge sums on the economic development of Mexico and other countries, we
must look for other approaches.

One of these is to dry up the jobs for illegal aliens by pre-empting them with
legally admitted temporary workers. This would draw on our relatively narrow but
longstanding and successful experience in this country with H-2 workers, and
would extend to urban jobs the H-2 provisions for farm labor scarcities as
already written into the immigration act. These workers would come in varying
numbers, for variable periods, as needed, but without dependents. Repatriation
would be insured by government-to-government arrangements for the next cohort,
and by withholding part of their earnings until their return, providing a lump
sum of savings to spend or invest at home.

EDWIN P. REUBENS
New York, Oct. 10, 1989
  The writer is an emeritus professor of economics at the City College of New
York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               10 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1989, Monday, Late Edition - Final

How Really to Cut Down Illegal Immigration;
Protect the Innocent

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words


To the Editor:

''Jobs Being Filled by Illegal Aliens Despite Sanctions'' (front page, Oct. 9)
was foreseen by opponents of immigration reform legislation. That law was a
mismarriage of ''reforms'' sought by two minorities in Congress, the
Hispanophobes, who wanted to keep out Mexican migrants, and the Hispanophiles,
who wanted legalization for illegal aliens already here.

The ebb and flow of Mexican migrants across our Southern border is likely to
continue as long as there are jobs here that are shunned, for whatever reasons,
by legal residents. Bogus documents were the inevitable consequence of the law's
requirement that employers demand proof from each new employee of his right to
work in the United States.

We could control our border more effectively if we allowed short-term legal
entry for screened Mexicans who can produce police clearances and family data
from their home communities. Such migrants would enter through normal channels
and could be monitored while here to assure timely departure. This would be far
more orderly than a situation in which otherwise harmless job seekers must sneak
across the border or be smuggled in by ''coyotes.''

The opponents of short-term legal entry argue that such a program would make it
easier for migrants to find jobs, thus depriving legal residents of employment
opportunities. That is a myth refuted by credible studies and by the experience
of employers whose premises have been raided by Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents to arrest and deport undocumented Mexicans. Most of the vacated
jobs went begging until ''illegal aliens'' came back to take them. A President's
Council of Economic Advisers report found that the Mexican migrants who come
here temporarily for hard-to-fill jobs benefit the economies of both countries.

The flood of harmless migrants who must sneak or be smuggled across the border
because there is no legal alternative are used as cover by the drug traffickers
and other criminals, who are a serious threat to our country. By establishing a
legal, short-term entry procedure for the innocuous migrants, we would divert
the Mexicans who benefit our economy to normal entry channels and thus make it
far easier for our border officials to apprehend and prohibit entry by the
malefactors, who must of necessity find illegal ways to enter our country.

E. M. GILES
San Antonio, Oct. 9, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               11 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 28, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

THE NATION;
In Texas, the Door to Central Americans Opens a Crack

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


ALMOST a year ago the Immigration and Naturalization Service tried to cut the
flow of illegal immigrants from Central America into south Texas by putting
thousands of people in detention camps. Since then lawsuits and budget
constraints have whittled away that harsh policy, and the Government has to find
a new strategy for handling a new wave of migrants.

The immigration service is trying to deal with the problem without resorting to
fenced-in tent cities. It is also preparing new guidelines for political asylum.
At the same time, Congress is considering legislation that would allow illegal
aliens from Nicaragua and El Salvador who are already in the United States to
live and work here for at least three years.

As the Government considers what to do next, the door has been left ajar.
Hundreds of long-term detainees have been freed in recent weeks, and many new
arrivals have been held for only a few days.

Until recently, policy toward Central American refugees has been an afterthought
in Washington's long ideological debate over the region.

The Reagan Administration threw open the door to Nicaraguans in May 1988 by
offering safe haven to those who were fleeing the Sandinistas. When too many
refugees showed up last winter, the immigration service took the initiative
during the transition to the Bush Administration and tried to shut the door
tight. But neither Congress nor the White House offered much support for the
detention policy, and the official who instigated it, Immigration Commissioner
Alan C. Simpson, was pushed out of office last June.

Although the detention strategy apparently succeeded in temporarily cutting the
number of asylum seekers, it proved costly.

''It is always the same story with detention plans: the I.N.S. launches them
with great enthusiasm, but then it can't sustain them because of the costs, the
vulnerability to litigation and lack of public support,'' said Doris Meissner,
an immigration expert at the Carnegie Endowment, a research institute in
Washington.

Even within the immigration service, there are now regrets over the effort in
south Texas. As many as 500 immigration officials were sent to the Rio Grande
Valley, and the agency spent millions of dollars to shelter and feed a
population of detainees that exceeded 3,600 at its peak. The agency also had to
provide transportation home for those who were deported - there were 4,436 last
year. According to Federal estimates, the agency was about $50 million over its
budget at one point because of the policy. Equipment purchases and some
operations were deferred or canceled just as the agency began to assume its new
duties in drug interdiction.

Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary, who took office in November, said in an
interview last week that ''corrective action'' had been taken to ease the
agency's budget problems, including reducing the number of people detained. Mr.
McNary said that no more than about 670 people will be held at the south Texas
main detention camp, which has recently housed 1,000 to 1,200 people.

To reduce the number, some migrants who have been held for as long as six months
are being released while they await disposition of their cases, and new arrivals
who have relatives living legally in the United States are being allowed to go
to their families and find jobs while they pursue asylum claims.

The courts have also played a role, and that will doubtless continue.

''We are exploring potential remedies for the refugees because if they are being
let go now, then the I.N.S. will be hard pressed to explain the lawful basis for
detaining them in the first place,'' said Robert Rubin of the Lawyers' Committee
for Urban Affairs, a San Francisco group that has successfully challenged the
detention policy.

Last July a Federal court in Texas found that the Government was unjustified in
summarily denying the asylum claims of six Salvadorans, and it is now
considering a motion to extend that ruling to all Salvadorans.

In other court action, the immigration agency was forced to adhere to rules
assuring people adequate legal counsel and access to telephones, measures that
increased the detention costs. After a Guatemalan was dragged out of a hearing
room and deported while his asylum claim was pending, the immigration service
had to fly the man back to Texas where he is now at liberty.

The costs of the detention and the legal dispute it provoked have ''increased
the level of discomfort in Washington over the lack of any clear policy towards
these people,'' Ms. Meissner said. A clearer idea of the Bush Administration's
inclinations may emerge in the coming debate over a bill that would permit all
Salvadorans and Nicaraguans now in the country illegally to register with the
immigration service and remain for three years. The measure, first introduced in
1983, has passed the House three times, and is awaiting action by the full
Senate. But the politics of the bill has grown more complex. In the latest
version passed by the House, Chinese nationals were also made eligible for
temporary amnesty.

Meanwhile, pressure for a revamped refugee policy is rising. The number of
Central Americans apprehended entering Texas increased sharply after rebels in
El Salvador launched an offensive two months ago, and the flow is now
approaching the same level as before the detention policy was introduced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CORRECTION:

An article on Jan. 28 about United States policy toward illegal immigrants from
Central America misidentified a former Immigration Commissioner. He is Alan C.
Nelson.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Central American immigrants at a detention camp in Bayview, Tex.
(Brad Doherty)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               12 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 5, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition

6 Arrested on Illegal-Immigrant Smuggling Charges

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Bingo Seafood Restaurant on Mott Street in Chinatown, where William
Tsoi was arrested. He was one of six people arrested who authorities said were
major figures in a growing trade involving the smuggling of illegal Asian
immigrants bound for Chinese sections of New York City. Page B3. (The New York
Times/Angel Franco)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               13 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Soft Underbelly: Sneaking Mexicans (and Others) Into U.S. Is Big Business

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1747 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY June 19


When a Mexican ''coyote,'' or smuggler of illegal immigrants, was arrested
recently as he tried to enter the United States at Ciudad Juarez, he was in
unusual company. Apprehended with him were a Turkish associate and a group of
Iranians whom the Turk had shepherded all the way from Istanbul to Mexico.

Farther west, in the Tijuana-San Diego area, more than a dozen Koreans,
traveling together on Argentine passports, were taken into custody in April.
When questioned, they admitting paying thousands of dollars each for the
documents and for an itinerary that had taken them from Seoul to South America
and on through Mexico.

For immigration and law enforcement officials on both sides of the border, such
incidents, increasingly common, are worrisome indications that the smuggling of
immigrants into the United States is undergoing a basic transformation. As
economic and political conditions throughout the third world worsen and legal
entry to the United States becomes more difficult, they say, an illicit trade
that was once loosely organized and local in character is rapidly becoming a
lucrative, professional international industry.

''International alien smuggling has become a big business, a series of highly
organized and sophisticated networks,'' said Robert J. Penland, Assistant
Commissioner for Anti-Smuggling Operations at the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service. ''It's not a single little operation anymore, with one
guy going from one country to another evading customs. It's something serious,
and it is here to stay.''

As described by American, Mexican and Central American immigration and law
enforcement officials, as well as by would-be immigrants from Central and South
America and Asia during four months of interviews, Mexican coyotes are the focal
point of a nexus held together by the enormous profits to be made by trafficking
in human beings. These officials agree that multinational rings fronting as
travel agencies and using safe houses, fake or illegal documents and information
obtained from the penetration of immigration services are growing in size,
confidence and expertise.

For decades, Mexicans have boarded trains or buses in their hometowns and headed
north, often joining relatives and neighbors who have made the trek previously.
After making their way to the border, they normally pay a coyote several hundred
dollars to get them safely across the border.

But tens of thousands of people in places as far flung as East Asia and West
Africa, India and Brazil are no less eager to build new lives in the United
States. Many of these would-be immigrants have little knowledge of the United
States or Mexico, whose 1,952-mile border with the United States makes it a
logical transit and staging point, and thus seek help from those with
experience. Prices Can Run As High as $30,000 As a result, the amount of money
changing hands for such services is rising dramatically. On one heavily traveled
route that originates in Fujian Province in China and passes through Hong Kong
and Mexico before ending in California, for instance, the price can run as high
as $30,000 a person, according to both immigrants and immigration officials.

''I have distant relatives in New York who paid the money for me, and when I get
there, I will work for them until I have paid them back,'' Wang Weidong, a
22-year-old mechanic from a village near Xiamen, China, said when interviewed in
northern Mexico last month. ''Several of my friends have done the same thing
through travel agencies in Hong Kong, so I thought I would try.''

American immigration officials say that until recently so-called ''O.T.M.'s,''
or ''other than Mexicans,'' accounted for less than 2 percent of all the
apprehensions in the San Diego-Tijuana area, the busiest sector of the border.
''But in the last few months, beginning about December or January, O.T.M.'s have
risen to 5 percent,'' said Dale W. Cozart, the Border Patrol chief in San Diego.

Immigration officials say a similar surge, mostly of Central Americans, has been
recorded in the Brownsville sector of Texas, the second busiest area.

The immigration service says 1,008,145 apprehensions of foreigners trying to
enter the United States illegally, mostly along the Mexican border, were
recorded in 1988, of which 58,423 involved non-Mexicans. No figures on how many
illegal immigrants successfully entered the United States are available, but
immigration officials estimate that for every illegal immigrant detained, at
least two make it.

Even though apprehensions of Mexicans dropped in both numerical and percentage
terms last year, Mexico continues to play a key role in the business of
smuggling foreigners across the border. Immigrants from more than 60 countries
were apprehended trying to cross the border from Mexico in 1988, the immigration
service reports. Contracting to 'People Who Have Experience'

The frontier is porous, and as Mr. Penland put it, Mexican smugglers ''are the
past masters at this business and already have the resources set up at the
border.''

Miguel A. Vallina, head of anti-smuggling operations for the United States
Border Patrol in the San Diego area, said: ''As in any other line of business,
you contract out for the job to people who have experience. A big guy in Seoul
is going to have his contacts in Mexico, because even though there are many,
many routes, they basically go through Mexico.''

Mexican officials agree. ''We are now picking up coyotes whose personal address
books list names and phone numbers in Frankfurt, New Delhi, Hong Kong, Rio and
Belgrade,'' an Interior Ministry official said. Many of the non-Mexicans arrive
here legally, since nationals of many Eastern European, Latin American and
Middle Eastern countries do not need visas to enter Mexico.

A major factor in the growing professionalization of the smuggling trade,
experts agree, has been the Simpson-Rodino Bill, officially known as the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. It granted legal status to
foreigners who could prove they had arrived in the United States before 1982 and
have lived there continuously since, but denied it to later arrivals.

Also as part of the legislation, the United States has beefed up its Border
Patrol manpower and increased enforcement along the border and at points of
entry such as airports, actions that initially stymied many coyotes. Though the
law has not halted the human traffic across the border, it has made entering the
United States more difficult and, therefore, more expensive, as smugglers have
had to devise more sophisticated methods.

The new law ''has given us a more viable immigration policy, but the flip side
has been that we have much more sophisticated people now involved in smuggling
aliens,'' Mr. Penland said. ''In the past, maybe you could just sneak in on your
own, but now you can no longer just walk into the back of a little store and say
you want to wash dishes.'' Fleeing War, Poverty And Repression In recent months,
a surge of Central Americans fleeing war, poverty and political repression in
their homelands has also created vast new opportunities for the smugglers.
Residents on both sides of the border between Mexico and Guatemala, some of whom
have long rustled cattle, horses and food back and forth across the frontier,
have quickly learned that huge sums of money can be made when they change from
animal to human cargo.

As a result, Mexico's southern border has become a site of much illicit
activity. At day's end, the state telephone company office at Tecun-Uman,
Guatemala, just across the Suchiate River, fills with refugees and immigrants
eager to contact relatives in the United States who have, in many cases,
arranged for their trips.

''We've made it as far as the Mexican border, but the coyote you told me would
be here hasn't showed up yet,'' a Nicaraguan, who later identified himself as
Luis Arguello Anaya, shouted into the receiver one March evening as he struggled
to communicate with a cousin in Miami. ''You'd better call your contacts there
to see what happened and then try to wire us some money.''

At the same time, the economic crisis afflicting many South American countries
has encouraged greater numbers of people there to seek their fortunes in the
United States, even though that may cost a lot. Argentina, Brazil and Peru, all
of which are fighting inflation of over 1,000 percent and soaring unemployment,
are becoming significant sending areas.

Smuggling networks are also said to have stepped up their involvement in
ancillary activities like job placement of illegal immigrants. In some
instances, they even appear willing to finance clients' trips on credit,
approaching Central American peasants in their home villages and offering
package deals with no money down.

''I told them that I didn't have the money to afford the trip, and they said it
didn't matter,'' a 28-year-old Salvadoran named Ramon, interviewed in northern
Mexico recently, said of the coyotes who had recruited him. ''They promised they
would get me across, no matter how many times it takes, and find me a job, and
that then I will have to pay them back. So here I am.'' Involuntary Servitude
For Some Immigrants In some cases, however, gullible immigrants, especially
those from Central America and China, find themselves in conditions that amount
to involuntary servitude. ''They get to their destination, and then are told,
'You belong to us, and you'd better do what we say,' '' Mr. Penland said.

In southern Mexico, such immigrants have been hired out to plantation owners, at
long hours and low wages, to work on the coffee, cotton and cacao harvests until
they earn the money to continue their trip. For women, the process can be even
more degrading.

''The brothels here are full of nothing but Central American women,'' said David
Escobar Argueta, the Guatemalan Consul in Hidalgo, Mexico, on the
Mexico-Guatemala border. In Chicago, Mr. Penland said, the immigration service
has found ''Central American women being forced to work as bargirls and
prostitutes'' to pay coyotes.

With the flow of immigrants from Central America growing, a booming business in
Mexican documents stolen here or forged in printshops in Guatemala and El
Salvador has also sprung up. The Central Americans who buy such documents hope
to avoid the harassment of Mexican police in Mexico and also to avoid
deportation to their homelands if they are caught in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of a border patrol agent arresting a Salvadoran couple
(NYT/Robert Burroughs); map of the U.S.-Mexican border

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               14 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

GROUPS OPPOSE BID TO CUT ALIENS' AID

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21


Civil libertarians and groups representing the poor and the elderly have
expressed concern over a measure passed by the Senate that would bar illegal
aliens from receiving Federal benefits, including Social Security and disability
payments.

The measure, an amendment to an immigration bill, attracted little notice when
it gained Senate approval by a vote of 93 to 6 last July. It is now before a
House judiciary panel; Philip Gambino, a spokesman for the Social Security
Administration, said the Bush Administration had no position on the measure.

Eileen Sweeney, a staff attorney with the National Senior Citizen Law Center,
called the Senate measure ''extremely punitive to a group of people who have
paid their dues in this country.''

And the American Civil Liberties Union called the measure ''unrealistically
simplistic'' and ''unfair.'' #250,000 May Be Affected Social Security experts
say that, while nobody knows the number of illegal aliens receiving Social
Security benefits or disability payments, the measure would affect at least
250,000 people living in the United States, with the heaviest concentrations in
New York, California, Florida, Illinois, New York and Texas. It could also
affect thousands of the 350,000 Social Security beneficiaries living outside the
United States, of whom only half are American citizens.

The measure is intended to end benefits for illegal aliens who are known to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and whom the agency has taken no steps to
deport. They are a category of illegal aliens the immigration service calls
Persons Residing Under Color of Law. They have been eligible for, and received,
Social Security benefits since the program began.

Sponsors of the Senate measure say that it would eliminate benefits that attract
illegal aliens to the United States. They contend that, at a time of large
Federal deficits, every dollar given an illegal alien is money taken from an
American citizen. And they say that anyone working in the United States long
enough to qualify for Social Security benefits - that is, for a period of at
least 10 years, or 40 quarters - has the opportunity to legalize his status.

Opponents of the measure say a prohibition on Social Security and disability
payments would hurt the nation's most vulnerable residents. They note that
people who collect Social Security benefits have contributed to those benefits.

Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat who cast one of the six
votes against the measure, said: ''Social Security is a contractual program in
which persons receive benefits in return for making contributions. We've never
said, 'Stick out your tongue and let us look at you and see if you're eligible.'
''

State and Local Impact

Opponents also contend that the prohibition would place a huge administrative
burden on the Social Security Administration, which would have to determine the
legal status of every beneficiary, and an additional financial burden on state
and local governments, which would have to support those denied Federal
benefits.

Senator Jim Exon, a Nebraska Democrat who sponsored the measure, called Federal
benefits like Social Security and disability payments ''a powerful magnet for
illegal immigration into this country.''

The Senator cited reports that in 1986 the Government paid more than $17 million
in Social Security benefits to illegal aliens, and that by 2026 such payments
could reach more than $8 billion a year.

Asked about concerns that the amendment would hurt those who are most
vulnerable, Mr. Exon said, ''Whenever we enact any kind of a law to get a hold
on Federal expenditures there's never any question that, unfortunately, some
people are going to be hurt.''

Opposition in House Panel

The measure, which is pending before the House Judiciary Subcommitte on
Immigration, Refugees and International Law, is also opposed by Representative
Bruce A. Morrison, the panel's chairman. Mr. Morrison, a Connecticut Democrat,
said, ''I oppose barring people from getting benefits that they've paid for.''

Wade Henderson, associate director of the Washington office of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said the group was ''troubled by the Exon amendment.''

The A.C.L.U. called the amendment ''unrealistically simplistic legislation that
would undermine the I.N.S.'s ability to make sophisticated distinctions between
aliens,'' adding that it would unfairly shift the cost of caring for illegal
aliens who are aged and disabled from the Federal Government to state and local
governments.

The effect on local governments was underscored by Hilary Klein, an assistant
corporation counsel for New York City. ''The Exon amendment would shift the
burden of a failed immigration policy onto localities,'' Ms. Klein said. ''It
would lead to various undocumented aliens who are long-term residents of New
York City being further impoverished. New York City would then have to carry the
ball and provide benefits.''

Senator Exon said in response that ''a case can be made'' to provide additional
Federal aid to New York and other states that have a high number of illegal
aliens ''to tide them over'' until they are deported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               15 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 11, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Alien Students Learn More Education Is the Key

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 34, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 906 words


It was Rap Day at John Dewey High School last week, and most of the workshops
focused on sex and drugs. But in room 343, it was standing room only as
students, teachers and professionals discussed the really hot topic of the times
- the rights of illegal immigrant children.

Lawyers and other experts emphasized to the students that New York City's public
schools are open to all young people, whether or not they are in the country
legally. They also passed out Board of Education leaflets welcoming
''undocumented and documented immigrants'' in six languages.

''But if I can't get a job, why should I get an education?'' an Asian teen-ager
asked, expressing the frustration of many undocumented students. For illegal
teen-agers, the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act has been both an
opportunity and an obstacle. The act offered illegal aliens a brief amnesty in
which to become legal, but also created stiff penalties for employers who hire
illegals.

''Hope,'' responded Kathleen Jarvis, who heads the Advocates for Children's
Immigrant Student Rights Project. ''Eventually that law is going to change, so
get your foot in the door and acquire a skill the United States needs.''

Train Parents and Staff

Although figures vary widely for New York City's undocumented population,
Columbia University's Center for Social Sciences conservatively estimated that
after the expiration of the amnesty in May 1988, 250,000 undocumented aliens
remained in the country, including 46,000 children.

The visit to John Dewey, in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn, was part of a
program to help immigrant schoolchildren cope with the new system, and part of a
day of discussions at the school. It was organized by the City Bar Association
in New York and Advocates for Children, a nonprofit organization. They train
school staff and parents, run seminars for students, and operate a telephone
help line.

About 40 students signed up for the workshop. At least 80 showed up.

''There's a great need to reach out to immigrant schoolchildren who are afraid
to ask for help,'' said Laurie Milder, director of the Bar Association's
Community Outreach Law Program. She said about 60 immigration lawyers have
volunteered their time. Can They Get Financial Aid?  More than 1,000 of John
Dewey's 3,000 students are foreign-born, and Ms. Milder and the other speakers
faced a barrage of questions.

Are illegals entitled to go to college? Can they get financial aid? How can an
illegal student get a green card - permanent resident status? If an illegal
student gives birth to a child here, can the mother stay in the country?

Ms. Jarvis told them that the 17 colleges of the City University of New York are
open to undocumented students and do not require a student to show a Social
Security number. Later she described the case of a 17-year-old star athlete in a
Brooklyn high school who had been offered athletic scholarships by 13
universities. But, because she was an illegal immigrant, from the West Indies,
and all the schools insisted on having a Social Security number, she had to go
to CUNY.

Undocumented students used to pay nonresident tuition, double that of residents,
in the city's colleges, but now they are eligible for the residents' rate.

'It's Like the Lottery'

Undocumented students are not yet eligible for Federal or state financial aid,
Ms. Jarvis said. ''But we advise you to take one or two courses because you'll
hear about scholarships; it's like the lottery, you've got to be in it to win
it.''

Robert Washington, an immigration lawyer and former teacher, told the audience
that while the amnesty period was over, there were other ways to become legal.
Sponsorship by a close relative or acquisition of skills listed by the Labor
Department as needed in the United States. Such categories include priest,
minister or religious worker, physical therapist or someone of outstanding
scientific or artistic ability.

An immigration judge would probably let the undocumented mother of an
American-born baby stay ''because the policy has been to keep families together
as a general rule,'' Mr. Washington said. Ms. Jarvis later described the case of
a pregnant illegal teen-ager who was thrown out of her home and moved to a
shelter. Lawyers said she was entitled to some welfare benefits ''because she
was carrying a U.S. citizen child,'' Ms. Jarvis said.

Willing to Adopt Him

After the session ended - with a burst of applause - Enid Margolies, assistant
principal, gathered a dozen students to prolong the discussion.

''Now maybe there's a chance for me to continue my studies,'' a Haitian boy of
14 said excitedly, explaining that he had not known City University accepted
undocumented students. His parents had left him with an aunt, who is a United
States resident, and she was willing to adopt him but her husband was reluctant.

A Cuban boy of 17, who came here more than four years ago, asked how to get a
green card ''so I can study and go into the Navy.''

For specific problems, the students were told to call the Immigrant Students
Legal Rights Helpline at (718) 729-8866.

In the past, most calls came from school counselors, but now it is mainly
students who want to go to college, Ms. Jarvis said. Since undocumented students
are generally afraid to disclose their identity, they are promised
confidentiality and asked only their first name, age, country of origin and
school.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: During Rap Day at John Dewey High School lawyers and other
experts tried to assuage some students' fears that being undocumented immigrants
would prevent them from getting jobs. Kathleen Jarvis, of the Advocates for
Children's Immigrant Student Rights Project, was at right. (The New York
Times/Vic DeLucia)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               16 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 15, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

47 on Plane Arrested as Illegal Aliens in Atlanta

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 14


The immigration service said today that it had arrested 47 illegal aliens at the
Atlanta airport early this morning during a stopover on a flight to New York
from Los Angeles. The arrests closely paralelled an operation a year ago.

Three other passengers who appeared to fit an immigration service profile for
illegal aliens were removed from the flight, questioned and released, said Neil
Jacobs, an assistant to the director for investigations in the Atlanta office of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Thomas P. Fischer, the district director for the immigration service in Atlanta,
said some of the workers, from seven Latin American countries, appeared to have
paid large fees to be smuggled across the Mexican border for jobs in Atlanta and
New York.

He said they were being sent to immigration courts in Texas and Florida for
deportation hearings.

Seizure Sends a Message

''We have a good lead on one of the smugglers and we are actively pursuing it,''
Mr. Fischer said.

He said it was not clear whether the same group was involved in a similar
operation last year, when immigration agents boarded an Eastern Airlines flight
in Atlanta on Feb. 27 and on several successive nights and detained more than
150 passengers.

Agents have made spot checks since then, Mr. Fischer said, and recently noticed
an increase in numbers of passengers who could be illegal workers.

Verne Jervis, an immigration service spokesman in Washington, said arrests like
these are effective mainly as a temporary deterrent for smugglers. ''We realize
that they are going to be back in business in a few days or a few weeks or a few
months,'' he said.

Charles Wheeler, director of the publicly financed National Immigration Law
Center in Los Angeles, said rights organizations were concerned over possible
violations of constitutional rights in the arrests.

Legal residents or visitors might be stopped and checked because they appear
foreign, he said, or the rights of illegal workers might themselves be violated
by an unwarranted search.

Carrying Little Baggage

''People have certain Fourth Amendment rights whether they are here in the
country legally or not,'' Mr. Wheeler said, citing the Constitution's protection
against illegal searches.

Mr. Jacobs said the Eastern Airlines plane carried 62 passengers. Of the 50
people removed, he said, three were found either to be legally in the United
States or already to be under immigration court proceedings. They were allowed
to return to the plane.

Mr. Fischer said the people arrested today fit a profile that included an
absence of baggage and the block purchase of large numbers of tickets. Mr.
Jacobs said that some appeared to be using aliases and that all remained on the
aircraft during the long stopover in Atlanta.

All those seized were Latin American, including 39 from Mexico and the rest from
Peru, Colombia, Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador and Colombia, Mr. Fischer said.

''We have broad power to detain or question aliens in this country,'' Mr. Jacobs
said. ''We can stop them on the highways and we can detain them as we did this
morning in the airport.''

Mr. Fischer said the workers told of having paid at least $2,000 to be smuggled
across the Mexican border into California and $1,000 more for air
transportation.

''We've been eyeballing and observing this operation for the last two or three
weeks through our own intelligence sources, spot checks and reviewing
manifests,'' Mr. Fischer said. ''Yesterday 90 came through. So it's no
mom-and-pop-type operation. One week at this will make you a millionaire.''

One of those detained, Ampara Pacheco Colombia, said she had taken a taxi across
the border into California and had stayed with friends in San Diego for a month
before attempting to fly to New York to look for work.

''I wanted to progress to do better,'' she said through an interpreter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               17 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 17, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Seizes 55 More Aliens In Raid at Los Angeles Airport

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 104 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 16


In their third raid in the last three days aimed at illegal aliens taking
eastbound flights from this city, Federal immigration agents seized 55 Latin
Americans at Los Angeles International Airport today.

The raid brought to 155 the number of people detained in this week's crackdown.
The earlier raids took place at Atlanta, where overnight flights from Los
Angeles to New York were making scheduled stops.

Those detained today held tickets to various cities in the East and were taken
into custody at ticket counters and waiting areas, said Ben Davidian, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               18 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 7, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Extra Agents Reduced in Border Crackdown

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 37, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 245 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex., May 6


A sharp drop in the number of Central Americans trying to enter the United
States has prompted the Border Patrol to scale back extra forces detailed to the
South Texas border, immigration officials say.

Immigration officials say the reduced numbers suggest that get-tough policies
are discouraging Central Americans from coming here to file frivolous
applications for asylum.

Central Americans detained in South Texas have fallen to 50 or 60 a day, from
200 to 250 a day in early March, E. J. Vickery, assistant chief of the Border
Patrol's McAllen Sector, said Thursday.

From January to March, the unit added 192 agents to try to halt a flood of
people entering the country illegally. Most of the extra agents patrolled in the
Brownsville, Tex., area, the closest border crossing point to Nicaragua, El
Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, and they began detaining nearly all of those
caught, rather than releasing most to await action on their cases. When they
were released, Mr. Vickery said, they ''traveled north never to be heard from
again.''

Now, he said, word of a crackdown has reached Central America, and as a result
the number of extra agents has been cut to 102 and may be reduced further. There
are 395 agents permanently assigned to the McAllen Sector.

Immigration officials also said the number of people turning themselves in and
applying for political asylum has plummeted to fewer than 10 daily in South
Texas, from from 500 a day in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               19 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 27, 1989, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Reassigns Texas Agents, Calling Border Push a Success

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 26


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun to reassign the extra
border patrol agents who were sent to Brownsville, Tex., in February to stem a
surge of illegal aliens.

James L. Buck, deputy administrator of the immigration agency, traveled to that
border city Thursday to announce the shift. He called the operation a success,
saying the number of illegal aliens requesting political asylum had dropped
dramatically since it went into effect.

Advocates for illegal aliens disagreed with Mr. Buck's assessment, saying that
the plan has not stopped refugees from crossing the border.

In February and March, Mr. Buck said, there were 2,400 refugees in an agency
detention camp in Port Isabel, Tex., 25 miles north of Brownsville. Today, he
said, there are 1,400. ''We sent a message that you can't come across our
borders at will,'' he said in a telephone interview today.

Assessment Is Challenged

Responding to Mr. Buck's announcement, Jonathan Moore, a spokesman for Proyecto
Libertad, which provides legal counseling to refugees, said, ''It's a public
relations victory.'' Although the number of detainees has dropped since March,
Mr. Moore said, it is still at one of the highest levels in nine years.

He said his group had been informed by refugee groups in other parts of the
country that while the number of applications for political asylum had
decreased, the number of people entering the country illegally had remained
constant.

''If the goal is to prevent Central Americans from coming to the U.S., it's a
failure,'' he said. ''It's been a success only if you feel that deterring
Central Americans from applying for asylum is a success.''

The number of aliens requesting political asylum in South Texas began to rise
last summer. It had become more difficult for illegal residents to find work in
the United States because of the strict enforcement of provisions of the amnesty
law that penalize employers who hire illegal aliens, and word spread on the
refugees' extensive grapevine that asylum was an alternative route of entry.

Under the rules at that time, aliens could apply for amnesty at the point of
entry and receive papers allowing them to remain in the country until that
request was reviewed. With appeals, this could take several years. In the
meantime, the applicant could travel to another city and get a job.

In December, the immigration agency altered that policy and required applicants
to remain at the point of entry until their application was processed. This
stranded thousands of people in Brownsville and Harlingen, where they slept in
open fields. In response to the public outcry at these conditions, the agency
set up tents at the Port Isabel detention center and announced that all illegal
immigrants would be confined until their applications could be processed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               20 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 1, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Worthy Immigration Update

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words


In 1986, a Federal law addressed illegal immigration by legalizing the status of
long-term undocumented aliens and imposing sanctions on employers who hire new
ones. Though bureaucratic problems remain that could jeopardize some of those
aliens, Congress is now turning its attention to legal immigrants with a bill
that confirms two worthy principles: the importance of reuniting families and
America's need for skilled workers.

Under a visa allocation system enacted in 1965, foreigners seeking permanent
relocation in the U.S. are given preference if they have relatives here. That
tends to favor immigrants from Asia, the Caribbean and Central America. It has
also forced immigrants with no family ties, but with needed job skills, to
compete with relatives of U.S. residents.

A Senate bill, sponsored principally by Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and Alan
Simpson of Wyoming, passed by a vote of 81 to 17 last month. It establishes two
immigration categories: family members and independents, mostly workers.

At least 630,000 would be allowed to enter each year for the next three years,
about 136,000 more than entered in 1988. Of the total, 480,000 would qualify
under various family preferences; 150,000 would be admitted as independents. For
the first time, the law would allow admission of some independent workers - up
to 54,000 - without specific jobs, but with specific skills needed in the U.S.
labor market. The immigration ceiling would be reviewed and adjusted every three
years.

The new categories constitute a sensible updating of immigration policy. The
Senate approach deserves swift approval in the House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               21 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 15, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Levee Near Tijuana Becomes a Flashpoint

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1138 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif.


The recent death of a 14-year-old Mexican boy, run over by a United States
Border Patrol jeep, dramatized the chaotic and sometimes violent situation that
has developed as more and more illegal aliens try to enter the United States
through one narrow section of the California border.

Luis Hernandez was killed on Aug. 20 as he ran down an earthen embankment where
as many as 1,000 people a night have gathered to make a dash across the
sewage-filled Tijuana River channel. Border Patrol officials say such accidents
can hardly be helped and confess they have substantially lost control of the
human traffic in this area just south of San Diego, where nearly half of all
illegal border crossings have taken place in recent years.

Alien smugglers have adopted new tactics to exploit the huge concentrations of
illegal immigrants. American officials say the aliens have often thrown barrages
of stones to force Border Patrol agents to retreat from their positions, and
have gathered in groups as large as 100 to rush a spot guarded by a single
patrol agent. Sometimes the Border Patrol has responded with tear gas.

The Mexican Government formally protested the killing of Luis Hernandez and
three other incidents this year in which a total of four aliens were shot and
wounded by Border Patrol agents in the San Diego area. On a visit to Washington
Oct. 4, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico raised the treatment of
illegal aliens as an important issue in bilateral relations.

'A Tragic Accident'

The Border Patrol said Luis's death was ''a tragic accident.'' It began with a
confrontation that has become a border routine here. Many times a day, people
gather on the south side of the Tijuana River levee, a few yards into American
territory, and wait for a chance to make their dash. When a Border Patrol
vehicle comes along, they trot back to the Mexican side.

''Unfortunately,'' said Jack Shipp, a supervisory patrol agent, ''when dozens of
people are swarming around a moving car, it is inevitable someone is going to
get hurt. This accident just indicates how bad things had gotten.''

Although the Border Patrol took steps in September to break up the crowds and
reduce the potential for violence, American officials say the flow of aliens has
increased steadily since May.

Their boldness is evident even at the customs station. More than 50 million
legitimate border crossings are registered there each year. Now at busy times
young men often sneak up among the lines of cars waiting to enter from Mexico
and run through the checkpoint when they see that all the officials are
occupied. Then they sprint north on Interstate Highway 5, knowing they will not
be pursued through the speeding traffic.

Drugs and Cheap Labor

Further problems in exerting control over the border could also complicate plans
to stem the flow of drugs into the country, immigration experts say. As the Bush
Administration considers the use of troops to cut drug smuggling, some veteran
Border Patrol officials say they doubt enhanced law enforcement alone can secure
the border.

Despite the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, which imposed penalties on
employers who hire illegal aliens, there is still a large demand for such labor.
''If we need to import this many people,'' said William T. Veal, deputy chief of
the Border Patrol's San Diego sector, ''then we should make the decision to let
them in the front door instead of through the back door in the middle of the
night. What we can't do is say we want a border that's closed to drugs but that
is open to people.''

Recognizing that the flow of aliens cannot be halted, the Border Patrol says it
can only attempt to redirect the flow to make it more manageable. In late
September, for example, high-intensity floodlights powered by portable
generators were set up to illuminate a stretch of the Tijuana River levee where
the largest crowds had gathered.

''They are now coming at us in groups of 15 to 20 people at a time, which is
still a lot for a single agent to handle but is better than facing 100 at a
time,'' said Mr. Veal.

A Change in Route

In the summer Federal officials noticed what they called an ominous increase in
the number of illegal border crossings nationwide. Although there are no precise
figures, immigration experts generally agreed that the flow dropped off
immediately after the immigration act became law in 1986. But now, Mr. Veal
said, ''we may be seeing a turnaround because there have been real increases in
the last few months.''

In September, the number of aliens captured in the San Diego sector jumped 34
percent from the September 1988 figure, and the Imperial Beach Border Patrol
Station, which covers the Tijuana River levee, registered a 66 percent increase.
Over that time, Mrere the contrast between the wealth of the United States and
the poverty of Mexico ''is sharper than anywhere else on the border.''

Formerly most of the aliens crossed through a rugged area of canyons and brush
just east of the border cities; now much of the traffic has moved to the Tijuana
River channel, a man-made waterway about 100 yards wide that separates a Tijuana
slum from a swath of California subdivisions and shopping centers.

'More Determined' Aliens

The change not only made the Border Patrol's work much more difficult but also
contributed to the surge of violence, Mr. Veal said. Walking through the canyons
for as much as four hours, the aliens broke into small groups that could be
tracked and captured once they were well into American territory and had no
chance of escaping back into Mexico. But in the area of the levee they form
large groups and can overwhelm the Border Patrol and melt into American city
streets in minutes.

''The aliens seem more determined on the levee,'' Mr. Veal said, ''perhaps
because their goal, the bright lights of California and the highway north, was
in sight.''

Knowing they could readily slip back into Mexico, alien smugglers and guides
advise their customers to resist capture and to throw stones to chase away the
patrol agents, Mr. Veal said. The San Diego sector recorded 182 such attacks
over the past 12 months, up from 67 in the previous year.

But Mr. Veal added that the floodlights that now illuminate the shortest route
across the channel have moved the aliens away from the territory that most
favored violence.

One recent night, groups of as many as 200 to 300 Mexicans gathered in several
areas on either side of the floodlit stretch. For their own safety, Border
Patrol agents stay away from those places after dark, even though they lie in
American territory. Instead, they count on catching illegal aliens taking a
slightly more roundabout route to reach the streets and parking lots where they
board smugglers' vehicles for the ride north.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illegal aliens entering the United States after crossing from Tijuana.
The border police say they can redirect the flow but cannot stop it; people
gathering on a levee on the Tijuana River channel before trying to cross the
border illegally at nightfall (NYT/Angel Franco).

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               22 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Population Passes 20 Million, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11


As Congress wrestled with the question of whether illegal aliens, many of them
Hispanic, should be included in the 1990 census, the Government announced today
that the nation's Hispanic population had passed a statistical landmark this
year, exceeding 20 million people for the first time.

That estimate from the Census Bureau translates into a 39 percent increase since
1980, up from 14.5 million.

The announcement underscored the importance of the 1990 census results, which
will be used as a basis for Congressional redistricting.

Assuming that the figures are accurate, the Hispanic population, the
second-fastest growing group in America, is about 8.2 percent of the entire
United States population, up from 6.5 percent in 1980. The fastest-growing group
in the first half of this decade was a Census Bureau category that includes both
Asians and American Indians.

A Vote in Congress

On a procedural vote this evening, the House of Representatives turned back a
renewed effort to force the Census Bureau to count illegal aliens so they can be
excluded from the population estimates that will be used as a basis for
reapportionment.

The exclusion proposals, which two weeks ago passed the Senate on a 50-to-41
vote, will now be debated in a House-Senate conference committee considering the
the Commerce Department budget. Observers said it was unclear how the issue
would be resolved in committee, although the Senate usually accedes to the
wishes of the House on redistricting questions.

Administration lobbyists had joined forces with Congressional delegations from
the populous states of California, New York and Texas in opposing the proposal
to exclude illegals from the population estimates that will be used in
reapportionment.

Commerce Department officials had said the plan was infeasible and said it would
''considerably undermine critical efforts being undertaken by the bureau to
assure an effective and complete count in 1990.''

Trying to Count Everyone

Most experts agree that the Constitution requires the census to count every
resident of the United States, legal or illegal. The Census Bureau has said that
its census takers do not have the expertise to distinguish a legal resident from
an illegal one. Officials also are concerned that if the census takers asked
pointed questions about the status of those being surveyed, many people would be
dissuaded from giving the kind of accurate information that the census is
supposed to collect.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service earlier this year estimated that 1.7
million to 2.9 million people are in the country illegally, figures that the
Census Bureau is expected to confirm in a report next month. The Government also
estimates that 200,000 illegal immigrants have entered the country every year
since 1980, and that more than 70 percent of these were Hispanic.

Most experts assume that the illegal population is concentrated in California,
Texas and New York, the three states with the greatest number of Hispanic
residents. The effort to exclude this group from the apportionment base has
found its strongest backers in states like Pennsylvania, Kansas, Alabama, North
Carolina and Mississippi, whose Congressional delegations are concerned about
losing representation.

The latest count of 20.1 million Hispanics is based on a March 1989 survey of
58,000 households.

According to Jorge Del Pinal, a Census Bureau demographer, the term Hispanic is
used to identify residents with origins in 22 countries of Central America,
South America and Europe. The estimates released today indicated that
immigration accounted for about half of the overall gain in the Hispanic
population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               23 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 26, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

38 Illegals Detained in Ohio

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 61 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, March 25


Police stopped a rental truck near here Saturday and found 38 illegal aliens
hiding inside. The aliens, all men, were sent back to Mexico by airplane. The
police in Cleveland were lead to the truck by a report from a resident in
Chardon, 24 miles northeast of Cleveland, who said that it had appeared in the
village early Saturday with men acting suspiciously.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               24 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 3, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

House Rejects Exclusion of Aliens in Census

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2


The House has rejected an attempt to make the Census Bureau exclude illegal
aliens from the population count that will be used to reapportion Congressional
seats after the 1990 census.

But before the procedural ruling Tuesday that doomed the census proposal, the
measure won unexpected support in a vote pointing up regional anxieties over how
the 1990 census will redistribute the 435 House seats. In making the proposal,
Representative Tom Ridge, a Pennsylvania Republican, was seeking to exclude the
undocumented workers not from the basic census count, but from the tally used
for reapportionment.

A Debate Over Fairness

Meanwhile, the Commerce Department, the bureau's parent agency, announced the
census would include overseas employees of the Defense Department and their
dependents, 1.2 million to 1.6 million people. Such military personnel were
counted in the 1970 census at the height of the Vietnam War but not in the 1980
census.

With this decision, the department eliminated one of the arguments put forth by
Representative Ridge and his supporters: that it would be unfair to include the
aliens and exclude the overseas military employees in the count used for
reapportionment.

Such a case was made Tuesday at a brief House subcommittee meeting on the census
and later when the debate moved to the House floor.

Representative Tim Valentine, a North Carolina Democrat, argued for the
exclusion of the undocumented aliens. ''I'm not asking that these people be
deprived of any benefits,'' he said. ''I don't want to reward the localities
where these people illegally reside. That is not fair. It may be constitutional,
but it just isn't right.''

The constitutional mandate under which the census is conducted requires the
counting of all ''persons,'' a term that Federal courts have interpreted to
include noncitizens.

A study by Jacob S. Siegel, a former chief demographer for the Census Bureau who
is now senior research scholar at Georgetown University's Center for Population
Research, estimates that the demographic shift of population southward and
westward will mean 17 of the 435 Congressional seats will be reapportioned out
of one state and into another.

Of the 17, about 3 seats might change hands solely as a result of the inclusion
of illegal aliens in the count, Mr. Siegel's estimates show.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               25 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 1989, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Four Aliens Found Dead in Texas In Fumigated Trailer on a Train

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA, Tex., Oct. 10


Four men believed to be illegal aliens were found dead here this morning in a
truck trailer in which a cargo of flour had been fumigated with a toxic
pesticide.

''They apparently died of asphyxiation,'' said a Victoria police lieutenant,
Jack Williams.

The victims, all men in their 20's or early 30's, were found about 8:15, about
eight hours after the train carrying the trailer had left Harlingen, near the
border about 26 miles northwest of Brownsville.. The discovery was made by a
Southern Pacific inspector after a brakeman had noticed a door open, said Sgt.
John Burney of the Victoria police. The trailer, 40 feet long, 8 feet high and
10 feet wide, was half filled with boxes of tortilla flour.

Can Cause Nausea and Vomiting

The authorities said that pending autopsies on the men, they could not be
certain whether fumigation had played a role in the deaths. But Sergeant Burney
said the victims had suffered diarrhea and vomiting.

Anne Cuddeback, an investigator with the Texas Department of Health, said the
fumigant used in the trailer, Phostoxin, could be fatal if inhaled or ingested.
Phostoxin is an aluminum phosphate pesticide that can produce a poisonous gas.

''It's quite possible there was enough of the fumigant around to kill the
guys,'' Ms. Cuddeback said. The fumigant can cause nausea and vomiting, she
said.

The trailer carried an 8-by-10-inch sticker with skulls and this warning, in
Spanish and English: ''Danger. This trailer is being fumigated.''

Officials of the flour producer, the Azteca Milling Company of Edinburg, near
Harlingen, said they did not know when the flour was treated.

Pesticide Used as Fumigant

A contractor had fumigated the flour before the trailer was sealed and loaded on
a flatcar in Harlingen, said Jorge Trevino, Azteca's quality control manager.

''Obviously they had to break into the car because they are sealed before they
are put on the train,'' said Gonzalo Garcia, Azteca's traffic manager.

Lieutenant Williams said: ''They put a hole in the roof about the size of a half
dollar. Apparently one of them had a buckle knife he used to poke the hole.''
Another police officer said the men apparently made the hole for ventilation.

The victims appeared to be in their 20's, said Lieut. Richard Jones of the
Victoria police. Three of the four had papers, although officers were unable to
verify the documents today. One had a Mexican passport, one had documents from
Honduras, and a third had papers that had been stamped in El Salvador but
indicated he was from Venezuela, Lieutenant Jones said.

When the bodies were found by the Southern Pacific inspector, the trailer was in
between switching areas in Victoria, a town of 45,000 about 125 miles southwest
of Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Texas showing location of Victoria (NYT)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               26 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 21, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Aliens to Be Included In Redrawn Districts

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 20


House and Senate negotiators have agreed that illegal aliens who are counted in
the 1990 census will be included when Congressional districts are redrawn to
account for shifts in population.

Under an amendment approved by the Senate, the use of Federal funds would have
been prohibited for counting illegal aliens for the purpose of Congressional
reapportionment.

But a House-Senate conference committee acting on Commerce Department
appropriations for the new fiscal year voted Thursday, to drop the Senate
amendment. States with large numbers of illegal aliens like Texas, California
and Florida could gain new Congressional seats as a result of the decision.

Inclusion of illegal aliens in the census has been strongly opposed by
legislators who represent few such residents and fear loss of influence in
Congress.

But Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican on the conference committee, said
Thursday:

''The outcome was never in doubt, because the Constitution could not be clearer.
The Constitution says that apportionment is based on the number of persons. And
everybody is entitled to their own opinion but not their own constitution,''

The issue of counting illegal aliens for the purpose of reapportionment has
pitted Sun Belt states, whose populations have been swollen by illegal aliens,
against Northern states that stand to lose House seats after the census.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               27 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Migrant Job Program Baffles Mexico

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 25


A new United States immigration program, aimed at preventing potential labor
shortages in American agriculture over the next four years, is causing confusion
and controversy throughout Mexico, which is expected to supply most of the
workers for the plan.

Begun on Sept. 1, the Replenishment Agricultural Worker program, known as
R.A.W., is intended to create a labor pool to relieve any shortages between 1990
and 1993. Hundreds of thousands of Mexican farm workers here and in the United
States are expected to apply before registration closes on Nov. 30, but a bitter
bureaucratic battle in Washington has made it uncertain how many of them, if
any, will actually be selected to come north and work in the fields.

The program was included in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 as a
safety-valve measure after farmers and growers expressed fears that the
legislation could create a shortage of migrant workers. But the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, American officials say, views the program as a threat to
the 1986 law and has opposed carrying out the program until it can be
established that such a labor shortage exists.

''If the shortage can be documented, it will reflect the fact that the main
provisions'' of the 1986 legislation ''do not reflect objective demand for this
kind of labor in the U.S. economy,'' said Wayne Cornelius, director of the
Center for United States-Mexican studies at the University of California at San
Diego. ''It will be proof of the fallacy that simply by passing this kind of
legislation you can create a stable work force large enough to meet needs and
then effectively seal up the country and the labor market.''

Growers argue that spot shortages have already appeared during the current
harvest season and are likely to increase in coming years. Nearly 1.3 million
people, more than 80 percent of them Mexicans, applied for ''special
agricultural worker'' status in 1988, but many are believed to have abandoned
agriculture for less arduous work in factories and service industries as soon as
they legalized their status in the United States. Will Any Be Called?  ''This is
a very hot issue, and we are right in the middle of calculating the final
number,'' said Rick Mines, a Labor Department official in Washington who is
involved in the process of determining the shortage figure. He said, ''We can't
be sure that any R.A.W. people will be called at all,'' at least this year.

Because of that uncertainty, the State Department and the Immigration Service
have been reluctant to publicize the program in Mexico.

But with the scarcity of official information, misconceptions about the program
are spreading. Radio stations and newspapers in areas of Mexico that have long
supplied workers to American agriculture are portraying the program as another
chance to qualify for amnesty under the new law.

''It needs to be made absolutely clear what this program is all about,'' said
Jon G. Edensword, the United States Consul General in Mexico City. ''People need
to understand that this is a registration program only and not a visa, not
permission to work in the United States, not a travel authorization, and not a
border-crossing card.''

In addition, unscrupulous middle men are taking advantage of gullible
applicants, promising them special treatment and guaranteed access to the United
States. One company here, calling itself United States International Immigration
Services, requires a $500 advance payment and $2,500 more if applicants are
selected.

Last week, a Government official in a Mexican border state, Coahuila, was
arrested, along with six other people, on charges of defrauding applicants for
the migrant labor program. The police said the ring operated from a government
office in the state capital.ee.

Some Mexican and American Government officials, as well as immigration experts
in both countries, assert that American farmer and grower groups are actively
encouraging the misunderstandings. The objective, they say, is to create a labor
surplus that would drive down farm wages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               28 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 26, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRATION LAWS LINKED TO JOB BIAS

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1043 words


Thousands of businesses in the New York metropolitan region, fearing employer
sanctions established by the 1986 immigration law, are discriminating against
people who are or who appear to be foreign-born, a New York State government
study charges.

In a report based on the study, the New York State Inter-Agency Task Force on
Immigration Affairs concludes that ''a widespread pattern of discrimination''
exists. The 70-page report is to be released on Wednesday and will be sent to
state and Federal authorities.

''What our report clearly demonstrates is that employers in New York State are
adopting practices that discriminate against foreign residents out of fear of
penalties under the immigration law,'' Cesar A. Perales, the New York State
Commissioner of Social Services and the chairman of the task force, said last
week.

Rights of Foreign-Born Citizens

The 1986 law has not stopped illegal immigration, the report says, which
''raises the question why we undertook the reform in the first place,''
Commissioner Perales said. The report suggests the need for further immigration
policy reforms.

The report, based on a survey of 402 companies, comes amid growing concern about
the effect of the the 1986 immigration law on the rights of foreign-born
citizens. Earlier this year, a similar study by the California Fair Employment
and Housing Commission found that the law discourages employers from hiring
Hispanic-Americans, Asian-Americans and legal aliens.

The 10-member New York panel, set up by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, first expressed
concern about the law in November 1988, reporting that it was leading to
widespread discrimination. The study to be released on Wednesday is a follow-up
to the 1988 report.

Federal Report Expected Soon

The Federal General Accounting Office, which is required by Congress to monitor
the immigration law, is expected to release its third annual report on
discrimination next month. Previously, it has reported significant
discrimination nationally but has not concluded there is a pattern of bias. The
1986 immigration law says such a pattern could force Congress to take up the
matter at once.

Duane Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said he had not seen the New York report and was waiting to see the
Federal report.

''How can you say there's more discrimination, when there was never any study
before the 1986 law to determine discrimination at the workplace?'' he asked,
questioning the earlier New York and California findings.

Mr. Austin said the immigration service has personally contacted one and a half
million employers and sent out 8 million fliers to employees nationwide to
explain the law.

Fines and Jail Terms

''We find employers 80 percent in compliance,'' Mr. Austin said.

Under the complex Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, employers became
subject to fines and jail terms for hiring illegal aliens. Those provisions were
intended to curb illegal immigration, but the law also contained safeguards
against discrimination and established procedures for millions of unlawful
migrants to gain permanent residence and eventual citizenship.

''Presently there is an unbalanced Federal focus on sanctions for employers who
hire those persons not authorized to work, while current enforcement of
penalties for discrimination has not received much attention,'' the report says.
The task force recommends more education of employers and more enforcement of
anti-discrimination provisions.

The task force's survey is a scientific sampling of 402 private employers from
companies with 10 to 249 workers in the five boroughs of New York City and
Westchester, Nassau, Suffolk and Putnam Counties. This group of more than 70,000
companies is of particular interest because it accounts for roughly half the
jobs in the area.

Fearing Fines, Delaying Hiring

Extrapolating from the sample, the panel found that since the passage of the
immigration law, 14,665 employers, or nearly one-fifth of the city's
medium-sized companies, have established policies denying jobs to people born
outside the United States or those with temporary work authorization.

The study found that 87 percent of the employers knew they could be fined for
hiring people without proper documentation. But 51 percent acknowledged they
were not familiar with what forms of documentation were acceptable.

Fearing sanctions, 73 percent of the employers said they would at least delay
hiring foreign-born workers or Americans who appeared to be foreign-born who
could not document their status immediately. But the law says job applicants
have at least three weeks to provide documentation.

Even some of those employers who had received information about the law from the
immigration service were found to have wrongful hiring practices, like delaying
employment until documentation was provided. More employers who had been
contacted by the immigration service were found to be discriminating than
employers who had not been contacted. Twenty-four percent of those contacted,
compared with 17 percent of those not contacted, were hiring only United States
citizens or those with permanent work permits.

'Urgent Need' for Education

''The results of the survey show an astonishing level of ignorance among
employers and an urgent need for serious education by the Federal authorities,''
said Arthur Helton, a director of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and the
head of a 21-member advisory council to the task force.

The task force also reviewed the legalization program under the immigration law,
finding that only 167,324 people applied out of an estimated 250,000 to 440,000
eligible undocumented aliens in New York State.

The panel's recommendations include a call to Congress to consider reopening the
legalization period for another six months. When the 1986 law went into effect,
aliens had a year in which they could acquire legal status if they had lived
here since 1982 and could satisfy other requirements. The task force reports
that more than half of the legalized aliens do not know that they must apply for
permanent resident status within 30 months after their applications for
temporary residence are accepted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               29 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 22, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New Report Links Law on Aliens To Ethnic Bias Against Workers

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 21


Three years after it took effect, a major immigration law has resulted in
widespread ethnic discrimination against people legally entitled to work, a new
report says.

The report, to be issued this week by 11 groups that have monitored the law
nationwide, found that employers, fearing the legal sanctions embodied in the
complicated law against hiring illegal aliens, often turned away job applicants
who looked foreign or spoke with a foreign accent.

It also found that employers, playing it safe, often required unnecessary
documents from these ''foreign-looking'' workers or refused to accept certain
documentation that should have entitled the workers to employment.

An Excuse to Discriminate

In addition, said Anne Kamsvaag, who compiled the report for the coordinating
group, the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, some employers
seem to have used the law, the Immigration Reform and Control Reform Act of
1986, as an excuse to discriminate against or to exploit certain ethnic groups
toward which they were negatively predisposed.

The report's conclusions were not unexpected, reflecting criticisms of the law
that began even before it took effect and questions raised in annual reports by
the General Accounting Office.

The organizations that contributed information to the report include civil
rights and immigrant rights groups as well as Chicago's Commission on Human
Relations and New York City's Commission on Human Rights.

The report is based on information that includes complaints received by
telephone hot lines set up to help immigrants, legal cases and controlled
telephone surveys in which people with foreign accents and people without
foreign accents applied for jobs.

''What led us to issue this report was that despite real differences between who
the organizations were and how they worked and what their roles were, the kind
of things they were hearing and trying to deal with were basically the same,''
Ms. Kamsvaag said.

Congressional Action Required

If the General Accounting Office finds in its third annual report on the law, to
be issued soon, that the law has resulted in a widespread pattern of
discrimination, Congress is required under the law to consider eliminating the
sanctions against employers. The law, intended to stem the flow of illegal
aliens into the country, also provided amnesty to many workers who had already
come to the United States illegally. Under the law, employers face possible
fines and jail terms if they hire workers who do not have documents entitling
them to work in the United States. Although firm data are elusive, many
monitoring groups contend that the sanctions have had a minimal effect on
illegal immigration.

The report to be issued this week is based on 1,085 individual cases of
discrimination documented by the participating groups from July 1, 1988, and to
June 30, 1989.

Seventy-five percent of the complaints came from people who were legally
authorized to work in the United States, including 4 percent who were United
States citizens. Ninety-one percent of the complainants were Hispanic workers.

Of these, 23 percent reported that an employer had refused to hire them, 35
percent said that they had been dismissed and 42 percent reported discrimination
and abuse at work, including underpayment, forced overtime or loss of benefits.

The report mentioned two telephone surveys in which people speaking English with
a foreign accent had a lower rate of acceptance than people without accents when
they responded to newspaper advertisements offering jobs.

In one of these surveys, conducted by the New York City Commission on Human
Rights, 28 percent of job applicants with foreign accents were not invited for
interviews to which those without an accent were invited. In 13 percent of the
calls, applicants who spoke with a foreign accent were told to produce more
documents than callers who spoke without an accent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               30 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 14, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Votes to Ease Immigration For Professionals and Europeans

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13


The Senate today approved an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws aimed at
guaranteeing more visas for skilled workers with no family ties in the United
States and at increasing immigration from Western Europe.

The legislation, which was adopted by a vote of 81 to 17, was originally
intended to limit legal immigration at 600,000 people in each of the next three
years.

But in a series of amendments adopted in the last two days, senators have eroded
that feature by earmarking additional visas for skilled professionals who have
jobs awaiting them in this country and by stipulating that the number of visas
available for immigrants who are not spouses, minor children or parents of
United States citizens cannot fall below the 1988 level of 216,000.

The bill now goes to the House, where a similar measure died last year.

The legislation's chief sponsors in the Senate, Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, and Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, said that they were
optimistic that the House would approve the measure this year.

A White House spokesman, B. Jay Cooper, said that President Bush had no reaction
to the passage. Mr. Bush is in Paris attending bicentennial celebrations and the
economic summit meeting of leading industrial democracies.

Backers of the bill regard it as the second half of the major changes in laws
governing illegal immigration that were adopted in 1986. Those laws set up an
amnesty program for some illegal aliens in the and imposed penalties on
employers who hire illegal aliens.

Sponors of the new legislation said it represents an attempt to balance
America's traditional focus on family reunification with the need to bring
skilled workers into the country.

The new ceiling would allow at least 630,000 immigrants into the country.
Because of the way the system for allocating visas works, it is not clear
whether the ceiling would actually operate at all. Opponents of the immigration
limit, particularly Asian, Hispanic and Jewish organizations, have argued that
it will eventually squeeze out immigration of all but immediate relatives of
current American citizens.

The 630,000 ceiling would allow for about 136,000 more legal immigrants than
entered the United States last year. The legislation includes procedures for for
reviewing and adjusting the ceiling every three year.

Backer of the ceiling had seized upon such an approach last year out of concern
that the number of immigrants had to be controlled once Congress made it easier
for illegal aliens to gain legal status. One concern was the new citizens would
use their new status to gain entry for relativies, since no restrictions existed
on the numbers of brothers and sisters who could enter the country.

House Acts on Refugees

The ceiling in the Senate bill does not apply to those granted refugee status or
political asylum.

In separate action on the refugee issue today, the House of Representatives
voted 358 to 44 to approve a bill aimed at making it easier for certain Soviet
and Southeast Asian citizens to qualify as refugees. The measure, which is
opposed by the Administration, would temporarily re-establish the legal status
of Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians as well as certain categories of
Vietnamese, Laotians and Cambodians as persecuted groups in their native
countries. That classification would mean the individuals would not have to
prove such status on a case-by-case basis to enter the country.

This legislation was partly a response to the increased number of Jews leaving
the Soviet Union under that country's relaxed emigration policies and to
stricter American standards for refugee designation. This legislation now goes
to the Senate.

In a series of votes today leading up to final passage of the measure, the
Senate made these decisions:

* Rejected by a 52-to-46 vote an amendment by Senator Rudy Boschwitz, Republican
of Minnesota, to increase by 40,0000 the number of brothers and sisters of
United States citizens that would be allowed into the country annually.

* Approved an amendment requiring the Census Bureau to end a practice of
including illegal aliens in its official population count. The measure was
offered by Senator Richard C. Shelby, Democrat of Alabama.

* Rejected by a vote of 56 to 43 an amendment that gave extra preference to
immigrants who spoke English. The provision had been deleted by the Senate
Judiciary Committee recently, but Mr. Simpson sought to have it restored on the
floor.

But Senators were willing to breach the 600,000-limit to accommodate 30,000
additional visas divided between two of the preference categories reserved for
professionals and skilled and unskilled workers who have jobs waiting for them
in the United States.

''There is nothing magic to me about the number 600,000,'' said Senator Arlen
Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, who offered the amendment, which was
approved 78 to 21.

New Category of Visas

One of the main features of the legislation is the addition of a new category
54,000 visas a year that would be reserved for workers who do not have jobs
waiting for them but who have special skills needed by the United States. The
workers would be ranked under a point system based on age, education and skill
level.

Mr. Simpson attempted in vain to include fluency in English as one of the skills
that would give such workers extra points. That provision was part of the
original bill, but was deleted by the Judiciary Committee, and Mr. Simpson's
effort to restore it on the Senate floor was rejected 56 to 43.

''English is the language of success,'' he said, contending that immigrants who
are unable to understand it would have a difficult time obtaining jobs.

The current visa allocation system was set up in 1965, replacing a 1924 law that
had based annual immigration quotas for various nationalities on the number of
people of each national origin in the United States as of 1920. Because the
American population in 1920 was primarily of English, Irish or German ancestry,
the earlier system had favored immigrants from Britain, Ireland and Germany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               31 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 9, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Rosedale Fights a New Holding Center for Aliens

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 879 words


To Federal immigration officials, the two-story former factory in Rosedale,
Queens, is the answer to a long-standing problem: Where to detain foreigners who
arrive at nearby Kennedy International Airport but are found to be inadmissible
to the United States?

But to Randolph Wilson, Willie Dell Lyons and many others, it is a blight on
their predominantly residential neighborhood.

They say the detention center was ''sneaked'' into their neighborhood by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and a security company working for the
agency. They say it threatens their safety, property values and peace of mind.
And they have demonstrated by the hundreds at the site, at 226th Street and
145th Road, about a half mile from the airport.

Their protests have led Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and their Congressman,
Representative Floyd H. Flake, to join an effort to find another site for the
100-bed center.

'Willing to Explore' Moving

A spokesman for the Immigration Service's new Commissioner, Gene McNary, said
Mr. McNary was ''willing to explore'' the possibility of moving it. But the
spokesman, Verne Jervis, stressed that Mr. McNary had made no commitment to do
so and had told residents opposing the Rosedale location that any move would
have to entail ''reasonable cost.'' This, in turn, has led some of those
residents to doubt that the agency is serious about moving it.

''It doesn't belong in an area like this,'' Mr. Wilson, a 61-year-old retired
bus driver, said as he stood on the small porch of the tidy, two-story
brick-and-shingle home he has owned for 20 years on 226th Street, across the
street from ''the jail,'' as he and his neighbors refer to it.

''If these people escape, they're going to be desperate,'' his next-door
neighbor, Ms. Lyons, said. The 64-year-old woman, a clerical worker who has
owned her home for 19 years, was voicing a fear about the detainees often heard
in the area of blue-collar and white-collar workers, civil servants and
professional people.

Officials of the immigration service and the Wackenhut Corrections Corporation,
the private company that converted the structure and operates it for the
service, took issue with the criticisms and sought to allay the concerns.

'Low Security Risks'

''These are low security risks,'' George Zoley, president of Wackenhut, said of
those held in the building, which has a 90-guard staff and windows covered with
metal mesh. ''They're not there for a criminal offense but because they don't
have proper papers for being in the country.''

Mr. Jervis, the immigration service spokesman, said the men, women and children
detained at the center included those who had arrived at Kennedy with altered or
bogus documents or with none at all and who in some cases had requested
political asylum.

He said the past method of detaining such ''exclusion cases'' for the few days
it usually takes to give them a hearing was to hold them under guard in rented
motel rooms, which he said was more expensive for the Government and less
satisfactory for the detainees than the new center.

There, he said, the men sleep in 15-bed dormitories and the women and children
in ''family-style areas.'' There have been no escapes from the new center, he
said several days ago.

Neighbors Suspect Racism

He and Mr. Zoley said that from the outside a passer-by would not know that the
factory was a detention center. The center, which opened in October, is part of
a two-block factory and warehouse complex.

Neighborhood residents contend there is another aspect to the dispute.

''The majority of people here believe that because they are black, the
Government has less respect for them and their comunity and sees it as a dumping
ground for undesirable facilities,'' said Larry Rushing, 51-year-old associate
professor of psychology at La Guardia Community College in Queens and a
homeowner on 220th Street. He is a coordinator with the Springfield-Rosedale
Community Action Association, whose name reflects the adjacent Springfield
Gardens area.

Mr. Jervis denied that the neighborhood's racial makeup was a factor in the
site's selection, which he said had been made by Wackenhut, or in what he
acknowledged was the failure of the agency and the company to notify the
community's representatives about the plans for the old factory.

Notification Not Required

Susan Noreika, chairwoman of Community Board 13, which covers the area, said
such notification is not legally required but should have taken place ''because
of the impact this would have on the neighborhood.'' Residents said they learned
what was happening last summer from workers converting the building.

Mr. Jervis and residents agreed that the best site for the detention center is
on the grounds of Kennedy Airport, and a spokeswoman for Governor Cuomo, Anne
Crowley, said the Governor's aides had asked the Port Authority, which operates
the airport, to suggest possible new sites. But Rita Schwartz, a spokeswoman for
the Port Authority, said there was no place in the airport ''that would be
useful to them and would not hamper aviation activity.''

Pearl Jones, 62, whose home is across 226th Street from the center, seemed
unfazed. ''We're not going to give up,'' she said of the attempts to get it
moved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about an alien detention
center in Rosedale, Queens, referred incorrectly in some copies to comments by
Susan Noreika, chairwoman of Community Board 13. She said the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the Wackenhut Corrections Corporation, the private
company that operates the center, should have notified the community of their
plans to establish it but were not legally required to do so.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreigners who arrive at Kennedy International Airport but are
found to be inadmissible to the United States are kept in a former two-story
factory in Rosedale, Queens. It is considered a blight on their community of
well-kept private homes by Randolph Wilson, left, Willie Dell Lyons and many
others who live near the brick building at 226th Street and 145th Road, about
half a mile from the airport. (NYT/Dith Pran)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               32 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 12, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

California Says Law on Aliens Fuels Job Bias

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BISHOP, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1355 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 11


A state panel in California has concluded that the 1986 immigration law has
resulted in widespread job discrimination against Hispanic residents and others.

In a report released today the panel, the California Fair Employment and Housing
Commission, said employers are confused about the requirements of the
immigration law and fearful of sanctions if they violate it.

These factors and a backlog of applications from foreigners eligible to receive
authorization to work are responsible for ''enormous personal and human costs''
to workers ''who are or appear to be foreign-born,'' the report said.

First Report by a State

The report is the first by any state on the new immigration law's impact on
hiring. Under the law, which offered amnesty to aliens who had lived illegally
in the United States since before 1982, employers who hire illegal aliens are
subject to fines and jail sentences. Critics say the law discourages employers
from hiring Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans and legal aliens.

The 1986 law specified that the employer sanctions could be eliminated if it was
shown that they created a pattern of job discrimination.

''In California the immigration law is not working as it was intended by
Congress,'' said Michael M. Johnson, a member of the state commission.
''Californians who are authorized to work can't get jobs because they lack the
necessary paperwork. And well-meaning but confused employers have denied jobs to
eligible workers.''

Panel's Conclusion Challenged

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
challenged the commission's conclusion. ''When you measure discrimination you
can't assume there was none before the immigration law,'' Mr. Austin said.
''What is the increase that the law has caused, if any? That's the difficult
thing to measure.''

The timing of the panel's report is important because the General Accounting
Office, which monitors the immigration law, is scheduled to release its third
and final report on the discrimination issue in late February or early March.
That report could affect two provisions of the 1986 law.

If the accounting office determines that no significant discrimination has
occurred because of the law, provisions of it that were meant to guard against
discrimination will terminate. Under those provisions, employers found to have
discriminated against workers because of ethnic background are subject to fines
of up to $1,000 for the first violation and up to $2,000 for subsequent
violations. They may also be orderd to hire and give back pay to victims of such
discrimination.

But if the G.A.O. determines that the 1986 law has resulted in discrimination,
as the California panel did today, Congress must vote within 30 days whether to
eliminate the sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens.

Greater Prioriity Urged

''Education and enforcement of the anti-discrimination provisions of the law
have been put on the bottom of the list by the Immigration Service,'' said
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who helped shape the
final law. ''They must be given a much greater priority, and I think this report
will be the impetus for that.''

Several civil rights groups have done studies documenting cases of alleged
discrimination under the new immigration law. And later this month a report is
expected by the Inter-Agency Task Force on Immigration Affairs in New York, a
panel established by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in 1986 to monitor the law's effect in
that state.

Arthur Helton, a lawyer with the Lawyers Committee for International Human
Rights in New York City, who is chairman of the task force's advisory committee
of immigration lawyers, said the group concluded in its initial report in 1988
that ''22,000 New Yorkers were adversely affected'' by being denied employment
because of questionable practices under the law.

The California Fair Employment and Housing Commission, which was established in
1959, shares responsibility with the State Department of Fair Employment and
Housing for the administrative enforcement of California civil rights laws. The
commission decides which discrimination cases will be prosecuted by the
department, orders remedies where unlawful practices are found and promulgates
regulations interpreting civil rights law. All seven of the current members were
appointed by Gov. George Deukmejian, a Republican who was a strong supporter of
the 1986 immigration law.

Testimony at Public Hearings

The commission said its report was based on testimony given at public hearings
held around the state beginning last March, along with ''voluminous supporting
documentation and exhibits.''

The commission recommended a moratorium on further enforcement of the sanctions
against employers who hire aliens who have been given amnesty but are still
awaiting work authorization papers, or employers who fail to properly maintain
forms and other paperwork required under the law. Employers are subject to fines
of up to $2,000 for the first violation and imprisonment for conviction of
continuing to employ aliens unauthorized to work.

Such a moratorium will probably be highly controversial because the employer
sanction provision was the main goal of those who drafted the 1986 law and was
intensely opposed by a number of civil rights organizations. The aim of the
sanctions was to discourage illegal aliens from coming to the United States for
work.

Asked about the possibility that Congress would approve such a moratorium, a
spokesman for Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who played a leading
role in the new immigration policy, said the Senator ''does not believe a
moratorium is wise or likely to be granted by Congress.''

'A Lot of Bigots Out There'

The spokesman, Richard W. Day, said legislation sponsored by Senator Simpson had
already begun providing billions of dollars in Federal funds in grants to the
states to publish and disseminate educational materials about the immigration
law.

Mr. Day said it was difficult to know how many employers discriminate against
ethnic groups, with or without the new law. ''There are a lot of bigots out
there who discriminated before and who discriminate now,'' he said.

Mr. Austin of the immigration service said that by Sept. 30 the agency had
assessed $15.5 million in fines against employers under the sanction provision.
But today's report accused the agency of ''heavy-handed'' enforcement of the
sanction provision, including having its agents appear for inspections or audits
''armed with revolvers.''

The commission estimated that 53,000 employers in California began to ask only
foreign-looking job applicants or those who spoke with a foreign accent to
present work authorization documents after the immigration law took effect. It
also said 73,000 employers in California began to hire only American citizens as
a result of the law.

California Impact Cited

These numbers were previously reported by the G.A.O. in its second annual report
in 1988. That report concluded that the data did not establish a pattern of
discrimination.

While the total number of California employers engaging in such discriminatory
practices is only a fraction of the nation's estimated seven million employers,
their impact is great: more than 50 percent of the undocumented aliens subject
to the immigration law live in California.

In the report released today, the commission concluded that employers remain
confused about how to comply with the law and fearful of its enforcement against
them. It said such confusion is not limited to small employers or those for whom
English is not their first language; it is experienced by large corporations,
too.

For example, the report cited the testimony of David Ginn, an assistant general
counsel for Levi Strauss & Company, which employs 25,000 people in the United
States. Mr. Ginn told the commission that ''four corporate attorneys spent 60 to
70 hours reviewing I.N.S. materials and creating in-house materials and
procedures'' to make the law's requirements comprehensible to its personnel
staff.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               33 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

An Advance for American Free Speech

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 289 words


Amid the anti-Communist hysteria of the McCarthy era, Congress passed the
McCarran-Walter Immigration Act, designed to exclude foreign visitors whose
politics its proponents didn't like. It was an ill-advised law - passed over
President Truman's veto - back in 1952. Now, as Communism relaxes its grip on
Eastern Europe and perhaps the Soviet Union, it is even more inappropriate.

Congress recently moved to dilute the law; by going along, President Bush could
emphasize America's commitment to free speech.

The McCarran-Walter Act lists 33 grounds for excluding foreign visitors. Among
them is a broad provision allowing the Government to keep out any alien who
might ''engage in activities which would be prejudicial to the public interest,
or endanger the welfare, safety or security of the United States.'' The law
prevented visits by, among others, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, the Colombian Nobel
laureate.

Since 1988, Congress has imposed a temporary ban on visa denials because of
political beliefs. And now, thanks to the persistence of Senator Daniel Patrick
Moynihan, Congress has passed legislation that makes the ban permanent. It
prohibits the exclusion or deportation of foreign visitors ''because of any
past, current or expected beliefs, statements or associations'' that the
Constitution protects for American citizens. The Government could still bar
known or suspected terrorists.

A broader look at McCarran-Walter awaits further Congressional action. Some
other grounds for exclusion, like ''sexual deviation,'' merit re-examination.
But the current bill is an important first step. Thirty-eight years ago
President Truman acted sensibly by defying Congress. Mr. Bush now merely has to
follow its good example.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               34 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 26, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Suit Challenges Policy Of Pulling Green Cards

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 773 words


In 1977, 6-year-old Ime Archibong Etuk and her 7-year-old brother were taken by
their father to visit their grandmother in Nigeria. He kept the children in that
West African country for 11 years, despite continuous efforts by their mother, a
United States legal resident, to bring them back, court documents say.

At the end of 1988, with the help of relatives, Ime and her brother rejoined
their mother in New York City.

But upon their arrival at Kennedy International Airport, Ime was detained by
United States immigration authorities, who took away her permanent resident card
and subsequently brought exclusion proceedings against her. Her older brother
was an American citizen and encountered no problems.

Ms. Etuk is the lead plaintiff in a class action suit challenging policies of
the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service that deprive lawful
permanent residents of their proofs of residence, known as green cards.

'Irreparable Harm'

''The confiscation of a green card or failure to replace it can cause
irreparable harm and is unlawful,'' said Manuel D. Vargas, a lawyer with the
Legal Aid Society of New York. He said aliens have the right to keep their cards
until judges rule on whether they will be allowed to stay.

Legal Aid has sued on behalf of Ms. Etuk and four other plaintiffs. The
defendants are the Immigration and Naturalization Service; James L. Buck, the
former acting commissioner; J. Scott Blackman, the acting director of the New
York District, and Dick Thornburgh, the United States Attorney General.

Mr. Vargas estimated that the number of permanent residents in the New York
District whose cards have been confiscated or not replaced ''well exceeds 100.''
He filed a motion for certification of a class action suit on Feb. 28 before
Federal District Judge Eugene H. Nickerson at the United States Courthouse in
Brooklyn. A hearing has been set for April 6.

Andrew J. Maloney, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York,
said it is ''not unlawful'' for immigration authorities to confiscate or retain
green cards. ''We give them a substitute document so they can still work and we
can keep a little leash on them,'' Mr. Maloney said.

Overseas Against Her Will

Scott A. Dunn, a defense lawyer, said that a memorandum issued by the
immigration service on March 14 ''addresses every charge in the suit.''

The memorandum says immigration authorities can take away the green cards of
aliens in deportation or exclusion proceedings to insure the aliens will come to
hearings. The memorandum says the authorities will replace the cards with
temporary work authorizations.

Mr. Vargas disapproves of the policy and said it does not address the problem of
legal residents who are not in exclusion or deportation proceedings but simply
need their cards replaced.

Although Ime was a minor and kept overseas against her will, her lawyer said,
exclusion proceedings were brought against her on the grounds that she had
''abandoned'' her residence in the United States. She has asked for the return
of her green card pending a decision on her case, which has already taken more
than a year and could continue for months.

Unable to Go to School or Work

Initially, the immigration service gave her a letter saying that exclusion
proceedings were being brought against her but that she was authorized to work.
But her temporary work authorization was not enough to let her get an education
loan to continue college, her lawyer said.

Another plaintiff, Jana Khalifa, a native of Switzerland, was admitted to the
United States for permanent residence in January 1980 at the age of 20. She
attended Hunter College and kept an apartment in Manhattan, a bank account and a
New York driver's license and made occasional visits to Switzerland.

Returning from her last visit on June 30, Ms. Khalifa was detained at Kennedy
Airport by an immigration inspector who confiscated her green card and began
exclusion proceedings against her. Despite repeated appeals to the immigration
service, Mr. Vargas said. Ms. Khalifa went more than six months without her
green card, and was unable to work legally.

Recently, proceedings against Ms. Khalifa were teminated and she has her green
card back. Mr. Vargas said the case demonstrates that during deportation
proceedings, a person's green card should not be taken away.

The three other plantiffs in the suit had been arrested on drug charges and have
served their sentences. The plantiffs are Nuris Santana, 39, and Pedro Julio
Henriquez, 54, natives of the Dominican Republic, and Franklyn Thomas Dunbar,
26, from Trinidad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               35 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 28, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Watch Company Is Fined in Green-Card Suit

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 492 words


For the first time, an administrative law judge has ruled in a trial that a job
applicant is protected from discrimination on the basis of United States
citizenship under the Immigration Act.

The ruling came in the case of Rosita Martinez, a 50-year-old Puerto Rican, who
had complained that a New York City watch wholesaler had refused to hire her
unless she produced a permanent resident card, or green card, which is issued to
some immigrants.

The judge, Marvin H. Morse, found that the wholesaler, the Marcel Watch
Corporation, had violated the anti-discrimination provision in the immigration
law. He ordered the company to pay Ms. Martinez almost $9,000 in compensation
and a civil fine of $1,000 under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
Judge Morse issued the ruling on March 22 after a trial at the Department of
Justice's office at Federal Plaza in Manhattan, Government officials said
yesterday.

Fred Sonnenfeld, a lawyer for the company, said Marcel Watch had not
intentionally violated the law. He also said he had tried to reach a settlement
last fall but that the Government had refused because it wanted to make the case
''a cause celebre.''

Little-Known Provision

The legal action was brought by the Government under a job-discrimination
provision in the act. The provision has received little public attention and
many employers are unaware of it, Government officials say. What most employers
do know, they say, is that the law will severely penalize them if they hire
illegal aliens. As a result, many employers have adopted policies of hiring only
American-born applicants or green-card holders to avoid any questions of
impropriety, Government studies show.

''This new court decision tells employers they cannot make assumptions about
what documents are needed by job applicants under the immigration law,'' said
Andrew M. Strojny, who heads the Federal Office of Special Counsel for
Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices, which sued the watch company.

''Ignorance of the law is no excuse for discrimination,'' he said.

During the trial, Judge Morse said the case, ''no matter what the outcome, does
not imply any deliberate misconduct'' on the part of the company.

The Government complaint asserted that Ms. Martinez applied in 1988 for a job as
a watch packer. She presented her Puerto Rican birth certificate, her Social
Security card and her New York City voter registration card to prove her
identity and employment eligibility.

The company's hiring officer asked that she also present a green card, even
though she insisted she was a United States citizen, the complaint said. The
company then refused to hire her without a green card.

In his decision, Judge Morse said ''reckless pre-screening of prospective
employees as a rationale for complying with employers sanctions'' violated the
immigration law's discrimination provisions.

The company has 60 days to appeal the decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               36 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Scrap Immigration Act's Backfiring Sanctions;
The Victim's View

SECTION: Section A; Page 32, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 469 words


To the Editor:

''Hasty Hysteria on Aliens'' (editorial, April 3) reflects a fundamental lack of
understanding about the employer-sanctions provisions of the Immigration Reform
and Control Act. Your suggestions fail to address the magnitude of the problem.

Employer sanctions have emerged as the new American discrimination nightmare.
The conclusion of the General Accounting Office report (front page, March 30)
reflects the results of numerous national, state and local studies.

The New York State Assembly task force on new Americans, of which I am chairman,
held hearings as early as Nov. 2, 1987, and released a report, ''Impact of
Employer Sanctions in New York,'' with similar findings. Since then, other
agencies and organizations have reached similar conclusions, including the
United States Commission on Civil Rights, the California Employment and Housing
Commission, the New York State interagency task force and the New York City
Commission on Human Rights.

You ignore the cost in the quality of life that occurs when a person only
perceived of as ''foreign-looking'' is required to present authorization
documents. To attempt to trivialize this discriminatory experience by your
reference to ''hasty hysteria'' is to detach your analysis from the day-to-day
life of these victims.

Equally troubling is your statement that this document requirement for work
authorization is not a complicated procedure. As most studies indicate, to
request that a small employer discern among 17 possible documents which are an
acceptable form of work authorization is a formula for mass confusion, increased
legal fees and chaos.

Moreover, a central question is whether or not American employers should be
required to act as de facto agents for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, subject to civil and criminal penalties if they choose not to do so.

Your solutions are no solutions at all. To reduce the number of acceptable
documents will not diminish the discriminatory practices of many unscrupulous
employers and, according to G.A.O. estimates, will take almost five years to
implement. Are the future victims of discrimination to wait patiently while
Immigration and Naturalization unravels this bureaucratic maze of documents?

The task force on new Americans believes that three years of discrimination are
enough. The American public has been more than patient to allow this flawed act
to endure. This discrimination has become a blot on our nation and indeed the
cup of endurance has run over. A saner approach is to support the resolution
proposed by Representative Edward Roybal to repeal employer sanctions, and
initiate a new and fairer immigration policy that addresses the needs of all
Americans.

THOMAS F. CATAPANO
Member of Assembly, 54th Dist.
  New York, April 4, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               37 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 25, 1989, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Lonely Young Aliens Pose Problem for U.S.

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1400 words

DATELINE: RAYMONDVILLE, Tex., May 19


If Reynaldo had been 18 years old when the Border Patrol caught him crossing the
Rio Grande, he would have been issued a bright orange jumpsuit and locked behind
barbed wire in a nearby detention center.

But he is only 17, and that makes all the difference. He spends his days at a
government-run shelter here, dressed in brand new shorts, shirts and sneakers,
going on field trips, playing volleyball and waiting for the authorities to find
him a foster home.

The past few months have seen a dramatic increase in the number of children like
Reynaldo, who journey illegally from Central America to South Texas without the
company of family or friends.

Questions of Where and How

Such children are called unaccompanied minors by immigration officials, who are
struggling with the logistical questions of where to put the children and the
philosopical questions of how to treat them.

The conclusion they have reached is to treat the children as kindly as possible,
until it is time to deport them.

''If they are here illegally they will be deported like an adult,'' said Ramon
Guzman, the juvenile coordinator for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in Harlingen, about 25 miles north of the border town of Brownsville.

The period of time between apprehension and deportation is at least several
months, and can be several years for those who apply for political asylum. In
the meantime, Mr. Guzman said, immigration officials ''don't want to keep minors
in detention like adults - we try to help the children.''

In the last 10 months the immigration service has moved to open three shelters
just for these children. #202 Children a Month Mr. Guzman said that since Feb.
24 his office had processed an average of 202 such children a month, as against
an average of 32 at the same time last year. In March more than 400
unaccompanied minors went though the system.

Since July, Mr. Guzman added, about 50 unaccomapnied minors have been deported
by the Harlingen office of the immigration service. Eventually, however, he said
that number would probably grow much higher.

The children are likely to be deported at the same rate as adults. Currently, 94
percent of adult Salvadorans and 84 percent of adult Nicaraguans who apply for
political asylum are deported.

Most of the children who have crossed the border alone in recent months were
boys 13 to 17 years of age. Alejandro Flores, director of the International
Emergency Shelter in Raymondville, where many of these children are sent, said
some arrive with relatively large sums of money given to them by their parents,
while others arrive hungry and penniless.

About half have relatives somewhere in the United States, he said, and come with
a travel-worn piece of paper with the relatives' name and address. The rest
''don't know anybody here,'' he said. ''They come hoping for the best.''

Some make their way without help, and others entrust their fate to smugglers who
sneak them across the border for a hefty fee.

Draft Theory Cited

Those who work with the immigrants say they can only guess why there are more
unaccompanied minors of late. The theory they cite most often is that
governments and opposition forces of most Central American countries are
starting to draft young men for military service at ever younger ages.

''Their parents see what is coming and send them away,'' said Ninfa Krueger,
executive director of the Border Association for Refugees of Central America.
''The parent has more of a fear that the kid is going to be picked up than the
kid.''

Until recently, unaccompanied minors who crossed into South Texas were placed in
the same detention centers that are used to hold local juvenile offenders. Last
July the Justice Department, the parent agency of the immigration service,
opened a shelter for these children in Los Fresnos, about 14 miles north of
Brownsville.

Although the project is financed by the department at a cost of $865,000 a year,
it is managed by the International Education Service, a private group that has
no experience in such projects. But its director of programs, Jesse Villarreal,
has spent 17 years running programs for juvenile delinquents.

A House With a Pool

The shelter, with room for 35 children, is housed in a rambling ranch house
complete with a backyard pool. But there were far fewer beds than there were
children to sleep in them, so a second shelter was opened two months ago here in
Raymondville, 45 miles north of Brownsville, with a yearly budget of $1.2
million and room for 48 more children.

The Raymondville shelter, which is in a former nursing home, has no pool. But
there is a volleyball net in the back year and overstuffed couches in the
television room.

Another shelter, with 80 beds, is scheduled to open next month in Mission, near
the border town of McAllen. Until then, children who cannot be placed in the
existing shelters are kept in a Red Cross shelter in Brownsville, which is also
used to house children who cross the border accompanied by a parent.

The shelters for unaccompanied minors have received praise from immigrants'
rights advocates, most of whom are not accustomed to complimenting the
immigration service.

Compassion and Criticism

''This is the only thing they do that's working,'' said Paula Gomez, executive
director of the Brownsville Community Health Center, who is an outspoken critic
of conditions at the adult detention facility in Bayview. ''If they would apply
the same compassion to their other activities they wouldn't receive as much
criticism.''

There has been some criticism, too, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the
immigration service in Harlingen. ''We got irate calls from people who wanted to
know why we were building swimming pools for illegal aliens,'' she said. ''We
didn't build it, it came with the property.''

In addition to the swimming pool, the shelters provide the children with medical
checkups and immunizations. At Raymondville, free coupons to McDonald's are the
reward for chores well done, and there are field trips to places like the local
library.

About five hours a day is spent in the classroom, learning English and the
customs of the nation. Among the lessons: how to fill out an employment
application, how to read a prescription, how to rent an apartment.

Reunited With Relatives

The shelter's staff tries to reunite the children with relatives who are already
in the United States and to complete the paperwork that will allow the family to
assume guardianship. The shelter does not pay for the children to travel to
their relatives, but will usually allow them to stay until a ticket can be sent.
Unlike adults, the children may travel to join their families while their
applications for political asylum are processed.

The more difficult cases are those children, like Reynaldo, who have no family.
He saw his parents and three sisters killed in a village square in El Salvador
last month and simply started walking north, following the railroad tracks.

Shelter officials keep lists of willing foster families, but find there are
never enough to meet the need. Working with nationwide church networks, they
have found homes in such places as Minnesota, Ohio, Oklahoma and Oregon.

The agency needs to find them a family before they turn 18, Mr. Flores said,
because immigration officials can technically remove a child to a detention
center on his 18th birthday. That has only happened once, he said.

Legal Advice Provided

The shelters also provide legal advice to the children with the help of Proyecto
Libertad, a group that represents refugees. They explain that although the rules
for minors are different, there are rules, nonetheless.

Specifically, the right to travel is not the same as the right to remain in the
United States permanently, and the children must appear at all hearings of their
case. Whoever is granted custody of those children is responsible for seeing
that they do appear.

Mr. Flores said that although he realizes the deportation odds the children
face, he operates on the theory that every one will be allowed to remain.

''We can't assume otherwise,'' he said. ''Our goal is to develop a sense of
self-confidence and a sense of belonging, a sense of identity. If worse comes to
worst and they have to go back, the strength we give them they can take with
them. It will help them there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Alejandro Flores, director of a shelter in Raymondville, Tex.
(NYT/F. Carter Smith); map of Texas showing location of Raymondville (NYT)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               38 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Debates Overhauling the Laws Governing Legal Immigration

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12


The Senate is debating an overhaul of immigration laws aimed at establishing an
overall limit on legal immigration to the United States for the first time in 65
years and increasing immigration from Western Europe.

But the idea of a cap was put in serious question today when the Senate, by a
vote of 62 to 36, agreed to an amendment that would guarantee a minimum number
of visas for extended family members of current American citizens. The issue was
expected to be debated further.

The Senate approved an immigration bill last year only to have it die in the
House of Representatives. The chief sponsors of the new bill, Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
have said they are optimistic that the legislation will make it through the
House this year.

Senators Kennedy and Simpson have described the overhaul of the legal
immigration system as the step that completes changes begun in 1986 with
controls on illegal immigration.

Over the years there have been increasing complaints that the visa preference
system was not working properly. In particular, critics said it created huge
backlogs of relatives awaiting entry into the United States. Senator Kennedy
said his bill tries to balance the country's longstanding willingness to unite
families and the needs of its workplace.

Emphasis on Skills

An important element of the bill is the creation of a category that would allot
54,000 visas annually to foreigners who have skills needed in the United States
but who lack employers ready to sponsor them. Under a new point system,
potential immigrants in this category would be ranked for skills, experience and
education needed to contribute to the American economy.

But the most contentious provision, as today's vote demonstrated, is the annual
cap on immigration, which would be set at 600,000 people in each of the next
three years. While that number is approximately 106,000 more than the number of
immigrants admitted in 1988, groups opposing the measure fear that it would
eventually squeeze out all but the most immediate relatives of current United
States citizens or permanent residents.

The current visa system has no limit on the number of immediate family members -
spouses, minor children and parents of American citizens -who can enter the
United States, and the proposed legislation would not change this.

Today's vote was an important victory for representatives of Hispanic, Chinese
and Jewish groups who have argued that the cap would result in a reduction of
visas for relatives who are not immediate family. This would adversely affect
immigration from Asia and Latin America, these groups say.

In the original bill, 480,000 of the visas available each year are reserved for
all types of family immigration, and the remaining 120,000 visas are reserved
for immigrants whose entry would not be based on family ties. Included in the
latter category are the 54,000 immigrants who have needed job skills.

The General Accounting Office, an investigation arm of Congress, has estimated
that under such a system, by 1998, all 480,000 family visas would be absorbed by
immediate family members and that visas available to more distant relatives
would shrink to zero.

The amendment that threatens the cap was introduced by Senators Orrin G. Hatch,
Republican of Utah, and Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of Arizona. It amended the
legislation so that visas allocated in the categories for relatives other than
immediate family members would not fall below 216,000 a year, the level under
current law.

Mr. Simpson argued that such an amendment would negate the whole point of the
600,000 annual immigrant cap and unravel the carefully wrought compromise that
had brought the legislation to the Senate floor.

Another battle is brewing over an amendment Mr. Simpson will offer to include
English fluency as a skill to be used in ranking visa applicants in the
independent-worker category. As drafted, the legislation had such a language
test, but it was deleted in the Judiciary Committee after an emotional debate.

Scores of other amendments to the bill are pending, but Senate leaders said
tonight that their aim was still to complete the bill on Thursday. They
anticipated that some of the proposed amendments would be withdrawn or dealt
with quickly.

Earlier today, the Senate voted 61 to 38 to accept an amendment by Senator John
H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, that would prevent the deportation of
spouses and minor children of illegal aliens who received amnesty under the 1986
reform of laws affecting illegal immigration.

Mr. Chafee argued that such protection was necessary because the amnesty applied
only to aliens who were in the United States before January 1982 and because
many of their immediate relatives entered the United States after that date but
before 1986 when the amnesty program became effective.

Such families face severe economic hardship and the threat of separation, he
said. Mr. Chafee gave no estimate of the number of affected immigrants, but Mr.
Simpson, who voted against the amendment, said the number of those actually
facing deportation was ''certainly under 100.''

The current visa allocation system was set up in 1965, replacing a 1924 law that
had based annual immigration quotas for various nationalities on the number of
people of each national origin in the United States as of 1920. Because the
American population in 1920 was primarily of English, Irish or German ancestry,
the earlier system favored immigrants from Britain, Ireland and Germany.

The current system is based on priorities and preferences for reunification of
families. Under it, most immigrants now come from Asia, the Caribbean, Mexico
and Central America. Roughly 10 percent of current immigrants come from Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               39 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Suit Accuses U.S. Agency Of Denying Work Permits

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 689 words


A lawsuit filed yesterday accuses the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
New York City of illegally denying work permits to applicants for political
asylum.

Hundreds of people in the city are subsisting without work or in low-paying jobs
while they await rulings on their applications because of a policy of the
service's New York office, said lawyers who filed the suit in Federal District
Court in Brooklyn.

The lawyers said they believe the work permits are regularly denied as part of a
national effort by immigration officials to discourage people from certain
countries from applying for political asylum in the United States.

''If they are starving during the one, two or three years that it takes to
decide an application, they're going to give up,'' said Lucas Guttentag, a
lawyer at the Immigration Task Force of the American Civil Liberties Union,
which filed the class action suit on behalf of eight people. The group said
hundreds of others in the city have been unable to obtain work permits.

El Salvador and Afghanistan

The eight people named in the suit are from El Salvador and Afghanistan. The
suit said they all fear retaliation for political or religious views if they
return to their homelands. In addition to being unable to work, their lawyers
said, the people cannot collect public assistance or other government benefits
because of their immigration status.

Federal law requires that immigration officials grant work permits to asylum
applicants as long as their applications are not frivolous. The lawsuit claims
that the immigration service's New York office considers many legitimate claims
frivolous.

Scott Blackman, the acting district director of the office, said he had not seen
the lawsuit and could not comment on it or on any aspect of his office's policy
toward asylum applicants.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington, Duke
Austin, said the service is rarely overruled by the courts on its determinations
about whether to grant asylum. He said the service won 90 percent of the cases
in which applicants appealed denials of political asylum.

About 150,000 people are currently awaiting asylum rulings nationwide, he said.
About 5,000 of those cases are in New York, the lawyers said.

San Francisco Ruling

Because the immigration service is so rarely overruled, Mr. Austin said, its
officials believe it is bad policy to grant work permits too liberally while
people are fighting their cases.

The lawyers for the asylum applicants said work-permit denials had become a
particular problem lately because immigration officials have notified employers
that they now risk civil and criminal punishments if they hire illegal
immigrants.

In a similar lawsuit, a Federal judge in San Francisco ruled against the service
last month. But that ruling only applies to the San Francisco area.

Critics have long argued that national immigration policy is skewed to favor
people fleeing Communist regimes at the expense of political refugees from
countries whose governments are favored by the Administration. The critics say
immigration officials in recent years have taken a particularly hard line
against people fleeing from Central American countries that are viewed as
friendly to American interests in the region.

Many applicants who have been denied work permits, the suit says, fear that they
will be killed if they are forced to return to their countries.

In an interview yesterday, one man who said he had come to this country because
his political views had made him a target in his homeland, said he must work
illegally for low wages because he does not have a permit. He described a
difficult life, living apart from his wife and daughter, while he awaits a
ruling on his application.

Through a translator, the man asked not to be identified because he was afraid
he would lose his illegal job. He said he had come to America to escape
persecution.

''I didn't know what to expect,'' he said. ''But I have found the people of the
United States to be a very good people, but with some laws that don't
acknowledge human rights.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               40 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 16, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Votes in Congress

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 24, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 541 words


Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York

Senate

1. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to a bill to overhaul immigration laws that
would prevent the deportation of spouses and minor children of illegal aliens
who received under the 1986 reform of laws affecting illegal aliens. Approved 61
to 38, July 12.

2. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to the immigration bill that would
guarantee a minimum number of visas for extended family members of current
American citizens. Approved 62 to 36, July 12.

3. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to the immigration bill that would give
extra preference to immigrants who spoke English. Rejected 56 to 43, July 13.

4. Immigration: Vote on final passage of an overhaul of the nation's immigration
laws aimed at guaranteeing more visas for skilled workers with no ties in the
United States and at increasing immigration from Western Europe. Approved 81 to
17, July 13.
An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document.
Please refer to the table in the online document.


House

1. National Endowment for the Arts: Vote on an amendment to an Interior
Department spending bill that would cut the proposed $171.4 million Endowment
budget by $45,000 - the amount the agency gave for two controversial art
projects. Approved 361 to 65 (with one member voting ''Present''), July 12.

2. National Endowment for the Arts: Vote on an amendment to an Interior
Department spending bill that would cut the Endowment's proposed $171.4 million
budget by five percent. Rejected 328 to 95, July 12.
$
                            1    2

Connecticut
1. Kennelly (D)             Y    N
2. Gejdenson (D)            Y    N
3. Morrison (D)             Y    N
4. Shays (R)                Y    N
5. Rowland (R)              Y    N
6. Johnson (R)              Y    N

New Jersey
1. Florio (D)               Y    N
2. Hughes (D)               Y    N
3. Pallone (D)              Y    N
4. Smith (R)                Y    Y
5. Roukema (R)              N    Y
6. Dwyer (D)                Y    N
7. Rinaldo (R)              Y    N
8. Roe (D)                  Y    N
9. Torricelli (D)           Y    N
10. Payne (D)               Y    N
11. Gallo (R)               N    N
12. Courter (R)             Y    N
13. Saxton (R)              Y    N
14. Guarini (D)             Y    N

New York
1. Hochbrueckner(D)         Y    N
2. Downey (D)               Y    N
3. Mrazek (D)               Y    N
4. Lent (R)                 Y    N
5. McGrath (R)              Y    N
6. Flake (D)                Y    N
7. Ackerman (D)             Y    N
8. Scheuer (D)              Y    N
9. Manton (D)               Y    N
10. Schumer (D)             Y    N
11. Towns (D)               Y    N
12. Owens (D)
P                           N
13. Solarz (D)              Y    N
14. Molinari (R)            Y    Y
15. Green (R)               Y    N
16. Rangel (D)              Y    N
17. Weiss (D)               N

18. Garcia (D)              Y    N
19. Engel (D)               N

20. Lowey (D)               Y    N
21. Fish (R)                Y    N
22. Gilman (R)              Y    N
23. McNulty (D)             Y    N
24. Solomon (R)             N    Y
25. Boehlert (R)            Y    N
26. Martin (R)              Y    N
27. Walsh (R)               Y    A
28. McHugh (D)              Y    N
29. Horton (R)              Y    N
30. Slaughter (D)           Y    N
31. Paxon (R)               Y    N
32. LaFalce (D)             Y    N
33. Nowak (D)               Y    N
34. Houghton (R)            N    N


KEY Y Yea; N Nay; (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               41 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 1, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

House Must Fine-Tune Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 226 words


To the Editor:

The Senate's vote strongly favoring legal immigration reform (front page, July
14) recognizes the need for additional visas for executives, managers and
professionals and for guaranteeing a minimum threshold level of family
preference visa numbers.

But it is vital to the health of American business and industry that, as the
bill moves into the House, it is amended to expand the number of
employment-related visas the Senate approved and to reinstate the ''lowskill''
classification.

The Senate's increase of employment-related visas from 54,000 to 84,000, albeit
welcome, will not be sufficient to cover the increasing demands for business
visas to fill critical job shortages in the next few years. With American
business needs and current backlogs, increasing employment-related visas to
120,000 annually would solve this problem.

Elimination of visas for unskilled labor, those who provide care for the
elderly, the infirm and the children of working parents, is not necessary or
desirable. Our immigration system has long recognized a place for people whose
employment services are in short supply and needed by employers.

Careful modifications by the House could end our legal immigration problems.

THEODORE RUTHIZER
  New York, July 17, 1989

The writer is an American Immigration Lawyers Association officer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               42 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 1, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Face Threat To Amnesty

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1125 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 31


Immigrants who were granted amnesty under the 1986 immigration law could lose
their legal status and be deported because of bureaucratic confusion or because
they are unaware that a second deadline must be met in the coming months,
immigrants' rights groups have warned.

The groups say that many of the three million immigrants who were granted
amnesty by filing applications within a one-year deadline are confused or do not
know that they now face a deadline to apply for permanent residence.

Adding to the confusion of many applicants and the difficulties of publicizing
the requirements are the staggered deadlines for applications, the rights groups
say. An immigrant has two and a half years from the time of filing for amnesty
to apply for permanent residence.

The immigrants' rights groups say figures they obtained from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service reinforce their first-hand observations of low levels of
awareness among immigrants and indicate that low levels of applications are
likely for the second phase of the program.

Spokesmen for the immigration service strongly rejected the criticisms and
worries. They said the bureaucratic problems would solve themselves before the
filing deadlines, which range from November 1989 to November 1990 for a vast
majority of those in the program.

''Who knows how many people are going to procrastinate?'' asked Duke Austin, a
senior spokesman for the immigration service in Washington. He said the social
organizations raising an alarm ''are the same people who have harped and groused
and complained about the program from its very inception.''

Immigration service figures obtained by the Coalition for Humane Immigration
Rights of Los Angeles, which coordinates the work of groups aiding immigrants in
that area, indicate that by mid-June about one-third of those eligible had
applied for permanent residence.

But the percentages were dramatically lower for those who filed for amnesty late
in the program. These were aliens who tended to be less informed and to have
more difficulty with bureaucratic procedures, the immigrants' rights groups
said.

Outreach Called Necessary

''Those are the people that it's going to take much more of an outreach effort
to reach,'' said Linda Mitchell of the Los Angeles coalition. ''They are
confused about the dates. Many of them don't even know there is a second
phase.''

Joe Flanders, a spokesman for the Western region of the immigration service,
said that if the immigrants in the program allowed the second deadline to pass,
''They are right back where they were before. Once it's over it's over.''

They would again become illegal aliens subject to deportation.

Of the 44,469 people who filed for amnesty in May 1987, the first month of
filing, 77 percent have filed for permanent residence, immigration service
figures showed. This group of early filers, Ms. Mitchell said, is the most
educated, aware and capable.

The figures show that of the 311,897 people who filed for amnesty in May 1988,
the last month of filing, only 4 percent have filed for permanent residence.

The immigration law offered legal status to illegal aliens who could prove they
had entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and had lived here
continuously since then. It also prohibited employers from hiring illegal
aliens, making the employers subject to fines for each illegal alien hired and
it provided for strengthening border patrols in an effort to keep illegal aliens
from entering.

To complete the second phase and obtain permanent residency, an applicant must
reside in the United States continuously, have no serious police record, submit
a negative test for AIDS antibodies, prove financial responsibility and
demonstrate a knowledge of English and of United States history.

Niels Frenzen, a lawyer in the immigrant legalization project of Public Counsel,
a legal aid group, said immigration service officials had told him ''they were
finding severe lack of knowledge on any filing requirement for phase two.''

One problem with the second phase, the rights groups say, is that far less money
has been budgeted for information programs than was the case is the first phase.
Financing for programs to inform those who obtained amnesty about the second
deadline is $3 million, as against $11 million for the first phase, said Robert
Paral, a research associate at the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials.

The immigration service said it would rely primarily on mailings to the
addresses it has on file for people who completed the first phase.

But the immigrant population is by its nature very mobile, Mr. Paral said,
asserting that the immigration service had lost track of a large number of
immigrants.

Ms. Mitchell said immigration service officials had told her group that as many
as 65,000 aliens in the Western region had not picked up cards that identified
them as having received amnesty. About half the three million immigrants in the
legalization program are in the Western region.

Susan Alva of Public Counsel distributed a memorandum to immigrant groups in
which she listed 15 types of bureaucratic difficulties she said applicants were
encountering. Many problems involve confusion over procedures, and they seem to
affect some officials as well as immigrants, Ms. Alva said.

Problem With English Classes

Some problems revolve around the requirement that applicants complete a course
in the English language and in American civics. The course is intended to
prepare applicants for an interview with an immigration service officer that is
needed to receive permanent residency.

In a study of availability of classrooms, California Tomorrow, a private social
agency, found that these classes in some areas were undersubscribed while
classes in other areas had long waiting lists.

New York, for example, is meeting slightly more than half the demand for
classes, a report by the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials said today. While Chicago, Houston and Miami were providing enough
classes, the association said, 80 of the 100 largest cities in California were
providing insufficient classes in 1988.

''There is a genuine and well-founded fear that people may not be able to comply
with the requirements of phase two because there are no classes available to
them that are convenient to where they live and work,'' said Linda Wong of
California Tomorrow.

She and others noted that many applicants had low levels of education and could
be easily discouraged by complicated procedures and bureaucratic difficulties.

Ms. Mitchell said: ''Word spreads in the community: it's not worth it; it's a
hassle. That's what we are having to battle against.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of applicants at Immigration and Naturalization Service office in
L.A. (NYT/Michael Tweed) (pg. A10)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               43 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 1989, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Seeks to Stem Wave of Defections by Polish Fishermen

BYLINE: By RICHARD MAUER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Sept. 3


Immigration officials say they are trying to stop Polish fishermen from jumping
ship in Alaska and then using their status as political refugees to skirt
immigration retrictions and get good jobs on American boats.

About 200 Poles have abandoned their vessels in the North Pacific over the past
two years and have asked for asylum. While the Government deals with their
applications, the fishermen have been allowed to find work in Alaska and travel
in virtual freedom.

But two weeks ago, nine Polish fishermen seeking asylum here were taken into
custody and flown to a detention center in a Denver suburb, where procedures
were begun in order to repatriate them to Poland. The nine fishermen say their
requests for asylum are legitimate, and members of the Polish community in
Anchorage, who have aided other defectors, also support them as sincere.

But Donald Russell, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Denver, said the nine men were detained because Federal officials had
decided to crack down on a ''scam.'' While many of the fishermen have remained
in the United States, some of them have worked awhile and then returned to
Poland with their earnings, Mr. Russell said.

Mr. Russell said: ''They arrived in the U.S., and the minute they got here, they
said: 'I want asylum. I want a work permit,' This has been going on for the past
year and a half up there.''

Mr. Russell said the Polish fishermen know Anchorage has an immigration judge
only for a few days every six months. He said hearing an asylum case and
obtaining a decision takes about 18 months in Anchorage. ''In the meantime, they
continue working on a U.S. flag vessel, and make $90,000 to $100,000,'' he said.

''They got a gimmick going, and I don't blame them for trying it,'' Mr. Russell
said, adding that because of the delays in Anchorage, the fishermen are assured
of making money even if their requests are denied. ''With these nine, the buck
is going to stop here - you guys are playing a game and we're not going to play
it anymore.''

A Changing Situation

In addition, Mr. Russell said, since Tadeusz Mazowiecki has formed a Government
in Poland involving Solidarity, there should be little reason for a fisherman in
the trade union movement to fear persecution back home, one of the most common
claims made by the fishermen.

Two of the fishermen detained two weeks ago in Aurora, Colo., Roman Marczak and
Waldzear Nowak said in telephone interviews that they are seeking political
freedom in United States, not jobs. Mr. Marczak acknowledged that other Poles
may have defected primarily for work.

Igor Jasinski, a Polish-born paralegal living in Denver who is representing five
of the men, said all nine claim membership in Fighting Solidarity, a splinter
organization that rejects any cooperation with Polish Communists or the Soviet
Union.

''Their argument is certainly valid for asylum,'' Mr. Jasinski said. ''They say
the recent changes in Poland don't go far enough. The Communists will have total
control over internal security and the army.''

He said the fishermen may end up staying in jail for six months or more while
their cases are processed. #40 Polish Ships Off Alaska The nine men had flown
from Poland to Anchorage to join one of about 40 Polish ships that catch and
process pollack and other fish year round in the North Pacific off Alaska,
according to Tom Rueter of North Star Maritime Agencies. Mr. Rueter is the agent
for the five Polish state enterprises that operate the vessels.

One of those companies alone has lost 120 workers over the past two years
through defections at the Anchorage International Airport, where the crews
arrive for six months of duty at sea, or in Seward, where the boats put in for
provisions, Mr. Rueter said.

Several of the owners have threatened to move their operations to Canada, where
asylum is also relatively easy to obtain but work permits are not, Mr. Rueter
said. A move like that could mean a $70,000 loss to Seward for things like fuel
and food each time a Polish boat docks, he said. Enterprises Appeal to U.S.
Last March, Mr. Rueter and Adrianna Hebel, a representative of a Polish state
enterprise, met with Gary Johnson, the immigration service's district director
in Anchorage, to try to slow the defections. Mr. Rueter said they were politely
received, but no promises were made.

Mr. Johnson said last week that changing conditions in Poland might mean fewer
requests for asylum would be granted, though he said there has been no major
change in policy about how Polish defectors will be handled.

''Up until roughly about a year ago, most of them from Poland were approved,''
Mr. Johnson said. ''It doesn't appear that there's an oppressive atmosphere in
Poland, as there was a few years ago.''

More recent applications are awaiting advisory opinions from the State
Department's Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, which has a large
backlog of cases, he said.

The first wave of Polish defections came in 1981 with the declaration of martial
law in Poland and the outlawing of Solidarity. That period coincided with a boom
for fisheries in Alaska and a shortage of qualified fishermen.

Dave Harville, a Kodiak fisherman, who has hired Polish defectors for his boats,
said it was not uncommon for the Polish fishermen to earn $100,000 a year. But
that boom has played itself out, and Mr. Harville said he knows of no recent
arrivals making that much.

John Soltys, a Polish-born cab driver and businessman in Anchorage who has six
defectors living with him now, said the Polish community in Anchorage has saved
the Government money by housing and finding jobs for the Poles. ''We are willing
to pay for these kinds of people, and we are taxpayers, too,'' he said.

Mr. Soltys was called by the immigration service when the nine fishermen arrived
two weeks ago. Mr. Soltys said he told the officials that he had no room for the
men. But when he showed up several hours later with others who did have space,
he was told it was too late and the Government had already arranged to fly the
fishermen to the detention center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               44 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Blocking Release Of Figure in Drug Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 6


Immigration officials blocked the court-ordered release on Tuesday of a former
Mexican President's relative who is in Federal custody for questioning in the
1985 slaying of a Federal drug agent.

The surprising turn of events came only hours after a Federal judge said he did
not believe that the 59-year-old detained Mexican national, Ruben Zuno Arce,
brother-in-law of former President Luis Echeverria Alvarez, was a material
witness to the slaying of the drug agent, Enrique Camarena.

Mr. Zuno Arce was later taken to San Antonio for an immigration hearing.

Mr. Zuno Arce, whose sister is married to Mr. Echeverria, was held on an
immigration warrant charging he is involved in drug trafficking.

Federal District Judge Edward Rafeedie, who had ordered Mr. Zuno Arce released
after 28 days in custody, said he was powerless to interfere with immigration
service.

Mr. Zuno Arce's lawyer, Edward Medvene, denied the drug charges. At the earlier
hearing, Mr. Medvene had argued that his client had nothing to do with the
slaying but had owned a house that was sold to a reputed drug kingpin, Rafael
Caro Quintero, who allegedly planned the slaying of Mr. Camarena.

The Government had sought to keep Mr. Zuno Arce in prison to insure his
testimony at next month's trial of Juan Jose Bernabe Ramirez, who is the latest
defendant charged in the Camarena case. Prosecutors argued to keep Mr. Zuno Arce
in custody until then. The judge refused.

Mr. Camarena and his Mexican pilot, Alfredo Zavala Avelar, were tortured and
killed in Guadalajara, Mexico, in February 1985. Mr. Zuno Arce was not charged
with any crime, but in mid-August Judge Rafeedie ordered him temporarily held
without bail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               45 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 9, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Full Translation Is Required In Immigration Proceedings

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 16, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 150 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 8


A Federal district judge has ruled that interpreters at immigration proceedings
must translate all of those proceedings, and not just part of them, if the alien
involved does not understand English.

The current practice in immigration court is to require translation only of the
questions put to the alien, and the answers. All other discussion -for example,
between the lawyers and the judge - is not translated.

But Judge William Gray, ruling Monday in a case brought against the Government
by advocates for aliens, said such limited practice violated the Constitution's
due-process guarantee. His ruling applies only to immigration courts in Southern
California, although lawyers for the plaintiffs declared that it could create a
precedent for decisions in other Federal jurisdictions.

An assistant United States attorney, Ian Fan, said the Government had not
decided whether to appeal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               46 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 12, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Migrants' False Claims: Fraud on a Huge Scale

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1544 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 11


In one of the most extensive immigration frauds ever perpetrated against the
United States Government, thousands of people who falsified amnesty applications
will begin to acquire permanent resident status next month under the 1986
immigration law.

More than 1.3 million illegal aliens applied to become legal immigrants under a
one-time amnesty for farm workers. The program was expected to accommodate only
250,000 aliens when Congress enacted it as a politically critical part of a
sweeping package of changes in immigration law.

Now a variety of estimates by Federal officials and immigration experts place
the number of fraudulent applications at somewhere between 250,000 and 650,000.

Lack of Manpower and Money

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has identified 398,000 cases of
possible fraud in the program, but the agency admits that it lacks both the
manpower and the money to prosecute individual applicants. The agency is to
begin issuing permanent resident status to amnesty applicants on Dec. 1, and
officials said they were approving 94 percent of the applicants over all.

Evidence of vast abuse of the farm worker amnesty program has already led to
important changes in the way immigration policies are conceived in Congress. For
example, recent legislation to aid immigration by refugees from the Soviet Union
was modified specifically to avoid the uncontrolled influx that has occurred
under the agricultural amnesty program.

Supporters of the farm worker amnesty argue that it accomplished its principal
aim of insuring the nation a cheap, reliable and legal supply of farm workers
and that it made an inadvertent but important contribution in legitimizing a
large part of the nation's illegal alien population. #1,000 Workers, 30 Acres
Critics point to cases like that of Larry and Sharon Marval of Newark. Last year
they pleaded guilty to immigration fraud charges after immigration service
investigators alleged that the Marvals were part of an operation that helped
about 1,000 aliens acquire amnesty with falsified documents showing they had all
worked on a mere 30 acres of farmland.

The amnesty for farm workers was a last-minute addition to the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986, which sought to halt illegal immigration with a
two-part strategy. Under a general amnesty, illegal aliens who could prove they
had lived in the United States since before Jan. 1, 1982, were given the chance
to leave their underground existence and begin a process leading to permanent
resident status. And to stem further illegal immigration, the employment of
illegal aliens was made a crime.

The agricultural amnesty program was adopted at the insistence of politically
powerful fruit and vegetable growers in California and Texas who wanted to
protect their labor force. In several respects, the provisions for the program
were much less strict than the general amnesty program, which drew 1.7 million
applicants. Instead of having to document nearly five years of continuous
residence, most agricultural worker applicants had to show only that they had
done 90 days of farm work between May 1, 1985, and May 1, 1986.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who was an author of this
Special Agricultural Worker provision, said that in retrospect the program
seemed ''too open'' and susceptible to fraud. But he argued that budget
decisions had made the battle to combat fraud more difficult.

''There has not been enough diligence in tracking down the fraud,'' he said,
''because funding for the I.N.S. has been cut by the White House in each of the
last three budgets, even though everyone agreed when the bill passed that
greater I.N.S. manpower was essential to make it work.''

Congress rarely raises the immigration service budget above Administration
requests.

Aside from its budget problems, the immigration service has repeatedly come
under fire this year in Congress and in an audit by the Justice Department for
what was termed mismanagement and administrative inefficiency.

John F. Shaw, Assistant Immigration Commissioner, agreed that ''manpower
restrictions'' at the agency were a major factor in the fraud in the
agricultural amnesty program. He said much of the fraud ''shot through a window
of opportunity'' when the agency was frantically trying to deal with many new
burdens of the 1986 immigration law.

People Who Sold False Documents

Mr. Shaw said law-enforcement efforts had been limited to the people who sold
false documents to applicants for the farm worker amnesty. The immigration
service has made 844 arrests and won 413 convictions in cases alleging fraud in
the amnesty program. The people involved ranged from notaries public to field
crew leaders. ''It was a cottage industry,'' Mr. Shaw said.

The immigration service can revoke legal status if it finds the applicant
committed fraud, but even this effort is limited. Only applications that appear
linked to a fraud conspiracy are held for review, as when an unusually large
number of applicants assert that they have worked in same place. Some 398,000
aliens have fallen into this category since the application period ended last
Nov. 30, but it is likely that many of them will get resident status.

Mr. Shaw said the fraud conspiracies often involved farms that actually did
employ some migrant labor. So it is frequently impossible to separate legitimate
from illicit claims.

Given the limited law-enforcement effort, no precise count of fraud in the
agricultural amnesty program is possible. But some rough estimates are possible
based on information from the aliens themselves. An extensive survey conducted
in three rural Mexican communities by the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the
University of California in San Diego found that only 72 percent of those who
identified themselves as applicants for farm worker amnesty had work histories
that qualified them for the program. A similar survey conducted by Mexican
researchers in Jalisco in central Mexico found that only 59 percent qualified.

But fraud alone does not explain why the program produced more than five times
the applicants Congress expected. Frank D. Bean, co-director of the Program for
Research on Immigration Policy at the Urban Institute in Washington, said the
miscalculation in the Special Agricultural Worker program reflected longstanding
difficulties in tracking the number of temporary illegal migrants from Mexico.

''It is at least plausible that a very large percentage of the S.A.W. applicants
had done agricultural work in the U.S. even if they did not meet the specific
time requirements of the amnesty,'' Mr. Bean said.

'It Was a Weak Program'

Mr. Shaw of the immigration service, and other critics of the law, believe there
were more fundamental flaws. ''It was a weak program and it was poorly
articulated in the law,'' he said.

Unlike almost all other immigration programs, which put the burden of proof on
the applicant, the farm amnesty put the burden on the Government. Consequently,
aliens with even the most rudimentary documentation cannot be rejected unless
the Government can prove their claims are false.

Stephen Rosenbaum, staff attorney for California Rural Legal Assistance, a
nonprofit service organization for farm workers, argued that there was no other
way to structure an immigration program for an occupation ''that does not
produce a paper trail.'' He noted that farm workers are paid in cash and neither
the employers nor the workers keep detailed records.

'Immense Logistical Problems'

''You can argue the wisdom of a farm worker amnesty, but if you have one, you
have to recognize the immense logistical problems involved in producing
evidence,'' he said.

The immigration service at first tried to apply the stringent practices common
to other immigration programs, like rejecting applicants with little explanation
when their documents were suspect. But three lawsuits brought in Florida, Texas
and California over the last two years forced the agency to follow the broader
standards mandated by Congress.

The burden-of-proof issue arose again earlier this year when the House of
Representatives approved legislation that would have made any person who could
prove Soviet citizenship eligible for political refugee status.

A legislator with a powerful role on immigration policy, Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, eliminated the provision because of concerns
raised by the farm worker amnesty program, an aide said. Mr. Simpson, who is on
the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Affairs,
substituted a series of specific circumstances that had to be met for a Soviet
citizen to be considered a refugee, like denial of a particular job because of
religious beliefs.

Immigration experts believe that the agricultural amnesty program will probably
color policy debates over other categories of aliens whose qualifications will
be difficult to document, like the anti-Sandinista rebels of Nicaragua.

''One certain product'' of the agricultural amnesty program, Representative
Schumer said, ''is that in developing immigration policies in the future,
Congress will be much more wary of the potential for fraud and will do more to
stop it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CORRECTION:

A front-page article on Nov. 12 about immigration fraud referred incompletely to
the Government's case against a Newark woman and rendered her name incorrectly.
The woman is Sharyn Marval; she pleaded guilty to immigration fraud, a felony,
then withdrew her plea. As a second trial on the fraud accusation was about to
begin, Mrs. Marval pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge and was sentenced to
three years' probation, 150 hours of community service and a $4,300 fine. The
felony charge was dismissed.

GRAPHIC: Graph of where immigrants come from, divided between agricultural and
other workers (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. 36)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               47 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Chief Weighs Limits on Asylum

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15


The head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service is considering whether to
ban some people seeking political asylum in the United States from working in
cities that already have large immigrant populations.

Gene McNary, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, told
reporters on Thursday that he had not yet determined how such a geographic
restriction would be determined or whether it would be practical or legal or
require legislative changes.

Mr. McNary said he developed the idea after trips to Miami and elsewhere
convinced him that cities around the country with large immigrant populations
cannot satisfy the heavy demand for public services and employment. In addition
to Miami, he cited San Diego and Brownsville, Tex.

'I'll Take the Blame'

Mr. McNary, a former prosecutor and Executive of St. Louis County, said he had
not discussed the idea with Attorney General Dick Thornburgh. The immigration
service is a branch of the Justice Department. But he added, ''It's my idea;
I'll take the blame.''

The Commissioner's suggestion would apply not to legal immigrants who arrive in
the United States with entrance visas, but to 60,000 to 100,000 people who enter
the country each year seeking political asylum. These people are eligible to
work legally while their requests for political asylum are considered.

The Government approves requests for asylum based on an evaluation of whether
applicants can show that they face likely persecution if they are forced to
return home.

Some immigration rights groups expressed reservations about the Commissioner's
idea, saying that those seeking political asylum should be permitted to live and
work where they have access to legal advice about their immigration status and
where they can benefit from the support of friends and relatives.

Access to Legal Advice

''An asylum seeker should have access to the attorney of their choice,'' said
Bill Frelick, a policy analyst at the United States Committee for Refugees, a
nonprofit group that acts as an advocate for people seeking political asylum.
''If they are coerced to go to locations where there are not attorneys who are
familiar with political asylyum, it would put them at a distinct disadvantage.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               48 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 11, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Extradition Raises Troubling Questions

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 432 words


To the Editor:

Attorney General Dick Thornburgh has ruled that Joseph P. Doherty should be
deported to Britain, a small and incomplete article reports (July 1). You fail
to mention that Britain had tried to extradite Mr. Doherty and failed because
our courts ruled that the acts committed by Mr. Doherty were military acts and
neither crimes nor acts of terrorism. The court stated that ''the facts of this
case present the assertion of the political offense exception in its most
classic form.''

In Mr. Doherty's six court and immigration cases, the decisions have been in his
favor, while the Administration has been the losing party throughout. Yet the
Attorney General seems to have the last word.

What, then, is the point of hearing extradition cases in Federal courts and
having extradition laws if the Attorney General can accomplish extradition
through forced deportation to a country ruled ineligible to extradite that
person? The purpose of hearing extradition cases in Federal courts is to keep
extradition from becoming a political matter. The actions of the Attorney
General prove that, should our courts rule in a way not satisfactory to the
Administration's political purposes, it can overturn the ruling through
deportation.

What is the point of having Boards of Immigration Appeals if the Attorney
General has the power to overrule their decisions?

Something is dreadfully wrong with the American system of justice when the
rights of individuals can be sacrificed for political purposes and court
decisions can be overturned to please a foreign power. This case is significant
because of these questions, as well as for the injustice being done to Mr.
Doherty. Your incomplete coverage of it is upsetting, but not surprising,
because your coverage of Northern Ireland tends to be inaccurate, incomplete and
in accordance with the wishes of the British Government.

Seldom, if ever, do you, or the rest of the news media, mention serious human
rights violations in Northern Ireland; constant harassment and intimidation of
the nationalist community by the British military; house searches resulting in
significant damage to thousands of nationalist homes; constant harassment of
election workers and officials of Sinn Fein, the legal political party
representing the most oppressed people in Northern Ireland. It is no wonder the
conflict continues: violence is the only way the oppressed people have left to
express their grievances.

RACHEL L. HOFFMAN
  Gwynedd, Pa., July 21, 1989

The writer is president of American Protestants for Truth About Ireland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               49 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 31, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Simpler Plan Sought in Congress To Identify All Eligible for Work

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30


Leading members of Congress said today that the nation should adopt a simpler,
more secure method of identifying citizens and legal aliens in an effort to
prevent job discrimination against Hispanic and other minority workers.

But whether the lawmakers' search for such a method will result in adoption of a
standard worker identification card, a step long opposed by civil libertarians,
is uncertain.

Federal immigration law provides for penalties against employers who hire
illegal aliens. The General Accounting Office, the investigative and auditing
arm of Congress, reported Thursday that those provisions, and the counterfeiting
of documents that are supposed to prove worker eligibility, had produced
widespread hiring discrimination against people with a ''foreign appearance or
accent.''

In the Senate, at least, there appears to be some sentiment in favor of a worker
card for all citizens and others legally eligible to work. Supporters of the
idea said such a document would make it easier for employers to verify the
eligibility of job applicants and would thereby help to reduce discrimination in
hiring.

Opposition Expected to Stiffen

But there is no agreement on details of such a card: whether, for example, it
would be mandatory or merely be carried as a convenience, allowing job
applicants to prove their work eligibility quickly. Even supporters of the card
said resistance to the idea was likely to stiffen as these details were debated.

There is also support in the House of Representatives for new, more reliable
means of personal identification, but not necessarily for the mandatory use of a
worker card.

Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act, the landmark 1986 law intended to
curb illegal immigration, employers must ask all job applicants for documents to
verify that they are either American citizens or aliens authorized to work. Any
of 17 documents may be used, and many, like Social Security cards and birth
certificates, have been widely counterfeited.

Today, at a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senators Alan K. Simpson
of Wyoming and Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, both Republicans, and Paul
Simon of Illinois, a Democrat, said there was a need for a simpler, more secure
method of identification so employers could verify that job applicants were
eligible to work.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, agreed that the number of
documents should be reduced, but said, ''I still find offensive a national
identity card.''

Idea Always Controversial

The idea of an identity card has long been debated and, because of what many
consider its totalitarian overtone, has always been controversial. The most
likely alternative to such a card would be to reduce the number of documents
proving worker eligibility from 17 to perhaps 2 or 3 and then to use technology
to issue more secure versions of them.

Today, even lawmakers willing to accept the idea of a worker card said that
whether it could win approval in Congress was uncertain.

''It does not offend me to have a national identification card,'' Senator Simon
said. ''But I don't think you can get that passed. That's a political reality.''

Mr. Simpson, Mr. Thurmond and Mr. Simon said they would oppose the repeal of
provisions of the 1986 law that penalize employers for hiring illegal aliens,
even though the G.A.O. said Thursday that those provisions had caused a
''widespread pattern of discrimination'' on the basis of national origin.

The investigative agency's finding requires Congress to review the law, and it
puts the lawmakers in an awkward position. If they do nothing after that review,
they may seem to tolerate discrimination. If they repeal the penalties for
hiring illegal aliens, they may seem to invite a new wave of illegal
immigration. And if they move toward a more secure means of identification, they
will face complex technical problems and will touch off a new debate over
privacy rights, with civil libertarians warning against a ''national I.D.
card.''

Simpson Questions Study

Mr. Simpson, the chief sponsor of the 1986 law, who is now the assistant
Republican leader in the Senate, said the G.A.O. had overstated the extent of
discrimination resulting from the measure. But to combat discrimination and to
reduce the use of fraudulent documents, he proposed the standard worker
identification card.

''I urge my colleagues to join me in passing legislation to improve our present
document system,'' Mr. Simpson said. ''This is not going to be some kind of
national I.D. proposal, but rather a document that will be used solely for new
hire, just for that purpose. It will not be used for other law-enforcement
purposes and it will not have to be carried on one's person.''

The Comptroller General of the United States, Charles A. Bowsher, who is head of
the G.A.O., said at today's Senate hearing that people had inferred that his
agency was ''pushing for'' repeal of employer sanctions. That is incorrect, he
said.  Employers are confused and uncertain about the current requirements for
checking the identity and citizenship of job applicants, he said. To end such
confusion and to prevent discrimination, he said, the Government should ''reduce
the number of work eligibility documents and make them harder to counterfeit,
thereby reducing document fraud.''

Richard L. Fogel, an Assistant Comptroller General, said that 80 percent of the
nation's employers were now aware of the 1986 law but that 40 percent did not
understand the hiring restrictions or the document requirements.

Senator Simpson asserted, ''A more secure worker verification system will both
reduce fraud and eliminate an incentive for employers to discriminate.''

Mr. Bowsher said there would be many practical problems in devising a new system
to verify work eligibility. He suggested that Congress direct the President to
study the problems and come up with proposals to solve them.

Representative Bruce A. Morrison, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the House
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said he had already introduced a bill to
create a new Government identification document that could be used by citizens
and legal aliens.

Use of this ''tamper-proof document'' would be voluntary, Mr. Morrison said. Job
applicants could show it to employers ''in lieu of the whole menu of documents''
now used, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               50 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 7, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Remains a Great U.S. Resource

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 236 words


To the Editor:

Nathan Glazer is perceptive in concluding that the success of a nation depends
more on the character and energy of its people than on the natural resources it
possesses (Op-Ed, Dec. 24). It is doubly unfortunate, then, that he suggests
that our continued openness to immigration is responsible for the problems the
United States has encountered. By all reasonable measures, immigration has been
and continues to be a treasure trove for our nation. The rapid success shown by
many Vietnamese immigrants is only the latest evidence.

As homogeneous states, the nations of East Asia do not have to deal with the
problems of heterogeneity that face the United States. We might envy them for
that, but we cannot be like them. Even before we were a nation, we were
committed to the path of diversity, with all of the turmoil, and all of the
benefits, that differences imply. The ''wretched refuse'' of other countries was
changed, in a sort of social alchemy, from dross to the gold that built the
United States.

There has always been a strain of nativism that sought to blame recent arrivals
for the nation's ills. That was wrong in the 1840's, when the targets were the
Irish, the 1850's, when Germans came under fire, and the 1880's and 90's when
Jews and Eastern and Southern Europeans were made scapegoats. It remains just as
wrong today.

JONATHAN J. MARGOLIS
  New York, Dec. 26, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               51 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 8, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Renewing Border Detentions

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Tex., Feb. 7


In a sharp policy reversal. the Government announced today that it would again
start detaining Central Americans who cross the border illegally and then try to
seek political asylum.

The detention policy was publicly abandoned just two weeks ago when Commissioner
Gene McNary of the immigration service acknowledged that budget restraints were
forcing the agency to release aliens from its detention facility here.

But after a rebel offensive in El Salvador late last year the tide of refugees
has grown, prompting the renewal of the detention policy.

Mr. McNary toured six newly erected tents at a detention center here today and
announced, ''The message we are now sending across Central America and around
the world is, 'Just don't drop in on our doorstep without a just cause and a
provable case of fear of persecution.' ''

The renewed policy, he said, is similar to an initiative begun last Feb. 20 in
which a tent city was erected here for several months to handle an influx of
refugees. The number of detainees grew quickly to reach a maximum of about 3,600
in the spring but began to drop and is now about 1,000.

Border Crossings Increase

The number of Central Americans stopped while crossing the border in this area
of South Texas had hovered around 800 a month through much of the summer and
fall of last year. Then, after the rebel offensive, the number of people
apprehended jumped to 1,203 in December and to 1,806 in January, according to
immigration officals.

The detention center, situated near a rural crossroads about 20 miles northeast
of Brownsville, is now prepared to handle up 2,500 people and the population
could go to 10,000, Mr. McNary said.

Mr. McNary said he hoped to send a message to people seeking asylum that they
face certain detention under conditions that ''won't be like the Ritz Carlton.''

Although he insisted, ''We are here to stay, make no mistake about it,'' the
resources available to carry out the threat appear to be limited.

The Commissioner said about $11 million from the immigration service's budget
had been set aside to finance the new detention effort. He said more emergency
funds would be available later, but he did not specify what they would be.

Mr. McNary said he had not sought approval for the renewed detention policy from
either the White House or the Department of Justice, the service's parent
agency. He also said he had not secured any additional money to support the
program. So far, he said no additional personnel had been sent to South Texas to
carry out the new effort. But he promised that as many as 500 additional border
patrol agents would be available if necessary.

Two weeks ago, the Immigration commissioner said in interviews that budget
restraints had obliged him to order the population of the detention center here
reduced to no more than 668 people. At the beginning of the year, the facility
housed about 1,200 detainees, officials said.

Detention Up to Six Months

In order to meet the budgetary imperative, hundreds of Central Americans, some
of whom had been detained for as long as six months, were suddenly released on
their own recognizance. Many of those newly apprehended were held only a few
days if they could show they had families in the United States.

The policy of releasing detainees ''has stopped as of today,'' Mr. McNary said
at a news conference this afternoon in which he acknowledged that he was
reversing tactics.

Robert Rubin, a lawyer with the San Francisco Lawyers' Committee for Urban
Affairs, a group that has contested the immigration detention policies in
several lawsuits, said, ''It is difficult to understand the sudden flip-flop in
position now because everyone has known for several months that the number of
refugees coming from Central America has been increasing in direct response to
the increasing level of violence in El Salvador.''

Mr. Rubin said that the most recent wave of people seeking asylum began when the
old detention policy was still in effect and well before Mr. McNary ordered the
number of detainees reduced last month.

Mr. Rubin added, ''The I.N.S. needs to appreciate that the message of detention
does not reach people who are fleeing violence.''

When the original detention policy was begun almost a year ago, the immigration
service asserted that the great majority of the refugees were not fleeing
political persecution but were seeking economic opportunities, so that they were
frivolous rather than true candidates for asylum.

Foreigners who enter the country without submitting to inspection by an
immigration officer are subject to detention and possible deportation if they
can not prove they have the right to be the United States.

One-Day Adjudications Promised

In instituting the detention policy the immigration service promised that by
adding hundreds of officials to the staff here it would be able to adjudicate an
asylum claim in one day and then either deport the alien or grant asylum. But
the process of determining whether individuals had a legitimate fear of
persecution bogged down, until many refugees were detained for several months.

Mr. McNary said today that the service would again provide one-day processing,
even though no additional agents were likely to be sent here for several weeks.
Asked to explain how the refugees could be processed so quickly without
additional officers or changes in procedures, Mr. McNary said, ''We are starting
from a good blueprint.''

The immigration service's legal basis for the detention policy has come under
attack in the court. In a ruling last July, Federal District Court Judge William
Wayne Justice found that the frivolity standard was unjustly applied to six
individual refugees. He is now considering a motion that the finding be extended
to all refugees from El Salvador.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: Newly erected tents at detention center in Bayview, Tex., will
be used to house Central Americans apprehended crossing the border. Detention
policy had been abandoned earlier because of budgetary restraints. (Associated
Press); map of Bayview, Tex.

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               52 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 2, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Population in U.S. Grew by 70% in the 80's

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1073 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1


A sustained wave of Asian immigration in the past decade fueled a 70 percent
increase in the Asian population of the United States from 1980 to 1988, said a
report made public today by the Census Bureau.

The bureau reported that the Asian population grew nearly seven times as fast as
the general population and three times as fast as the black population. Asian
Americans numbered about 6.5 million on July 1, 1988, up from 3.8 million eight
years earlier, the report said.

The increase changed the political and social landscape of California, where
more than one-third of those from Asia and the Pacific islands settled. The rise
is largely due to the influx from the Philippines, China, South Korea and India,
said officials of the bureau and of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Asians and Pacific Islanders are in a heterogeneous category, the officials
said. Many are native Americans who trace their descent to China, Korea,
Vietnam, Cambodia, Japan, the Philippines and Micronesia. Some trace their
origins to the Indian subcontinent.

Combining of Statistics

The figures in the census report are extrapolated from data derived from the
1980 census, during which those who participated with the census-takers
classified themselves a white, black, Asian or American Indian and, if
necessary, Hispanic.

These figures were then combined with the Federal Government's annual birth and
death statistics and with immigration and emigration data from the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Census demographers assigned racial categories to the immigrants of the 80's
based on the way earlier immigrants from the same countries identified
themselves in the census. For instance, if 95 percent of the Cambodians called
themselves Asians, 95 percent of subsequent Cambodian immigrants would be
considered Asian. Soviet immigrants, for the purpose of the report, were
considered white.

The Census Bureau, for the purposes of this study, considered all Soviet emigres
white. Under Soviet emigration law, the only ethnic groups allowed to leave the
country in the 1980's were Jews, Armenians and ethnic Germans, all of whom would
have been considered white by the Census Bureau.

Although some individuals will be included in a given category incorrectly, the
overall estimates using this inference are statistically sound, experts said. At
least 80 percent of the Asian immigrants of the past eight years were from
China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, the Philippines, Japan, South
Korea, Micronesia and the subcontinent.

'It's an Unusual Migration'

The 1980's Asians, for the most part, have far higher professional and
educational qualifications than most earlier groups, one expert says.

''It's an unusual migration - I don't think there's been anything like it in our
history,'' said Ronald Takaki, the author of ''Strangers from a Different
Shore,'' a book about Asian immigration published last year by Little, Brown &
Company.

''People in earlier migrations were squeezed out of economies in transition from
agriculture to industry,'' Mr. Takaki said. ''What's happenning today is that,
while you do find accelerated modernization in Korea, India and the Philippines,
it is not fast enough to accommodate a large new class of professional
workers.''

Mr. Takaki, who is also a professor of Asian-American studies at the University
of California at Berkeley, said these immigrants tend to choose the United
States, in part, because its policies favor skilled applicants.

Factor of Reuniting Families

But Michael Hoefer, chief of demographic statistics for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said most immigrants in the 1980's were admitted under
''family reunification'' priorities. Preference was given to applicants with
relatives in the United States.

Annual Asian immigration figures ranged from 268,000 to 281,000 in the latter
part of the 1980's, and the Philippines, with an average of 50,000 immigrants
annually from 1985 through 1989, was the leading source of Asian and Pacific
Island immigrants. The combined annual figures for China, Taiwan and Hong Kong
in the same period averaged more than 40,000 from 1985 to 1989.

Mr. Hoefer said he expected the rates of Asian immigration to remain high. Since
1975, from 40 percent to 45 percent of all immigrants have come from Asian
countries, including Iran and the Middle East.

The Census Bureau report, by a demographer, Frederick W. Hollmann, is the first
to offer statistics on Asians and Pacific Islanders out of a general ''other''
category including American Indians, Aleuts and Eskimos.

The report says that in addition to 6.5 million Asian Americans, there are 30.5
million blacks and 20 million people of Hispanic descent in the total United
States population of 247.6 million.

The increase in the black population, about 1.8 percent a year in the 1980's,
was ''fueled by a higher fertility rate than that of the general population,''
the report said. There was, however, some immigration from Haiti, Jamaica and
African countries like Nigeria in that period, according to Mr. Hollmann.

Immigration and natural growth were equally responsible for the increase in the
Hispanic population, which grew at an average annual rate of about 3.4 percent
annually from 1980 to 1988, according to the census report.

By comparison, the white population of the country has been growing at a rate of
about 0.7 percent annually, a significantly lower rate than any of the
minorities.

Mr. Hollmann said he was not sure how long the numbers of Asians and Pacific
Islanders could continue to grow at the current rate, in part because it will
take larger and larger numbers of new immigrants or a higher fertility rate
simply to maintain the rate.

Concentration in California

More of this country's Asian and Pacific Islander population is centered in
California. The Los Angeles suburb of Monterey Park has become a Chinese
enclave, Filipinos are one of the largest minorities in Daly City, outside San
Francisco. As of 1985, David Ward, a bureau demographer, estimated that more
than a fourth of San Francisco's population was either Asian, Pacific Island or
American Indian descent.

In Manhattan and Queens, New York City, in 1985, about 7 percent of the
population was of Asian, Pacific Islander or American Indian descent; in
Brooklyn and the Bronx the percentage was from 2 percent to 3.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               53 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

New Policy Aids Families of Aliens

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 926 words


Diego Trujillo, an immigrant from Colombia who is a legal resident of the United
States, and his companion of 13 years were thrilled last month when a Federal
immigration policy was changed to try to keep alien families together.

Mr. Trujillo's companion, who refused to disclose her name, heard about the new
family ruling on television and called him where he works at a textile factory
in Ridgefield, N.J. Finally, she and their 9-year-old son could gain legal
status.

But their joy was short lived. Mr. Trujillo's caseworker at Travelers Aid, a
nonprofit agency, told him that the family ruling applied only to children and
spouses of legal aliens. The caseworker, Gloria Aguirre, urged Mr. Trujillo to
marry his companion as soon as possible. As a legal resident, she explained, he
would be able to file a petition for his wife to be granted legal status, a
process expected to take about two years.

''I was never interested in matrimony, but I consider her my spouse of 13
years,'' said Mr. Trujillo, who came here in 1981. The caseworker said the
couple is trying to obtain documents for the woman so they can marry.

'Family Fairness'

The new policy, which went into effect on Feb. 14, applies to the spouses and
children of people like Mr. Trujillo who gained legal status in 1986. These
relatives can ask the immigration authorities for permission to remain in the
United States under a status called voluntary departure. This means that the
alien's application to remain in the country must be renewed each year.

The Federal Immigration Commissioner, Gene McNary, said recently that as many as
1.5 million illegal aliens could be affected by the new policy, called ''family
fairness,'' and intended to allow close family members of legalized immigrants
to remain in the country under certain conditions.

About 3.1 million undocumented aliens have been given temporary residence under
the 1986 immigration law, which applied to undocumented aliens who came to the
United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and to special agricultural workers. But many
of the husbands, wives, children or other relatives of those covered under the
1986 law remain in a limbo of illegal residence. Some officials said that they
would refrain from deporting close family members but that until now there had
been no uniform policy on the matter.

Many families who have lived with the threat of being torn apart by the
immigration law greeted the relaxation in the program enthusiastically. But
others expressed the fear that their family members would be placed on a list of
illegal aliens, subject to deportation at any time.

Meeting in December

Some people have misunderstood the ruling and see it as an extension of the 1986
amnesty program or the equivalent of residence status. Many others are confused
about the eligibility requirements.

Before the change in policy, the problem of divided families was raised by many
immigrant rights groups, a score of whose representatives met with Mr. McNary in
December and told him that hundreds of children and spouses faced deportation.

A case cited was that of Victor Quezada, a 35-year-old hotel employee, who was
handcuffed and removed from his home near Dallas on Sept. 20 and deported to El
Salvador. Left behind were his wife and 6-week-old child, both legal residents,
and three other children, 3, 5 and 8 years old, who are United States citizens.

''It was outrageous!'' protested Vanna Slaughter, program director for Catholic
Charities Immigration Counseling Services in Dallas. The Quezada case is on
appeal in Federal court. While Mr. Quezada waits in El Salvador, his wife works
as a maid and the family receives help from the Roman Catholic Diocese of Dallas
and from foundations.

Right to Work

The new family policy provides for legal status for spouses and unmarried
children under 18 who have lived continuously in the United States since before
the passage of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of Nov. 7, 1986.

Aliens covered under the new policy are granted voluntary departure status and
given the right to work. They become eligible for benefits and eventually for
residence, said a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Duane Austin. He warned that if the family members go on welfare they could be
deported.

Asked about common-law marriages, Mr. Austin said the authorities would ''review
the cases individually to see if they meet the state's requirements on common
law.'' Neither New York nor New Jersey recognizes common-law marriage.

''We are very pleased with a policy that keeps families together,'' said Cecilia
Munoz, of the Washington-based National Council of La Raza, which has pressed
immigration authorities. But she warned that not everyone was eligible and that
applicants who were rejected could be deported.

Issue of Confidentiality

Helene Lauffer, the director of Travelers Aid, which operates an immigration hot
line in New York, expressed concern that the confidentiality provisions that
were part of the original immigration law do not apply under the the family
fairness policy.

Noting many unanswered questions about the policy, Ms. Lauffer asked: ''What
happens if family members are turned down for voluntary departure? Would they be
put in deportation proceedings?''

She advised immigrants not to apply for the new program unless they are
absolutely sure that they are eligible. She suggested that people call the hot
line for further information: (718) 899-1233 and (800) 232-0212 (outside New
York City).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diego Trujillo, a legal resident of the United States from
Colombia, plans to marry his companion so that she can be granted legal status.
Helene Lauffer, left, the director of Travelers Aid, is advising immigrants,
because there is no confidentiality provision, not to apply for the new program
unless they are absolutely sure they are eligible. Gloria Aguirre, a counselor,
is at center. (The New York Times/Neal Boenzi)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               54 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 16, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Study Asks New Safeguards For Refugees Asking Asylum

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 663 words


A new study by a public interest law group says that political considerations in
the United States have undercut the humanitarian aims of the 1980 Refugee Act,
and it calls for greater safeguards for those seeking asylum here.

The study, by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, termed the first decade of
the act ''a period of failure and neglect.''

Amnesty International U.S.A. will issue a report along similar lines next week.
A representative of the human rights organization in Washington said the report
would accuse the United States Government of ''biased practices'' against people
from Guatemala, Haiti and El Salvador, among other countries, who seek asylum
here. The report will say refugees from those countries are often sent back to
face the possibility of imprisonment, torture or death.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said agency officials had not yet read the Lawyers Committee study
and had no comment.

The lawyers urged that Government officials guard against ''improper political
influence and arbitrary decision making'' in granting asylum by strictly
observing the law's definition of a refugee.

That definition, set forth in the 1980 act, says a refugee is someone who has
suffered persecution or who has a ''well-founded fear of persecution on account
of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or
political opinion.''

Used as a Foreign Policy Tool

The law allows the Administration and Congress to set the number of refugees
admitted each year based on ''special humanitarian concerns to the United
States,'' but it does not provide guidelines on what those concerns are.

''The refugee law has been used as an instrument of United States foreign
policy,'' said Arthur Helton, a director of the Lawyers Committee, which is
based in New York. Mr. Helton edited the report, which was formally issued
Wednesday.

The Government, he said, tends to give asylum to people coming from countries
with which it has poor relations, mainly those that have had Communist
governments, but not to those from officially friendly countries.

The researchers reported that in the fiscal year that ended last fall, more than
94 percent of the 95,505 refugees approved for admission came from Communist
countries: Laos, Cambodia, Cuba, Nicaragua, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria,
Hungary, Poland, the Soviet Union, Ethiopia and Afghanistan.

Insufficient Legal Assistance

The report criticizes the law's provisions for legal assistance for refugees.
Only a small percentage of applicants for asylum are represented by lawyers, the
report said, though having a lawyer is a ''virtual necessity.'' The report says
that the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, found that
applicants with lawyers were three times as likely to be granted asylum.

The lawyers' group criticizes other measures that it says are meant to deter
aliens from seeking asylum. Since 1982, the Coast Guard has been authorized to
halt certain vessels and return to their own country any Haitians without proper
residency papers who are found aboard.

Although the agreement establishing that practice specifies that the Government
does not intend to return people who qualify for refugee status, only six people
fleeing Haiti by boat, out of 21,461 intercepted, have been admitted by the
United States, the report says.

The lawyers' group also denounces a 1982 policy under which aliens arriving
without documents and seeking asylum are detained pending evaluation of their
claims. The report says people facing persecution in home countries ''generally
are unable to obtain travel documents.''

As of last October, 7,641 aliens were in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Most of them were Cubans, Nicaraguans, Haitians,
Mexicans, Salvadorans and Afghans, and most of them, except for the Mexicans,
were seeking asylum, the report says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               55 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 19, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and Jobs: When Being Legal Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1700 words


When Newayit Hassen, a refugee of the Ethiopian civil war, applied for a job at
a Brooklyn home-care service, she was turned down because her refugee card did
not have a picture - even though pictures are not required and the cards do not
carry them.

Ms. Hassen's husband, Melesse Weldekidan Agegnehu, could not get work at a
electric appliance company in Manhattan because the name on his Social Security
card did not match the one on his refugee card -even though the problem was a
Social Security typographical error.

Such stories have abounded since Congress passed the 1986 immigration law that
imposed penalties on employers for hiring illegal aliens. More widespread
discrimination is expected to come to light before the end of this month, when
the Federal General Accounting Office makes public its report on how the law has
affected people who are here legally but who are or simply appear to be foreign
born.

A Pattern of Discrimination

Under a provision in the law, Congress could modify or revoke the employer
sanctions if the G.A.O. finds they have caused a pattern of discrimination.

Recent studies across the nation have found thousands of instances of legalized
aliens, foreign-born residents, poltical refugees and even United States
citizens who have been discriminated against because employers misunderstood the
law or wanted to play it safe.

The Marcel Watch Corporation in New York City, for example, faces discrimination
charges for refusing to hire a United States citizen from Puerto Rico. A civil
suit filed against the company by the Department of Justice last year charges
that Rosa Martinez, who had a Social Security card and New York City voter
registration, was refused employment as a watch packer because she could not
produce an alien residence card, or green card.

The Office of Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment
Practices, part of the Justice Department set up by Congress under the 1986
immigration law, has received more than 830 complaints of discrimination from 41
states and the District of Columbia. Of those, 189 cases are still open, said
Andrew Strojny, acting Special Counsel. Ninety-five were settled, with a more
than $250,000 paid out in back pay and $27,100 in civil penalties.

Immigrant rights groups say the actual number of discrimination cases is
probably much higher. Most people are reluctant to file complaints because they
are afraid they will lose their jobs or get into trouble with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

''Employers don't want to have any problems with the Government,'' said
Abdulaziz Z. Kamus, a job developer at the New York City Refugee Employment
Project. Mr. Kamus helped Ms. Hassen obtain nondrivers' identification from the
New York State Department of Motor Vehicles, enabling her to get a job with
another home-care center, this one in Queens. And he helped her husband get work
as kitchen help with Manhattan East Suite Hotels, even though it takes four to
eight weeks to replace a Social Security card.

Documents that prove a person is entitled to legally work in the United States
range from refugee cards to temporary work authorizations to green cards. Even
United States citizens have to show birth certificates or Social Security cards
and some form of identification with a picture.

Many employers will not accept the temporary work permits issued by the
immigration service, said Shirley Lung, who heads the Employer Sanctions Hot
Line at the Center for Immigrants Rights in Manhattan. Even people with green
cards or permanent residence are having trouble, she said, recalling the case of
an Irish woman who lost two secretarial jobs when she told her employers she had
a green card but not citizenship.

'The Position Is Yours'

Arnaldo Lemus, a Guatemalan metal worker, said he was offered a job by Pan
American World Airways, but the offer was revoked when the company found he was
not a permanent resident - even though he was here legally and had been issued a
work permit.

A political science student in Guatemala, Mr. Lemus came to live with his
brother in Nassau County in October 1981, believing it was ''too dangerous'' for
civilian students at home. After a stint in technical school, he worked in a
limousine factory in Southhampton, then with in-flight services at Kennedy
International Airport.

He answered an advertisement for a job as store clerk in aviation supplies with
Pan Am in the summer of 1988. He recalls the interviewer saying: ''The position
is yours. Let me see your green card.''

Mr. Lemus had temporary residence under the 1986 immigration law, which should
have been enough. But he remembers the Pan Am official saying that the company's
policy was not to hire people with temporary residence.

Back Pay and Policy Changes

On May 24, 1989, Mr. Lemus filed a complaint with the Office of Special Counsel.
Later, he said, a lawyer with the agency, Daniel Sutherland, told him that the
airline claimed he had made ''a poor presentation,'' but suggested he call for
another interview. When Mr. Lemus called Pan Am to make an appointment, he said,
he was met with such hostility that he let the matter drop. Now he is back
making parts for a limousine company at Lindenhurst in Suffolk County, and works
as a volunteer at the Central American Refugee Center at Hempstead, L.I., ''to
help others fight discrimination.''

Before Mr. Lemus's case, the Office of Special Counsel had reached a settlement
with Pan Am on a complaint filed by a permanent resident refused job
consideration as a flight attendant. The settlement, announced in March 1988,
required the airline to provide back pay and expenses and stop the policy of
hiring only United States citizens or holders of green cards.

On Mr. Lemus's case, a spokeswoman for Pan Am, Elizabeth Manners, said that in
July 1989, the company submitted the Justice Department a list of temporary
residents who had been hired and that the reason for not hiring Mr. Lemus ''was
not due to the fact that he was a temporary alien resident.''

Mr. Strojny said the Lemus case was dismissed, adding that means that the
department declined to file a complaint before an administrative law judge based
on Mr. Lemus's accusations.

'I Wasn't Looking for a Fight'

Mr. Lemus could have continued to press his complaint on his own, but said: ''I
wasn't looking for a fight. I was looking for a job,''

The Government announced last week a settlement in a similar case involving
USAir. The complaint was filed in July 1989 by a permanent resident, Monique L.
Stennett, a native of Jamaica now living in Florida. Ms. Stennett was denied an
interview for a job as a flight attendant because she did not have a green card.

In the settlement, USAir agreed to compensate Ms. Stennett in cash for the lost
interview; revise its corporate policy manual, which required job applicants to
hold permanent visas, and educate employees on the policy changes. The airline
also agreed to change its employment applications, which had asked whether
applicants were American citizens.

Mr. Strojny said that the settlement shows that ''employers will not be allowed
to refuse to interview temporary residents, refugees, asylees or permanent
residents who do not possess green cards,'' Besides Pan Am and USAir, he said,
the agency has reached similar settlements with American Airlines, Northwest
Airlines and United Airlines.

'A Question of Education'

''It's mainly a question of education,'' said Mr. Strojny. He said the agency
has recently stepped up its campaign ''to educate employers as to their
responsibilities under the Immigration Act.''

But the agency has been widely criticized by human rights groups and others for
failing to fulfill its mission.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, who had pressed for
strict anti-discrimination provisions in the 1986 immigration law, said the
agency ''has not done a good job'' in educating employers or in using the Office
of Special Counsel. He said he believes it is likely that the next G.A.O. report
will show widespread discrimination, but questions whether the White House and
Congress ''will put a real effort into anti-discrimination.''

In anticipation of the G.A.O. report, government and community groups concerned
with immigrants' rights have recently published reports documenting
discrimination.

Got Documentation, Lost Job

In a report issued last month, the New York State Inter-Agency Task Force on
Immigration Affairs concluded that most employers were aware of the penalties
for hiring illegal aliens, but more than half acknowledged they did not know
what documentation was acceptable for hiring legal aliens.

The New York City Commission on Human Rights reported last summer widespread
discrimination against immigrants and people perceived as immigrants. Among the
cases was that of a Puerto Rican man who applied for a job as a mechanic in an
auto-body shop in Queens and was asked for his green card. ''Puerto Ricans are
citizens. They don't have green cards,'' he responded, offering his birth
certificate and driver's license. He was not hired.

In a study last fall, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund and
the American Civil Liberties Union documented a broad range of discriminatory
practices arising from employer sanctions in the law.

They cited the case of Kansas City-born Richard Trujillo, who moved to Los
Angeles and applied for a job as a laborer with a cement company. The company
refused to accept his Social Security card and driver's license and insisted he
provide an immigration agency number. When he said he was a United States
citizen and did not have a number, he was denied the job.

Some employers actually prefer to hire illegal workers because they ''are easily
exploited and are unlikely to complain,'' the report said. The report offered
the example of Edgar Castillo, an undocumented employee at a California shop
making handmade rugs. After Mr. Castillo obtained legal status in 1988, he asked
his employer to start deducting taxes from his pay. Instead, he was fired and
his boss hired another cheaper undocumented worker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arnaldo Lemus, a Guatemalan metal worker, said that a job
offered by Pan American World Airways was revoked when the company found he was
not a permanent resident, even though he has been issued a work permit. At right
was Shirley Lung, who heads Employer Sanctions Hot Line at the Center for
Immigrants Rights in Manhattan (The New York Times/Don Hogan Charles); Newayit
Hassen, second from right, an Ethiopian refugee, had trouble finding work even
with proper immigration documents. She and Muoi Tran, second from left, from
Vietnam, spoke with Huong Luong and Abdulaziz Z. Kamus of New York City Refugee
Employment Project. (The New York Times/Vic DeLucia) (B4)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               56 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 15, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
So Much for Assumptions About Immigrants and Jobs

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words


MOST Americans, it is safe to say, would be worse off without all the immigrants
who iron their shirts, grill their hamburgers and staff their hospitals.

The catch, many suspect, is that immigrants compete with the least-skilled
native-born workers, taking away their jobs or lowering their wages. That is why
organized labor has long fought for tougher controls on immigration - and why
House Democrats want to force employers to pay premium wages to foreign workers
they sponsor under the liberalized immigration rules now being debated in
Congress.

But new research suggests that immigrants are a virtually unmixed blessing. It
shows that recent arrivals - legal and illegal - have had slight impact on the
earnings or employment prospects of American residents. Immigrants, it seems,
are either doing jobs that the American-born do not want, or they are filling
slots in an economy with a nearly insatiable hunger for willing workers.

Comfort to Unions

During the 1980's, legal immigration averaged about 575,000 annually. This
figure is double the rate of the mid-1960's, with the increase coming from poor
countries in Latin America, Asia and the Caribbean. Yet annual immigration
remains well below the million-plus surges after the turn of the century, when
the economy was much smaller.

This comparison, however, is of modest comfort to unions that see immigrants as
direct competitors for Americans' jobs - particularly those at the low end of
the wage scale. Organized labor strongly backed efforts to curb illegal
immigration in the 1980's. And it is behind efforts in the House to link any
increase in legal entry to rules requiring employers to pay immigrant workers at
least 105 percent of ''prevailing wages,'' for which the union scale typically
figures as a floor.

Economists have generally assumed that labor perceived its interests correctly,
says George Borjas, an economist at the University of California at Santa
Barbara and the author of ''Friends or Strangers, The Impact of Immigrants on
the U.S. Economy'' (Basic Books, 1990). Although unskilled immigrants who pick
vegetables or make beds undoubtedly enhance the living standards of middle- and
upper-income Americans, the working poor have more basic concerns than cheap
tomatoes or reliable housekeepers. Bring in, say, 50,000 immigrants from Mexico
eager to work on California farms, and one would expect to see wages fall and
unemployment rise.

Yet a variety of econometric studies have failed to prove this, Professor Borjas
said. Most of the studies draw on comparisons between cities with varying
proportions of immigrants in the labor force. After adjusting for other factors
that would affect relative wages - housing costs, for example - the researchers
discovered that differences in immigrant populations accounted for only trivial
differences in labor-market conditions.

These numbers do not, of course, include estimates of illegal immigration; no
estimates of illegal populations are reliable.

But since illegal immigrants almost certainly congregate in the same cities as
legal immigrants the results of the econometric studies are still valid. Indeed,
the results are all the more dramatic; large populations of illegal immigrants
apparently do not affect wages or employment opportunities.

Closing a Loophole

A 10 percent increase in immigrant labor, Professor Borjas estimated, reduces
the average wage of natives by a mere 0.2 percent. There is no observed effect
whatsoever on overall unemployment rates. Employment opportunities apparently
expand rapidly enough to absorb new arrivals with hardly a blip.

Such ''cross-section'' snapshots comparing labor markets at a single moment do
leave a conceptual loophole wide enough to accommodate the skeptics.

The data, argues Richard Freeman, a labor economist at Harvard University, are
also consistent with the possibility that the continuing flow of immigrants
deters native Americans from moving to where the better jobs are. If, for
example, Mexicans and Chinese immigrants had not arrived to work in Los
Angeles's garment industry, the unemployed Americans now languishing in the
economic backwaters of Mississipi and Louisiana might have made the trek West.

One study just published, however, appears to close this loophole. During the
Mariel boatlift of 1980, some 125,000 Cubans, half of whom had never attended
high school, were dumped in Florida over a six-month period. Yet, ''nothing much
seemed to happen to Miami, even to unskilled native blacks,'' said David Card, a
labor economist at Princeton University. In spite of a 7 percent increase in the
work force, wages rose slightly faster in Miami the following year than in a
control group consisting of four other Sunbelt cities. Unemployment rates among
Miami Cubans did increase from 7.2 to 10.1 percent, but the burden was borne
almost exclusively by the Mariel refugees themselves.

Econometricians are not about to lay to rest every objection to immigration.
Indeed some, like Profesor Borjas, fear that less-skilled, less-educated
immigrants from the Third World will remain cut off from greater American
culture, raising the toll of poverty and racism.

But the conventional economic wisdom pitting American poor against the immigrant
poor is crumbling. So too, perhaps, will the conventional political wisdom
pitting labor against the outsiders.

A CENTURY OF NEWCOMERS
Immigrants in the United States, 1901-87.

            How many arrived...          ...and how the U.S. changed

                        Immigrants       Number of new     Percent of U.S.
                          admitted immigrants admitted     population that
                     (in millions)      per 100 native     is foreign born
                                                births

1901-10                        8.8                 N/A               14.2%
1911-20                        5.7                19.9               13.6
1921-30                        4.1                14.4               12.1
1931-40                         .5                 2.2               10.1
1941-50                        1.0                 3.3                8.2
1951-60                        2.5                 6.2                6.0
1961-70                        3.3                 8.5                5.0
1971-80                        4.5                13.5                5.5
1981-87                        4.1                15.8                6.0


(Source: ''Friends or Strangers'' by George J. Borjas (Basic Books, 1990))

FACES IN THE PICTURE

Average annual legal immigration from selected countries, in thousands.
(Accurate figures on illegal immigration are not available. The best estimates
suggest that illegal immigrants in the United States totalled 3-4 million in
1980.)

                              1951-60    1971-80    1981-86

Total                             250        450       683*

Europe
  Italy                            19         13         3
  Britain                          21         12        14

Asia
  China                             3         20        37
  Korea                             1         27        34
  Philippines                       2         36        46

Americas
  Cuba                              8         28        15
  Dominican Republic                1         15        22
  Mexico                           32         64        67


* For the years 1981-1987

(Source: Census Bureau; ''Friends or Strangers'' by George J. Borjas (Basic
Books, 1990))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants at a Federal office in Los Angeles last year as the
deadline for amnesty approached (Gamma-Liaison/John Barr); Graphics: A Century
of Newcomers; Faces in the Picture

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               57 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Fraud Charges Rise as Many Aliens Seek to Use '88 Rulings

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 962 words


Thousands of aliens who do not have papers to stay in the United States are
trying to take advantage of two openings in the legalization program that
resulted from Federal court rulings. The issue has led to allegations of fraud
and Government foot-dragging.

The aliens' applications are coming in under an extension to the Federal amnesty
program that officially ended May 4, 1988. The amnesty is now available only for
people who were eligible at the deadline but were rejected or who failed to file
for it because they were briefly outside the United States.

In the summer of 1988, two lawsuits brought court orders that permit eligible
aliens to apply for a stay of deportation and for temporary work authorization -
pending the outcome of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's appeals of
rulings on the suits in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, in Los Angeles. #50,000 to 100,000 Apply Duke Austin, a spokesman for
the agency in Washington, said it had received a ''glut'' of applications,
50,000 to 100,000, and had found ''a significant level of fraud'' connected with
them.''A lot of people are trying to get into the program just to get work
authorization,'' he said.

The court order to the immigration agency says aliens need submit only skeleton
applications, without all the usual supporting documents, Mr. Austin said. He
added that the immigration service was holding the applications in abeyance
until the final court decision.

The agency is not trying to subvert the extended program, Mr. Austin said, and
applications that appear valid are still being accepted. Applications are
rejected only when officials detect ''fictional eligibility'' or ''clear
evidence of fraud,'' he said.

The agency's position was supported by Maurice A. Roberts, editor of Interpreter
Releases in Washington, a weekly report on immigration and nationality law. ''I
doubt that there's centrally directed obstruction to the court orders,'' Mr.
Roberts said. He added that he did not doubt that some fraud was connected with
the applications, but he attributed much of the problem to ''bumbling,
inefficient big government.''

A 'Squeeze' Is Charged

But Peter Schey, a member of the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law,
based in Los Angeles, said, ''We're trying to squeeze 100,000 people through the
door and the I.N.S. is trying to squeeze them out.'' Mr. Schey was the
plaintiffs' lawyer in the two lawsuits that brought about the extension, League
of Latin American Citizens v. I.N.S., and Catholic Social Services v.
Thornburgh.  As a result of the league's suit, aliens may file for legal status
if they had resided in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982, but were considered
ineligible because they went abroad and came back with a legal entry document,
thus breaking the required period of continuous illegal residence.

The extension resulting from the Catholic Social Services suit is slightly
different. It applies to everyone whose application for legal status was denied
or who failed to file because they briefly traveled abroad after May 1, 1987,
without the permission of the immigration service.

In a recent letter to Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, Mr. Schey said the
immigration service had failed to comply with the court order on late-amnesty
applications. While some agency offices have obeyed the rulings, he said, many
others were ''willfully circumventing the court orders, illegally rejecting
applications, discouraging eligible aliens from filing applications, refusing to
issue temporary employment authorizations.''

Stays of Ouster and Jobs at Issue

Mr. Schey enclosed copies of scores of complaints received by his human rights
center from immigration lawyers, immigrant rights organizations and applying
aliens. He said most of the complaints are from New York City and New Jersey,
accusing local immigration offices of dragging their feet in granting
temporarily stays of deportation or in authorizing employment. In some cases the
offices even refuse to supply application forms, he said.

Apparently responding to those complaints, Michael T. Lempres, executive
commissioner of the immigration service, issued a memorandum on March 30 saying
all local immigration officers must be made aware of the court orders and grant
temporary employment authorization to eligible applicants, pending settlement of
the judicial appeals.

Joseph Buttigieg, who heads the Office for Immigrant and Refugee Services of New
York Catholic Charities, said many unscrupulous agencies and ''immigration
experts'' were charging exorbitant fees and creating confusion over the
late-filing program. ''Agencies have presented this program as an expansion of
the original legalization program,'' he said, ''and people are so desperate they
let themselves be duped.''

Mr. Buttigieg told of a Mexican couple living in the United States since 1985
who were persuaded by a Bronx lawyer to apply under the extension. The lawyer
charged them more than $6,000, Mr. Buttigieg said, even though they never had a
chance to gain legal status. When they came before the I.N.S. and said they had
immigrated in 1985, their application was automatically rejected.

Queens Group and I.N.S. Are Sued

Peter Hirsch, treasurer of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, has
filed suit in Federal District Court against the organization Hispanos Unidos of
Woodside, Queens. He charges the organization with defrauding the Federal
Government by helping aliens file fraudulent applications for amnesty.

Mr. Hirsch is also suing the immigration service, charging that it accepted late
amnesty applications that were ''patently fraudulent or determinable to be
fraudulent upon minimal scrutiny and investigation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               58 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 10, 1989, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Mexico's South Fights Tide of U.S.-Bound Aliens

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: TAPACHULA, Mexico


At an immigration checkpoint a few miles from the Mexico-Guatemala border, a
group of two dozen Salvadorans, Nicaraguans, Guatemalans and Hondurans waited
forlornly one recent morning as Mexican immigration officials finished their
interrogation and prepared to put them aboard the bus that would deport them.

''This is the fifth time we've nabbed you in less than two weeks,'' one of the
immigration officers said sternly to five Nicaraguan men and women standing by
the side of Highway 200 in the shade of a cottonwood tree. ''Don't you people
ever give up?''

A few miles away, on the banks of the Suchiate River, 60 miles of which forms
the southernmost part of Mexico's border with Guatemala, an even larger group of
Central Americans prepared to enter Mexico illegally. In pairs or families they
boarded rickety rubber-and-wood rafts, which were pulled across the river by
boatmen, and then stepped into Mexico through a hole in the border fence.

As the flow of Central Americans fleeing civil war, political repression and
poverty continues, conditions along Mexico's southern border are rapidly coming
to resemble those that have long prevailed along the Rio Grande and the rest of
the Mexican border with the United States. But here Mexicans do the pursuing,
not the hiding, as they try to stem a human tide they fear will swamp them if
not brought rapidly under control.

Mexican immigration officials say they are now apprehending 300 Central
Americans each day just in this section of their southern border, a figure
double that at the beginning of the year. But they also estimate that for each
illegal alien they catch, at least five slip through and continue the long trek
north to their ultimate destination: the United States.

''We have a river border here, too, and at this time of year the water is so low
that people can simply wade across,'' said Baltazar Mejia Gonzalez, deputy
immigration administrator of the Tapachula sector. ''We are overworked and
undermanned, and there are so many illegal crossing points that the situation
has become nearly impossible.''

Officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service have said
the number of Central Americans entering Texas has dropped dramatically since
new and more rigorous regulations on political asylum for Central Americans went
into effect late in February. If both their figures and those of the Mexican
immigration service are correct, it would mean that thousands of Central
Americans have now entered Mexico and gone underground, biding their time until
the American border again becomes more porous.

The Coyotes Flourish

If anything, the task facing Mexican immigration officials may be even more
daunting than that of their American counterparts. Here, similarities of
language, ethnic stock, culture and dress make it easier for illegal Central
American immigrants to blend in with the local population, which has always used
the illegal river crossings and regards the border, an official in Mexico City
said, ''as something imposed and artificial.''

As on the northern border, there are now flourishing networks of coyotes, or
smugglers of people, who solicit business in the shadow of the main border posts
at Ciudad Hidalgo and Talisman. Residents of villages along the border say the
still of their tropical nights is often broken now by the sound of trucks and
vans pulling up to the edge of the Suchiate and loading their human cargo.

''They come through here all the time, in groups of 15 or 20, mostly
Salvadorans, and always with their coyote,'' said Amadeo Garcia, a musician
whose family home in the village of Metapa is 200 yards from a popular ford
known as La Miel. ''They don't ask for anything - not food, not water. They just
head on their way.'' For Mexican officials, this unending stream of Central
Americans using the country as a ''trampoline'' to the United States has become
a major source of concern.

''This is a social phenomenon that is beyond our ability to control,'' a senior
government official in Mexico City conceded. ''But a country like ours must view
its borders as a strategic point of control and simply cannot permit people to
enter and exit at will, without any respect for our territorial security.''

Those worries are especially pronounced here in Chiapas, Mexico's southernmost
state and one of its poorest, with high unemployment and severe land ownership
problems.

The Central Americans do not appear to be resented as long as they are merely
passing through, but local newspapers and politicians fear they will stay on and
compete for the limited opportunities that are available.

There is no evidence that any of the Central Americans cross into Mexico with
the intention of settling here, but Mexican officials said penniless Central
Americans trying to earn enough money to continue their journey north have taken
jobs as field hands harvesting cacao, bananas and coffee while a few others are
moving into shantytowns on the outskirts of Tapachula and other urban areas.

Mexican immigration officers here ''do not go out rounding up people,'' Mr.
Mejia said. ''But when we receive denunciations from local people, which is not
unusual, we do act on that information.''

Some in Area Benefit

Some powerful local interests, however, have benefited from the flow and do not
appear eager to see it stopped. The labor surplus, for example, has allowed
plantation managers and food processing companies in the area to drive already
low wages down even further.

''Anytime there is an immigration raid the hotel owners holler like crazy
because the Central Americans are filling their rooms,'' a law professor at the
university here said.

Diplomats in Mexico City and Central America said some Mexican police,
immigration and military officials have also benefited from the traffic. They
trace the current surge in Central American immigration through Mexico to
personnel cutbacks and a sudden laxness on the part of local officials that
began last summer as the term of President Miguel de la Madrid was entering its
final months.

Mr. Mejia, who was appointed to his post a month ago, said ''inspections were
suspended for a period'' last year. ''The Central Americans were aware we were
going through a change of government, and they took advantage of that,'' he
added. ''But now things are more under control.''

A Drive Against Corruption

The new Mexican administration, which took office in December, has started an
anti-corruption drive aimed at eliminating immigration, police and customs
people who cooperate with coyotes or rob and abuse the Central American
immigrants they apprehend. In addition, new military and immigration service
checkpoints have been set up along the highway leading away from the border and
inspections of buses, trucks and private cars made obligatory.

But immigration officials here also concede that many coyotes - most of them are
said to be Salvadorans - -simply guide their Central American clients around the
new checkpoints. The suffering in Central America is too great and the lure of
the United States too strong, they and local residents say, to deter the traffic
into Mexico for long.

''This border has become an open field, full not of obstacles, but of everything
that makes passage easy,'' said Fernando Coronel Rivero, who daily watches buses
and trucks loaded with Central Americans pass by his refreshment stand on the
edge of the border highway. ''Those young folks are going to the United States
for the very same reason that Mexicans do: in search of dollars and a little
dignity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Central Americans crossing the Suchiate River into Mexico
(NYT/Larry Rohter); map of Mexico highlighting Tapachula (pg. A5)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               59 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 12, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Refuseniks and Other Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 357 words


The gateway is packed: many more foreigners want admission to the United States
than can be accommodated. Most are immigrants who seek a better life. Some are
refugees fleeing persecution. But suddenly, many are not exactly either. What's
to be done about them?

The Bush Administration proposes to admit 150,000 ''special immigrants'' over
five years to satisfy foreign policy interests. The desire to bring in more
people is admirable. But the Administration's proposal is too narrow.

The U.S. admits about 600,000 immigrants each year, according to region,
relatives and needed skills. An additional 70,000 or so migrants with ''a
well-founded fear of persecution'' win permanent sanctuary in a typical year.
This is no typical year. The allotment for refugees from the Soviet Union is
25,000, but with the relaxation of Soviet emigration policy many more Soviet
Armenians and Jewish ''refuseniks,'' long forbidden to leave, want to come to
America.

To ease the growing backlog of cases and to accommodate those refused admission
as refugees, Attorney General Dick Thornburgh has so far used his discretionary
''parole'' authority for special cases to admit up to 2,000 additional Soviets a
month. But parolees are entitled to no special benefits or to permanent resident
status.

Hence the proposed new ''special immigrants.'' After consultation with Congress,
the President would authorize visas for 30,000 of them each year for five years.
The first beneficiaries would likely be about 19,000 Soviet citizens whose
applications for exit visas are pending in Moscow.

The danger of this sensible proposal is that equally deserving migrants, like
Vietnamese to whom the U.S. has a special obligation, will not muster enough
muscle to secure their share of visas. As many as 90,000 Soviets, mostly Jews,
might register for refugee visas this year. That would overwhelm the current
allotment for refugees and also the proposed special immigrant visas.

Yes, admit many more Soviet migrants, but extend the same generosity to people
from around the world. The country's economy can stand it; the country's sense
of fairness compels it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               60 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 27, 1989, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Faces Floodtide Of Newcomers in 90's

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 202 words


To the Editor:

''Refuseniks and Other Refugees'' (editorial, April 12) understates the size of
immigration and ignores the numbers of asylum seekers abroad.

To the 600,000 or so entering each year as legal migrants must be added 3
million soon to gain permanent residence under the 1986 general and farm worker
amnesties, with several hundred thousand a year likely in the 1990's as
''replenishment'' farm workers. These newcomers will trigger sizable family
migration. Then, illegal immigrants are still settling in numbers that may
exceed 200,000 annually.

Two million await their turn to migrate legally. And 12 million to 14 million
are classed as refugees. Millions more Central Americans may become eligible. A
1988 Department of Justice decision extends asylum eligibility to Chinese
couples expecting a second child, making any number of Chinese women of
childbearing age and their families eligible (editorial, April 19).

The economy can stand it, you say. What of schools, public services and labor
standards in the seven or eight major urban areas where migrants concentrate?

DAVID E. SIMCOX
Washington, April 12, 1989
  The writer is director of the Center for Immigration Studies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               61 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 7, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. and Britain Move To Tighten Air Security

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6


Immigration officials from the United States and Britain are considering
tightening security by conducting immigration checks before passengers board
airplanes, American officials say.

The officials said the idea was just one of several security measures being
worked on by American and British aviation officials. They said Britain and the
United States were expected to announce a mutual agreement that might limit
carrying electronic equipment like radios and computers onto international
flights, either as checked baggage or as carry-on baggage.

The changes are intended to reduce the possibility of terrorist attack.

Hesitation Is Easing

Under the plan being considered by British and American officials, passengers
leaving Britain for the United States would have their passports scrutinized by
American agents using a sophisticated computer system containing intelligence
and other information. Similarly, British immigration officials would work at
American airports.

Bureaucratic hesitation has been evaporating as officials seek ways to tighten
security at airports in the wake of the crash of a Pan American World Airways
jetliner in Scotland in December, the officials said. The jet crashed after a
bomb exploded following takeoff from London for New York, killing 270 people.

Officials from both nations have stressed the importance of reaching a consensus
on making sure electronic gear is not used by terrorists to conceal explosive
devices, the method suspected in the Pan Am bombing.

Paul Channon, the British Transport Minister, and Transportation Secretary
Samuel K. Skinner of the United States met in London last month. They have told
their agencies to develop a plan both nations can agree on, in an effort to spur
other nations to take similar steps. The options being considered run from a
total ban on carrying electronic gear onto planes, which is considered unlikely,
to a series of measures for inspecting the devices and controlling where they
are carried onto the planes.

American officials said they hope that new immigration procedures, if adopted by
Britain and the United States, would spread to other nations.

Aviation Industry Favors Plan

Last month British immigration officials completed a week's test of the new
approach to immigration procedures at Kennedy International Airport in New York
and Douglas International Airport in Charlotte, N.C.

The British authorities have invited the United States to conduct a similar test
in England. American officials plan to accept the offer, and the State
Department has raised the possibility of negotiating a permanent arrangement.

''We are in an encouraging situation with the United Kingdom,'' said Richard E.
Norton, Associate Commissioner for examinations at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, who is a proponent of extending pre-inspection of
passengers to many overseas airports. ''We're sure that everyone is going to
fall in love with it and want to keep it.''

Aviation industry officials, who have long favored the new approach, expressed
support for its adoption by the United States and Britain.

Some of them said they wished the governments would go further and put outbound
passengers through customs checks, including the searching of some baggage,
before planes depart. This is already done on flights to the United States from
Canada. But the Customs Bureau, and foreign governments too, are hesitant to
adopt this measure because customs agents expect to be able to exercise the
power to arrest smugglers carrying contraband. This is hard to arrange on
foreign soil. For the traveler, installing checkpoints at departure airports
would be a convenience, and for governments it could save money, because it
would avoid the long lines that develop when huge planes full of passengers
arrive at once at major airports. But the real reason for moving ahead with the
plan is to enhance security.

'Significant Security Benefits'

''This offers significant security benefits,'' said Robert J. Aaronson,
president of the Air Transport Association. ''The mere fact that passengers,
baggage and travel documents would have to run the gantlet of clearance by
seasoned government experts with immediate access to the entire U.S.
intelligence community's look-out list would make a real contribution to this
part of our war against terrorism.''

The list is one of several computerized data bases that contain intelligence
information about suspected terrorists, including their names and the passports
they are believed to be using.

Mr. Norton said the United States now has new equipment for immigration
officials that can automatically ''read'' passports and scan ''all the Federal
law-enforcement data bases'' for clues that a passport might be stolen or
forged.

''There are people boarding flights that are extreme security risks,'' he said.

With the new system, immigration officials would be able to intercept such
people before they reach departure gates. Security officials said that the
knowledge that such a system was in place would help deter terrorism.

Pre-Clearance Appears Effective

Since 1952 the United States has pre- inspected passengers leaving Canada for
destinations in this country. A similar program has been run on a test basis at
Shannon Airport in Ireland, where it will become permanent, and pre-inspection
is common in the Caribbean islands where many Americans vacation.

There has never been a case of a hijacking, sabotage or other criminal attack on
any flight whose passengers were pre-cleared, officials said.

These programs have the added benefit of speeding the flow of passengers
arriving at airports and saving money for the immigration service, whose
officers are often overburdened in peak hours at busy airports. Despite
successes, the programs have spread slowly.

The reason, aviation officials said, has been reluctance on the part of the
State Department and foreign countries to allow sensitive government operations,
in effect border controls, on each other's territory.

But as governments work on common measures to increase security, the expansion
of pre-inspection is becoming a favored option. West Germany, the Netherlands,
Denmark and Italy are being mentioned as possibly participating in similar
programs soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               62 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 10, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Mogilny Files Application For U.S. Political Asylum

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 32, Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, May 9


Aleksandr Mogilny, who left the Soviet national team in Stockholm last week to
play for the Buffalo Sabres, filed for political asylum today in the United
States.

Gerry Meehan, the Sabres' general manager, said the 20-year-old Mogilny spent
about an hour and a half with Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
here and filed an application.

Mogilny, who is a junior lieutenant in the Soviet Army, has been granted a
temporary 60-day permit to live in the United States while I.N.S. officials
decide on his application, according to Meehan, who said he was ''confident that
we'll receive final approval.''

Meehan said Mogilny ''has received authorization to be employed in the U.S.,''
pending Government action on his asylum petition.

Close Political Scrutiny

The local district director of the I.N.S., Benedict Ferro, will decide on the
application, Meehan said, although ''it does go through certain State Department
channels as well.''

Applicants for political asylum must show that there is ''a possibility of
persecution upon return to his home country,'' according to Meehan, who was a
lawyer specializing in immigration law after playing in the National Hockey
League and before he was named general manager three years ago.

Reports from Moscow indicate that the Soviet Union is planning to charge Mogilny
with deserting the army.

Meehan said the asylum option was chosen because ''certain circumstances exist
in his home country that would make it difficult for him to return.''

Mogilny, speaking through an interpreter, said making the decision to seek
asylum wasn't difficult, even though he probably won't be able to see his family
for many years.

''Having chosen this step, I gave all consideration to such matters,'' he said.
''But you have to live and I have to think about my future.''

Mogilny said he would ''like to go back and visit my parents, but not for long
and I'd like to come back here.''

N.H.L. Must Approve

The N.H.L. must approve Mogilny's contract with the Sabres. ''I'd like to have
an indication of where the league is in the next few days, but that doesn't mean
they have to give a decision,'' Meehan said.

A league spokesman said that John Ziegler, the league president, was still
investigating all aspects of the case.

The Sabres made Mogilny the highest-drafted Soviet player when they chose him in
the fifth round last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               63 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 31, 1989, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Seek to Be Doctors Again

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 30


Tired of working as janitors and cab drivers and automobile mechanics, 400
immigrants who were doctors in Nicaragua are pressing the state of Florida to
change its licensing rules so they can practice medicine in this country.

Their campaign, which is being watched closely by other states with immigrant
physicians, particularly California, has set off a fierce debate in medical
circles. One side argues that Florida's 150,000 Nicaraguan immigrants, many of
them poor, need more doctors; the other side fears that medical standards for
the immigrants and other patients might be dangerously lowered if these doctors
were allowed to practice.

Last week the Florida House of Representatives took the doctors' side; by a vote
of 105 to 4 it passed a measure that would enable them to obtain a license after
a period of training in this country. The State Senate is expected to take up
the issue this week.

Only Fair, Nicaraguans Say

The bill applies mainly to physicians who came here from Nicaragua. The 400
doctors say it is only fair to give them special treatment because 6,000
immigrant Cuban physicians received such treatment from 1961 through 1986. And
they point out that in Nicaragua they had seven years of university courses and
one year of residency. With the extra training that would be required in
Florida, they say, they would be well qualified to practice here.

But the state's Board of Medicine and the Florida Medical Association are not so
sure. They argue that medical training in Nicaragua may not be as good as it was
at the University of Havana and that the extra training in Florida would not
close the gap. And they say it is no longer true, as it was when special
consideration was given to the Cubans, that there are virtually no Hispanic
physicians to treat the Spanish-speaking population.

''We really do not feel there is a need to do this,'' said Dr. Fuad Ashkar, the
chairman of the Florida Board of Medicine, which licenses and disciplines
physicians. ''Any time there is a lowering of the standard, there is a definite
sacrifice of quality. We're looking for trouble.''

''All physicians ought to meet the same criteria,'' said Scottie Frasier, the
director of legislative affairs for the Florida Medical Association. ''It's
unfair to other foreign physicians to make an exception for the Nicaraguans.''

State Senator Ilena Ros-Lehtinen, a Miami Republican who is sponsoring the bill
to help the Nicaraguan doctors, argues that all the medical groups fear is
competition for patients' dollars.

Patients and Role Models

''More and more Central American professionals are going to be coming into this
country,'' she said. ''If these professional organizations and regulatory boards
keep up a hard-nosed attitude and not allow people to practice their
professions, they're going to deny medical help to the very people they want to
serve. And they're going to deny the immigrant community role models who inspire
others to become professionals.''

To be licensed in Florida, a physician educated at a foreign medical school must
pass a special examination, in English, that is given only to foreign graduates.
It is regarded as more rigorous than the one given American medical students,
and fewer than 50 percent pass. Those who pass then serve one year as residents
at a teaching hospital and then take the Federal Licensure Examination, the same
one given to American students.

'It's Just Too Difficult'

Under the proposal being debated, Nicaraguans would not have to take the special
examination for foreign students, which many of the Nicaraguan doctors say they
could not pass.

''It's just too difficult,'' said Pablo Mongalo, 36 years old, who has failed
the foreign-student test twice.

''I study all the time, but it's been four years with no training,'' added Mr.
Mongalo, who oversees a maintenance crew at an office tower here.

If the proposal is adopted, Nicaraguans would not have to take the test for
foreigners. Using state loans, they could enroll in a yearlong course at the
University of Miami Medical School to prepare them for the Federal Licensure
Examination. They would have to take the test in English; once they passed, they
would spend one year working with a physician in a hospital associated with a
medical school.

Residency, Then Public Service

The work in the hospital would not be as extensive or rigorous as a resident's.
Officials at the University of Miami say there are too few residency positions
to accommodate the Nicaraguans.

To win political support for the plan, its backers added one more hurdle before
the Nicaraguans could win a permanent license: they would have to practice for a
year in areas where medical care is deemed insufficient, like migrant farm
workers' camps or prisons.

Supporters say these safeguards would insure that no incompetent physicians are
licensed. They point out that the Nicaraguans would be subject to the same
examination as American students.

'Why Can't They Pass the Exam?'

But opponents argue that the clinical training would be neither adequate nor
well supervised.

''They keep telling us how wonderful the medical training in Nicaragua is,''
said Dr. Ashkar, who himself graduated from a foreign school, in Lebanon, and
passed the special exam for foreign students. ''Well, if the training is so
terrific, why can't they pass the exam?''

There is no guarantee that once the Nicaraguans were licensed, they would limit
their practice to fellow Nicaraguans or the Miami area. Though they would be
unlikely to move to other states, where they might face new testing to get a
license, they could wind up practicing in more affluent parts of Florida,
thereby defeating one of the main reasons for the program.

In interviews, a dozen Nicaraguan physicians said that this was not their intent
and that they were committed to working with their countrymen. Like most
Nicaraguans here, they emigrated within the last decade, fleeing political
oppression or seeking jobs in the United States.

''The majority of Nicaraguans here are poor,'' said Luis Rivas, who was a
physician in Managua for 22 years. An opponent of the Sandinista Government, he
came here two years ago and has been running a cafeteria and an auto body shop.
''They don't have anyone to direct them to the many good programs available.''

''I'd like to concentrate on them,'' the 50-year-old Mr. Rivas said in a mixture
of Spanish and English. ''I never thought doctors should get rich. To deny
Nicaraguans the service of 400 of their physicians, it's not right.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of Dr. Luis Rivas; Dr. Pablo Mongalo (NYT/Susan Greenwood)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               64 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 4, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Soviet Emigre Mob Outgrows Brooklyn, and Fear Spreads

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL with CELESTINE BOHLEN

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3272 words


A criminal underworld of Soviet emigres, some of them skilled in white-collar
crime and hardened by Soviet prison and labor camps, is reaching beyond its base
in Brooklyn, using extortion and violence in its own neighborhoods and engaging
in multimillion-dollar racketeering schemes on an international scale.

The network of Russian-speaking criminals is small and loosely grouped compared
with the hierarchies of traditional American organized crime. But camouflaged
within the country's growing Soviet immigrant communities, the network is fast
outstripping the ability of local and Federal agencies to curb its illegal
schemes, some of which are linked to Mafia crime families, officials of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and other agencies say.

Intelligence reports trace the network to black marketeers and other
professional gangsters, many of whom plied their criminal trade in the Soviet
Union before winning exit visas - or being planted - in the wave of Jewish
emigration.

One mob boss who was said to have spent 10 years in Soviet prisons before
turning up in Brooklyn was known to enforce his threats with an electric cattle
prod he kept in his car. Investigators say he once extorted $15,000 from another
immigrant by threatening to kill the man's daughter on her wedding day. Another
crime kingpin, convicted of credit card fraud and now facing extradition from
West Germany, is reputed to have amassed a fortune of more than $600 million
from bootlegged gasoline in less than a decade after he arrived from Odessa.

As Soviet emigration policies loosen up, greater numbers of Jews, Armenians and
ethnic Germans have been given permission to leave. Since 1975, some 150,000
have come to the United States. About 50,000 have settled in the New York area;
another 15,000 are expected to settle here this year.

Law-enforcement officials say that, while the network comprises no more than a
few hundred active criminals out of all those who arrived, some of these are
highly skilled mob enforcers, forgers and confidence men.

Their criminal activities range from old-fashioned jewelry swindles on 47th
Street to multimillion-dollar schemes involving fake credit cards and bootlegged
gasoline. They have also counterfeited millions of dollars in currency and bank
and corporate checks. In New York City, the Secret Service is planning to
announce soon that it has smashed a Soviet emigre crime ring charged with
counterfeiting $20 million and fleecing American Express of millions more in
bogus travelers checks.

These criminals have also forged antiques, passing some off as products of
Faberge, the famous jewelers of czarist Russia; engineered insurance frauds;
trafficked in illegal drugs, and resorted to assault, torture and murder where
they have found resistance.

Investigators say the crimes typically involve get-rich-quick schemes, often
executed with a contempt for an American criminal justice system that seems
benign compared to the brutalities of life in Soviet labor camps and prisons.
Law-enforcement officials say that the transplanted criminals, reared in a
system where goods are scarce and corruption is a cost of doing business, can
exploit opportunities in the American system - taking advantage of the credit
system and other commercial relationships based on trust.

Hardened Criminals

After Soviet Jails, Little Daunts Them

''They feel we are pussycats,'' said one New York detective monitoring the
network, ''and the United States is one big candy store.''

''The Russians just don't care -they're not afraid of the consequences,'' said
John Good, a retired F.B.I. agent who ran the Abscam case. He now works for a
private security concern, Business Risks International, which has been hired by
victims of some of the schemes.

Despite the obstacles, law-enforcement agencies have made some progress against
the emigre underworld. Besides the Secret Service counterfeiting investigation,
a grand jury in Brooklyn has been hearing evidence in an extensive
anti-racketeering inquiry into Soviet immigrant criminals.

In one unpublicized case under F.B.I. investigation, a Soviet emigre crime ring
infiltrated one of the nation's largest jewelry manufacturers and methodically
stole gold and gems valued at $54 million from the Manhattan company, Jardinay
Inc. In another case, in March, the police in Frankfurt, West Germany, arrested
Marat Balagula (pronounced bala-GOOL-a), a 45-year old Soviet emigre and
suspected gasoline bootlegger who fled the United States in November 1986, while
awaiting sentencing for a major charge-card fraud, and led Interpol on a
five-continent chase.

Execution-Style Murders

The police in Brooklyn also report a wave of violent crime in the
Russian-speaking communities - including murders with all the characteristics of
organized crime executions. One shootout with automatic weapons, which took
place outside a Brooklyn gasoline wholesale company in 1986, leaving one dead,
and two wounded, involved associates of Mr. Balagula - including three
co-conspirators in the credit card scheme. In November 1987, Boris Rubinov, a
30-year-old immigrant, was shot to death in Brooklyn, two months after he was
arrested while loading more than two dozen rifles and other guns into the back
of a car.

The growing economic clout of the emigre crime network is particularly
troublesome, said Laura Brevetti, a Federal prosecutor in Brooklyn who heads a
joint strike force tracking far-flung gasoline tax evasion schemes. ''Money is
power and the fact that they are making so much money illegally makes them
powerful,'' she said.

''The Russians add a zero to anything that anyone else thinks of,'' said Michael
Flanagan, the assistant special agent in charge of the criminal division of the
F.B.I. in New York.

Some relocation officials, though, challenge the specter of a spreading Russian
Mafia as painted by law-enforcement agencies.

''It is a quantum leap to jump to a statement that there is an organized
Mafia,'' said Mark Handelman, executive vice president of the New York
Association for New Americans, a Government-supported Jewish resettlement agency
in Manhattan. Since 1972, he said, the agency had been contacted by the
law-enforcement authorities no more than three or four times about suspected
criminals.

Soviet Compliance

I.N.S. Is Unable To Screen Felons

Although most of the new arrivals and many of the criminals are Jewish,
investigators say, some of those who arrived as Jews in fact forged their
identity papers in order to leave the Soviet Union. Also, investigators said,
some are undoubtedly K.G.B. agents smuggled into the United States among
legitimate immigrants. They also believe that the Soviet Union has deliberately
rid its prisons of some troublemakers by sending them here.

Federal agents say the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in the absence of
cooperation from the Soviet authorities, is in no position to weed out those
with forged documents and criminal pasts among the thousands of immigrants
passing through transit camps outside Rome.

The crime network has centered in the bustling Brighton Beach neighborhood with
its Old World shops and restaurants, but police reports show that criminal
offshoots have also surfaced in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Phoenix,
Chicago, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Milwaukee, Dallas, Miami, Wilmington,
Baltimore, Philadelphia, Boston, and Providence. Canada has been investigating a
Soviet emigre crime network in Toronto with links to Italian organized crime.

Groups are often organized by city of origin - Odessa, Kiev, Leningrad, Moscow -
giving some structure to the otherwise loose-knit network that appears not to be
based on turf. Police say the network is usually subordinate to the deal of the
moment.

In many ways, the Soviets follow the pattern of other ethnic organized-crime
groups in America, preying first on their own and then, when they feel strong
enough to evade the law, spreading out. said James Fox, director of the F.B.I.'s
New York office.

Educated, Technically Skilled

But, unlike other immigrant criminal groups, the Soviets generally arrive
well-educated and highly skilled technically, said Lydia Rosner, a
Russian-speaking assistant professor of sociology at New York City's John Jay
College of Criminal Justice who wrote a 1986 book, ''The Soviet Way of Crime.''

''They are often more skilled than Americans themselves at exploiting the
weaknesses in American society,'' she said. For example, she said, the official
Soviet passion for identity documents has long nurtured a forgery underground
that enables criminals, once here, to assume many identities, thwarting police
efforts to keep track of them. Some also use false documents to collect welfare
benefits and build up credit ratings.

''To them,'' Mrs. Rosner said, ''our police are Mickey Mouse.''

Although United States law bars the deportation of immigrants who can show they
face persecution in their native country, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service says that since 1980 it has returned 101 emigres with criminal records
to the Soviet Union.

Early Swindles

Bags of Gold Rubles Turn Into Potatoes

A recent report circulated among law-enforcement agencies dates criminal
activities back 15 years to Brighton Beach's ''Potato Bag Gang,'' a group of
confidence artists from Odessa who, posing as merchant seamen, picked out other
immigrant ''marks'' and offered to sell them antique gold rubles cheap. A sample
coin was authentic, but when the victims paid thousands of dollars for sackfuls
of them, the bags turned out to be full of potatoes.

In a similar swindle involving a supposedly antique necklace, a Long Island
hardware store owner, who took pity on a couple posing as newly arrived
immigrants, was bilked of his life savings of $70,000.

Considerable information on the network's leaders was provided by an anonymous
informant who in 1983 sent Kenneth P. Walton, then a deputy F.B.I. director in
New York, a manuscript in Russian entitled ''All About Russian Mafia.'' Much of
the information was subsequently corroborated.

Bosses Develop

Extortionist Toting A Cattle Prod

At the time, the informant said, the head of the network was Evsei Agron, a
51-year-old Leningrad-born immigrant, killer, extortionist and thief. With his
bodyguards, his cattle prod and the aura of his Soviet prison time, Mr. Agron
was a fearsome figure as he made his rounds of Brooklyn, with a weekly visit to
the Russian baths in the East Village.

In January 1984, Mr. Agron was shot in the neck outside his apartment house at
100 Ocean Parkway in Park Slope. He survived, telling a Russian-speaking
detective he would ''take care'' of the attacker himself. During his
recuperation, doctors removed old bullets from previous shootings. Three sources
told the police that the shooting was linked to a disputed drug deal.

In May 1985, Mr. Agron was shot to death as he came out of his apartment en
route to the baths. His bodyguard and driver, Boris Nayfeld, who had been
waiting downstairs, left mysteriously after the shooting.

Conflicting Explanations

Informants later told the police that Mr. Agron had been killed for seeking a
cut of criminal profits while withdrawing from active leadership. But other
reports said he had been murdered by the Mafia for poaching on its activities.

Mr. Agron was listed as vice president of a Brooklyn fitness club that had been
the scene of a drug murder in 1982 and that also had distant links to members of
Italian organized crime, including John (Sonny) Franzese, then listed as the
underboss of the Colombo family. Mr. Franzese also joined forces with Soviet
emigres in concocting a highly profitable gasoline tax evasion scheme exposed by
Ms. Brevetti's task force. One of the conspirators, Michael Markowitz, who
assisted the authorities, was shot to death in his Rolls-Royce in Brooklyn in
March.

No sooner was Mr. Agron out of the picture than his bodyguard, Boris Nayfeld,
turned up in the employ of Mr. Balagula, who investigators believe succeeded to
Mr. Agron's authority.

Born in Odessa on Sept. 8, 1943, Mr. Balagula worked in the Soviet Union as a
storekeeper on passenger ships in the Black Sea, according to sources within the
emigre community. He came to the United States on Jan. 13, 1977, with his
parents and became a citizen in 1984.

Informants cited in intelligence reports say he may have connections to Soviet
intelligence, but Mr. Balagula, in an unusual sworn statement to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, flatly denied any contacts with Soviet secret services.
He said he emigrated ''because of anti-Semitism'' and in order to raise his
children ''in a free society.''

Intelligence files say Mr. Balagula was an owner of one or more restaurants in
Brighton Beach. When he fled the country in 1986, Mr. Balagula had been
convicted, along with several other Soviet immigrants - including Boris Nayfeld
and his brother, Benjamin - in a scheme that fabricated charge cards with names
and real account numbers of Merrill Lynch customers. The cards were used to run
up fictitious sales with the complicity of several merchants. No goods changed
hands, but Merrill Lynch ended up liable for up to $300,000 in losses.

Balagula 'The Power Broker'

Wiretaps showed Mr. Balagula to be ''the power broker at the center,''said
Assistant United States Attorney John P. Pucci of the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania.

During the trial in Philadelphia, the bald, paunchy Mr. Balagula rented a suite
at the Hershey Hotel and came to court every day in a stretch limousine.

''You hear all kinds of stories about Mr. Balagula,'' said Ms. Brevetti. One has
Mr. Balagula purchasing an island off South Africa, or land in Senegal. Another
has him masterminding a fleet of supertankers docking all around the world.
Before his arrest in West Germany, he was sighted in Atlantic City and
California, Paraguay, South Africa and Hong Kong.

Hans-Hermann Eckert, a court spokesman in Frankfurt, West Germany, where
extradition proceedings were nearly complete, said rumors had circulated of a
large bribe about to be paid to free Mr. Balagula.

Targets Get Bigger

Jewelry Industry Proves Vulnerable

The Soviet emigre network's criminal schemes have also focused on the jewelry
industry, court records and investigators say. One of the largest thefts
victimized the workshops and offices of Jardinay, a manufacturer of watches and
gold jewelry at 155 Avenue of the Americas at Spring Street.

Founded as a small watch-making company some 20 years ago by a Hungarian family,
the company has grown into a $100 million-a-year business with its own designer
line called Helen Z, which is sold to Bloomingdale's, Saks, Fortunoff, J. C.
Penney, and other retailing giants.

By 1986, investigators said, some 25 emigres had infiltrated the 300 employees
and brazenly diverted or stolen nearly $54 million in gold and diamonds before
the scheme was discovered in an inventory the next year. Only $2 million worth
was ever recovered.

''The place was filled with Russians,'' said one astounded investigator. ''They
were taking out finished product and raw materials and stocking their own
jewelry stores in Staten Island, Long Island and California.''

The jewelry business - where merchants traditionally entrust each other with
millions of dollars in gold and gems on a handshake - is particularly vulnerable
to fraud. In some cases, emigre swindlers have set up phony jewelry exchanges,
where they ostentatiously lock their customers' valuables in a safe. Once the
customer leaves, the safe is emptied through a hidden door at the back.

Sophisticated Forgeries

Bogus Cash, Faberge Eggs

In addition to jewelry, the criminal schemes also include counterfeiting of
currency and bank and corporate checks, Federal agents say.

In its investigation of what it calls a $20 million counterfeiting ring, the
Secret Service is preparing to announce the arrests of up to 20 suspects, said
Richard Ward, the special agent in charge in New York. Almost all of the money
has been recovered, along with many bogus bank checks and nearly $4.5 million in
counterfeit American Express checks that had been cashed around the world, he
said.

The emigre network's members also fabricated bank checks of Manufacturer's
Hanover Trust and Citibank.

Art forgery is also prevalent, investigators and jewelers say. Delicately
bejeweled eggs, made by emigre craftsmen in workshops in Astoria, Queens, have
been passed off as original Faberges and sold to a major auction house,
investigators say.

In May 1987, Itsik Ben-Eli, an emigre who was being sought for questioning in a
homicide in Brighton Beach the month before, was arrested at Kennedy airport
with a woman who had 700 grams of heroin - about 1 1/2 pounds -taped to her
body. Mr. Ben-Eli's fingerprints were later found on the tape. He was also
carrying two freshly minted counterfeit $100 bills. At his sentencing in Federal
court in Brooklyn, a man claiming to represent an Israeli organization urged the
court to let Mr. Ben-Eli serve his sentence in Israel. The judge sentenced him
to five years in Federal prison.

Growing Violence

Desperate Victim Shoots Loan Shark

Much of the violent crime inside Soviet emigre communities can be traced to
protection and loan sharking rackets seen among other immigrant groups. Often,
it is only when these transactions turn violent that they become known to the
authorities. People familiar with the Russian-speaking community say
transplanted ''People's Courts'' exist, where men of influence settle disputes,
some of them brought over from the old country.

One emigre, Valery Zlotnikov, was repeatedly hounded over a debt by another
emigre, Felix Furman, a convicted killer who had managed not only to escape
prison in Colorado but also to jump bail on a gun charge in New York. Mr. Furman
furthermore was acquitted of attempted extortion, even though an exchange of
money took place under the eyes of the police. Last December, in despair, Mr.
Zlotnikov shot Mr. Furman dead on the street in Brighton Beach and turned
himself in.

In another convoluted case, a grocer named Vyacheslav Lyubarsky was strung up
from a ceiling light in his store when he failed to repay $40,000 he lost in a
card game. He later shot one of his tormentors and, with two reputed Mafia
members, went on to stage a faked jewelry robbery in Chicago, in an abortive
attempt to collect a $750,000 insurance claim. ''They even beat up a woman to
add credibility,'' said Detective Peter Grinenko, a Russian-speaking
investigator assigned to Brooklyn District Attorney's squad.

American law-enforcement officials acknowledge they are ill-equipped to deal
with the cultural and language complexities of the Soviet emigre crime problem.
While the F.B.I. has a task force that often deals with these crimes, their
Russian-speaking agents are generally reserved for counterintelligence work. In
New York City, the Police Department's leading intelligence analyst for Soviet
emigre crime, Joel Campanella, retired this month, and associates are ncncerned
that his expertise has been lost.

Two years ago, the police intelligence section lost another expert, a
Russian-speaking police officer who could answer a police hot line number
circulated in Brighton Beach for tips on criminal activity. One day recently,
when a distraught Russian-speaking woman called twice, offering information,
there was no one at the police desk who could understand her.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Evsei Agron, a Leningrad-born immigrant and reputed killer,
extortionist, and thief, who was shot to death as he left his Brooklyn apartment
in 1985; Boris Rubinov, who was shot to death in 1987 in Brooklyn two months
after he was arrested while loading more than two dozen guns into the back of a
car; Benjamin Nayfeld, convicted in 1986 for his part in a scheme to fabricate
charge cards with the names and real account numbers of Merrill Lynch customers;
Boris Nayfeld, Mr. Agron's bodyguard, who began working for Mr. Agron's reported
successor, Marat Balagula, after Mr. Agron was murdered. (pg. 38)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               65 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 25, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Hope and Fear at a Refugee Sanctuary

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 1, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1853 words


TWO years ago, a young Salvadoran woman in her mid-20's left five of her six
children in El Salvador and, unable to get a visa, came to the United States
illegally with her husband in the hopes of making more money.

She found a job in a Long Island factory and worked there for two years. She
never got a vacation and sometimes, she said, she did not get paid for the hours
that she actually worked.

When the woman's husband, who worked at the same factory, was injured on the
job, he received no workers' compensation and was left unemployed.

One night, another young man, also from El Salvador, came out of the factory
where he worked and found that his car had been vandalized. He did not go to the
police, he said, because he was afraid.

He has been unable to get a driver's license or insurance. His fears of being
caught as an undocumented refugee, he said, outweigh his need for help.

Another young mother, barely out of her teens, has several children who need
dental care and medical attention, but she is afraid to go to a government
agency for fear that she will be reported to immigration officials.

These accounts were related by residents of a Wyandanch house for undocumented
Central American refugees. Long Island's only ''declared sanctuary,'' it
currently provides a home for 22 people in 5 families.

They are among the thousands who have come to Long Island without documentation,
primarily by sneaking across the Mexican border into southern Texas. They are
mostly from El Salvador, Honduras, Ecuador, Guatemala and Costa Rica.

There are no official statistics on the number who have settled on Long Island
because the refugees are undocumented, said Joan Johnson, Deputy Commissioner
for Human Services in the Town of Islip.

But estimates based on studies made by Catholic Charities of the Diocese of
Rockville Centre and other church organizations indicate that there are now
80,000 to 100,000 undocumented Central American refugees on Long Island, Ms.
Johnson said. She said the numbers are growing rapidly. ''We're talking about
whole villages coming at a time,'' she said.

The Rev. William Brisotti, a priest from St. Anne's Church in Brentwood, who is
largely responsible for the creation of the Wyandanch home, said:

''By declaring the house a sanctuary, we have made a statement to the Government
that we will protect these people from injustice. It's impossible for them to
get legal status here, and they're not supposed to work, so how are they going
to live?''

The house, known as Casa de la Paz (House of Peace) and designated as a
residence for undocumented Hispanic refugees, was purchased eight years ago for
$11,000 with donated money.

It had been vacant for several years and was just a shell, Father Brisotti said,
adding that all materials and labor for reconstruction also were donated by
private and church groups and individuals.

''The people here have escaped from their countries for a variety of reasons,''
he said. ''Some left because of political dangers, others because of economic
chaos.

''Many have come to Long Island because they have family here and because there
are available jobs. Many come here because they can blend in and survive.''

The refugees settle in communities with large Hispanic populations, said Ken
Lederer, executive director of Carecen, a legal center in Hempstead for Central
American refugees.

In Suffolk County, there are large refugee communities in Brentwood, Bay Shore,
Patchogue, Wyandanch and Huntington Station. In Nassau County, there are
significant numbers of refugees in Hempstead, Freeport, Long Beach, Glen Cove,
Westbury, Great Neck and Port Washington.

Long Island is the fifth or sixth largest center for undocumented Salvadoran
refugees, Mr. Lederer said. ''It is not clear why, but probably because of
traditional migratory patterns,'' he said. ''The majority of Salvadorans on Long
Island come from the same few provinces.''

''Basically, they live an underground existence,'' he said. ''They are exploited
in housing and jobs, and they can't get legal refugee status. The acceptance
rate for political asylum among Salvadoran refugees who apply is about 2
percent.''

The refugees tend to stay away from health clinics and other agencies that could
help them because they fear being reported to Immigration officials, Mr. Lederer
said.

But he noted that, although county-operated clinics in both Nassau and Suffolk
Counties had unwritten policies of treating undocumented refugees without asking
for proof of residence, most refugees were unaware that these services were
available.

Help for undocumented refugees is largely in the hands of churches and religious
communities, Father Brisotti said.

''Most of the refugees are conscientious and industrious, but they are not
skilled and can't find jobs,'' he said. ''They don't speak English and need
someone to translate for them. Most of the English as a second language programs
are offered at night, and that's when many of the refugees work.''

According to Father Brisotti, undocumented refugees on Long Island have found
jobs primarily in farming, landscaping, mechanics, cleaning and factory work.

But the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 has made it more difficult
for these refugees by imposing penalties on employers who knowingly hire illegal
aliens.

Under that act, every employer must complete an employee eligibility
verification form. If it is discovered that an employer has hired an
undocumented refugee, the employer is fined on a graduated scale ranging from
$250 to $10,000, the amount depending on the number of offenses.

Criminal penalties are imposed for regular, repeated or intentional employment
of undocumented refugees. They range from fines up to $3,000 to a possible
prison term of up to six months.

The immigration law has forced the refugee community further and further
underground, Mr. Lederer said.

''They now have to take worse jobs for less pay, and often don't get paid extra
for overtime,'' he said. ''And there's nothing you can do about it.''

The owner of a Suffolk County landscaping company said that employers who hired
undocumented refugees did not believe they would get caught. They hire them off
the books as day workers, he said, adding: ''The undocumented refugees are for
the most part industrious, reliable and very good workers. They have become an
important part of Long Island's economy.''

Because of the severe labor shortage on Long Island, Government rarely
interferes with the refugees who are working illegally, said Arthur Kunz,
director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. Employers who cannot fill
their jobs with local residents are willing to take a chance with undocumented
refugees, he said.

''They may, in fact, be adding to the strength of Long Island by providing
labor,'' Mr. Kunz said. ''Industries might be forced to leave Long Island if
they can't get help. Undocumented refugees may be responsible for their economic
survival.

''Since the undocumented employees are working off the books and not receiving
benefits or medical coverage, they are not taking anything from the government,
and can't be blamed for draining the health of the island.''

Many refugees on the Island work two jobs without any benefit of insurance, said
the Rev. Alfredo Sobalvarro, a priest who runs a Hispanic outreach program, Vida
Cristiana, in Patchogue.

They are often forced to take jobs that imperil their health, he said, because
no one else will hire them. The strains of holding two jobs and the frustrations
of being continually exploited, Father Sobalvarro said, have contributed to
alcoholism within the refugee communities.

''These people are frightened,'' he said. ''They don't know where to go for
emergencies, they don't understand that the police in this country can help
them, and most places that offer services for them don't have bilingual people
on their staff.''

The refugees' access to medical care is limited, said Rosemary Guercia of the
Nassau County Health Department. Increased cases of parasitic disease,
nutritional deficiencies and lack of immunizations have been reported in Nassau,
she said, but there is no documentation to attribute these problems specifically
to the undocumented refugees.

Budget cuts on state and county levels have further threatened some of the
services currently provided for the refugees, said Father Alfredo, adding that
the Martin Luther King Center in Wyandanch is one county center in jeopardy of
being closed.

If approved, a Suffolk County proposal to cut $106 million in county spending
over two years would force a 10 percent cut to contract agencies that provide
health and social services.

''The Legislature knows that cuts must be made,'' said Father Brisotti, ''and
those to be affected first will be the most vulnerable groups.''

Because of a lack of funds, county government cannot legally provide a lot of
services for undocumented individuals, said Evelyn Roth, the Suffolk County
Deputy Executive.

The focus in the county is on the children who will be going to the public
schools, she said.

''It's a difficult situation, and the county has no specific policy on
undocumented refugees,'' Ms. Roth said. ''We help when and where we can, but we
are still bound by law.'' Government is in a difficult position of trying to
balance the needs of undocumented refugees with those of the community, said
Philip Nolan, the assistant Suffolk County Deputy Executive and candidate for
Supervisor of the Town of Islip.

''No one wants to turn their backs on people in need of essential services,'' he
said, ''but with the tax climate of Suffolk County the way it is, it's difficult
to extend more assistance and services than already exist.''

One of the biggest problems with financing is that the refugees are not counted
in the census, said Ms. Johnson of the Town of Islip.

''We have made real efforts to get these people to understand how important it
is to become part of the census and to be counted,'' she said. ''If they're not
counted, we are denied Federal Government funds based on population. They could
help service this population.''

There has been a recent influx of young undocumented female refugees on Long
Island, Ms. Johnson said, and with it a dramatic rise in the number of
pregnancies. Many of these women, she said, believe incorrectly that, should
they have babies in this country, it will automatically make the mothers
citizens. (Any baby born in the United States is automatically a citizen.) ''Our
concern is for the babies being born to these young women, whohave had no
prenatal care,'' Ms. Johnson said.

The Town of Islip recently received a state grant to serve pregnant and
parenting teen-agers. The emphasis is on prenatal care and medical treatment for
their babies.

''Young girls believe that their babies are their ticket to freedom,'' Ms.
Johnson said. ''In about five years, we will have an explosion of
Spanish-speaking children who are illiterate. And if we send the parents back to
their countries, what are we going to do with these children?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the Rev. William Brisotti with residents of the Wyandanch
shelter for Central American refugees (NYT/Michael Shavel)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               66 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DATELINE;
Doctor Is Charged With AIDS Fraud

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


A Hudson County physician concealed a positive AIDS test for an immigrant
seeking residency status in exchange for $3,000, the government charged
yesterday.

The doctor, Monir A. Dawoud, told the unidentified immigrant he would be
deported if medical tests required by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
showed the positive test result, a Federal complaint said.

The complaint was unsealed at a bail hearing for Dr. Monir A. Dawoud, 49 years
old, of Jersey City. U.S. Magistrate Stanley R. Chesler set bail at $50,000 and
freed Mr. Dawoud until the end of business Monday, the deadline for the doctor
to produce backing for the bail.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Kevin McKenna had asked for $500,000 bail. Mr. Dawoud
was charged with making a false statement to the government, and faces up to
five years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted.

Mr. Dawoud's lawyer, Vincent Verdiramo, said his client was innocent and
declined to comment further. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               67 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

3 Haitian Officers to Leave U.S.

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 388 words


Three Haitian Army officers who came to the United States in April after leading
a coup attempt accepted political asylum in Venezuela yesterday. They had been
on a hunger strike for almost a month to protest their detention by Federal
authorities in New York, where they initially sought asylum.

The officers, Lieut. Col. Himmler Rebu, 38 years old; Col. Leonce Qualo, 35, and
Col. Philippe Biamby, 36, were expelled from Haiti to the Dominican Republic
after the coup attempt on April 3 and arrived in the United States two days
later. They had been held in the Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention center in New York City since then while awaiting a decision on their
request for asylum.

The three men, all associated with the dictatorship of Jean-Claude Duvalier
before it was deposed in 1986, began a hunger strike on June 26 to protest what
they referred to as their illegal detention, lawyers and immigration officials
said.

''I have learned the greatest lesson in democracy here,'' Colonel Qualo said in
French with irony. ''And I mean democracy in quotation marks.'' He had
difficulty walking and said he was very weak but intended to refuse food until
he was in Venezuela.

'What I Want Is Freedom'

The three men went to the Venezuelan Consulate at 7 East 51st Street, where they
and Colonel Rebu's wife and four children were given visas and plane tickets for
Caracas. The Consul General, Guillermo Herrera, cited ''human-rights
solidarity'' as Venezuela's reason for granting the asylum.

Lawyers for the three Haitian officers accused the American immigration
authorities of dragging their feet by neither granting nor refusing to give
political asylum. ''My client is being coerced into withdrawing his
application,'' said Colonel Rebu's lawyer, Leonard I. Shapiro. Another lawyer,
Jeffrey Gabel, said Colonel Qualo was held at a psychiatric hospital in Staten
Island during the early stages of the hunger strike. ''What I want is freedom,''
Colonel Qualo said.

A spokesman for the immigration service in New York, Charles Troy, said his
department had been waiting for a final advisory opinion from the State
Department before deciding on asylum. ''If they withdraw their asylum claims,
and say they want to leave momentarily, we will assist them to leave the
country,'' Mr. Troy said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               68 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

NEW 'GREEN CARD' TO TACKLE FRAUD

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 687 words


The ''green card,'' which has not actually been green for years, is taking on a
new color and other characteristics, largely as part of a Government effort to
stem a black market in alien certification.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday that the card, which
the Government issues to aliens who have achieved permanent-resident status,
would be distributed starting immediately in a new, off-pink version printed in
a special ink to help combat forgeries.

The immigration service does not plan to replace the 10 million off-white
''green cards'' currently in circulation, because to do so would be an enormous
task requiring about five years, said Verne Jervis, a service spokesman in
Washington. Rather, the new cards will be phased in, issued to new alien
permanent residents, to permanent residents' children when they reach the age of
14 and to those who have lost their cards.

The alien residence card, introduced as a security measure during World War II,
was originally green, and, although the color has changed several times, the
term ''green card'' has stuck.

The card gives aliens all the rights and privileges of citizens, except that the
aliens do not hold American passports, do not vote and may not leave the country
for more than a year without losing their permanent-resident status.

The card is thus much coveted, and for years immigration experts have reported a
flourishing market in bogus versions of it. The going rate for a forged card is
said to be $5,000 to $10,000, and some aliens have reportedly paid as much as
$20,000. Mr. Jervis said the fraud in cards numbered in the ''tens of
thousands.''

Yesterday, in announcing ''a new era of documentation and identification,''
James L. Buck, the Acting Commissioner of the immigration service, said the new
card, unlike its predecessors, would bear an expiration date of 10 years from
the date of issuance and would also have anti-fraud characteristics of a more
technical nature. Current cards have no expiration date.

Immigration officials hope that a special blend of ink used to create the card's
new pink tinge will make the color difficult to duplicate. As another security
measure, the laminated edge of the card will be embossed with lines raised
slightly above the laminate. Further, what the immigration officials described
as an ''optical variable ink pattern'' will show ''I-551,'' the card's official
form number, when it is tilted.

The new card will measure 3 1/2 by 2 1/8 inches, about the size of earlier
versions. Its face will bear not only an expiration date but also, as with its
predecessors, the photograph, signature and fingerprint of the bearer.

The back will have a pink-to-blue shading on top and a white lower portion that
will bear data that can be read by computer. By early next year, the new system
will enable I.N.S. regional service centers to retrieve a variety of information
on all card-holders that is stored on a data bank at the agency's Immigration
Card Facility in Arlington, Tex., a suburb of Dallas and Fort Worth.

''This will be a significant service to the public,'' Mr. Jervis said,
''speeding up the issuance of residence cards and allowing people to make their
applications for new or lost cards by mail, without having to come into the
I.N.S.''

Weapon Against Impostors

An immigration service memorandum said this system of electronically transferred
information would also be used ''to significantly reduce the issuance of cards
to impostors claiming to have 'lost' their I-551.''

The new cards are being produced at the Immigration Card Facility, which began
the task on Aug. 1 and has the capacity to turn out as many as two million cards
a year. The project will cost $4 million, including the development and
refinement of technology and new equipment, Mr. Jervis said.

Within the next few months, the immigration service also plans to issue
similarly new border-crossing cards. These cards are issued to Mexicans who live
near the United States border and are good for 72-hour periods and a 25-mile
radius. About 200,000 of them are issued annually.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               69 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 12, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Bush Seeks Slight Increase in Number of Refugees

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11


President Bush asked Congress today for a small increase in the number of
refugees who could be admitted to the United States in the coming year, but his
proposed ceiling of 125,000 would exclude tens of thousands of refugees who have
applied to come here.

Mr. Bush proposed no increase in the number of Eastern Europeans, despite the
large number of people leaving countries in that part of the world.

The Administration is requesting money to pay for the admission of only 84,000
refugees in the fiscal year 1990, which begins in three weeks. Mr. Bush did not
say who, if anyone, would pay for transportation and resettlement of the others.


Questioning Bush's Intent

Representative Bruce A. Morrison, chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee
on immigration, said the disparity between the proposed number of refugee
admissions and the Administration's budget request made him wonder if Mr. Bush
was ''really serious'' about admitting 125,000 refugees.

In addition, Mr. Morrison, a Connecticut Democrat, said: ''The world has changed
dramatically in Eastern Europe. But this proposal for refugee admissions
reflects an attitude of business as usual.''

Mr. Bush's plans are set forth in a report titled ''Proposed Refugee Admissions
for Fiscal Year 1990,'' which will be the subject of at least four Congressional
hearings later this week.

The report comes at a time when the number of refugees around the world has
reached a record level of 14 million and many countries have adopted more
restrictive admissions policies.

The Administration said it planned to admit 6,500 refugees from Eastern Europe,
the same number allowed to come this year. A coalition of private voluntary
organizations involved in refugee resettlement work has recommended the
admission of 20,000 Eastern European refugees in the coming year.

The ceiling for Soviet refugee admissions, 43,500 this year, would rise to
50,000 under Mr. Bush's proposal. But the United States Government would pay for
only 40,000, leaving private groups to pay for the rest.

Congress has appropriated money to pay for all 43,500 this year, so the Federal
financial commitment would actually decline in 1990 under the Administration
proposal.

Under the Refugee Act of 1980, the President, in consultation with Congress,
sets an annual limit on the number of refugees who will be admitted to the
United States. The number for the current fiscal year is 116,500.

Administration officials confirmed today that the State Department and the
Justice Department were planning major changes in the review of refugee
applications from Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians. Most Jews and
Pentecostals leaving the Soviet Union have done so on Israeli visas; until
recently, there was no alternative for those wishing to leave. Many traveled to
Vienna and Rome, where their applications were reviewed by American immigration
officers.

Under the Administration plan, the United States would, for the first time, rule
on most Soviet refugee applications in Moscow. It would not review applications
outside Moscow for any people who left the Soviet Union on Israeli visas issued
after a certain date. The date could be as early as Sept. 30.  After that date,
Soviet applicants for Israeli visas would be told that they should apply to the
American Embassy in Moscow if their ultimate destination was the United States.
American officials would assume that Soviet citizens holding Israeli visas
issued after Sept. 30 wanted to go to Israel.

Administration officials said that Soviet refugees waiting in Moscow, Vienna or
Rome with visas issued on or before Sept. 30 could still come to the United
States if they met other requirements.

In its report to Congress, the Administration said the Near East and South Asia
had ''the largest concentrations of refugees and displaced persons in the world:
five million Afghans, four million Palestinians, one million Iranians, nearly
100,000 Iraqis.''

But the Administration proposed to reduce the number of refugees from this
region to 6,500 in 1990. The number this year was 7,000.

The Administration wants to increase admissions of African refugees, to 3,000 in
1990 from 2,000 this year.

For Latin America and the Caribbean, Mr. Bush proposed to keep the refugee
ceiling at its current level, 3,500. Three thousand places are meant for Cuban
political prisoners and their relatives. That leaves 500 places for the
thousands who have fled Nicaragua and El Salvador.

Mr. Bush's plan continues to emphasize the resettlement of Indochinese refugees.
Since 1975, the United States has admitted 857,000 Indochinese, accounting for
two-thirds of all refugees admitted to this country in that period.

The Administration proposes to admit 51,500 refugees from East Asia in the
coming year, up from the 50,000 authorized this year. Twenty-five thousand
Indochinese, mostly Vietnamese and Laotians, would come to the United States
from Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong and other places where they have
found temporary asylum. The other 26,500 would come directly from Vietnam,
including Vietnamese jailed for political offenses because they once worked for
the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               70 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 22, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Adds to Penalties of Resident Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 325 words


To the Editor:

Your article on the new green cards for alien residents (Aug. 24) states that
permanent resident aliens enjoy all the rights and privileges of citizens except
that they do not vote or hold United States passports.

That was the case until Congress passed the Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue
Act of 1988. This act, written essentially to correct anomalies in the Tax
Reform Act of 1986, included a little-publicized provision (Section 2056) that
takes away the automatic marital deduction from a surviving spouse who is not a
United States citizen. This means that surviving spouses must pay estate tax on
the entire estate of the deceased spouse within nine months of his or her death.

An excellent article on this subject by Barry A. Nelson in the May 1989 Trusts &
Estates cites an example in which a United States citizen dies leaving an estate
for his noncitizen wife of $1.4 million. In such an event, his wife, before Nov.
10, 1988, would have enjoyed full use and access to that estate for her
lifetime. Under the new law, she would have to pay $588,000 in taxes, leaving
her with an estate of $812,000, just because she was not a United States
citizen.

This example strikes me as the ultimate abuse of power, striking as it does at a
group of people who do not enjoy a strong Congressional lobby to protest such
action for them or to protect their interests. The vast majority of this group,
my wife and myself included, have lived in the United States sometimes for many
years, paid their taxes, done their share of civic duty and supported all sorts
of charities.

Then, when they are most in need of support, the United States turns its back on
them and makes them into a separate class of taxpayers.

The effect of this law is only to speed collection by the Government of death
duties it will collect on the death of the surviving spouse. What's the hurry?

DENNIS TAYLOR
  Madison, Conn., Aug. 28, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               71 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

South African Draft Resister Fights to Stay in U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 929 words


Craig Demmer, 25 years old, a white South African, is about to spend his fourth
winter in New York, far from friends, family and the warm, sparkling beaches of
his native Durban. What makes him bitter is not just homesickness but the
possibility that he will be forced to return home.

Mr. Demmer, a social worker who lives in Brooklyn, refuses to face induction
into the South African Defense Force, which he contends is an instrument for
enforcing apartheid. But Federal immigration officials have rejected his
application for political asylum, raising the possibility that he may be
deported to South Africa or any other country willing to accept him.

''The army is not there to defend the country,'' Mr. Demmer said in a recent
interview in his lawyer's office. ''The army is mainly to enforce apartheid, or
to protect the South African interests, which means the interests of the
whites.''

The tourist visa he used to enter the country in 1986 has expired, and Mr.
Demmer is subject to deportation. In September, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service rejected his application for political asylum, saying his
evidence was ''insufficient to establish'' a well-founded fear of persecution if
he was to return to South Africa. He is appealing that decision.

Small Group of Whites

As a draft resister, Mr. Demmer is part of a small group of South African whites
facing compulsory military service who have sought asylum abroad. Critics of
United States immigration policy say his case points out an inconsistency toward
refugees in general and South African draft resisters in particular.

The United States officially condemns apartheid and voted for a 1978 resolution
passed by the United Nations General Assembly calling on all member nations to
grant asylum to South African consciencious objectors. But the immigration
service and the State Department have been cool to such claims, say lawyers
active in immigration cases.

''The U.S. seems willing to support arms and trade embargos against South
Africa,'' said Bernard P. Wolfsdorf, a Los Angeles attorney who is a South
African emigre. ''However, when it comes to the actual adjudication of these
cases, I think America's own history with draft resistance confuses the issue.
This is a very sore wound in U.S. history.''

Spokesmen for both the I.N.S. and the State Department declined to discuss Mr.
Demmer's case. But the I.N.S. spokesmen said it is common for asylum claims by
draft evaders to be rejected.

U.S. Finds No Persecution

''It's normally not been held that the mere drafting of an individual is a
violation of his human rights,'' said a spokesman for the I.N.S., Duke Austin.
Every nation, he said, has the right to conscript its citizens for its own army.

All white South African men are subject to two years of active duty. Those
refusing induction into the military on religious grounds may perform six years
of community service. For draft evaders, the government imposes a jail sentence
of six years, a sanction only slightly more severe than the five years imposed
in the United States for the same offense.

In the past, the immigration agency and the State Department have argued that
the similarity in punishments in the two countries means that South Africa's
treatment of draft evaders could not be considered ''persecution.''

A State Department spokesman says applications for political asylum by draft
resisters are currently rejected unless the applicant can prove he would be
given a harsher sentence than that imposed on other draft evaders from the same
country. And the applicant must prove that his punishment is based on his race,
religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political
opinion.

Inconsistency Is Charged

Critics of the immigration policy say, however, that the State Department has
been arbitrarily applying the rules on draft evaders. ''The problem with the
U.S. is that it is not consistent,'' said Arthur C. Helton, director of the
Refugee Project for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. ''They often take a
restrictive view when viewing the application of someone from El Salvador. But
in the case of an Afghan who resists serving in his country's army, they take a
broad view.''

Normally, the State Department issues an advisory opinion to immigration
officials on asylum applications. However, it declined to do so in Mr. Demmer's
case, leaving the decision in the immigration's service's hands.

Experts in the field say that the State Department often refrains from issuing
an opinion in routine asylum cases, but that it rarely avoids unusual cases like
Mr. Demmer's.

''This is not your typical Haitian case or Iranian case,'' said Doris Messiner,
senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''This is an
unusual case. It's very, very surprising that State did not give an opinion.''

A spokesman for the South African embassy in Washington declined to comment on
Mr. Demmer's case.

Meanwhile, Mr. Demmer wonders if he made the right decision to seek asylum in
the United States. He said that after four years of exile, he did not want to go
to Canada or some other country for asylum as a draft resister, because he had
begun putting down roots in New York.

''Quite frankly,'' said Mr. Demmer, ''if someone asked me if I would do this all
over again, my answer would be yes, I would definitely resist. I would still
maintain my opposition to the whole system of South Africa. My political views
remain the same. And I probably would have gone to another country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Craig Demmer, a South African draft resister, conferring with
his lawyer, Lucas Guttentag. (NYT/Neal Boenzi)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               72 of 72 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1989, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

300 Vietnamese Leave Hong Kong for West

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Nov. 28


More than 300 Vietnamese refugees who had waited two years in this British
colony boarded a plane today for their journey to the West.

Most of the Vietnamese will go the the United States after six months in the
Philippines to study English and learn about life in the United States Others
were sent to Sweden and Australia. Government statistics showed that was the
largest one-day resettlement of Vietnamese refugees in seven years. About 12,700
Vietnamese refugees still are waiting in Hong Kong to be resettled in the West.

More than 5,000 are to be resettled in mid-1990, said Alfred Kottek, the
regional representative of the Intergovernmental Committee for Migration who
organized the refugees' transportion.

The refugees in Hong Kong either arrived before June 1988 or were classified as
refugees under a screening policy.

In June 1988, the Government adopted a policy that treats all Vietnamese boat
people as illegal immigrants unless they prove they are fleeing persecution.
Those deemed to be as illegal immigrants face repatriation to their Communist
homeland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company
