
                               1 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

California Immigration Law Is Ruled to Be Partly Illegal

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 10;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 20


A Federal judge today ruled unconstitutional major sections of Proposition 187,
the disputed California ballot initiative that denies education and health
benefits to illegal immigrants.

But the judge, Mariana R. Pfaelzer of United States District Court in Los
Angeles, left standing enough of the measure to cause lingering concern among
civil rights advocates.

Judge Pfaelzer ruled unconstitutional the section of the measure that permits
the state to bar children who are illegal aliens from state-run primary and
secondary schools.

The judge noted that the United States Supreme Court had already held that such
a denial was a breach of individual rights and not in the general interest of
the country.

The judge also held unconstitutional the section of the proposition that
requires teachers and health clinic officials to give immigration authorities
the names of people who they believe have illegally entered the country.

She said that under the Constitution and Federal law, only Federal officials can
get into the business of determining who is and is not legally in the country.

"The state is powerless to enact its own scheme to regulate immigration," Judge
Pfaelzer said in her 71-page ruling.

In one of the most complex parts of her decision, Judge Pfaelzer held that
California officials could deny college aid and nonemergency medical aid to
illegal immigrants -- but only if the Federal Government determined the status
of the immigrants and then decided that it was in the national interest to share
that information with state officials.

Civil rights lawyers involved in the case said they were basically pleased with
the decision. But they noted that Judge Pfaelzer left open the possibility of
further argument on some aspects of the proposition, which sparked a national
debate on immigration control when it was put on the California ballot last year
and passed easily by a 3-to-2 margin.

"It's a plus for us, a complicated plus," said Stephen Yagman, a member of one
of the legal teams that attacked the proposition. "But we always assumed this
would be a long, long fight, probably all the way to the U. S. Supreme Court."

The chief legal defender of the proposition, Attorney General Dan Lungren, was
less upbeat.

"At this point," he said, "we are about even on the scorecard."

Pending further court action, Judge Pfaezler left standing an earlier injunction
that prohibits enforcement of most of the provisions of the proposition.

A petition drive put the proposition onto the ballot last fall, a product of
anger over the high cost of providing schooling and nonemergency health services
to the thousands of illegal immigrants who have slipped into California in
recent years.

As soon as it passed, it was challenged in state and Federal courts by civil
rights organizations.

A decision is still awaited on the case in state court.

But whatever the lower courts decide, legal experts say the ultimate outcome of
the Proposition 187 will almost certainly be decided by the United States
Supreme Court.

Civil rights lawyers had asked Judge Pfaelzer to kill the measure in total,
contending that it was so legally flawed it did not even merit a trial on its
legality.

They argued that it usurped the Federal Government's Constitutional right to
regulate immigration matters and also trampled individual rights protected by
the Constitution.

The measure's supporters and defenders, among them Gov. Pete Wilson, a
Republican, had argued that the measure was designed not to control immigration,
legal or illegal, but rather to make sure that state social services money went
only to immigrants who were legally in California.

California is the most ethnically diverse state in the nation, and more than any
other state it has felt the effects of illegal immigration, mainly from Mexico.

Most immigrants are here legally. But perhaps 1 in 5 is not, and the cost of
providing social services to such a huge illegal population runs into the
billions annually.

Proposition 187 was intended to cut those costs.

But the argument over the measure soon went well beyond the issue of money and
soon spread well beyond California's borders, becoming not just a debate over
illegal aliens but also a debate over diversity and the proper role of
immigration in the coming century in the "nation of immigrants."

Other states, among them Florida and Arizona, have begun to debate how to
control illegal immigration, including the possibility of putting the issue to a
ballot test.

On Capitol Hill, members of the House and the Senate are debating both illegal
and legal immigration numbers, the latter a subject mostly dormant in recent
years.

And at the White House, President Clinton has spoken out several times on the
need to halt the flow of illegal aliens across United States borders and has
dispatched scores of extra border patrol agents to California, Arizona and
Texas.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

April 28-May 4;
Tightening the Border

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 2;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 124 words


The Senate overwhelmingly approved a bill last week that would nearly double the
Border Patrol and would broaden the Government's authority to deny public
benefits to illegal immigrants.

The clamp-down is good politics in vote-rich border states like California,
where public officials complain that illegal immigrants burden their schools,
welfare rolls and emergency services.

The Senate also directed the Immigration and Naturalization Service to start
pilot programs requiring employers to check the legal status of people they want
to hire, making it harder for the 300,000 illegal foreigners to find jobs. But
senators roundly rejected efforts to cut legal immigration, now about 750,000
people a year.   ERIC SCHMITT

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 10, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Hints Initiative on Immigration Is Flawed

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 43;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 9


The Federal judge who is hearing a challenge to an initiative that curtails
public services for illegal immigrants asked lawyers for the state to make
further arguments on whether she should preserve parts of it if she finds other
portions unconstitutional.

Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, who in December blocked the enforcement of most of the
provisions of the initiative, Proposition 187, heard arguments on July 26 on a
request to strike the measure down without a trial.

Judge Pfaelzer asked Attorney General Dan Lungren's office to submit up to 40
pages of written arguments by Oct. 10 on the issue of severability -- whether
all of the initiative must be struck down if important provisions are ruled
unconstitutional.

She did not ask for further written arguments from the plaintiffs, the American
Civil Liberties Union, the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund
and other opponents of Proposition 187. But she scheduled a hearing for Oct. 23
on the severability issue, an indication that she would not rule in the case
before then.

A lawyer for the American Civil LIberties Union, Mark Rosenbaum, said he was
"guardedly encouraged" by the order.

"You typically would not ask the question about severability unless you're
concerned about the unconstitutionality of several to many of the provisions,"
he said. "It's certainly irrelevant if the entire measure is constitutional."

Matt Ross, a spokesman for the Attorney General, said the state was pleased to
be able to submit additional arguments. Both sides discussed the issue in
earlier written and oral arguments in the case.

Proposition 187, approved by 59 percent of the voters in November, would
prohibit public education, social services and nonemergency health care for
illegal immigrants. Public agencies and service providers who encountered
suspected illegal immigrants would have to notify the Federal authorities, and
would have to tell the immigrants to obtain legal status or leave the country.

The ban on public schools for illegal immigrants appears to conflict with a
United States Supreme Court ruling in 1982. The arguments have so far focused on
claims that the health care and social service bans, and the notification and
reporting requirements, violate Federal immigration law.

In her injunction in December, Judge Pfaelzer said Proposition 187 used
immigration categories that differed from those in Federal law and appeared to
sidestep Federal safeguards for immigrants facing deportation.

The judge barred enforcement of all of the measure except the ban on public
higher education, which has been blocked by a San Francisco Superior Court
judge, and minor provisions increasing criminal penalties for making or using
false immigration documents.

Opponents of the proposition argue that the problems cited by Judge Pfaelzer
infect the entire initiative. State lawyers contend that any invalid portions
can be severed.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 27, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Cost of Immigrants Is State's, Court Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 29;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 26


A Federal appeals court has rejected an effort by New York State lawmakers and
county executives to make the Federal Government reimburse the state for the
cost of providing social services to illegal immigrants, officials said today.

Nine Republican state senators, joined by county executives in Nassau, Suffolk
and Rensselaer Counties, have asserted that the Federal Government should bear
the financial burden because it has failed to enforce Federal immigration laws.
A leader of the group, which seeks $33.6 billion for social services provided
since 1988, said the decision, by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, might be
appealed.

The appellate court, upholding a lower Federal court's ruling, said there was no
law or Constitutional clause requiring reimbursement. The court also cited
several cases in which Federal law was allowed to supersede state law, even when
it had an adverse effect on states.

New York is among six states that have sued the Government over immigration
costs. Actions brought by the governors of Florida, California, Arizona, Texas
and New Jersey have also been dismissed in lower courts.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 16, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

More Illegal Immigrants Released Since Melee Shut New Jersey Jail

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 978 words


Almost four months after a New Jersey detention center for illegal immigrants
was closed by a melee, the number of aliens detained at New York area airports
has dropped sharply, largely because immigration officials who have little space
to hold detainees are allowing them to go free if they promise to return for
hearings.

At the same time, the number of people caught trying to enter the country
illegally through the airports has fallen off, leading immigrants' rights
advocates to question the Immigration and Naturalization Service assertion that
detention deters illegal immigration.

Taken together, the critics say, the figures show the failings of a detention
policy that is based more on available jail space than on how best to stop
illegal immigration.

"It definitely causes you to wonder why they are detaining people to begin
with," said Judith Rabinovitz, senior staff counsel with the American Civil
Liberties Union's immigrants rights project. "There hasn't been a rational
detention policy. It is more, if you have the beds you fill them, and if you
don't you don't."

I.N.S. officials at Kennedy and Newark International Airports, which are major
ports of entry for immigrants, legal and illegal, reported a steep decline in
detentions since the June 18 disturbance at the privately run Esmor center in
Elizabeth, N.J. At Kennedy, the number dropped to 57 in the first three months
after the uprising, from 233 in the previous three months. During the same
period, 675 people were released, compared with 611 in the three months before
the Esmor disturbance.

At Newark Airport, the number of detainees dropped to 5 from 58. Thirty-six
people have been released since the disturbance.

Damien DeArmas, the spokesman for the Newark I.N.S. office, said the increasing
number of immigrants being released was a "logical result" of the Elizabeth
melee. "We don't have the space so we are going to be releasing more people,"
Mr. DeArmas said.

While people seeking asylum or arriving without proper documents are being
released pending a hearing, immigration officials said that anyone wanted on
criminal charges or who posed a danger to the United States would not be
released at the airport. "Our standing policy nationwide is that no individual
who poses a threat to society is released," said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for
the agency in Washington.

The June 18 uprising by detainees at the 350-bed Esmor center was a result of
inhumane conditions and delays in immigration hearings, according to an I.N.S.
report on the disturbance. The 315 detainees from the center, as well as people
detained at the airports after the disturbance, have since been sent to jails in
Pennsylvania and Maryland.

I.N.S. officials are trying to cancel a $54 million contract with the company
that ran the center, the Esmor Correctional Services Corporation, and are
seeking other ways to hold detainees, including using closed military bases,
contracting for jail space with local governments or seeking a new private
contractor to replace Esmor.

Mr. Bergeron and other immigration officials disagreed with critics' assertion
that detention has not deterred illegal immigration through New York airports.
He contended that when people know they face detention if caught attempting to
enter the country through international airports, they are much less likely to
risk it.

"Over the long term, we must replace the Elizabeth, N.J., capability if we are
to maintain the level of deterrence," he said.

But the agency's own records show that detention may not be a significant factor
in controlling the number of illegal immigrants seeking entry through New York's
airports. The largest drop in the number of illegal immigrants intercepted was
between 1992 and 1994, before the I.N.S. established a large detention center in
the New York area. During that period, the number of illegal immigrants fell to
4,894 from 8,000.

After the center opened in July 1994, the number of illegal immigrants continued
to fall, but at a much lower rate. Between 1994 and 1995, the number of fell to
to 3,715.

Mr. Bergeron attributed the drop before the center opened to immigrants who,
anticipating the opening, choose to come into the country through other places.
But critics of immigration policy said the numbers showed that detentions had
little effect on the number of people who tried to enter through the airports.

"It suggests that many of the detentions prior to the riot might not have been
necessary," said Jeffrey Heller, an immigration lawyer who is also an adjunct
professor at Seton Hall Law School and a clinical instructor at Brooklyn Law
School.

Mr. Heller said the people who are detained at the airport are primarily those
who arrive without proper travel documents or with incomplete or false
documents. He said they are often fleeing persecution in their home countries
and are unlikely to be dissuaded by the prospect of detention in the United
States.

Stephanie Marks, an immigration lawyer with the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights, said one of her recent clients was a man who fled the Sudan after being
tortured for taking part in a democracy demonstration. She said he was held in
detention for seven months before being granted asylum.

"Why did they keep this man in detention for a such a long time and why did they
put him in detention to begin with?" she asked. "Because there is no rational
policy."

Ms. Rabinovitz, the A.C.L.U. senior counsel, said immigration officials needed
to establish guidelines, rather than use blanket detentions. "Our position all
along has been you should only be detaining people if you need to," Ms.
Rabinovitz said. "Now that they have fewer beds to fill, they are being a little
more selective. I would hope they are now using more established criteria
regarding who is detained."


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

New Tactic Is Tested on Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 25


In the first major sweep of illegal workers in non-border states, Federal
immigration officials have arrested or deported 4,044 illegal immigrants and
replaced about 2,400 of them with legal workers, the authorities said today.

The raids, termed Operation South P.A.W. (Protecting American Workers), focused
on assembly plants, food processing operations, restaurants and construction
sites in six Southeastern states in the last three months.

This first "interior enforcement" effort -- as opposed to those on the nation's
borders -- only skimmed the surface of the problem of illegal immigrant workers
in the region, said Thomas P. Fischer, district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service here. He estimated that the permanent population of
illegal workers in the region approached 100,000; they are drawn to the area by
the same vibrant economy, jobs and relatively low living costs that attract
millions of legal workers every year.

"The illegal-worker problem is no longer a border-state problem only," Mr.
Fischer said. "The border states are becoming pass-through areas for immigrants
being drawn to jobs in other areas."

In the operation, 20 employers were arrested or investigated for "a willful
pattern" of immigration-law violations in their hiring, immigration officials
said, and 10 others were fined up to $15,000 each. I.N.S. officials did not
provide the names of specific businesses today.

After illegal workers were found, the officials helped legal residents get those
jobs, the officials said. The immigration officials got the names of legal
residents looking for work from local employment services. After a raid, they
met with the employer and offered to use those lists to help fill the gaps in
the employer's depleted work force. As a result, some 2,400 legal workers were
hired, Mr. Fischer said.

News of the operation caught many advocates for immigrants and immigration
reform by surprise.  They said such raids were discredited tactics in
immigration enforcement because they created more fear in communities than
deterrence among employers. The Clinton Administration, said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the Immigration Forum, had received high marks for
stepping up border enforcement and the monitoring of employers, which his group
and others contend are more effective tactics.

"After excellent progress and progress greater than the two previous
administrations in immigration enforcement, the Clinton Administration seems to
be resorting to methods that have long been discredited," Mr. Sharry said. "Do
they have a better way of doing this, or are they just trying to get headlines
as we head into an election year?"

But the I.N.S. Commissioner, Doris M. Meissner, defended the effort, saying it
was consistent with efforts to keep illegal workers from crossing the borders
and to find abusive employers and sweatshops using illegal workers. The raids
were not the kind of infamous sweeps in which immigration officials descended
upon immigrant neighborhoods and social events to pick up people randomly,
generating fear, she said. The raids were based on solid investigative leads and
aimed at businesses that appeared to be willfully violating the law, she added.

"This operation was very carefully put together," Ms. Meissner said, "and we
believe that such interior enforcement relieves pressure on the border. We are
saying, 'If we find you at the border, we will send you home, and if we find you
at the workplace in the interior, we will send you home.' "

Of the six states affected, Georgia had the largest number of illegal immigrants
arrested and detained or deported: 1,351. David Poythress, the state's Labor
Commissioner, suggested that Georgia had a high number of illegal workers
because migrant workers from other countries came to the state to plant or pick
crops and then remained. With the bustling economy of the state, and as it
prepares for the 1996 Summer Olympics, many illegal workers have been attracted
to the state to fill jobs that American citizens and other legal residents will
not fill, he said.

The immigration service began its sweeps in June, hitting businesses in Alabama,
Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi and Tennessee. Illegal workers from 45
countries were found, and the operation turned up a range of violations,
officials said.

In a Chinese restaurant in Jackson, Miss., officials found a 13-year-old Mexican
boy working 12 hours a day, seven days a week for $21 a day.  In Atlanta, they
found illegal immigrants working for $15 an hour as skilled carpenters at local
construction sites.

"Now there is an African-American, who didn't have a job, working on that
construction site, making more than $30,000 a year," Mr. Fischer said.

In some places, employers learned of the raids before they were carried out,
officials said. At a assembly plant in west Tennessee, the entire work force of
268 was "out sick" when investigators showed up.

Mr. Fischer said the average wage paid to the illegal workers had been $7 an
hour. When agency officials factored in the illegal workers who they believe
slipped through their net, they projected that they had "redirected to America's
workers" about $55 million in gross salaries. The entire cost of the operation
was $750,000, Mr. Fischer said.

But the operation was criticized by Gail Hoffman, director of an immigrant
assistance program called Bridging The Gap in Atlanta. She said the agency's
depiction of its efforts as saving American jobs had the effect of "demonizing"
immigrants in general.

"It makes them look like terrible people," she said, "and not mothers and
fathers and families, which they are."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton to Ban Contracts to Companies That Hire Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1351 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22


President Clinton is expected to issue an order barring Federal contracts with
companies that illegally hire undocumented foreign workers, Administration
officials said today.

The order is part of a stepped-up effort to stop employers from hiring illegal
immigrants and to open jobs for American citizens.

Congress outlawed the hiring of illegal aliens in 1986, but enforcement has
faded in the last six years. Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization, said in an interview: "This whole area of employer
enforcement has been moribund. There has been a steady decline in effort and
resources directed at the workplace."

Immigration is becoming a volatile issue in the Presidential campaign,
especially in states like California, Florida and Texas, and Mr. Clinton wants
to make sure that Republicans cannot use the issue against him, Administration
officials said. In Los Angeles eight days ago, Senator Bob Dole, the
front-running candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination, criticized
Mr. Clinton's record on immigration, saying the President had not helped
California cope with the costs of illegal immigrants.

The Administration is already using the armed forces and local law-enforcement
agencies to bolster the Border Patrol in Arizona and California. Mexico's
economic problems have increased the pressure for illegal immigration.
Recognizing that many illegal immigrants are lured to this country by jobs,
Congress recently directed the immigration service to double its corps of
workplace investigators.

By issuing an executive order, the President can take action by himself, without
needing Congress to pass comprehensive legislation to overhaul immigration
policy. White House officials say Mr. Clinton will make increased use of such
orders to put his imprint on domestic policy and to show that he has not been
stymied by Republicans in this election year.

As a condition of doing business with the Government, companies promise to obey
Federal immigration and labor laws, but until now, the Government has not had a
systematic way to exclude contractors that violate these laws.

The President's order would require all Federal agencies to inform other units
when companies are found to have hired illegal aliens and cooperate to bar such
companies from doing further work for the Government.

The order is likely to complement the agency's new emphasis on workplace
violations. Mrs. Meissner said the enforcement efforts would focus on industries
with a history of employing illegal workers, like construction, food processing,
hotels, restaurants and agriculture.

Thomas P. Fischer, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Atlanta, said the agency had arrested 34 illegal aliens working on
construction of a new Federal office building there in June.

"That building is just 300 feet from my office," Mr. Fischer said. "The illegal
workers were Guatemalans, Mexicans and some Canadians also. They were working as
carpenters and skilled craftsmen in a union shop. The jobs were later filled by
U.S. citizens for wages up to $15 an hour." The case, he said, began with
complaints from American citizens at the work site.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the immigration service, recalled a
similar case in which Mexicans were illegally working on a project to build
housing for Army families at Fort Polk, La. The Mexicans were "laying concrete
slabs and doing drywall work," Mr. Bergeron said.

The Federal Government buys huge amounts of goods and services, awarding
contracts for roughly $200 billion a year. For example, the General Services
Administration, the central housekeeping and supply agency for the Government,
owns or leases space in more than 7,000 buildings. About 26 million people,
accounting for 20 percent of the civilian labor force, work for Federal
contractors and subcontractors.

President Clinton declared last year that "border deterrence cannot succeed if
the lure of jobs in the United States remains," and he promised to "toughen
work-site enforcement and employer sanctions."

Rahm I. Emanuel, a White House aide who works on immigration policy, said the
paperwork for the new order had not gone to the President but was being
circulated among agencies with an interest in the issue.

Mr. Fischer, the immigration official in Atlanta, said he had tried to persuade
the general services agency to crack down on contractors employing illegal
immigrants. But "the G.S.A. washes its hands of this," he said in an interview.
"They say: 'We just award the contracts. It's up to the contractor or the
subcontractor to fulfill legal obligations as to who can work and who can't
work.' "

Mr. Fischer said the State of Georgia and local government agencies had taken
swift action to correct problems when illegal aliens were found working on their
construction projects. But he said: "No one from the G.S.A. has ever called us
expressing concern or asking, 'How can we make sure this doesn't happen again?'

"Here's someone in the Federal family, someone we work with and know, the
Government's real estate agent. You might think they would have the
professionalism and follow-through and wherewithal to say: 'We're embarrassed.
We don't want this happening again. How can we prevent it?' "

The Government has elaborate rules specifying how contracts shall be awarded.
Under these rules, the Government may disqualify any company found to have
committed an "offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business
honesty."

Ida M. Ustad, Associate Administrator of the General Services Administration,
said "there has been some discussion" of denying contracts to companies found to
have employed illegal foreign workers.

"We wouldn't have any objection to it," Ms. Ustad said, "but there's not any
systematic way to do it. The I.N.S. does not train its people to consider
debarment as an option. As a first step, I.N.S. needs to set up a system to make
referrals to other agencies."

The Presidential order would require agencies to work together.

Ms. Ustad said that if the immigration service knew that a Federal contractor
was violating the immigration law, it could send the information to the agency
that does the most business with that company. Agency officials could then
decide whether to bar the contractor from further dealings with the Government,
and in an extreme case a contract could be terminated.

The Government publishes a monthly list of thousands of companies ineligible for
Federal contracts for various reasons.

Members of Congress from both parties have demanded tougher enforcement of
immigration laws,and under a bill signed by Mr. Clinton on Jan. 6, the budget
for the immigration service will be increased by 24 percent, to $2.6 billion
this year from $2.1 billion in 1995.

Mr. Clinton has already shown that he intends to use the purchasing power of the
Government to advance his policies. Under an executive order issued in March, he
declared that Federal agencies must not do business with companies that hire
permanent replacements for striking workers.

The Chamber of Commerce of the United States filed suit to block it, but Judge
Gladys Kessler of the Federal District Court here rejected the challenge.
Enforcement of Mr. Clinton's order has been held up while the Chamber of
Commerce appeals Judge Kessler's ruling.

The number of employers investigated for possible immigration law violations
declined sharply, to 5,963 last year from 14,706 in 1989. While the amount
collected in fines rose to $6.2 million in 1992 from $4 million in 1989, it fell
to $4.1 million last year.

Congress recently provided $50 million to beef up enforcement of immigration
laws in the workplace, allowing Mrs. Meissner to hire 384 new investigators to
join the 320 already in the field.

In an example of its new efforts, Mrs. Meissner said, the agency last week
arrested 112 illegal aliens in construction, factory and restaurant jobs in
Delaware, the District of Columbia, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West
Virginia.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 14, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Stiffer Punishment For Hiring of Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13


Moving to fulfill his promise to tighten enforcement of immigration laws,
President Clinton signed an executive order today barring Federal contractors
who knowingly hire illegal aliens from obtaining additional Government contracts
for one year.

"American jobs belong to America's legal workers," Mr. Clinton said.  "When it
comes to enforcing our nation's immigration laws, we mean business."

The order also prohibits employers from using the possibility of sanctions as a
reason to discriminate on the basis of ethnic origin. Mr. Clinton instructed
employers to confirm workers' eligibility by reviewing documents of all people
when they are hired, not just those who were born in countries other than the
United States.

The order was part of strategy to strengthen border enforcement and allocate new
money to detain and deport illegal immigrants with criminal records.

The order applies to thousands of Government vendors who now provide such
services as cleaning office buildings, landscaping on military bases and
operating cafeterias in courthouses.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Federal Agency Fines Company a Record $1.5 Million for Hiring Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 998 words


Federal immigration authorities yesterday announced the largest fine ever levied
against a company for hiring illegal immigrants -- $1.5 million against a
Westchester cleaning business -- as part of a national effort to increase
pressure on employers to comply with immigration laws.

A lawyer for the company, Colin Service Systems Inc., based in White Plains,
said it had never knowingly hired illegal workers and would contest the fines.
The company employs 4,200 people in seven states and had income of $67.5 million
in 1994, according to immigration officials.

The company, which provides cleaning and maintenance services, said it dismissed
more than 2,200 of its employees in 1992 after the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service examined the individuals' work documents and notified the
company that it suspected the workers were illegal immigrants.

But Doris Meissner, the agency's commissioner, said the dismissals came only
after the agency cited the company for more than 150 instances, dating to 1990,
of "knowingly hiring illegal aliens and continuing to employ aliens after their
work authorization had expired," and for 2,500 instances of failing to maintain
proper employee records.

In addition to the fines sought by the immigration service, Ms.  Meissner said
prosecutors were seeking a grand jury to bring criminal charges against five of
the company's managers. She did not give any more details on the grand jury
investigation.

The fine brought against the company is part of the Clinton Administration's
strategy to toughen enforcement of a 1986 law that prohibits any person or
company from employing illegal workers. Administration officials say the effort
will help dry up job opportunities for illegal workers here and their desire to
immigrate.

Since last year, the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has
more than doubled the number of inspectors, to 700 nationally and to 60 in New
York, devoted to workplace enforcement. And last month, the agency's New York
office began detaining all workers arrested for being here illegally. Before,
they had been released with an order to return for a deportation hearing, then
often never showed up.

The agency is also clearly seeking to maximize publicity for its enforcement
actions, magnifying their impact. This week, immigration agents arrested dozens
of meat packing workers in Philadelphia, machine operators in Norwalk, Conn.,
and janitors at the State House in Trenton.

Last month, agents swept through restaurants in a suburb of Washington,
arresting 83 people. And the immigration service says it has apprehended 700
illegal garment workers in New York over the last six months.

The agency's offensive comes at a time when Congress is considering stricter
sanctions against employers who hire illegal workers and Presidential candidates
are heatedly debating who has the best plan to slow illegal immigration.

Ms. Meissner acknowledged that 700 inspectors cannot begin to examine the hiring
practices of every employer in the nation. Rather, she said, the agency is
counting on random enforcement in industries that have particularly bad records
of hiring illegal workers to encourage broader compliance with the law.

"Nobody questions that the people here in an illegal status work hard and that
they contribute to the productivity of the economy," she said. But, she added,
their presence in the work force "undermines labor standards and working
conditions of all workers and sets up situations of exploitation of workers."

Since the law on sanctioning employers was adopted in 1986, the agency has had
little money to enforce it, officials said, a situation that is only beginning
to change. And the law has been difficult to enforce, in part because the
Government has had a hard time proving that employers knowingly hired illegal
immigrants.

Some immigration experts say it is hard to predict what impact the new approach
will have, while others say it is more likely to push illegal immigrants further
into the underground economy than deter them from coming to America in the first
place.

The $1.5 million fine announced yesterday is the largest the agency has levied
since 1992, when it fined a fruit packing company in Georgia $1.2 million.

Since 1989, the immigration service has collected less than half the fines it
had notified companies it was seeking. Last year, for example, the agency levied
$10.4 million in fines, and collected $4.1 million.

And officials at Colin Service Systems said that the agency unevenly enforced
actions against its workers. The agency's current policy is to deport illegal
workers. But in 1992, when the company dismissed more than 2,200 workers whom
the agency suspected were illegal, immigration authorities made no attempt to
apprehend them, company officials said.

"The I.N.S. didn't arrest any of them," said Aaron Marcu, a lawyer with Howard,
Darby & Levin, which is representing the company. "They didn't ask for their
addresses."

Immigration officials said their ability to arrest illegal workers was limited
by the lack of detention space. The agency is now trying to expand that
capacity, they said.

Of the 62 workers at Colin that the immigration service arrested from 1991 to
1994, the agency could only say with certainty that one had been deported, said
Mark Thorn, an agency spokesman. Another 53 were placed in deportation
proceedings and eight agreed to voluntarily leave the country.

On Wednesday, immigration agents arrested 24 workers employed by the Trenton
Janitorial Supply Company after the workers arrived for the nightshift at the
New Jersey State House and another state office building. The workers, mostly
Central Americans, were ushered to a conference room and asked to produce work
documentation. Those who did not have it were taken away in handcuffs.

The 10 women were released on their own recognizance. The 14 men were detained
at a facility in Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

In Hiring Aliens, Companies Face Hurdles

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

SECTION: Section 13WC;  Page 10;  Column 3;  Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words


WHEN Colin Service Systems in White Plains was recently fined $1.5 million, the
largest amount ever imposed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
hiring illegal aliens, the whole subject of immigration, legal and illegal, hit
close to home.

Founded in Westchester in 1913, Colin employs 4,000 workers who supply cleaning
services to many large companies in Westchester and to hundreds of other
businesses in eight states. Colin denied that it knowingly employed illegal
aliens. H. Lawrence Colin, president and chief executive officer, said that most
of the violations were the result of unintentional mistakes in completing
complex paperwork.

Difficulties in complying with requirements of the immigration system extend to
all businesses large and small.

Westchester companies, especially those with international business, that rely
on hiring highly skilled legal immigrants, are also struggling with the arcane
and ponderous regulations that pertain to obtaining visas for foreign employees,
said Joseph DeGiuseppe Jr., a partner in the White Plains law firm of Bleakley
Platt & Schmidt. "Few topics stir as much emotion and controversy as restricting
immigration," Mr. DeGiuseppe said, "but bowing down to pressure from special
interest groups, Congress is unable to come to terms with the issue."

Adding that legal immigration is crucial to the economy of the United States,
Mr. DeGiuseppe said, "specially for those engaged in international business, the
need for legal immigration has increased, not decreased."

In his practice, Mr. DeGiuseppe focuses on immigration, labor and employment
law. His work with businesses requires him to deal with the complex rules and
regulations surrounding the entry of legal immigrant workers to the United
States.

"Multinational companies often have to transfer foreign executives to the U.S.
on very short notice for various reasons," Mr. DeGiuseppe said. "When a U.S.
appliance manufacturer, for instance, a company then known as Hamilton Beach
bought Glen Dimplex, a British manufacturer of small appliances, Hamilton Beach
wanted to integrate the key executives from the British company in a corporate
transfer from England to the U.S."

But first, Mr. DeGiuseppe said, the executives needed working visas, which fall
into two categories. "The L-1 is for executives and managers, and the H-1-B is
for professionals such as scientists and engineers," he explained, saying that
quotas and regulations for legal immigrants coming into the United States are
among the most restrictive in the world. "One rule requires that the applicant
has to have at least one year of prior experience with the foreign company in
the same job before a visa is granted."

Under the current system, international businesses are hampered by their
inability to move executives around as needed.

"Just recently, an international transportation company with operations in
Westchester bought a British shipping company and wanted to bring a systems
analyst, a key executive who helped design the program and was familiar with it,
to the U.S. to help the American company integrate the British system with
theirs," Mr. DeGiuseppe said. They needed him on board immediately after they
bought the company."

Mr. DeGiuseppe said that it was not to be. Why? Because the key British
executive did not fit in either the L-1 or the H-1-B category. "Immigration laws
today impose so many artificial restrictions that that particular executive
could get only a temporary visa, which meant he had to commute between
Westchester and London every 60 or 90 days," Mr. DeGiuseppe said.

Unless Congress comes to terms with immigration reform, it will continue to
hinder the ability of American businesses to compete globally, Mr. DeGiuseppe
argued.

"What will happen, it will become virtually impossible to run an international
business from the United States," he said. "The net result? Companies may be
forced to move their headquarters out of the country with a loss of jobs and
business, which I don't think anybody wants."

As for the argument that American jobs are saved by restricting immigration, Mr.
DeGiuseppe disagrees. "The reality is that when highly skilled technical workers
are needed we don't have them because we are not training enough of our own.
High-technology companies need a skilled work force if they are to survive and
prosper, and they are not finding it domestically."

Other countries, like Britain, Canada, Australia and India, and the British
colony Hong Kong are producing the best trained high-tech people in the world,
Mr. DeGiuseppe said. "Frankly, without the ability to get these workers from
abroad, many U.S. companies would be forced to move to other countries," he
said. That is the untold story of immigration, Mr. DeGiuseppe said.

"It is not simply a matter of protecting American workers from losing unskilled
jobs to illegal aliens that should obsess us," he said. "Rather it's a case of
giving U.S. companies who need high-tech employees an immigration policy that is
flexible enough for them to continue to do business at home."

Citing the experience of another one of his clients, a high-technology company,
Mr. DeGiuseppe said: "They needed computer analysts on staff so they took all
the steps companies normally take to find employees. They placed ads in
newspapers and journals. They contacted employment agencies. They spent months
on it, but in the end they did not get one application from an American
citizen."

Yet, immigration is still viewed by most Americans in emotional terms. "They see
hordes of illegal aliens cross the Mexican border in the dead of night to steal
factory jobs from Americans," Mr. DeGiuseppe said. "And the truth is that the
issue of illegal immigration impacts on every corporation and business in the
U.S. Every employer has to verify the legality of every employee he hires, which
means businesses have the unfair burden of documenting employment eligibility
without being able to verify the authenticity of the employee's I.D."

One small, family-owned business in White Plains thought it was doing everything
right, Mr. DeGiuseppe said, but a mistake on the forms, cost the business $7,000
in fines, and some of their employees were arrested.

The problem is compounded by the fact that documents are frequently forged or
counterfeited.

"What we really need is an employee-verification system that works," Mr.
DeGiuseppe said. "A three-year pilot program, a voluntary telephone procedure,
is now under way in some states; New York is one of them."

Mr. Colin endorses the idea of a national computerized registry "to give
employers a valuable new tool for compliance." He added: "Simplifying and
streamlining the verification process would allow us to focus on what we do
best: cleaning and maintaining buildings."

Explaining that the registry would incorporate information from the Social
Security Administration and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Mr.
Colin said: "Then employers could check that the Social Security number provided
by the applicant was valid and had been issued to someone authorized to work in
this country.

"It's a simpler, more fraud-resistant system, one that would reduce the time,
the resources and the paperwork that businesses are now spending time on
complying with immigration laws. All an employer would have to do is ask workers
one question, 'What is your Social Security number?' "

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph DeGiuseppe Jr., an immigration law expert in the White
Plains firm of Bleakley Platt & Schmidt, in his office. (Susan Farley for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 3, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

RAID AND RELEASE -- A special report.;
A Tattered Crackdown on Illegal Workers

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2263 words


Walkie-talkies in hand, Federal immigration agents guard possible lines of
escape from the garment factories while another contingent spreads through the
rows of sewing machines, handcuffing workers believed to be in the country
illegally and leading them to government vans.

The raids have inspired a stream of press releases heralding the number of
factories hit (86) and workers caught (1,228), a running body count in the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service's newly declared war on
illegal employment in New York City's garment industry. The crackdown is a test
case of a new strategy the agency hopes to use nationally.

But the press releases do not describe what immigration officials, economists
and workers themselves say happens after the raids. Most of the workers are
released the same day and are usually not deported. Some go back to the very
factories where they were picked up. Many move to other factories and
sweatshops, or to industries in which there is no crackdown.

The immigration agents generally do not return to the sewing rooms to see if
owners have replaced arrested workers with legal hires until after employers
have paid their fines, which can take more than a year.

Immigration officials say it is too soon to determine whether their
eight-month-old strategy for the garment industry is working. "If we work in an
industry long enough and impose enough serious fines, we'll get people's
attention and that will provide deterrence," said T. Alexander Aleinikoff,
executive assistant commissioner at the immigration service. "That's what we're
testing, and we'll see after a year of operation."

But many immigration and garment industry experts say that so far the New York
City pilot program appears to be an expensive and futile election-year exercise
that is having little effect on employment of illegal immigrants.

"What I see them doing it for is the headlines," said Irwin Kahn, a professor of
manufacturing, management and marketing at the Fashion Institute of Technology
and chairman of the New York State Garment Industry Advisory Committee. "I don't
see them doing it to really accomplish anything."

Despite the threat of heavy additional fines, even some of the small number of
factory operators unlucky enough to have been raided in a city with more than
6,000 factories do in fact just hire more illegal workers, who willingly toil
for low wages, enabling the businesses to compete with foreign companies that
often pay less than 50 cents an hour.

"I can't hire all legal people," said Jane Lee, whose factory, Jane Productions
at 341 West 38th Street, was raided in December. "Who wants to work in this
dirty job? American people? No."

Ms. Lee, who said she sold her business after the raid but still works there as
a manager, called over a prized worker, Felipe Garcia, who said he was a Mexican
immigrant here illegally who cuts fabric.

Mr. Garcia said that American workers want sick days and health benefits. "For
this work there's a lot of competition," he said. "No boss is going to pay."

"Whatever work there is, I'll do it," said Mr. Garcia, who sends part of his
wages home to his parents. "They depend on me."

Federal Offensive
New Enforcement Of an Old Law

The crackdown on illegal employment in the garment industry is part of a
high-profile offensive by the Clinton Administration to enforce the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986, which most researchers agree has never been
seriously applied. It prohibits employers from knowingly hiring undocumented
workers and authorizes fines of up to $2,000 for each illegal hire.

Last month, the Administration announced the expansion of a pilot program in
California in which employers volunteer to verify the legal status of job
seekers through a computerized data system.

The pilot program in New York's garment industry began in October. The
immigration agency's theory is that by using virtually all its enforcement
resources on a single industry known to rely heavily on illegal labor it can
help dry up jobs that are the magnet for illegal immigrants.

For the pilot program, the immigration service has increased the number of
agents in New York to 45 from 17. The agency has $63.5 million in new funds that
will pay to more than double the number of agents in the country, to 700, still
a small number to police the millions of businesses in the country for illegal
workers.

"We will measure success by jobs freed up for American workers, by wages freed
up," Mr. Aleinikoff said.

The New York office does not verify that the employers have legalized their work
forces until after it collects fines from them. So far, the agency has issued
notices of $215,390 in fines on 18 companies and expects to fine dozens more.
Typically, less than half the fines are collected, in part because they are
negotiated down.

Are legal workers filling the jobs of those who have been arrested? "I don't
know," said John J. Byrnes, chief of the employer sanctions unit in the
immigration service's New York office. "We can sit around and guess all day."

Most of the raids so far have taken place in the midtown Manhattan garment
district. Illegal workers and employers in Chinatown, which has the largest
concentration of garment factories, remain untouched. Professor Kahn said the
reason is simple: the agents do not speak Chinese.

Mr. Byrnes acknowledged that with only one Chinese-speaking agent, operating in
Chinatown is more difficult, though he said it could be done with translators.
He and other authorities also said that because of the large stream of legal
Chinese immigrants, Chinese garment workers often have proper documents.

Critics of the program say it is driving illegal workers further underground,
making them more vulnerable to unscrupulous employers and more willing to accept
even lower wages. Paradoxically, they say, that undermines the Administration's
own goals by making it even tougher for legitimate businesses to compete.

"It's a gift to the employer," said Muzaffar Chishti, director of the
immigration project at the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile
Employees, which represents about 40,000 garment workers in the city. "It looks
like we're cracking down on them. But we have terrorized the immigrant
community. The employer can pay anything he wants. The workers are afraid to
complain. They're afraid to be picked up. They're essentially a hostage work
force."

And the way the immigration laws are enforced makes illegal workers especially
fearful to report substandard wages and dangerous working conditions, experts
say. An agreement between the Federal labor and immigration agencies requires
labor inspectors to report immigration law violations to the I.N.S., which
workers fear could lead to their arrest.

It is for that reason that the New York State Department of Labor does not
collaborate with Federal immigration authorities. "We want illegals to complain
if they're not paid," said Thomas Glubiak, who heads the Apparel Industry Task
Force at the State Labor Department. If they are afraid to come forward, for
fear of being deported, employers can pay them even less, he said. "That makes
it even tougher for American workers."

Mr. Aleinikoff of the Immigration and Naturalization Service pointed to that
issue as a possible area of contention between the Federal labor and immigration
agencies. He said the agreement between them may be modified to address that
concern. Still, he said, "The immigration service cannot ignore its mandate to
remove illegal workers."

Illegal workers looking for jobs in the garment industry now say they are
feeling the pinch caused by the immigration service's crackdown. Maria Aguirre,
an illegal worker who labored in the sweatshop that produced blouses under a
clothing line named for the talk show host Kathie Lee Gifford, said as she stood
at a protest last week outside the factory that she has had a hard time finding
a decent job since she was laid off.

"All week, I've been looking for work," she said. "Everywhere they ask for
papers, papers, papers. Without papers, they pay $3, $2.75 an hour."

Unenforceable Law
Arrested Workers Are Soon Back

The rhythmic beat of salsa and the buzz-saw hum of sewing machines drifted into
the hallway where 13 arrested workers lined up politely like moviegoers waiting
to buy tickets.

The workers who moments before had been making little A-line minidresses with a
swirly 60's print, showed no sign of fear. Middle-aged women were neatly attired
for the workday, puffy feet stuffed into low-heeled pumps. One stylish,
dramatically made up young woman, her long dark hair in a ponytail, smiled
reassuringly at an older woman whose hand was cuffed to her own.

"Senores y senoritas, por favor," said an agent, directing the workers to an
exit.

The workers, all Spanish-speaking immigrants employed by Monami Fashion at 555
Eighth Avenue in Manhattan, were taken to an immigration office for
"processing."

More than 80 percent of all the workers arrested since October are from Mexico
or Ecuador. Most of them have been released simply because there is a shortage
of detention space. More than 90 percent of illegal immigrants who are ordered
deported while not in custody fail to show up to be sent back to their
homelands, immigration officials say.

Only in the month of March did the New York office have enough detention space
to hold the workers arrested in the garment industry project, Mr. Byrnes said.
For the first eight months of the project, only 270 of the 1,083 arrested
workers were detained, he said.

Mr. Aleinikoff, in the immigration service's Washington headquarters, said that
judges probably would have eventually ordered the workers released on bond.

"Yes, removal of aliens is crucial," he said. "But the penalties on employers
have a more important deterrent function."

By day's end, all but one of the 13 Monami workers had been released on their
own recognizance, pending a hearing several months hence. The 13th, who had
already been ordered deported, was detained.

Employees like the dozen released from Monami Fashion are not supposed to work
while their cases are pending. But asked where some of them could be
interviewed, immigration officials themselves suggested a reporter return to the
factory where they had been apprehended.

Sure enough, the morning after the raid, the young woman in the ponytail was
back at her sewing machine under a dangling fluorescent light. Asked why she had
been put back to work, a manager at the factory said, "I cannot answer that
question."

Owners' Alternative
Acting Illegally Or Going Under

Some employers in the garment district said they hire illegal workers, despite
the threat of fines, because it is the only way they can make a profit. If they
get hit with heavy fines, they say, they will just go out of business.

While those explanations are clearly self-serving, experts say that surviving in
New York's garment industry has gotten tougher. Under pressure from overseas
competitors, the industry has been in decline for decades, and that slide has
accelerated. From 1990 to 1996, the number of apparel manufacturing jobs in
factories registered with the state fell 22.5 percent, to 73,300.

"The retailers squeeze the manufacturers, the manufacturers squeeze the
contractors and the contractors squeeze the workers," said Emanuel Tobier, a
professor of economics and planning at the Wagner School of Public Affairs at
New York University.

In Jae Yoo, the manager of a factory on West 38th Street where 20 workers were
arrested in February, said garment shops in Indonesia, India or Taiwan could
make virtually the same clothes, but that "the worker is cheap there." If a firm
like his complains about the low prices manufacturers offer for a job, he said,
"They go overseas."

In a spot check of the 15 factories that the immigration service had raided on
West 38th Street through April, 5 could not be found at the addresses listed,
and were apparently no longer in business, at least not at the original sites.

Two employers said they had become more careful to check workers' documents and
that they now try to employ only the legal ones. Chon Song of Sense 21 Fashion
at 325 West 38th Street said she sees it as her duty to abide by the law. "I'm
not saying I'm perfect, but I'm trying," she said.

Steven Lee has opened a new business in the factory once operated by Spring and
Soon Fashion at 262 West 38th Street, which closed after the I.N.S. raid. Mr.
Lee, wearing the Ralph Lauren polo shirt that seems to be de rigueur among
factory operators, said he is a small businessman caught between immigration
laws and larger economic forces.

After working for six years as a manager in a garment factory, he said, he
scraped together the money to start his own factory with a partner. "This is the
only business I can start with $50,000," he said. "If I want a grocery store,
how much do I need? $200,000."

If immigration agents raid his factory, he said, he is finished. "If I have 15
illegals and the fine is $2,000 per person, I'd have to shut my factory."

On the other hand, he said, "I have to make a profit. I don't want to lose money
all year round. I have to cut the labor costs down. The manufacturers are
cutting the prices down because business is getting worse.

"Let me tell you honestly. I think I have to hire illegal people because I don't
want to pay $7, $8 for work that illegal people can do for $4.25. That's
honest."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a raid at Monami Fashion in Manhattan, 13 immigrants
suspected of working illegally were arrested. (pg. A1); Jae Yoo, manager of Seo
Fashions on West 38th Street, where 20 workers were arrested in February, said
garment shops in Indonesia or Taiwan could make the same clothes, but that "the
worker is cheap there." (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. B6)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

GIULIANI CRITICIZES A U.S. CRACKDOWN ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words


Immigration restrictions gathering steam in the Republican-led Congress would
have "catastrophic social effects" in New York City and other large cities,
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday. He charged that the proposals violated
basic decency and could throw as many as 60,000 immigrant children out of the
city's schools and onto the streets.

Once again taking sharp exception with the dominant conservative wing of his own
party, Mr. Giuliani said in an interview that the proposed crackdown on illegal
immigrants was deliberately intended to play to the public's worst fears of
foreigners, and did not take into consideration the positive effects of
immigrants on cities like New York.

"It's based on an irrational fear of something different, something strange,
that somehow they're going to take something away from us," he said. "A lot of
it is just undifferentiated fear of foreigners, of people who appear to have
different values or different ways of doing things."

In June, the Congressional Task Force on Immigration Reform, a
Republican-dominated panel appointed by Speaker Newt Gingrich, issued a report
containing dozens of recommendations on restricting illegal immigration.

The proposals, now being written into bills that are at various stages of
consideration in House committees, would require public hospitals to report
illegal aliens who seek medical treatment and would require public schools to
turn away students who are in this country illegally. The report, which Mr.
Gingrich endorsed, is similar to Proposition 187, a measure approved by
California voters last November that would cut off most public benefits to
illegal aliens.

Mr. Giuliani, a grandson of Italian immigrants, said the proposals would be both
morally and fiscally devastating to cities, which would suddenly be put in the
position of enforcing national immigration laws that the Federal Government has
failed to implement.

The city's public schools, for example, have between 40,000 and 60,000 students
whose parents are undocumented aliens, he said. If the Board of Education were
forced to search for and report those families, he said, many of the parents
would simply not send their children to school, resulting in tens of thousands
of children on the street, driving up crime and putting both the children and
other residents in danger.

Illegal aliens might also be scared away from public hospitals if a similar
reporting requirement were used there, he said, even if the hospitals would be
allowed to provide emergency care. That could result in an increase of
communicable diseases, he said, and would be morally wrong.

"It's just out of a sense of decency," he said. "I can't imagine, even in parts
of the country where the views are harsher than they might be in New York, that
they're basically going to say, let people die."

One of the architects of Mr. Gingrich's immigration policy accused the Mayor of
pandering.

"It's a sad day when you have a person with Rudy Giuliani's credentials, someone
who has dedicated his life to the criminal justice system, openly advocating
protecting those who are violating the law," said Representative Elton Gallegly,
a California Republican who is chairman of the immigration task force. "Unlike
Mayor Giuliani, I make no apologies for putting Americans first."

Under an executive order signed by Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1985 and still in
effect, city agencies are required to provide services to illegal immigrants and
are prohibited from turning over information an immigrant to the Federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service unless the immigrant has been charged
with a crime.

The House task force, comprising 46 Republicans and 8 Democrats, includes only
one member from New York State, Reresentative Susan Molinari, a Republican from
Staten Island. She was out of the country yesterday and unavailable for comment.

Mr. Gallegly said the school requirement was no more burdensome than
verification of residency to attend a neighborhood school. He said that if
taxpayers were going to continue paying for the medical care of illegal aliens
in emergency rooms, then the Government has the right to know who those patients
are so they can be deported.

Mr. Gallegly, who represents Ventura County, near Los Angeles, stressed that the
measures would only apply to illegal aliens, not other immigrants who have
entered the country legally. But other legislation in the House would take
benefits away even from legal immigrants. In March, the House passed a welfare
bill that would deny food stamps, Medicaid and welfare payments to legal
residents of the country who are not citizens.

A comparable welfare bill introduced in the Senate by the majority leader, Bob
Dole, would allow states to cut off benefits to legal aliens, but would not
require them to do so.

Mr. Giuliani said that the welfare proposal, if enacted into law, would cost the
city millions of dollars. Though his administration has been removing thousands
of people from the local welfare rolls through heightened scrutiny of their
applications, he said the city was not prepared to take care of thousands of
aliens who would lose Federal benefits and become destitute.

"This is an absolute shifting of responsibility to city and state governments
that can do nothing about the immigration problem," he said.

The Mayor said he plans to work quietly with other mayors, and allies in
Congress, to prevent the provisions from becoming law. Last year, he said, he
joined successful lobbying to remove two provisions that would have had a
similarly negative effect on New York City: the crime bill would have required
cities to turn in the names of all illegal aliens discovered from all sources,
including people who report crimes, and the education bill would have required
schools to determine if all parents were legal residents.

Noting that the immigration issue has divided the leadership of the Republican
Party, Mr. Giuliani said the restrictive proposals violate one of the party's
most basic principles, which he described as "government acts best when it acts
least." He said the proposals also fail to take note of the important economic
effects of immigration on such New York neighborhoods as Flushing, Queens, which
during the last few decades has been transformed by waves of Chinese and Korean
immigrants.

"From the point of view of pure dollars and cents, the notion that immigrants
are taking away opportunities and taking away jobs from other people largely
isn't the case," he said. "They're creating opportunities.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "An irrational fear of something different" was how Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani described the basis for Republican-led Congressional
immigration initiatives in an interview at his City Hall office yesterday.
(Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 24, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Narrowing the U.S. Immigration Gate

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1236 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 23


Seventeen years ago, Sonya Canton, an American citizen born in the Philippines,
petitioned for her sister, a banker, to join her here under the
family-reunification policy that has been the basic principle of United States
immigration law for 30 years.

While she was waiting, a second sister, who sold exotic seashells for a living,
visited the United States as a tourist, liked the place and decided to stay on
illegally with her three children.

To this sister's surprise and good fortune, in 1986 Congress offered amnesty to
illegal immigrants, and she and her children became legal residents, eligible
for citizenship. Today she works as a saleswoman in a department store, and her
children have all graduated from high school with honors.

Meanwhile, as the banker sister continues to wait, the mood of the country, and
of Congress, has changed. Struggling to stem a flood of legal and illegal
immigrants, Congress is preparing to cut deeply into family-reunification quotas
this fall and drop people like her from eligibility.

If the changes are enacted, the United States would shut the door on about 2.4
million people -- the brothers, sisters and adult children of citizens and legal
residents -- who have waited for years or decades to enter the country as legal
immigrants. That number nearly matches the three million illegal immigrants
granted amnesty in 1986.

"It is some kind of injustice when those who played by the rules can't get in,
but those who broke the rules are now going to become citizens," said Ms.
Canton, an import specialist for the United States Customs Service.

But even immigration advocates concede that the current law has become unwieldy,
with a total of 3.5 million people waiting -- some in lines that stretch for 40
years or more -- to join relatives in the United States.

In some countries, like the Philippines, the projected wait for American visas
is so long that the categories for siblings and adult children effectively no
longer exist. Nonetheless, the applications keep coming in, and the lines grow
longer. The solution most favored by Congress is to focus on the nuclear family
and to eliminate from eligibility those with less immediate ties.

"I don't think there is any risk that family unity will be eliminated as a basis
for immigration to the United States," said Arthur C. Helton, an immigration
expert with the Open Society Institute, a lobbying group in New York that
studies international issues. "But what that means in a number of specific
contexts will be redefined, and a focus on the immediate nuclear family will
emerge."

That approach became evident when a Presidential commission led by Barbara
Jordan, a Democrat and former Representative from Texas, recently began drafting
proposed changes in the immigration laws. In an interim report issued in June,
the commission recommended, among other things, allowing citizens and legal
residents to bring in only spouses and minor, unmarried children -- not their
siblings or adult children.

Congress is now considering a number of immigration bills. The most far-reaching
was submitted in June by Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who
heads the House subcommittee on immigration. His bill is in the hands of the
House Judiciary Committee. In the Senate, Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, is preparing to introduce a similar bill.

The Smith and Simpson measures largely attack illegal immigration; they propose
stronger border controls, workplace enforcement and deportation procedures. In
addressing legal immigration, the bills drastically cut family-reunification
admissions by making the siblings and grown children of legal residents and
citizens no longer eligible for immigration. The Smith bill would reduce the
number of legal immigrants to 535,000 a year, compared with about 800,000 last
year.

The changes would reduce the waiting lists and speed the entry of the spouses
and minor children of legal residents. Currently, the spouses and minor children
of United States citizens can enter immediately, without a numerical quota. But
about 1.1 million spouses and minor children of legal residents are caught in
the backlog, along with siblings and children over 21.

Apart from family reunification, the primary avenue for immigration into the
United States is employment.

The 1986 amnesty is partly responsible for the flood of applicants that has
created pressure for the changes. About 80 percent of the spouses and minor
children on the immigration waiting lists are relatives of those who won legal
residence under that law, Government figures show.

The total family-preference waiting list of 3.5 million is twice as long as when
the amnesty law took effect.  Under current quotas, only 253,721 of those
waiting will receive visas this year, even as the list of applicants grows
longer.

The backlog includes one million applicants from Mexico and about 500,000 from
the Philippines. Before the 1986 amnesty, the Philippines was the largest source
of legal immigrants into the United States. Those countries are followed by
India, China, Vietnam, the Dominican Republic, Taiwan, South Korea, El Salvador
and Haiti.

Short of raising the ceiling for immigration, there seems to be little way to
accommodate the lengthening waiting list of siblings and adult children.

"Clearly the public mood and the practical realities of today's America require
that we cut down on immigration," said Dan Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, an independent lobbying group.

Calling the Jordan, Smith and Simpson proposals "an effort to strike a balance,"
he said, "We have to make these decisions based on what is in our national
interest." He added, "We have no duty or obligation to people who have been
waiting in line because the system is impractical in the first place."

But opponents say the cuts are politically motivated and unnecessary. "Since
when did the United States become too small for the parents and children and
brothers and sisters of United States citizens?" asked Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration lobbying group.
"The idea of bringing in energetic newcomers who are helped by family members to
get a leg up in this society is something that has worked for 300 years."

He added, "For a Congress that prides itself in being pro-family, it seems
hypocritical to cut family immigration by 30 percent."

One potential victim of the expected changes is Leticia Chong, a Filipino nurse
who has played by the rules and prospered. She entered the country legally in
1981, became a legal resident, obtained both business and nursing degrees here
and brought up five Philippines-born children to become American doctors, nurses
and engineers. Today they are all either citizens or legal residents.

Her problem is her sixth and last child, an engineering student who will turn 21
this month, having waited in vain for his name to come up in the backlog of
petitions for minor children of legal residents. He now enters the category of
adult children, and -- like Ms. Canton's banker sister -- he would simply be
dropped from eligibility under the proposed changes.

"He has been here since he was 11 years old," Mrs. Chong said. "He has friends
here. His family is here. This is his home. What will he do if he has to go back
to the Philippines?"

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST: Waiting in a Long Line to Get In" shows
number of immigrants admitted in the U.S. in 1994, and number on waiting list as
of January 1995. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service and the State
Department)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 25, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Plans Stiff New Curb On Immigration

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


With the public growing angry over illegal immigration, the Republican Congress
is considering the adoption of the most restrictive changes in the country's
immigration laws in 71 years.

While the House and Senate bills differ in important respects, the overall
thrust of the two measures is the same. Both would crack down on illegal
immigration and end what has been a 30-year-old policy of welcoming legal
immigrants. For the first time since 1924, there will be a reduction in the
number of foreign-born people who are legally permitted to come to the United
States.

The proposals have been criticized by an unusual array of interests, from
traditional supporters of immigration to American industries, particularly
high-tech companies, that need more professionals than the United States
produces.

These are among the provisions in one or the other of the bills:

*Slash the number of people allowed to immigrate legally to a maximum of 535,000
a year, down from the present average of about 800,000.

*Make it more difficult for foreigners to gain political asylum and place a
ceiling of 50,000 on the number of refugees admitted each year -- about half the
number accepted annually in the last five years.

*Sharply increase the financial requirements for an American citizen to sponsor
an immigrant.

*Establish a national registry of Social Security numbers and alien registration
numbers, and require companies to use it to verify the legal status of job
applicants.

*Make it more difficult for American companies to recruit foreign workers.

*Eliminate some important categories of immigrants with automatic entry into the
United States, including brothers and sisters of legal residents and children
over the age of 21.

Many proposals in the bills represent ideas and policies that have been
advocated unsuccessfully for years by groups urging curbs on immigration. But
passage last year of a ballot initiative in California, an important state in
Presidential politics, to halt benefits to illegal aliens has given these groups
an unexpected lift.

"This has happened very quickly," said Charles B. Keeley, a professor of
demography at Georgetown University who has written extensively on the politics
of immigration. "This was not an issue in '92, not even an issue in California."

In addition, a Congressional commission on immigration led by former
Representative Barbara Jordan recommended in June that legal immigration be cut
by one-third, a recommendation that was immediately endorsed by President
Clinton.

"A consensus is emerging here," said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas
Republican who is the chief sponsor of the House bill. "I think the debate about
whether legal immigration reform should occur is over. The question is no longer
whether legal immigration should be reformed, but how it should be reformed."

The changes envisioned by Mr. Smith's measure are angering those who
traditionally back immigration and frightening some foreign-born people who are
on waiting lists to gain legal residency and whose eligibility may be
eliminated.

Take Lourdes Rivera, 24. Last month, her mother filed citizenship petitions for
her three children, including Ms. Rivera, who was born in Mexico and illegally
entered the United States in 1983 with her two younger sisters. They came to
join their mother, who had been working here illegally since the late 1970's
after overstaying a tourist visa.

Under the 1986 law that granted amnesty to illegal aliens who had entered the
country before January 1982, Ms. Rivera's mother became a permanent resident.
That allowed her to get temporary visas for her children. In August, she became
a citizen, allowing her to petition for citizenship for the children.

But the House bill would remove automatic eligibility for foreign-born children
of American citizens if the children were over 21. Should it become law, Ms.
Rivera would lose her chance to become a citizen and could be deported. She has
no family in Mexico.

"I understand what they're trying to do, but they need to look at cases like
mine," said Ms. Rivera, a graduate of Texas Christian University who lives in
Arlington, Tex. "We're one family and we mean everything to each other. And it's
kind of scary to be separated."

The percentage of foreign-born residents is at a post-war high, and is occurring
as many businesses, especially high-tech companies, say they need to recruit
foreign computer specialists and engineers because qualified Americans are in
such short supply.

As a result, some companies say they are incredulous that Congress would cut the
number of visas issued to foreigners sponsored by businesses to 75,000, from
140,000.

"There is a shortage of skilled personnel," said Charles Billingsley, a vice
president of the Information Technology Association of America, a trade group
based in Washington. "Go to any metro area, pick up the Sunday want ads; the
thickest part will be for computer programmers."

Immigrants like Vivek Prabhu, 32, a computer software specialist from Bombay,
India, say they are helping American companies and creating jobs for other
Americans. "This is a double-edged sword," said Mr. Prabhu, who arrived here on
a student visa six years ago and is awaiting approval of his petition for
permanent residency. "What happens if the United States Government insists on
imposing quotas on immigrants or restricting immigration? There is labor outside
the U.S. that can do much of this work and is cheaper."

Mr. Prabhu was alluding to a growing trend: American companies moving their
computer manufacturing or programming development to other countries.

But those who support reducing immigration say that given the cutbacks in the
military and aerospace industry and downsizing in other high-tech areas, the
idea of an overall shortage of scientists, engineers, programmers and computer
specialists is based more on anecdote than on hard evidence. Reduction in
skill-based immigration is needed, they say, to protect college graduates.

"My job is to try and represent the national interest," said Senator Alan K.
Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is the chief sponsor of the Senate bill. "To
do that, you will hopefully trod on every segment of American society and be
called everything from xenophobe to a racist to a poop."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Republicans try to trim immigration, some companies complain
that the restrictions would make a shortage of skilled labor worse. Vivek Prabhu
of India, above, who works in Los Altos Hills, Calif., as a computer software
specialist, warned that making it harder for technically skilled workers to
immigrate would be a "double-edged sword" that could force some companies to
leave the United States. (George Olson for The New York Times) (pg. A12)

Graph: "Coming to America" shows immigration to the United States in 1994
(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. A12)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

House Panel Keeps Intact Bill to Restrict Immigration

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11


A Democratic effort to derail Republican plans for a sweeping overhaul of
immigration law was defeated today when the House Judiciary Committee turned
down an amendment that would have forced separate votes on measures to restrict
legal and illegal immigration.

By a vote of 20 to 14 that was almost entirely along party lines, the panel
defeated an amendment by Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of
California, to separate the bill into two measures; one dealing with legal
immigration and one covering illegal immigration.

Pro-immigration groups believe that restrictions on legal immigration cannot
survive on their own and need to be married to the issue of illegal immigration
to make it through Congress. Both sides agreed that today's vote virtually
guarantees that the full House will vote to reduce legal immigration for the
first time in 71 years.

Eighteen Republicans and 2 Democrats voted against the amendment and 13
Democrats and 1 Republican voted in its favor.

Moments after defeating the amendment, the Republicans on the committee
prevailed upon Representative Xavier Becerra, Democrat of California, to
withdraw an amendment requiring the Government to reimburse the $80 processing
fee paid by those foreign nationals currently on waiting lists to receive visas,
who will be denied entry if the immigration bill becomes law.

Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who supported Mr.
Becerra's amendment, said: "There will be people who will be deeply disappointed
if this bill becomes law. Couldn't we give them back their 80 bucks?"

Republicans, caught between adding what Mr. Becerra said was $300 million to the
Federal deficit and looking like bait-and-switch hucksters, asked Mr. Becerra to
withdraw his amendment until it could be determined just how much such a
reimbursement would cost the Treasury.

In addition to provisions meant to curb illegal immigration, like requiring
businesses to contact a central data bank to verify the legal status of job
applications, the measure would cut the number of legal immigrants to 595,000 by
2001 from the 800,000 who came to the United States in 1994. It would also
reduce the number of visas that could be granted for siblings and parents of
citizens or legal residents.

"The nation's legal immigration system is broken and it no longer serves the
national interest," said Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who is
the bill's prime sponsor.

Pro-immigration groups said they were disappointed, though not surprised at
losing today's vote on splitting the bill. They note that a number of
Republicans including House majority leader, Representative Dick Armey of Texas,
are strong proponents of legal immigration and they hope that they will help
divide the issue of legal immigration from that of illegal immigration.

Because of the crush of business, including welfare reform, changes in Medicare
and appropriations bills that Congress still must deal with, the immigration
bill is not expected to be taken up by the House until next year.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 12, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Mean and Petty

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 31;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illegal immigrants are a major political concern in this election year.
President Clinton vies with Republicans on who is better at keeping them out.
The House has passed an immigration bill, and the Senate debates its version
next week.

What hardly anyone has noticed is that, under the popular cover of fighting
illegal immigration, Congress is making radical changes in the procedures of
immigration law. It is cutting back long-established rules that limit abuse and
unfairness on the part of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Under present law, for example, a person charged with being here illegally and
summoned to a deportation hearing may have a lawyer there. The pending
legislation would drastically limit that fundamental right.

Legal representation would be called for only if it did not "unreasonably delay"
proceedings. And under the Senate bill deportation hearings, which at present
cannot be scheduled until 14 days after an alien's arrest, could take place as
soon as three days after an alien is detained.

The I.N.S. holds many aliens at remote detention centers, where there are no
lawyers to represent them. So a three-day rule could effectively make it
impossible to get a lawyer there in time for the hearing.

The Senate bill would also forbid the courts to review any I.N.S. decision
denying what is called discretionary relief to an alien, such as adjustment of
status or suspension of deportation. Courts can now reverse such decisions, but
only if the I.N.S. has abused its discretion. The proposal would effectively
insulate the agency from correction of abusive and illegal decisions.

An even more sweeping provision of both the House and Senate bills would
prohibit legal challenges to systemic discrimination or unlawful conduct by the
I.N.S. The legislation does that by forbidding class actions about I.N.S.
practices.

In recent years a number of court decisions have found that the I.N.S. practiced
deliberate illegality, for example by systematically discriminating against
refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala. Those issues were all raised in class
actions, and it would be essentially impossible to deal with them in individual
lawsuits.

The precedent of that provision is extremely dangerous. What it says is that, if
a government agency is found by the courts to have acted with systematic
illegality, we'll protect the agency by forbidding the courts to look into what
it does in future.

In the American system, the courts have always been the last line of defense
against abuse of official power. To begin stripping them of that right is a
terrible idea, reminiscent of proposals in the McCarthy period to strip the
Supreme Court of jurisdiction over school segregation cases and others that
irritated right-wing members of Congress.

The Clinton Administration might have been expected to oppose the ban on class
actions, with the danger it poses as a precedent. But in a lengthy statement of
its views on the immigration measure, the Administration did not address that
issue.

The House bill includes a provision allowing secret hearings to deport supposed
potential terrorists, with the accused person having no right to see the
evidence. The same proposal was overwhelmingly rejected on the floor when the
House considered antiterrorism legislation recently, but a few days later
members let it remain in the immigration bill.

There are other provisions offensive to our traditions of justice. One is petty
-- and deserves mention for that reason. It removes the present requirement that
orders starting deportation proceedings be made available in Spanish as well as
English. The effect, and presumably the purpose, will be to make it harder for
many aliens who might have a good case for asylum or legal status to understand
what they face.

The legislation reeks of meanness. It says that we do not have the confidence to
let issues be fairly tested at law. If we might lose in a fair test, we sweep
the pieces off the board and announce that we win.

What is at stake here is not just the rights of aliens but the decency of our
system for deciding how the law applies to them. The Immigration Service is an
overburdened, harried agency. To leave it with the last word, beyond judicial
scrutiny, would stain us all.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 19, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Provision in Terrorism Bill Cuts Rights of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B;  Page 9;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18


A little-noticed provision in the counterterrorism bill approved by Congress
would drastically reduce the rights and protections of aliens with claims to
remain in the United States, civil rights advocates said today.

Under the bill, people who say they are fleeing persecution and who arrive in
the United States without valid travel documents would have their asylum claims
decided by a single Immigration and Naturalization Service border officer.
Current law requires a hearing before an immigration judge. In 1995, 3,287
asylum-seekers arrived without valid documents, immigration experts said.

In addition, the provision says anyone who has illegally entered the United
States in the past may be summarily deported without judicial review. Currently,
these immigrants are entitled to a deportation hearing, which guarantees
constitutional rights like legal representation and places the burden of proof
on the Government to show why the alien should not be allowed to stay in the
country.

This change could theoretically affect hundreds of thousands of immigrants,
including those who had lived here for years, married American citizens or had
children who are citizens. Last year alone, about 80 percent of the 110,000
cases that immigration judges decided involved people who faced deportation for
being in the country illegally. Under the bill, the fate of these aliens would
rest with an immigration officer.

"The bill's provisions are a radical restructuring of the immigration laws that
have nothing to do with terrorism and go far beyond anything in the immigration
bills now being considered by Congress," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the
Immigrants' Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties Union.

The House today approved the bill by a vote of 293 to 133, joining the Senate,
which passed the legislation on Wednesday by a vote of 91 to 8.  President
Clinton has promised to sign the legislation in time for the anniversary on
Friday of the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City.

"With this version, we're facing really major changes in the way we and the
immigration courts do business," said David A. Martin, the general counsel for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The immigration service and civil rights groups were caught off guard this week
by the immigration provisions included in the anti-terrorism bill and were
trying to assess its consequences.

Mr. Martin said the Administration would try to amend the immigration bill now
before the Senate to modify the provisions in the anti-terrorism legislation.

Both the immigration bill the House approved last month and the legislation
before the Senate include provisions similar to the terrorism bill regarding the
exclusion of asylum seekers. But neither bill goes as far as the
counterterrorism bill to deny aliens already in the United States the right to
hearings before an immigration judge.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, unsuccessfully tried to strike
the immigration provisions from the counterterrorism bill on Wednesday and is
vowing to try again when the Senate takes up its immigration bill in the next
few days.

"There are some circumstances and oppressive regimes in the world where, if you
are going to escape, you may well need to rely on false papers," Mr. Leahy said
on Wednesday.

One Congressional advocate for immigrants cited as an example, Inez L., a
21-year-old woman who fled El Salvador in the late 1980's after her parents and
uncle had been killed. She entered the United States illegally with a cousin,
but was allowed to stay as a housekeeper in Maryland under a program that
granted temporary protection to refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala.

Inez married and had twin girls.  But recently, she and her husband separated,
and her work permit expires later this month. Under the counterterrorism bill's
provisions, the I.N.S. could be required to separate Inez from her children and
send her back to El Salvador without any hearing, immigration experts familiar
with her case said.

"The potential is that all kinds of people who have a nebulous legal status
would be deprived of existing immigration procedures as well as technical forms
of relief," said Carol Wolchok, director of the American Bar Association's
center for immigration law and representation in Washington.

Currently, immigrants who have been in the United States illegally more than
seven years can appeal to have their deportation suspended, if they demonstrate
strong family or employment ties.

"Why are we legislating against refugees in a terrorism bill?" asked Robert
Rubin, assistant director in San Francisco for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil
Rights. "They are not terrorists; they are the victims of terror."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Point By Point" Highlights of the Counterterrorism Bill

* Authorizes the Federal Government to spend $1 billion over the next four years
to combat terrorism in the United States.

* Requires criminals convicted in Federal proceedings to make restitution to
their victims in many circumstances.

* Gives the Federal Government more power to deport aliens suspected of ties to
terrorists.

* Gives Government officials the authority to exclude from the United States any
foreigners belonging to organizations deemed to be engaged in terrorism.

 * Enables law-enforcement officials to prosecute anyone in the United States
who raises money for groups found to be engaged in terrorism.

* Authorizes the Treasury Department to require manufacturers of plastic
explosives to place microscopic pieces of colored plastic in them so they can be
traced.

* Generally gives death-row inmates six months from their final state court
proceeding to file a petition seeking Federal review, known as a habeas corpus
petition; prisoners not on death row will be given one year. The deadlines apply
only if the state supplies the prisoners with lawyers for the Federal appeals.

 * Sharply limits the ability of any convict to file more than one petition.

 * Requires Federal courts to render decisions on habeas petitions in capital
cases within six months.

 * Permits Federal judges to overturn state proceedings in only three
circumstances: if the decision of the state court was "contrary to clearly
established" Federal law as determined by the Supreme Court; if it involved an
"unreasonable application" of clearly established law, or if the state court's
factual determination is "unreasonable."

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 30, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The Pro-Immigration Lobby

BYLINE: By Roy Beck;   Roy Beck is author of "The Case Against Immigration."

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va.


The forces in favor of reducing legal as well as illegal immigration roared into
Washington like a speeding train last year. The momentum appeared to be
unstoppable. Polls showed that Americans overwhelmingly favored reductions in
the number of legal migrants. Support came from a bipartisan reform commission
led by the late Barbara Jordan, from President Clinton and from Republican and
Democratic lawmakers, who introduced bills to change the current policy, which
brought in 720,000 legal immigrants last year.

But in the last month, both houses of Congress rejected or sidetracked these
reductions. In the end, almost nobody was for them -- except the American
people.

By contrast, Congress has managed to agree on some bars to illegal immigration.
The Senate is expected to pass a bill this week that will beef up border
enforcement and impose greater penalties on those who violate immigration law.

Puzzled Americans -- fewer than 6 percent of whom support current policies,
according to a Roper poll released in February -- may wonder why Congress was
able to take modest steps against illegal immigration but backed down from
limiting the legal influx. People need look no further than the national
organizations representing them.

Groups from across the spectrum -- business, labor, liberal Protestants, the
religious right, Jews, Catholics, blacks, Hispanics, Republicans, Democrats --
have been on Capitol Hill supporting the current legal-immigration system. Few
issues have created such a gap between the views of the people and the actions
of their leaders -- who often go their own way when horse-trading in Washington.

Take business executives and professionals. The Roper poll found that they
opposed the present high legal immigration levels by 11 to 1. But their leaders
and trade groups like the National Association of Manufacturers have been as
relentless in protecting the legal importation of foreign labor as the robber
barons were a century ago. Well-connected executives -- representing everything
from agribusiness to computer engineering -- flooded Washington to fight to
maintain this loose labor market, which has helped depress wages for American
workers for two decades.

The corporate lobby has been even more powerful than appears at first glance, as
we saw after a key House vote on March 20. With a switch in only 28 votes, the
House could have cut the continuing entry of citizens' adult relatives, the
largest source of cheap foreign labor. But both Mr. Clinton and the Christian
Coalition sent last-minute declarations of opposition to the cuts.

The reason for the President's reversal remains vague. But the Christian
Coalition's action was widely attributed to pressure from Grover Norquist, head
of Americans for Tax Reform, who brought together a network of conservative
groups. His tax group's initially puzzling opposition became more understandable
after the media disclosed that since February he has been a registered lobbyist
for Microsoft, whose industry employs many immigrants.

And labor? The A.F.L.-C.I.O. legislative director, after meeting with immigrant
labor leaders opposed to tighter rules on family reunification, joined the
business lobby in urging Congress to defeat those provisions.

It was a strange way to represent laborers, native or foreign-born. Roper found
that 58 percent of blue-collar workers want to cut the current level of legal
and illegal immigrants to below a total of 100,000 a year. Only 2 percent of
workers -- and 4 percent of all Hispanic people nationwide -- support today's
level.

But group after group in Washington seems to deny that many of its grass-roots
members feel that mass immigration has hurt their wages, environment, schools
and the social fabric of their communities.

In fact, some members of Congress may be confused about what Americans want. Or
perhaps lawmakers have decided that it is riskier to ignore lobbyists than to
ignore voters.

In 1981, a bipartisan Federal commission on immigration warned that the public
interest was being subverted by the lobbying of two groups -- conservative
business interests and a liberal coalition of religious, immigrant and civil
liberties organizations. The commission rejected arguments of those lobbyists
about the need for high immigration levels.

Then, as now, Congress has listened to lobbyists more than public opinion. If
Americans want a different immigration policy, they may need to challenge their
own religious, economic and political organizations.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Tougher Asylum Rules Are Dropped by Senate

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1


The Senate today dropped from its bill on illegal immigration provisions that
would have made it more difficult for foreigners to gain asylum here. But
senators kept a provision that critics contend will lead to a national
identification card.

By a vote of 51 to 49, senators approved an amendment by Patrick J. Leahy,
Democrat of Vermont, to drop the provisions on asylum, which civil rights
advocates said would have drastically reduced rights and protections for aliens
seeking it.

Under the provision, aliens who said they were fleeing persecution and arrived
in the United States without valid travel documents would have had their asylum
claims decided by a lone immigration officer and the officer's supervisor. If
they deny the claim, the immigrant faces immediate deportation without judicial
review. Current law requires a hearing before an immigration judge.

The immigration bill that the House approved in March included the restrictions
the Senate deleted, so the final version will be hammered out in a conference
committee. If the Senate approach prevails, it will also supersede restrictions
on asylum-seekers in the counterterrorism bill that Mr. Clinton signed into law
last Wednesday.

Immigration experts say that jobs in this country are the biggest magnet for
illegal aliens, producing a booming business in phony documents for them. So the
Senate bill calls for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to test several
pilot programs in states with large numbers of immigrants to find the one that
best allows employers to verify the legal status of workers. Congress can then
review the choices and select its favorite.

But critics of this approach, led by Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of
Michigan, said today that it amounted to a costly Government intrusion in the
workplace that would be ignored by unscrupulous employers who hire illegal
aliens. Such an approach would also require an extensive national data bank that
critics said would lead to a national identification card.

Senators from border states, like Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who
is the bill's main author, and Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, responded
that without some verification system, illegal aliens would continue to use
phony documents to win jobs and receive public benefits. Mr. Abraham's amendment
was defeated by a vote of 54 to 46.

Today's votes came as the Senate struggled with the bill's remaining amendments.
There is no question that the overall bill, which will add thousands of new
Border Patrol officers and increase penalties against smugglers of aliens, will
pass. The only question is when -- this week or next.

As the Senate, which also has legal immigration legislation pending, moved
forward on the illegal immigration bill, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service began arresting criminal aliens who are subject to deportation under the
newly enacted counterterrorism bill.

Under the old law, aliens leaving jail after a sentence could be detained for a
deportation hearing but were often released on bond. Moreover, aliens who were
convicted of relatively minor crimes and had lived here legally for at least
seven years could petition an immigration judge to waive the deportation
proceedings. Judges typically considered family ties in this country, work
history, parole records and rehabilitation efforts when considering these
petitions.

But the counterterrorism bill ordered all criminal aliens detained and waivers
eliminated. Immigration officers began arresting people this week as they showed
up for their scheduled waiver hearings and parole check-ins.

Immigration and civil rights lawyers said this approach, intended to deport
hardened criminals was also ensnaring legal immigrants convicted of small drug
or gun offenses who had paid their penalties.

William DeSantiago, an immigration lawyer in Phoenix, said a client, a
39-year-old construction worker from Mexico, had lived here legally for more
than 25 years. The worker, whom Mr. DeSantiago declined to identify, served an
18-month sentence three years ago for drug possession. It was his first and only
criminal offense, Mr. DeSantiago said.

Now the worker faces jail and deportation without any waiver, his lawyer said,
even though his wife and six children are American citizens, he has steered
clear of trouble since his conviction and is his family's primary wage-earner.

"For somebody who has truly learned their lesson, has been rehabilitated and now
pays taxes, and has children who are citizens, why deport them?" said Kerry
Bretz, a former immigration service lawyer in New York City who specializes in
defending aliens facing deportation.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 3, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SENATE VOTES BILL TO REDUCE INFLUX OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1202 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2


Riding a wave of public anger against illegal immigrants, the Senate
overwhelmingly approved a bill today that would tighten America's borders and
clamp down on millions of illegal immigrants living and working here.

The bill, approved by a 97-to-3 vote, would nearly double the size of the Border
Patrol, which now numbers 5,175 agents. It would stiffen penalties against
document fraud, speed deportation of immigrants who commit crimes and restrict
public benefits to legal and illegal immigrants.

The Senate also authorized Federal pilot programs that would require employers
to tap into an automated national database to verify the legal status of workers
they want to hire, an approach that critics contend would lead to the
introduction of a national identification card.

"We've brought forward significant changes in legal and illegal immigration that
are rather sweeping," said Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is
the bill's main author and the Senate's leading authority on immigration.

But the Senate rejected an important legal immigration provision when it buried
efforts led by Mr. Simpson to cut the number of legal immigrants permitted to
enter the country, now about 750,000 a year.

Both President Clinton and Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the presumptive
Republican nominee for President, stand to benefit politically from tough
positions against illegal immigrants. More than 70 percent of the nation's legal
and illegal immigrants live in six voter-rich states -- California, New York,
New Jersey, Texas, Florida and Illinois -- where many officials are worried that
immigrants unduly burden schools and other local services.

The Senate bill must now be reconciled with a version the House approved in
March. The two bills are largely similar, except for provisions in the House
bill that include restrictions on asylum-seekers and a measure to allow states
to bar public schooling for illegal immigrants.

Mr. Clinton, who has threatened to veto any bill that includes the education
provision, urged Congress to resolve other provisions the White House opposes.
He said, "While this bill strongly supports our enforcement efforts, it still
goes too far in denying legal immigrants access to vital safety-net programs
which could jeopardize public health and safety."

Today's vote capped nearly 52 hours of often emotional debate spread over eight
days that was sidetracked several times by Democratic efforts to tack on
provisions dealing with the Social Security trust fund and an increase in the
minimum wage. Three Democrats voted against the bill: Paul Simon of Illinois,
Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin and Bob Graham of Florida.

The House and Senate bills largely conform with the approach the Republican
Congress and Democratic White House have pursued in recent years, namely to
increase law enforcement on the border with Mexico and to streamline the
deportation process, particularly for immigrants convicted of crimes here.

The centerpiece of the Senate bill aims to curb the flow of the estimated
300,000 foreigners who enter the United States illegally or overstay their visas
each year, and to make it more difficult for those who do come here illegally to
obtain jobs and Government benefits. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
estimates that four million illegal immigrants now live in the United States.

"The Senate is saying that at least in 1996, an election year, it is drawing a
Maginot line against illegal immigration," said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, an
immigration specialist at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
Washington.

Indeed, the bill takes dead aim at the border and the workplace.

The legislation provides for an additional 700 Border Patrol agents this year,
and 1,000 more agents a year from 1997 through 2000. Assuming these additional
agents arrest more illegal immigrants, the bill also orders the Immigration
Service to increase its detention space to at least 9,000 beds, a 66 percent
increase in current capacity.

The bill also increases the maximum criminal penalties for document fraud to a
$500,000 fine and 15 years in prison, from $250,000 and 5 years. Government
officials would have new authority to conduct wiretaps on suspected smugglers of
immigrants and bogus-document users.

"We have stuff in there that has everything but the rack and thumbscrews for
people who are violating the laws of the United States," Mr. Simpson told
reporters.

The bill takes several steps to eliminate the magnet of the ease of getting jobs
that most immigration experts say is the greatest attraction this country offers
illegal immigrants. To combat a booming bogus document industry, senators
authorized the development of standardized, counterfeitproof birth certificates
and other state-issued identification documents.

More important, senators directed the Immigration Service to test several pilot
programs in states with large numbers of immigrants to find one that best allows
employers to verify the legal status of people they want to hire. Congress would
then review the choices, which will involve using a national computerized
databank, and select one it likes.

"This bill makes it much harder for illegal aliens to falsify job applications,"
said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat.

An unusual coalition of conservatives who oppose big government and liberals who
fear the verification program would violate workers' civil liberties failed to
block the provision.  "Eventually, every hiring decision would have to be
cleared by this Government computer," said one of the opponents, Gregory T.
Nojeim of the American Civil Liberties Union warned.

Much of the public anger toward immigrants centers on a perception that they
receive more in Government benefits than they pay in taxes.  But only about 5
percent of working-age legal immigrants who are not refugees receive public
assistance, virtually the same percentage of working-age citizens, according to
1994 census figures.

Illegal immigrants are ineligible for public assistance, except emergency
Medicaid, school lunches and other nutrition programs, immunizations and
short-term disaster relief.

Under the Senate bill, legal immigrants would be eligible only for the lunch and
nutrition programs, much less than what illegal immigrants would receive. That
is because the legislation would require that the income of the immigrant and
the immigrant's sponsor be combined when determining whether the immigrant is
eligible to receive any means-tested assistance.

Under current law, the sponsor is not legally responsible for the immigrant's
support. Legal immigrants are now eligible for all Federal assistance except
welfare, Food Stamps or supplemental security income for their first three to
five years in the country.

Mr. Simpson acknowledged that a separate bill on legal immigration pending in
the Senate was dead.  "The question of how many legal immigrants come in and who
we choose was derailed," said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, a Washington-based group that supports
reductions in legal and illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, center, said the immigration bill
that the Senate passed yesterday would make it harder to falsify job
applications. Senator Alan K. Simpson, right, was the main author of the bill.
(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A22)

Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Major Provisions of Immigration Bills"

Where House and Senate Agree

BORDER CONTROL
SENATE: Authorizes the hiring of 700 additional Border Patrol agents for the
rest of the fiscal year 1996 and 1,000 agents a year for the next four years.
HOUSE: Authorizes hiring 5,000 Border Patrol agents over five years.

RESTRICTION OF BENEFITS
SENATE: Makes illegal immigrants ineligible for most Federal, state and local
benefits, except certain programs like emergency medical care and some nutrition
programs. Also restricts public benefits for legal immigrants, chiefly by
strengthening and extending the legal obligation of their sponsors to help
support them. Many immigrants who receive welfare benefits for 12 or more months
in their first five years could be deported.
HOUSE: Similar provisions.

CRIMES
SENATE: Speeds up procedures for deporting immigrants convicted of crimes.
HOUSE: Similar provision.

Where They Differ

BORDER FENCE
SENATE: Authorizes $12 million to build three-tier fences, low-level lighting,
all-weather roads and ground sensors.
HOUSE: Authorizes $12 million to build a three-tier, 14-mile-long fence along
the United States-Mexican border near San Diego.

SCHOOLING
SENATE: No provision.
HOUSE: Allows states to deny public education to children who are illegal
immigrants.

DOCUMENTS
SENATE: Calls for a mandatory pilot program for verifying that a new employee is
legally eligible to work. The President would be required to develop and
recommend to Congress within three to six years a new system for verifying an
immigrant's legal status for employment and eligibility for public assistance.
Authorizes pilot programs that could include an automated system that could be
accessed by a toll-free telephone line.
HOUSE: Creates a three-year pilot program that employers in five states would
voluntarily use to verify that a new employee is legally eligible to work.
Employers would have the option of calling a telephone confirmation system for
each new employee, instead of checking specified documents as is now required.
The projects would end by October 1999. If the program succeeds in keeping
illegal immigrants out of jobs, Congress would have the option of expanding it
and making it mandatory.

ASYLUM
SENATE: No provision.
HOUSE: Makes it more difficult for foreigners to gain asylum.  Immigrants who
say they are fleeing persecution and arrive in the United States without valid
travel documents would have their asylum claims decided by a lone immigration
officer and the officer's supervisor. If they deny the claim, the immigrant
faces immediate deportation without judicial review. Current law requires a
hearing before an immigration judge.

MUTILATION
SENATE: Makes mutilation of female genitalia a Federal crime punishable by up to
five years in prison. It does not make the threat of such mutilation a basis for
an asylum claim.
HOUSE: No provision. (pg. A22)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 7, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Better Senate Bill on Immigration

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words


The Senate passed a sensible immigration bill last week, providing for
strengthened enforcement of immigration laws at the nation's borders and
workplaces, tighter requirements for immigrants to receive certain public
benefits and the development of a new national database for verifying the
immigration status of prospective employees.

The Senate's version is superior to the harshly punitive bill the House passed
in March, which would deny due process to asylum applicants and permit states to
deny public education to the children of illegal immigrants. House conferees
should follow the Senate's lead on both issues. The House bill's public
education provision, which ignores a contrary Supreme Court ruling, has rightly
drawn a veto threat from President Clinton.

The original Senate immigration bill, submitted last year by Alan Simpson of
Wyoming, would have done more harm than good. Responding to a perceived popular
anger against foreigners at a time of economic uncertainty in America, it sought
to cut legal as well as illegal immigration. The bill would have needlessly hurt
employers' ability to recruit workers with special training and skills and
imposed gratuitous hardships on immigrant families. Senators Spencer Abraham,
Republican of Michigan, and Edward Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, led a
successful effort in the Judiciary Committee to remove most legal immigration
restrictions from this bill.

Then Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, amended provisions that would
have unrealistically required refugees to arrive with a full set of valid travel
documents and denied them any appeal from unfavorable rulings by immigration
officers at the point of entry. The House bill still contains these denials of
due process. The Senate bill contains regrettable restrictions on other kinds of
immigration appeals, but keeps asylum accessible.

The Senate reasonably required, as did the House, that immigrants count the
incomes of their sponsors as well as their own when applying for means-tested
benefits. That is less generous than the current standard, but America's
underfinanced welfare system should not have to bear the burden of those not
genuinely in need. Public education is different, as the Supreme Court has ruled
and the Senate recognized. Children here because their parents came to this
country illegally should not be barred from public schools.

The Senate bill also requires the government to establish a national database so
that employers can verify the status of job applicants. The American Civil
Liberties Union and the new libertarians of the Republican right oppose this
provision as an expansion of Big Brother government. But excluding illegal
aliens from employment requires an identification less open to fraud than
current paper documentation systems. The Senate made its pilot programs for the
database mandatory. The House made them voluntary. Either is acceptable,
provided that Congress insists that the final program protect immigration data
from abuse.

Both the Senate and House bills usefully provide for nearly doubling the number
of Immigration Service enforcement agents.

Immigrants have historically enriched America and still do so today, especially
when they bring entrepreneurial energies and valuable technical skills. The
United States is also a better country for admitting those who flee persecution
abroad. Still, those people whom immigration law excludes should be kept out as
effectively as possible. The Senate has come up with a bill that can help do
that. The House should drop its unacceptable education and asylum provisions and
go along.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 28, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Strictures on Legal Immigrants Jeopardize Bill on Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1492 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 27


As House and Senate negotiators prepare to iron out the last details of a bill
whose chief target is illegal immigration, a battle with the White House is
looming over provisions that would drastically restrict public assistance to
legal immigrants.

The bill would allow for the deportation of legal immigrants who exceeded tough
new requirements and would do more to hold immigrants' sponsors financially
responsible for them.

Supporters say the legislation would slash the number of immigrants using
Government programs like prenatal care, Medicaid and Supplemental Security
Income, and would make public assistance less of an attraction for coming to the
United States.

"The American people want people to come to work," said Senator Phil Gramm,
Republican of Texas. "They do not want people to come to go on welfare."

Indeed, the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, said
last week that 25 percent of elderly Supplemental Security Income recipients
were legal immigrants.

Critics say the legislation takes a reasonable approach too far by effectively
cutting off tax-paying immigrants from the very types of programs -- child care,
job training, English classes and college loans -- that enable them to stay off
welfare and increase their chances of success in the United States.

"Latinos with green cards are able to move out of poverty into a higher standard
of living, but they can't do it if they can't learn English, if their babies
aren't born healthy, if they can't join job-training programs and if they can't
go to college," said Lori M. Kaplan, executive director of the Latin American
Youth Center, an agency here that serves 5,000 mostly Hispanic and Vietnamese
youths and their families.

Republicans and Democrats have been competing this year to be seen as being
tough on illegal immigration, and the current bills would nearly double the size
of the Border Patrol, increase penalties for smuggling aliens and restrict
asylum. But divisions in the Republican Party caused several broader proposals
for limiting legal immigration to be dropped from the legislation, and many
Democrats oppose the limits on public assistance that remain.

House and Senate negotiators are set to begin working out differences in their
two bills. President Clinton said earlier this month that the Senate bill in
particular "goes too far in denying legal immigrants access to vital safety net
programs." The President has raised the possibility of a veto, although his
strongest objection has been to a proposal in the House bill involving public
education for illegal immigrants.

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, is wary of the legislation's proposals on legal immigrants. "Yes, a
sponsor's responsibilities have to be tightened up," Ms. Meissner said in an
interview. "But this is incredibly overreaching and would be impossible to
enforce. It's going to create a serious second-class-citizen problem."

Emilio Monzon is the kind of immigrant the legislation's critics cite. After
coming to the United States to escape the civil war in his native El Salvador,
Mr. Monzon nine years ago qualified for two federally financed programs where he
learned typing, computer skills and English.

At night, he mopped floors in a Washington nursing home for $5 an hour to help
pay for his further schooling. By 1994, Mr. Monzon was teaching the same classes
at the Latin American Youth Center that he once attended, winning citywide
acclaim for placing young immigrants in clerical jobs. Mr. Monzon, who became a
citizen last year, is now working on a college degree in computers.

"I'd love to continue teaching and work in my own business some day," said Mr.
Monzon, 37, surrounded by desktop computers in a classroom at the youth center,
where he teaches each Saturday.

But under the provisions in the House and Senate immigration bills, Mr. Monzon
would probably have been deported years ago for being a drain on society.

He says he has never accepted a dollar of food stamps, public-housing aid or any
other traditional welfare. But he did attend the job-training classes for
low-income people for more than 12 months in his first five years as a legal
immigrant. And under the pending Senate bill, that is ground for deportation.
(The House bill has a seven-year standard.)

"This isn't a handout," said Ms. Kaplan, Mr. Monzon's employer. "Learning
Windows 95 so you can get a decent job is not welfare."

Backers of lower levels of legal immigration say the changes are necessary.
"We're admitting too many immigrants who are too poor and too poorly educated,"
said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform. "It's very difficult to understand why poor immigrants who need all this
training should be admitted at all."

Underlying this debate are two basic questions: Do legal immigrants receive more
in public assistance than citizens do? And should immigrants receive public
assistance at all?

The second question is one of philosophy, dividing even members of the same
party. But the first question also defies objective answer: each side supports
its view using different definitions of public assistance and different census
information.

The Urban Institute, a research organization, says that 95 percent of immigrants
do not receive welfare. George J. Borjas, a professor of public policy at the
John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, says that 21 percent of all
immigrant households receive some type of public assistance, compared with 14
percent of native households.

Legal immigrants are typically sponsored by relatives or by businesses
interested in their work skills. Under current law, sponsors of immigrants
promise that anyone they bring into the country will not become a "public
charge." Over time, however, that pledge has become unenforceable in court. The
bills would insure that the promise of support was binding.

In addition, the bills combine the incomes of the immigrant and the sponsor to
determine whether an immigrant is eligible for public assistance. Currently,
that approach, called deeming, is used only when immigrants apply for welfare,
food stamps or Supplemental Security Income in their first three to five years
in the country.

The Senate bill would broaden that approach to cover all low-income assistance,
even aid not usually considered welfare, including gang-prevention programs and
screenings for lead poisoning. The House bill would exempt several public
assistance programs, including school lunches, college loans, emergency Medicaid
and short-term disaster relief.

Under the bills, a sponsor would be legally responsible for supporting the
immigrant until the immigrant became a citizen or for 10 years, assuming the
immigrant had earned enough to pay taxes in that period.

Pro-immigration groups have called the legislation unfair. Health officials fear
that emergency rooms t public hospitals will be swamped with immigrants who will
no longer use preventive-care clinics.

"Right now, 90 percent of women come in within their first three months of
pregnancy," said Maria Gomez, director of Mary's Center for Maternal and Child
Care, a private agency in Washington that gives counseling and pediatric care to
575 women and 1,200 children a year. "I'm afraid if this goes into effect and
women are asked about their status, they will delay their care and wait until
they are about to deliver."

The legislation draws opposition on a more bureaucratic level as well: the
National Association of Counties and the National League of Cities say it would
place an expensive and time-consuming burden on state and local agencies to
check every participant's legal status.

Supporters of the legislation discount these criticisms as overinflated fears
and say that immigrants' sponsors should pay for health care, English classes
and whatever other services their charges need.

"Why should the rest of us cough up the money when the sponsor has not done it
yet, or has not run out of money?" said Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming
Republican who is the main author of the Senate bill.

"Whether it is blindness, whether it is disability, whether it is veterans,
whether it is kids, whether it is senior citizens, whatever plucks genuinely at
your heart strings," Mr. Simpson said, "the issue is that none of those people
should become a burden on the taxpayers if they had a sponsor that remains
totally able."

But sponsors may die, go bankrupt or become estranged from the immigrant. The
legislation would allow immigrants to use public assistance if those things
happened. But it would not waive the threat of deportation if the immigrant used
assistance for more than a total of 12 months.

"This is such a negative attitude," Mr. Monzon said of the legislation. "I've
just tried to get decent jobs, help my family and, ultimately, be a good
citizen."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Critics of proposed new rules for legal immigrants say they
would hinder people like Emilio Monzon. He learned skills in Federal programs at
the Latin American Youth Center in Washington. Now he teaches there. (David
Scull/The New York Times) (pg. B8)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Reasonable Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words


The House and Senate have come a long way in refining their immigration bills.
But more work is needed. President Clinton rightly threatens to veto legislation
unless it sticks to the worthy goal of barring illegal immigrants at borders,
airports and workplaces and discouraging the abusive use of welfare programs by
legal immigrants.

The two bills, which are now being reconciled, initially imposed unwarranted
restrictions on legal immigration. Commendably, these limitations were
eliminated. The Senate also dropped provisions denying due process to asylum
seekers, although it retained infringements on the right to appeal discretionary
rulings by immigration officials.

The bills remain badly flawed. The House would let states, contrary to a Supreme
Court ruling, deny public education to the children of illegal immigrants. Both
bills would unwisely penalize legal immigrants for taking part in the kind of
Government-subsidized education and training programs most likely to make them
productive citizens, including English and vocational courses.

Under the Senate bill, participation in these programs for a total of 12 months
during a legal immigrant's first five years in America would make the immigrant
subject to deportation. The House bill would penalize participation during an
immigrant's first seven years.

The Senate bill would also make many legal immigrants ineligible for Medicaid
coverage and programs for treating communicable diseases for 10 years or more
after arrival. They would be excluded when the total of their income and the
income of their sponsors exceeded eligibility requirements. The House would bar
participation for seven years and allow some exceptions for public health and
higher education.

Under current law, a sponsor's income is only counted in determining eligibility
for welfare, food stamps and Supplemental Security Income. Curtailing immigrant
access to emergency medical programs could threaten public health.

The American people want to make sure that immigrants come here seeking
opportunity, not welfare. They also want the Federal Government to do a better
job of excluding those who try to enter the country illegally. If Congress can
agree on a fair approach to benefits for legal immigrants, public education for
all immigrant children and due process safeguards in the handling of immigration
claims, it can enact a useful bill that President Clinton can comfortably sign.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

47 Oppose Bill to Keep Illegal Aliens Out of School

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;   Page 20;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10


In a warning to House and Senate Republican leaders, 42 Democrats and 5 moderate
Republicans in the Senate threatened today to block pending immigration
legislation if it included a House provision allowing states to bar children who
are illegal immigrants from public schools.

The education ban is a hotly contested issue in the Presidential race between
Senator Bob Dole, who supports it, and President Clinton, who is expected to
veto any immigration bill containing such a provision. The ban is especially
popular in California, which spends $1.8 billion a year to educate more than
350,000 illegal immigrant students and is crucial to the prospects of both
candidates.

By overwhelming margins, both the House and Senate have approved bills that seek
to reduce illegal immigration and restrict legal immigrants' access to public
assistance. House and Senate negotiators are preparing to reconcile the
differences in the two bills.

But in their letter, which was released today, the 47 Senators said the
education ban would not reduce illegal immigration and would force hundreds of
thousands of children out onto the streets, where they would threaten public
health and safety.

Although 47 Senators are not enough to kill the measure, they are more than
enough to bottle up the legislation, blocking any chance of bringing the popular
immigration bill itself to a final vote.

The letter was sent to Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who heads the
Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over immigration matters. In
addition, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, sent the
signed letter and one of his own to Mr. Dole and Senator Trent Lott of
Mississippi, the second-ranking Senate Republican, who is expected to succeed
Mr. Dole as majority leader.

Senate Democrats clearly hope that the letters will help derail an apparent
Republican strategy to spike a popular immigration bill with a "poison pill,"
and then dare Mr. Clinton to veto it.

"We should not jeopardize these important measures by including the
controversial Gallegly provision that will do nothing to curb the influx of
illegal immigrants," Mr. Daschle wrote. Representative Elton Gallegly,
Republican of California, is the sponsor of the education ban.

Mr. Daschle seemed to challenge Mr. Dole's leadership by citing former President
George Bush's opposition to the measure. In a speech to the National Association
of Mortgage Brokers last week, Mr. Bush said that immigration laws must be
enforced, adding, "But you don't have to do it with a bitterness that takes a
little 7-year-old kid out of school."

A growing number of Republican mayors and governors oppose the education ban,
including Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York and
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York.

The Republican Senators who signed the letter sent today were Mark O. Hatfield
of Oregon, James M. Jeffords of Vermont, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, John H.
Chafee of Rhode Island and Ben Nighthorse Campbell of Colorado.

Although Mr. Dole endorsed the education ban in a campaign stop in Southern
California in March, the Kansas Republican made sure it never came up for a vote
during the Senate's consideration of its immigration bill last month. Speaker
Newt Gingrich, Republican of Georgia, strongly supports the ban.

In the past, Mr. Dole has opposed efforts to allow states to deny illegal
immigrants a public education. In 1982, for example, he voted to set aside an
amendment to an immigration bill that would have put Congress on record in
support of such state power.

In 1982, the Supreme Court held that children who are illegal immigrants had a
constitutional right to a public education. Supporters of the ban are gambling
that if the ban becomes law and is then challenged, the current Supreme Court,
which is more conservative, will uphold it.

With political forces racing toward collision on the education ban, House and
Senate Democrats accused Republicans of freezing them out of important
negotiations on the final compromise, called a conference report, on the
immigration bill.

House and Senate Republican aides have recently met several times to hammer out
differences in their two bills. "There's an intention among Republican staff to
try to come up with their own unified position and then deliver it to other side
as a fait accompli," said a Republican aide who follows immigration issues and
who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

But Michele A. Davis, a spokeswoman for Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the
House majority leader, said Republican staff members were using the "normal
process" to prepare for the conference.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

2 Senior Republican Lawmakers Buck Party to Oppose Effort to Bar Education of
Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21


Quietly bucking their party leaders, two senior influential Republicans
privately oppose a proposal in pending immigration legislation that would allow
states to bar children who are illegal immigrants from public schools. The two
lawmakers say they will try to modify or kill the provision.

To maintain appearances of party unity, one of the two, Representative Henry J.
Hyde of Illinois, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, publicly supports
the measure. The other, Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, is officially noncommittal.

But both lawmakers, whose views will carry weight in a House-Senate conference
committee that will soon meet to reconcile the chambers' differing bills, are
telling associates that the measure is bad policy because it would throw
thousands of children into the street. The House bill contains the provision;
the Senate bill does not.

"I don't like it," Mr. Hatch said in an interview this week. "I worry about the
children. On the other hand, there's a legitimate need to get tough on illegal
immigration. I hope we can find some middle ground in conference, but it ain't
going to be easy."

Mr. Hyde last week told the executive director of the Fraternal Order of Police,
a national police union that is against the proposal, that he would "oppose the
measure and vote against it," said the union official, James O. Pasco Jr. When
asked this week about his personal position, Mr. Hyde smiled and looked away
without commenting.

The education ban is a fiercely contested issue in the Presidential race. Bob
Dole, the apparent Republican nominee, supports it; President Clinton is
expected to veto any legislation containing such a provision.  The ban is
particularly popular in California, where Gov. Pete Wilson has been an outspoken
supporter.  The state spends $1.8 billion a year to educate more than 350,000
students who are illegal immigrants.

Mr. Dole renewed his call for the education ban this week at a campaign stop in
Southern California. He said the measure would allow California to put into
effect Proposition 187, the initiative that state voters approved two years ago
but which has since been stalled in the courts.

The proposed ban is dividing Republicans nationwide. Except for Governor Wilson,
Republican Governors in states with large number of illegal immigrants -- Texas,
New York and Illinois -- all oppose it. And former President George Bush
recently condemned the measure.

The education ban enjoys much broader support in the House, which approved the
amendment by a vote of 257 to 163 in March, than in the Senate. During the
debate on the House immigration bill in March, Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia
made a rare floor speech supporting the education ban as a way to relieve states
of the large financial costs they incur in educating these children.

Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, predicted on
Tuesday that House and Senate negotiators would approve the education ban.

"We expect the conference to come back with the Gallegly amendment intact," Mr.
Armey told reporters. Representative Elton Gallegly, Republican of California,
is the author of the provision.

Although most immigration specialists say that illegal immigrants come to the
United States to find work, Mr. Armey said that another enticement to parents
who entered the country illegally was a free public education for their
children. He said the education ban would take away that allure.

"It's prudent to say to these people that we're not going to first seduce you as
responsible parents to break our laws and cross our borders, and then arrest you
as criminals," Mr. Armey said. "This is called entrapment."

When asked if the House insistence on the education ban was designed to bait Mr.
Clinton into vetoing a popular bill, Mr. Armey said: "You don't work as hard as
we have worked on a serious piece of legislation like immigration reform to
attract a Presidential veto. We want to get this signed into law."

But Mr. Armey had no ready answer on how the House Republicans' hard line could
be reconciled with Mr. Clinton's threat of a veto. "The big question is, Does
the leadership want a bill or does it want a veto?" said one House Republican,
who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

The measure faces a much stiffer test in the Senate. To avoid a drawn-out floor
fight that he might well have lost, Mr. Dole, while he was the majority leader,
made sure the education ban was never called up as an amendment to the Senate's
immigration bill.

The Senate bill's main sponsor, Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, said in
an interview this week: "It's a very vexatious issue. Is it better to have a
sixth-grade child in school or on the street? But why should California be out
$2 billion a year?"

Just last week, 42 Democrats and 5 mainstream Republicans sent a letter to Mr.
Hatch threatening to block any immigration bill that contains the education ban.

The Republican Senators who signed the letter were Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon,
James M. Jeffords of Vermont, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, John H. Chafee of Rhode
Island and Ben Nighthorse Campbell of Colorado.

Although 47 Senators are not enough to kill the measure outright, they are more
than enough to bottle up any bill, blocking any chances of bringing the popular
immigration bill itself to a vote.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Henry J. Hyde, Republican of Illinois. (Stephen
D. Crowley/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Americanization Ideal

BYLINE: By Barbara Jordan;  Barbara Jordan is chairman of the United States
Commission on Immigration Reform, a bipartisan Congressional organization.

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress is considering legislation to curb illegal immigration and set
priorities for legal admissions. Several Presidential candidates have made
immigration a keystone of their campaigns. Newspapers carry immigration-related
articles almost daily, in contrast to just a few years ago when hardly any
appeared.

This attention is not misplaced. Reform is needed in policies that permit the
continued entry of hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens and blur distinctions
between what is legal and beneficial and what is illegal and harmful. The
Commission on Immigration Reform issued a report last year on illegal
immigration and will release its second report, on legal migrants, tomorrow.
These two reports outline a rational set of principles that will restore
credibility to our policies while setting priorities for the future.

Legitimate concern about weaknesses in our immigration policy should not,
however, obfuscate what remains the essential point: the United States has been
and should continue to be a nation of immigrants. A well-regulated system of
legal immigration is in our national interest.

There have always been those who despised the newcomers. The history of American
immigration policy is full of racism and ethnic prejudice. The Know-Nothings.
The Chinese Exclusion Acts. Even before the Revolution, as eminent a person as
Benjamin Franklin feared that Germans coming to Pennsylvania would not become
English.

Of course, German immigrants to Pennsylvania did not become English, nor did
they make Pennsylvanians into Germans. Instead, they became Americans. So did
the Chinese, Japanese and Koreans who came, despite prejudice. So do the
Mexicans, Cubans and Haitians who come today.

The United States has united immigrants and their descendants around a
commitment to democratic ideals and constitutional principles. People from an
extraordinary range of ethnic and religious backgrounds have embraced these
ideals.

There is a word for this process: Americanization. That word earned a bad
reputation when it was stolen by racists and xenophobes in the 1920's. But it is
our word, and we are taking it back. Americanization means becoming a part of
the polity -- becoming one of us. But that does not mean conformity. We are more
than a melting pot; we are a kaleidoscope, where every turn of history refracts
new light on the old promise.

Immigration imposes mutual obligations. Those who choose to come here must
embrace the common core of American civic culture. We must assist them in
learning our common language: American English. We must renew civic education in
the teaching of American history for all Americans. We must vigorously enforce
the laws against hate crimes and discrimination. We must remind ourselves, as we
illustrate for newcomers, what makes us America.

Naturalization is a vital step in this process. Interest in naturalization has
never been greater; applications for citizenship exceed in number and proportion
any previous period in our history. But would-be citizens must wait too long to
be processed, as much as two years in some cities. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service must make timely naturalization a strategic goal while
maintaining rigorous standards.

Reforming our immigration policy is the best way to revitalize our commitment to
immigration and to immigrants. It is literally a matter of who we are as a
nation, and who we become as a people.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 25, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Congress Plans Stiff New Curb On Immigration

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


With the public growing angry over illegal immigration, the Republican Congress
is considering the adoption of the most restrictive changes in the country's
immigration laws in 71 years.

While the House and Senate bills differ in important respects, the overall
thrust of the two measures is the same. Both would crack down on illegal
immigration and end what has been a 30-year-old policy of welcoming legal
immigrants. For the first time since 1924, there will be a reduction in the
number of foreign-born people who are legally permitted to come to the United
States.

The proposals have been criticized by an unusual array of interests, from
traditional supporters of immigration to American industries, particularly
high-tech companies, that need more professionals than the United States
produces.

These are among the provisions in one or the other of the bills:

*Slash the number of people allowed to immigrate legally to a maximum of 535,000
a year, down from the present average of about 800,000.

*Make it more difficult for foreigners to gain political asylum and place a
ceiling of 50,000 on the number of refugees admitted each year -- about half the
number accepted annually in the last five years.

*Sharply increase the financial requirements for an American citizen to sponsor
an immigrant.

*Establish a national registry of Social Security numbers and alien registration
numbers, and require companies to use it to verify the legal status of job
applicants.

*Make it more difficult for American companies to recruit foreign workers.

*Eliminate some important categories of immigrants with automatic entry into the
United States, including brothers and sisters of legal residents and children
over the age of 21.

Many proposals in the bills represent ideas and policies that have been
advocated unsuccessfully for years by groups urging curbs on immigration. But
passage last year of a ballot initiative in California, an important state in
Presidential politics, to halt benefits to illegal aliens has given these groups
an unexpected lift.

"This has happened very quickly," said Charles B. Keeley, a professor of
demography at Georgetown University who has written extensively on the politics
of immigration. "This was not an issue in '92, not even an issue in California."

In addition, a Congressional commission on immigration led by former
Representative Barbara Jordan recommended in June that legal immigration be cut
by one-third, a recommendation that was immediately endorsed by President
Clinton.

"A consensus is emerging here," said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas
Republican who is the chief sponsor of the House bill. "I think the debate about
whether legal immigration reform should occur is over. The question is no longer
whether legal immigration should be reformed, but how it should be reformed."

The changes envisioned by Mr. Smith's measure are angering those who
traditionally back immigration and frightening some foreign-born people who are
on waiting lists to gain legal residency and whose eligibility may be
eliminated.

Take Lourdes Rivera, 24. Last month, her mother filed citizenship petitions for
her three children, including Ms. Rivera, who was born in Mexico and illegally
entered the United States in 1983 with her two younger sisters. They came to
join their mother, who had been working here illegally since the late 1970's
after overstaying a tourist visa.

Under the 1986 law that granted amnesty to illegal aliens who had entered the
country before January 1982, Ms. Rivera's mother became a permanent resident.
That allowed her to get temporary visas for her children. In August, she became
a citizen, allowing her to petition for citizenship for the children.

But the House bill would remove automatic eligibility for foreign-born children
of American citizens if the children were over 21. Should it become law, Ms.
Rivera would lose her chance to become a citizen and could be deported. She has
no family in Mexico.

"I understand what they're trying to do, but they need to look at cases like
mine," said Ms. Rivera, a graduate of Texas Christian University who lives in
Arlington, Tex. "We're one family and we mean everything to each other. And it's
kind of scary to be separated."

The percentage of foreign-born residents is at a post-war high, and is occurring
as many businesses, especially high-tech companies, say they need to recruit
foreign computer specialists and engineers because qualified Americans are in
such short supply.

As a result, some companies say they are incredulous that Congress would cut the
number of visas issued to foreigners sponsored by businesses to 75,000, from
140,000.

"There is a shortage of skilled personnel," said Charles Billingsley, a vice
president of the Information Technology Association of America, a trade group
based in Washington. "Go to any metro area, pick up the Sunday want ads; the
thickest part will be for computer programmers."

Immigrants like Vivek Prabhu, 32, a computer software specialist from Bombay,
India, say they are helping American companies and creating jobs for other
Americans. "This is a double-edged sword," said Mr. Prabhu, who arrived here on
a student visa six years ago and is awaiting approval of his petition for
permanent residency. "What happens if the United States Government insists on
imposing quotas on immigrants or restricting immigration? There is labor outside
the U.S. that can do much of this work and is cheaper."

Mr. Prabhu was alluding to a growing trend: American companies moving their
computer manufacturing or programming development to other countries.

But those who support reducing immigration say that given the cutbacks in the
military and aerospace industry and downsizing in other high-tech areas, the
idea of an overall shortage of scientists, engineers, programmers and computer
specialists is based more on anecdote than on hard evidence. Reduction in
skill-based immigration is needed, they say, to protect college graduates.

"My job is to try and represent the national interest," said Senator Alan K.
Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is the chief sponsor of the Senate bill. "To
do that, you will hopefully trod on every segment of American society and be
called everything from xenophobe to a racist to a poop."

Because of an editing error, the article misstated the employment record of Ms.
Rivera's mother. Ms. Rivera said her mother did not work in this country before
gaining legal status.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 1995, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article on Monday about Congressional efforts to curb immigration referred
incorrectly to the arrival of Lourdes Rivera, whose case was used as an example
of people on waiting lists to become citizens. Ms. Rivera and her two sisters
entered the United States in 1983 and overstayed their tourist visas, becoming
illegal immigrants; they did not enter the country illegally.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Republicans try to trim immigration, some companies complain
that the restrictions would make a shortage of skilled labor worse. Vivek Prabhu
of India, above, who works in Los Altos Hills, Calif., as a computer software
specialist, warned that making it harder for technically skilled workers to
immigrate would be a "double-edged sword" that could force some companies to
leave the United States. (George Olson for The New York Times) (pg. A12)

Graph: "Coming to America" shows immigration to the United States in 1994
(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. A12)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 25, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Now Respect Rights of Alien Detainees

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 303 words


To the Editor:

Your Oct. 16 news article on a trend by Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials in New York to release arriving undocumented aliens provides a glimpse
into a longstanding controversy that has periodically resulted in international
condemnation of United States detention practices.

In 1982 a policy was established to detain "excludable" arriving aliens without
valid travel documents, and the United States immigration authorities embarked
upon a construction and leasing program to increase detention capacity -- now
about 6,000 individuals across the nation at any one time.

Yet hundreds of thousands of undocumented aliens have entered the United States
over the ensuing period, calling into question the utility of detention as
deterrent measure.

But in addition to being ineffective and wasteful, the practice is incompatible
with international human rights standards.

As recently as last April, the United Nations Human Rights Committee, which
oversees compliance by the United States with the Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, recommended that "appropriate measures" be adopted as soon as
possible to insure due process and limits on the length of detention.

In April 1992 the Immigration and Naturalization Service approved a release
program, which I and others negotiated, to ameliorate prolonged detention for
refugees who fear persecution upon return to their home countries and who are
not likely to abscond or pose a danger to our community upon parole.

Regrettably, that program has not been adequately implemented, particularly in
New York. Concrete steps must be taken to put United States practice into line
with minimum international standards.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director of Migration Programs
Open Society Institute
New York, Oct. 18, 1995

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 13, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Strengthening Patrols Along the Mexican Border

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12


Just one week after Congress increased its budget by 24 percent, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said today that it was beefing up enforcement along
the Southwestern border to prevent any increase in illegal immigration that
might be caused by Mexico's severe economic problems.

Local law enforcement agencies will help the Border Patrol, and the armed forces
will continue providing assistance, officials said.

Attorney General Janet Reno said the immigration service was sending 200 Border
Patrol agents and 100 additional inspectors and investigators to California and
Arizona. About 2,200 agents now patrol that section of the border.

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said that
local law enforcement officers would help the Border Patrol but that "they
cannot arrest people" on suspicion of violating Federal immigration laws.

Mrs. Meissner said Mexico's economic crisis, including the devaluation of the
peso, "definitely is creating migration pressures."

On Jan. 6, President Clinton signed legislation increasing the budget for the
immigration service to $2.6 billion, from the $2.1 billion provided in 1995.
Most of the additional money is for border enforcement and detention of illegal
aliens.

Jeffrey M. Weber, budget officer for the immigration service, said the agency
was planning to hire 3,200 new employees, raising the total to 24,200. These
numbers include an increase of 800 Border Patrol agents, raising the total to
5,700.

Mexican officials, including Foreign Minister Jose Angel Gurria, have expressed
concern that Mexico will become an issue in the United States Presidential
election, and they tend to see actions by Washington as motivated by domestic
American politics. Some Mexican officials suggest that the United States is
militarizing the border as part of a strategy to encourage hostility to Mexico.

But Ms. Reno said today: "It's quite to the contrary. We are trying to control
against illegal immigration. Alien smuggling is against the law in Mexico. I
think Mexican officials share the same concern we have."

Rahm I. Emanuel, a White House aide who handles immigration policy, said the
armed forces had provided support for civilian law enforcement along the border
since January 1995. "Their actions and involvement are consistent with their
mandate in protecting national security," Mr. Emanuel said. "After years of
neglect, we are finally restoring the rule of law, locking down the Southwest
border."

Mrs. Meissner said her agency was planning better coordination with the military
but no increase in the 200 to 300 members of the armed forces already helping
the immigration service along the Southwestern border.

The Pentagon provides surveillance and intelligence information to the Border
Patrol, builds roads and fences, and handles some communications along the
border. Soldiers also help with sophisticated equipment, like night-vision
equipment and ground sensors.

Hispanic groups have often criticized efforts to crack down on illegal
immigration. But Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic-American advocacy group, today praised the Clinton Administration's
latest effort as "both sound policy and good politics."

"It is sound policy," he said, "because the most effective, most humane method
of reducing undocumented immigration is enforcement at the point of entry,
including the Southwestern U.S. border. It is good politics because I.N.S.
efforts in this area stand in sharp contrast to some of the high-profile,
irresponsible and draconian proposals currently being debated in Congress."

One of those proposals would require citizens and immigrants to carry
identification cards. Another would deny United States citizenship to children
born in this country to illegal immigrants. Under the 14th Amendment to the
Constitution, such children now become citizens automatically.

As part of the new initiative, immigration officials said, they are transferring
40 inspectors to San Ysidro, Calif., to check the documents of people crossing
the border. Eventually, they said, there will be 220 new inspectors, in addition
to the 170 already assigned to the Southwestern border.

Mrs. Meissner said the Border Patrol would deploy 79 new agents in the San Diego
area, 48 around El Centro, Calif., 21 in Yuma, Ariz., and 52 in other parts of
Arizona, including Tucson.

Mrs. Meissner said the immigration service would assign 60 plainclothes agents
to combat the smuggling of illegal aliens through airports in Los Angeles, San
Diego, Phoenix, Tucson and Las Vegas, Nev. "As we tighten enforcement on the
border," she said, "smugglers increasingly use airports as transportation hubs
to get people into the United States."

In the 1996 appropriation for the immigration service, Congress said that $4.3
million should be spent on a fence along the border near San Diego. And $11
million was earmarked for the construction of a jail for illegal immigrants in
Batavia, N.Y.

Alan D. Bersin, the United States Attorney in San Diego, said there were few
precedents for the collaboration by the Border Patrol, the armed forces and
local sheriffs.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Immigration and Naturalization Service is increasing
enforcement along the Mexican border. Workers installed a security fence
yesterday. (Jack Kurtz/Impact Visuals)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 19, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Talks Are Held On Reopening Of Alien Unit

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1099 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Jan. 18


Six months after a melee closed a privately run detention center for
undocumented aliens in Elizabeth, N.J., the Immigration and Naturalization
Service is in the final stages of negotiations to reopen the center with a
different, more experienced private contractor, officials said today.

A spokeswoman for the new contractor, the Corrections Corporation of America,
said the company has been meeting with immigration officials about a plan to
reopen the Elizabeth detention center this spring.

"The I.N.S., from our understanding, is definitely interested in reopening that
facility," said the spokeswoman, Susan Hart, the corporation's director of
public information. "We certainly are interested in managing the facility should
I.N.S. decide to reopen it."

The move to reopen the Elizabeth center comes during an increased national
effort to curb illegal immigration. On Jan. 6, President Clinton signed
legislation increasing the immigration agency's budget to $2.6 billion, from
$2.5 billion in 1995. Most of the increase is for border enforcement and
detention centers.

Deputy Commissioner Myrta Chris Sale of the immigration service said the agency
wanted to reopen the Elizabeth detention center, provided the agency could come
to an acceptable agreement with the contractor. "There is no decision at this
point, but we are certainly considering it," Mrs. Sales said.

She said it was possible that the center could be reopened as early as May, but
cautioned that "this is not a done deal yet."

Local officials, who have said for months that they would oppose reopening the
center, emphasized that view today, saying they would impose strict conditions
on the immigration agency if it tried to go forward with its plans.

The 350-bed Elizabeth center was closed after a disturbance on June 18 in which
detainees, most awaiting decisions on requests for asylum, briefly took control
of the center. An immigration service report concluded that the incident was
caused by inhumane conditions and extensive delays in immigration hearings that
kept asylum seekers confined for months.

The report excoriated the management of the former operator, the Esmor
Correctional Services Corporation, and the immigration service announced that it
would not continue the contract with Esmor.

Since the Elizabeth center was closed, the agency has been holding detainees in
a number of county jails in Pennsylvania. But an agency official who spoke on
the condition of anonymity said this had proved to be an expensive and
logistically difficult solution.

The official said the agency plans to improve the conditions at the Elizabeth
center and to streamline the asylum hearing process before reopening the center.
In particular, the official said the immigration service plans to require the
new contractor to hire better paid and better trained staff members and to
provide better medical care for detainees.

"There is no question that the salaries and the training were problems, as well
as the medical treatment," the official said. "From my understanding, that is
all going to be addressed."

Local officials in Elizabeth said today that unless the immigration service
guaranteed substantial improvements, they would fight any attempt to reopen the
center. Michael Lapolla, the Union County First Deputy Prosecutor, said his
office did not want a repeat of the June 18 incident, in which the county
special response team had to quell the disturbance at the center.

"The way that Esmor was run was totally unacceptable," Mr. Lapolla said. "It
placed the detainees and hundreds of law enforcement officers in harm's way.
Before we can consider reopening the facility, fundamental changes in how it is
operated would have to be guaranteed."

Mayor Chris Bollwage of Elizabeth, who said he first heard about the planned
reopening when he was called by The Record of Hackensack, said that when Esmor
sought permission to open the detention center, the city was told that detainees
would be held up to three weeks. In fact, the average stay at the center was
closer to six months. Mayor Bollwage said the city never gave permission for a
center to operate under those conditions. He said that unless the immigration
service changed the center to comply with the three-week limit, the city would
attempt to revoke its permit to operate in Elizabeth.

"The city of Elizabeth does not need to get into the business of allowing
privatized prisons within its limits," the Mayor said. "We will go to court, and
if possible, block off the road to prevent them from coming."

A question remains about whether the immigration service will have to increase
the amount it spends to detain aliens in Elizabeth. When the Federal Government
awarded the $54 million, five-year contract to Esmor, a competing bidder filed
an official protest contending that Esmor could not properly run the center for
that much money. The competitor, the Wackenhut Corrections Corporation, bid $20
million higher for the same project.

Many of Wackenhut's claims, that Esmor could not adequately staff or manage the
center on the approved budget, were supported by the immigration agency's review
of the June 18 disturbance.

Deputy Commissioner Sale said the immigration service has not decided whether
increased funds would be needed to reopen the Elizabeth center. She said the
agency would review that aspect of the proposal in the next few weeks.

"We are going to make the best possible business decision on behalf of the
Government in a way that maintains safety, security and humane conditions," she
said.

Lawyers who have represented people detained at the Elizabeth center said the
immigration service would have to improve its management of the asylum hearing
procedures as well as the conditions at the center.

Judith Rabinovitz, senior staff counsel with the American Civil Liberties
Union's immigrants rights project, said a major problem with Esmor's operation
was the length of time people waited for hearings.

"People ended up waiting months to get an asylum hearing," she said. "This would
be a prime concern that they really are staffing the immigration court so that
people are given the hearings they are entitled to."

Ms. Rabinovitz said the immigration service also would have to take a stronger
role to assure that the contractor complies with its obligations.

"They have to deal with the training and the accountability issues," she said.
"I hope they have taken the experience of Esmor and their report on Esmor to
heart and have implemented some significant changes."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 17, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Now Legal Immigrants, Too, Become the Target

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 322 words


To the Editor:

More is hiding "under the popular cover of fighting illegal immigration" than
Anthony Lewis identifies in his April 12 column. Despite the belief that the
Senate bill is about illegal immigration, its provisions would transform the law
on who can immigrate legally and on how legal immigrants are treated on the road
to becoming citizens.

For example, the bill places onerous requirements on Americans who wish to
sponsor legal immigrants. Americans will have to agree to be liable for
unexpected emergency medical care incurred years after the immigrant arrives on
our shores. Only the wealthy will be able to sponsor immigrants.

Young legal immigrants who pursue their education with student loans or who
participate in job training programs will be subject to deportation and barred
from citizenship.

Dozens of Federal programs will be required to apply special eligibility rules
for legal immigrants. As a practical matter, legal immigrant children will be
kept off school lunch lines, new legal immigrants will be barred from student
loans to go to college, and legal immigrants who become disabled will be left
destitute.

Children sponsored by parents as legal immigrants and then abandoned or abused
by a parent will be denied foster care on the assumption that their parents will
support them!

Public health will be threatened by provisions making it difficult for legal
immigrants to receive immunizations and other crucial medical care at government
cost to prevent communicable diseases.

Rather than controlling illegal immigration, the Senate bill turns legal
immigrants into second-class citizens and robs the United States of the full
potential of its newest members.

NANCY MORAWETZ
MANUEL VARGAS
New York, April 12, 1996

The writers are, respectively, professor of clinical law, New York University,
and supervising attorney, Immigration Law Unit, Legal Aid Society.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Signs Pact on Telling Mexico About Certain Migrant Cases

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 7;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 7


Secretary of State Warren Christopher signed an agreement here today pledging
that American officials will notify Mexican diplomats in the United States
whenever pregnant Mexican women or Mexican children are detained as illegal
immigrants.

The agreement, signed at the close of an annual Mexico-United States meeting,
also spells out more explicitly than previously the rights of Mexican consular
officials to interview Mexicans detained in the United States and to attend
their trials if they are prosecuted for crimes.

The agreement, titled the "Memorandum of Understanding on Consular Protection,"
largely reaffirms rights recognized by both countries in earlier treaties. But
an official of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said the
agreement would nonetheless oblige Border Patrol officials to be more consistent
in communicating with Mexican diplomats about the detention of illegal Mexican
migrants, and would most likely mean a significant increase in the Border
Patrol's work load in some border areas.

The meeting came at a time of rising Mexican concerns over the treatment of
migrant workers in the United States, with fears aroused by the videotaped
beating of undocumented Mexicans on April 1 by two California sheriff's deputies
and more recently by the passage in Congress of an immigration law that will
double the size of the Border Patrol.

As a result, the Mexican Government was under considerable pressure from its
domestic critics to negotiate forcefully with the Clinton Administration over
immigration issues. Foreign Minister Angel Gurria said today that he considered
the migration agreement to be a considerable triumph for Mexico.

Taking part in the 24-hour meeting, one in a series of annual encounters dating
to 1981, were Mr. Christopher, Attorney General Janet Reno, Interior Minister
Bruce Babbitt, four other members of President Clinton's Cabinet and a combined
total of 300 other American and Mexican officials. The Governments discussed
hundreds of issues, in 16 working groups, everything from trade disputes over
tuna to pollution along the 2,000-mile border to ways of counting each nation's
unemployed.

Mr. Christopher said the talks had brought special progress in combating
money-laundering. Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, who spoke for
the United States in one of two working groups that discussed the topic, said
the United States had agreed to help Mexico set up a computerized system for
mandatory reporting by banks of suspicious transactions.

The tone of this year's meeting was almost celebratory, with a great deal of
back-slapping and well-wishing. Outlining a series of nettling disputes,
however, Mr. Gurria spoke with special vehemence against the Helms-Burton Act,
the law signed on March 12 that tightens the United States's 34-year-old embargo
against Cuba by trying to restrict non-American investment there.

The uncertainty that the law has aroused has already hurt a Mexican company that
last year bought 49 percent of Cuba's national telephone system and had hoped to
find an American partner. And many other Mexican entrepreneurs are worried about
how the measure may affect them. Mr. Gurria told Mr. Christopher on Monday that
Mexico "firmly rejects" Helms-Burton.

Mr. Christopher sought to smooth those ruffled feathers this morning. Clinton
Administration lawyers who are currently writing the regulations that will give
teeth to the law, he said, are seeking to "maximize the pressure on the Cuban
Government to change, and to minimize the effect on business in friendly
countries."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Third World Migrants Risk Hell for a Dream

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

DATELINE: GYOR, Hungary, July 18


With dreams of a safe and prosperous life in a faraway country, Williappan
Ratnarajah sold his family home in war-racked Sri Lanka and paid a casual
acquaintance $10,000 to smuggle himself and his younger brother to Germany.

The months-long journey from Colombo, the Sri Lankan capital, to Moscow through
Kiev and Bucharest ended in horror last week when his brother, Salam, 24, was
one of 18 Sri Lankans who suffocated to death in the back of an airless,
padlocked container abandoned on the hot plains of Hungary.

Mr. Ratnarajah, 28, survived with 18 others in a second container, attached to
the same truck. They had managed to punch a tiny hole in the metal roof during
what was to have been their journey to the promised land.

The tragedy was the latest illustration of the sudden surge of trafficking of
illegal immigrants into Western Europe, and then often on to the United States,
from Asia, Africa and the Middle East through the now porous borders of the
former Communist bloc.

Experts calculate that people-smuggling, a business increasingly run by
international crime syndicates, reaped up to $1 billion last year.

For the Sri Lankans who survived, the last leg of their trip turned out to be
nearly 48 hours of hell.

"When we started they gave us a small container of water and some bread," said
Mr. Ratnarajah, tears creeping down his cheeks, as he recalled their last
starting point in a forest on the edge of Bucharest, Romania. "We thought the
truck would stop for water but it didn't and the water ran out after a short
time."

The truck driver ignored their desperate but gradually weakening bangings for
help on the walls of his container adjacent to the driver's cabin, he said. "We
stopped twice," he recalled. "I'm not sure if it was a border but the driver
just came out and said: 'Don't shout, don't shout. Police.' "

Perhaps the driver realized that his charges were dying; perhaps he decided he
couldn't make it through the border to Austria. But, according to the Hungarian
police, he pulled up here at 3 A.M. last Friday about 20 miles shy of the
Austrian border.

He unlocked the first container with Mr. Ratnarajah and 18 others, all of them
nearly unconscious, and told them they were in Germany. The next day, the police
said they found the truck with blood oozing out of the second container.

Inside were 18 bodies, including that of one woman. Hungarian medical examiners
said the dead were all healthy people aged between 18 and 30 and they had died
of asphyxiation in soaring summer temperatures over a period of 24 hours.

The Sri Lankans, which included a fairly well-to-do shipping clerk from Colombo
and an unemployed young man, took what law enforcement officials describe as a
typical route. Many of them flew from Colombo to Moscow on 10-day student visas.
They were then kept in safe houses and were closely guarded as they were moved
by "agents" from country to country in the former Soviet Union and in Eastern
Europe.

They also paid fairly typical prices: whatever the agents decided they could
afford.

Mr. Ratnarajah, who worked as a driver in Sri Lanka, said he met a countryman he
called Rajah at a roadside restaurant near his hometown, Matale, in February.
"He had a lot of passports and tickets in his hands," he recalled. "I asked what
he was doing and he said he was sending people to Germany and if I wished he
could send me too. He demanded $10,000."

Threatened with being drawn into the civil war in Sri Lanka, Mr. Ratnarajah said
his mother was anxious for him and his brother to leave. Three days later, he
handed over the cash. "He said within 10 days he would send us to Germany."

With 18 other Sri Lankans the two brothers flew to Moscow, where they stayed in
a house for about a month, he said. They were then escorted by train to Kiev for
another month or so and then on to Moldova, and then to Bucharest. They were
accompanied in their travels by a Sri Lankan called Kumar who made sure they
never ventured outside for long or by themselves.

"My brother and I wanted to go back to Sri Lanka, but we didn't have a proper
visa for where we were so we were afraid to go to the police or to go back," Mr.
Ratnarajah said. He was looking forward, he said, to the refugee camp in Germany
where "Rajah" had told him he would be given 10,000 German marks and after that
a job.

Another survivor, Sasthi Kumar, a 26-year-old shipping clerk, said he sold part
of his wife's dowry for $3,000 and paid Rajah. On the pledge that his wife would
be able to join him, he flew to Moscow with another Sri Lankan and traveled
through the same capitals.

"We met each other on the bus going from Bucharest to the forest where we got on
the truck," Mr. Kumar said.

Maheswaran Devendran, 24, worked in a restaurant in Moscow for two years, before
he met up with the Sri Lankan agents. He paid $800, the cheapest rate, from his
savings in Russia. In Romania, he said, he was stripped of his gold chain and
watch by one of the agents. "I was told: 'Not good to wear, give me,' " he said
of his jewelry. "I was alone, so I'm frightened. So I give it."'

Two of the Sri Lankans who were taken by bus from the Bucharest safe houses to
the forest to board the ill-fated truck refused to get on, Mr. Ratnarajah said.

And according to him, two of the agents, Rajah and Kumar, were on their way to
Germany and were among the 18 who suffocated with his brother.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sri Lankans who survived a nightmare journey from Moscow to
what they thought would be better lives in the West rested in Gyor, Hungary,
after being released from a sealed container in which they had punched a hole to
get air. Seventeen Sri Lankan men and one woman died when the truck driver
abandoned them 20 miles from the Austrian border and fled, leaving a second
container padlocked.; Maheswaran Devendran, a Sri Lankan who was working in a
restaurant in Moscow, paid $800 to an agent who promised to take him to Germany.
He was in the container of 19 men who survived the trip.(Photographs by Laszlo
Beliczay for The New York Times)

Maps of Hungary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Aliens Overrun a Jail In New Jersey

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1666 words


Frustration flared into violence early yesterday at an immigrant detention
center in Elizabeth, N.J., that has been buffeted by charges of mistreating the
illegal aliens held there. A ragtag band of detainees took over the building,
demolished much of the interior and barricaded themselves inside for five hours
before the center was stormed by law enforcement officers.

Twenty illegal immigrants were injured in the clash that ended the standoff at
6:30 A.M., when 100 baton-wielding officers from the Union County sheriff's and
prosecutor's offices, the Elizabeth police and surrounding cities took control
of the building at 625 Evans Street.

The siege began with what appeared to be a coordinated attack on guards by some
of the aliens in the center, said William Slattery, executive associate
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The Elizabeth police
said two guards were taken hostage, but the immigration service disputed that.
Officials said that none of the guards required medical treatment; the illegal
immigrants who were hurt received only minor injuries.

The scene inside the center several hours after the siege ended was one of
almost total destruction. Metal tables and chairs that had been bolted to the
floor were ripped loose and torn into pieces. Televisions and gym equipment were
smashed, and clothing, books and other debris floated in several inches of water
from smashed sinks and toilets and broken sprinkler pipes.

In the 11 months it has been open, the detention center, which is run by Esmor
Correctional Services of Melville, L.I., under contract to the immigration
service, has gained a reputation among immigrants and their advocates as one of
the worst of its kind in the nation.

There have been charges of physical and verbal abuse including racial slurs by
guards. More common are tales of detainees being shackled to chairs and tables
while conferring with their lawyers, of blazing lights that make sleeping
difficult even in the middle of the night, of limited exercise and no fresh air,
and of inedible food.

Early yesterday, the center erupted in a storm of broken glass, smashed
furniture and fear. Michael Manuel, a spokesman for the immigration service in
Elizabeth, said it appeared that the takeover started when a group of the
detainees ripped a metal handrail from a wall inside one of the men's
dormitories and used the rail as a battering ram to break through a security
window that was reinforced with wire mesh.

The detainees captured two guards, though both escaped, and built barricades out
of the debris created by their rampage.

"It was a cauldron ready to explode," said Representative Robert Menendez, a New
Jersey Democrat who has been one of the center's most vocal critics.

Calls to Esmor were not answered yesterday. The company, part of the growing
private incarceration industry, had revenues of $24 million last year. It runs
several centers, including the LeMarquis Hotel, a halfway house in Manhattan,
and an immigrant detention center in Seattle that has also been the subject of
abuse charges.

"In the seven months I was there, I was never outside, not once," said Suzanne
Kideni, a Sudanese refugee who was held in the Esmor center in Elizabeth from
October through May. "The food is not enough for a human being."

She described her existence there as a mind-numbing routine, lived out in dirty
clothes, on insect-infested beds, with no privacy. "We had no way to make
complaints," she said. "We had to complain to ourselves."

When asked about the center, immigration service officials would acknowledge
only that there had been many complaints and said the agency had investigated
the charges over the last two weeks. Mr. Slattery said that the investigators
had produced a report but that it had not yet been made public.

Two immigration service agents, speaking on condition of anonymity, described
the detention center as a disaster waiting to happen, a place where no one
should have had to stay more than a few weeks but where people were often held
for months.

The center, a squat converted warehouse in an industrial area, held about 240
men and 60 women from more than 40 nations who tried to enter the country at New
York-area airports without the proper paperwork. They were being held pending
hearings on deportation or claims of political asylum.

"These people are not criminals, but they're treated like it," said Stephanie
Marks of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, who has gone to the center
several times and represented people who were being held there. "I think what
happened today could have been expected. People have to be pretty desperate to
resort to those means."

Mr. Slattery of the immigration service said the disturbance began at 1:30 A.M.,
when two guards in two of the center's eight dormitories were "attacked by a
number of inmates," almost simultaneously. He said four to eight ringleaders had
been identified, but he would not name them or say whether they were all from
the same country. Neither would he discuss the prospect of criminal charges.

"They were throwing furniture, breaking glass, ripping fire extinguishers" from
the walls, Mr. Slattery said. It appeared that the detainees had used the metal
tables and chairs ripped from the floor to smash sinks, toilets and televisions.
In one dormitory room, one of the detainees climbed a pipe about 40 feet to
reach a skylight in a ceiling, Mr. Manuel said. The man broke a skylight and
tied a sheet to the pipe, apparently to allow others to escape. But the
detainees could not break through security glass above the skylight, he said.

"They were looking for a way out and for weapons," Mr. Manuel said.

At the post where guards monitored the dormitories on televisions, all 12 of the
television screens were smashed and file cabinets and desks were upended. In
dark paint on a wall near the post, the word "Freedom" was scrawled in foot-high
letters.

Police and immigration officials disagreed on whether guards were taken hostage.
Sgt. James McKenna of the Elizabeth police, who, along with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, sent hostage negotiators to the scene, said two guards were
held captive by the illegal immigrants but both escaped unharmed. One made his
way out of the building, the sergeant said, and another hid in a drop ceiling.
The immigration service said there were no hostages.

The Elizabeth police received two distress calls at about 1:30 A.M., one from a
pay telephone inside the center, and one by fax, but officials said they did not
know if the alerts came from detainees or guards.

Representative Menendez said the immigration service Commissioner, Doris
Meissner, had told him that when the unrest began, the guards walked off their
jobs, but other agency officials said they did not believe that was so. Donald
Mueller, an immigration service spokesman in Washington, said the Commissioner
was not available for comment.

One way or another, all but three of the 13 guards on duty were soon out of the
building and the immigrants took control. They blocked a major corridor with
furniture and other debris they could collect and were constructing a second
barricade in another hallway when the siege ended.

Mary Rabadeau, the Elizabeth police director, said that while there may have
been a core of plotters behind the disturbance, she believed it was neither a
widely organized event nor that most of the detainees were involved. "It would
have been much more intensive if you had 300 people, all of one mindset," she
said.

The guard who escaped to hide in the ceiling was directly over the barricade,
said Robert Froehlich, the Union County sheriff. He said the guard had used his
hand-held radio to call for help, but his battery died.

Officials said an Elizabeth police lieutenant sneaked into the building through
a window and found the hiding guard, whose name was not released, and that they
both escaped without the detainees knowing they had ever been there.

Mr. Slattery said another guard, a woman, was trapped in the women's dormitory
when detainees cut the building's electrical power, which automatically locked
the doors.

As described by law enforcement officials, one element of the standoff -- the
inability of the police and the detainees to communicate -- would have been
comical were it not so tense. Sheriff Froehlich said the detainees were
contacted by phone, but "efforts at negotiations failed immediately" not only
because of the officials' inability to find someone inside who spoke English,
but by the detainees' inability to talk to each other.

Mr. Slattery said that the aliens did not appear to have any demands.

After a few minutes of frustrated attempts at communication, officials said,
someone inside the center smashed the phone.

Meanwhile, the sheriff said, inside the center the detainees were wreaking
havoc.

"Every piece of reinforced glass was either broken or taken out," he said. "Even
cinder blocks were removed from walls. Bedding, beds, mattresses, everything was
destroyed. All the detainees' paperwork and records were destroyed, also. All
the televisions were broken. All the furniture was broken. Devastation."

The police officers and sheriff's deputies entered the building at 6:30 A.M.,
using "flash-bang" grenades to stun the people behind the barricades. Officials
said they decided to leave both tear gas and guns outside and go in armed only
with batons.

Most of the aliens scattered when the police tore down their barricade, the
sheriff said, but some stayed, fought with the officers and were injured. But
Mr. Slattery said most of those who were hurt had slipped on wet floors or cut
themselves on broken glass.

He said it would take two to four weeks to repair the damaged building. All 300
immigrants were moved to nearby county jails and to immigration service
detention facilities in New York, Pennsylvania and Maryland, said Bill
Carattini, an agency spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Illegal aliens being held at an immigrant detention center in
Elizabeth, N.J., took over the building early yesterday and held it for five
hours before it was stormed by law enforcement officers. Relatives of detainees
leave the parking area in front of the center, which is run by Esmor
Correctional Services. All 300 detainees were moved from the center to county
jails and to other Immigration and Naturalization Service detention complexes.
(Photographs by Allan Tannenbaum for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

Map: "OVERVIEW: Detention in Converted Warehouse" shows a diagram of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in the warehouse suburbs
of Elizabeth N.J. and its location. (pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

The Lessons of Esmor

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 421 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service was not set up as a penal
institution. But as more people seek asylum in the United States, as illegal
immigration increases and as Congress creates more laws categorizing people as
criminal aliens, the I.N.S. has found itself playing jailer. It lacks the
experience and the expertise to do this. The result is that would-be immigrants
all over the country are detained in facilities ranging from office buildings to
converted warehouses to county jails.

Conditions vary widely, and detainees, many of them legitimate asylum-seekers
who have already endured horrific persecution, are often subjected to cruelly
inhumane conditions. The I.N.S. needs to move quickly to formulate a civilized
national policy for detaining would-be immigrants.

Last week's riot at the Esmor detention center in New Jersey illustrated this
need. The New Jersey center is run by a private company under contract to the
I.N.S. Detainees have described terrible conditions there, including abuse by
guards, the use of shackles and inadequate sanitary facilities. But advocates
for immigrants say that Esmor is not unusual, nor are its conditions
substantially worse than those in centers run by the I.N.S. itself.

The service has never promulgated regulations on how its detention facilities
are to be run. It has a set of guidelines for minimum standards that each
detention center must honor, according to an I.N.S. spokesman. But these
guidelines are loose and often flouted. For example, they provide for
recreational facilities, yet some of the I.N.S.'s own centers have no outdoor
areas and no recreational space.

The I.N.S. is conducting an investigation into conditions at Esmor. Once that
investigation is complete, the service needs to explain how supervision broke
down so completely and egregiously at that center that some inmates, apparently
in desperation, virtually destroyed the interior of the building. But according
to other reports over the past decade by the General Accounting Office and the
American Civil Liberties Union, Esmor is not an isolated case.

The people in these centers are not being charged with any criminal offense. In
some cases, they have traumatic personal histories, do not speak English and are
alone in the world. The Attorney General, whose department includes the I.N.S.,
could help by appointing a commission to study the I.N.S.'s detention policies
and recommend ways to make its detention centers live up to a humane set of
standards.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Workers in Sweatshop Raid Start Leaving Detention Site

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 11


The first of 72 illegal immigrants from Thailand who said they had been beaten
and subjected to forced labor here were released from a Federal detention center
today and will be allowed to stay in the United States while legal proceedings
run their course.

The 19 women and 3 men who were released were taken to private homes arranged
through church and community organizations. Their names were not released.

The Thai workers, mostly women in their late teens or early 20's, told
immigration officials that they had come to the United States illegally to
escape poverty but had been forced into slavelike conditions.

The rest of the 72 workers are expected to be released eventually, said Virginia
Kise, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They will be
provided with six-month work permits, which can be renewed for as long as their
presence is necessary for the prosecution of the eight men accused of abusing
the workers or for the workers' own civil suits against the men to recover wages
they say are owed them -- whichever is longer.

Eventually, most if not all of the workers still face deportation.

Their release came as criticism mounted from immigrant-rights organizations and
other groups that the immigration service had been negligent in allowing the
sweatshop in El Monte, about 15 miles east of downtown Los Angeles, to operate
for nearly three years before it was closed by state labor officials.
Immigration service officials have said they had no solid evidence that the Thai
workers were being detained against their will.

There have also been assertions that the workers have been treated harshly by
immigration officials since being taken into custody. Advocates have complained
that the workers were shackled as they were taken from the detention center on
Terminal Island to various legal proceedings. Immigration officials said the
workers were treated no differently from any other illegal immigrants in
custody.

"They had to endure deplorable conditions night and day," said Julie A. Su, a
lawyer with the Asian Pacific-American Legal Center. "They were imprisoned at
work and then by the I.N.S."

In a related development, Montgomery Ward announced that it had sued a Los
Angeles garment manufacturer for supplying goods in violation of the company's
policy not to employ slave, prison or child labor. The Chicago-based retailer,
one of several major retailers identified by state labor officials as have
purchased garments made at the sweatshop, said it was removing all merchandise
supplied by the vendor, New Boys Inc., from its stores nationwide.

Michael Dave, a lawyer for New Boys, said in a statement today that the company
had been "irreparably damaged" by "media reports" about its operations. The
statement, without making any mention of Montgomery Ward, said the company did
not have knowledge that it had purchased garments made under sweatshop
conditions.

Before the Thai workers were freed in a predawn raid by state labor officials
last week, they had lived a life in which they were locked up and guarded each
night and threatened with harm or death if they tried to escape, officials said.
For about $1.60 an hour, from 7 A.M. to midnight, the workers toiled within the
crowded compound, state labor officials said. Some were there for as long as
seven years.

When law-enforcement officials approached the site, they found it ringed with
barbed wire and spiked fences and doors tightly locked from the outside. The
building had no rear exit and only small windows with thick iron bars.

"Clearly, this is one of the more extreme forms of exploitation to take place,
but no one has any level of confidence that there aren't similar shops out
there," said Steven Nutter, West Coast director of the Union of Needle Trades
Industrial and Textile Employees.

On Thursday, the bond for the Thai nationals being held in Federal custody was
lowered to $500 each from $5,000 after community groups offered to post the
lower amount. The union has guaranteed part of those bonds.

All 72 of the workers have been held by Federal immigration officials as
potential witnesses against eight men accused of running the ring. Six of the
men were charged with harboring illegal immigrants; the other two were charged
with bringing illegal immigrants into the country. All eight were denied bail
and may face additional charges, possibly including Federal slavery charges.

Ms. Kise said immigration officials were searching for a ninth person, a Thai
national, who is suspected of running the El Monte operation and is believed to
have returned to Thailand. She said the immigration service office in Bangkok
was working with the Thai authorities on pursuing the suspect.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An unidentified woman walking toward a bus yesterday after she
and 21 other illegal immigrants from Thailand were released from a Federal
detention center in the Los Angeles area. The aliens, who said they had been
forced to work under slavelike conditions, now await legal proceedings on their
status. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 16, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 701 words



MORE DOCTORS CHOOSE GENERAL PRACTICE
 Facing a marketplace glutted with out-of-work specialists and managed-care
companies beckoning for general practitioners, young doctors are increasingly
choosing careers in which they will tend to patients' basic health needs. Three
years ago, 14.6 percent of the seniors in the country's medical schools wanted
to become general internists, general pediatricians or family practice
physicians, the lowest percentage in history.

But that trend has reversed dramatically, with 27.6 percent of medical school
seniors saying this year that they planned to pursue generalist careers. Experts
say the willingness of a new generation of doctors to accept the enormous
realignment of the health care industry will speed up the evolution of a medical
system that is becoming more cost-conscious and focused on primary care. [Page
A1.]

LESS DETENTION FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
Four months after a New Jersey detention center for illegal immigrants was
closed after an uprising, the number of aliens detained at New York metropolitan
airports has dropped sharply, largely because immigration officials who have
little space to hold detainees are allowing them to go free if they promise to
return for hearings. At the same time, the number of people trying to enter the
country illegally through the airports has also fallen off, leading immigrants'
rights advocates to question officials' assertion that detention deters illegal
immigration. [A1.]

NEW YORK CITY
PANEL ASSAILS PRENATAL DRUG USE
 Every year for the last five years, a special panel of experts on child abuse
has urged New York City's Human Resources Administration to view drug use by
pregnant women as proof of child maltreatment. Every year, the administration
has declined, arguing that drug-taking alone does not constitute abuse. But this
year, the group has added a note of urgency to its recommendation that a newborn
child who tests positive for exposure to drugs be considered maltreated. City
budget cuts have reduced the number of programs that treat women who use drugs,
making it more difficult for even drug users seeking help to find services that
meet their needs. [B3.]

BATTERED WOMEN TO SIMPSON: GET HELP
O. J. Simpson says he wants to meet some battered women to talk about how he
"got physical" with Nicole. That raises an interesting question: What would
abused women tell the country's most famous former defendant? In one of New York
City's poorest neighborhoods, in a residence for battered women and their
children, four women of different ages and backgrounds -- two of them black, one
Hispanic, one white -- talked about Mr. Simpson last week. They did not, he
might be pleased to know, speak in one voice. Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick.
[B3.]

NEWSPAPERS CUT SPANISH PUBLICATIONS
 Friday's confirmation by The Daily News that it might close its bilingual
newspaper, El Daily News, just four months after introducing it, reflects a
general trend across the country. Facing heavy competition from radio and
television, rising newsprint costs and restive shareholders, many newspaper
publishers who had introduced Spanish editions or supplements in the last few
years are shutting them or at least cutting them back. [Business Day, page D7.]

REGION
POLITICIANS SPLIT OVER MARCH
Like black leaders across the nation, politicians from the region are divided in
their support of the Million Man March in Washington on Monday, some citing the
racist oratory of the organizer, Louis Farrakhan, and the separatist agenda of
the Nation of Islam as wrong ideals. H. Carl McCall, the State Comptroller of
New York, was adamant in his refusal to attend. Representative Charles B.
Rangel, a Democrat from Harlem; Representative Floyd H. Flake, a Democrat from
Queens, and State Senator David A. Patterson from Harlem did not plan to march
either.

But several officials said they planned to attend, and that they considered the
march important. "Anytime you put that many people together in unity, it's
excellent," said Adam Clayton Powell 4th, a City Councilman who represents East
Harlem and the South Bronx. [National Report, page B6.]

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 24, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Two Convicted of Kidnapping in Illegal Immigrant Case

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 837 words


Two Vietnamese fishermen who prosecutors said were part of a criminal
organization that held more than a hundred Chinese immigrants for ransom were
convicted on Friday of kidnapping and conspiracy.

The Vietnamese men, Johney Pham and Nhat Duc Nguyen, of Cape May, N.J., were
found guilty in Federal District Court in Manhattan of taking part in an
international human-smuggling operation that shipped 105 illegal aliens on a
Taiwanese freighter from China to the United States in March 1994.

The man accused of leading the organization, Chen Chong Biao, is still a
fugitive, prosecutors said. Thirteen others have pleaded guilty in Manhattan to
charges ranging from kidnapping to smuggling aliens. Two other gang members were
convicted at trial, and three pleaded guilty in Baltimore.

After 65 days at sea, the Chinese aliens, who had promised to pay the smugglers
$25,000 each for transport to America, were ferried to land aboard
Vietnamese-owned fishing trawlers in Cape May.

Then they were packed into unventilated U-Haul trucks and driven to houses in
Maryland, New Jersey and Queens, witnesses testified. The aliens were held
hostage at gunpoint and severely beaten, as gang members tried to force them to
call their families in China and plead with them to pay ransom to other
conspirators in Manhattan's Chinatown, witnesses said.

The three-week trial opened another window on the ugly underworld of smuggling
humans from China to America, which gained wide attention in June 1993, when the
Golden Venture ran aground off the Rockaways and 10 illegal immigrants drowned
trying to swim ashore.

Defense lawyers for Mr. Pham and Mr. Nhat admitted that their clients had agreed
to help hide the illegal immigrants in the 1994 incident but claimed they did
not know the Chinese gang members were holding people against their will and
demanding ransoms.

But prosecutors depicted Mr. Nhat as a full partner in the smuggling operation.
They said Mr. Nhat was the leader of a Vietnamese group that helped the Chinese
smugglers led by Mr. Chen to get their human cargo ashore aboard two fishing
trawlers -- the Blue Chip and the Captain Denny.

Mr. Pham, who was paid $5,000 to drive the rented trucks packed with people to
houses in Maryland and New Jersey, also knew the immigrants were being held
hostage, the prosecutors said.

"Nhat Duc Nguyen and Johney Pham shuttled victims around like cargo and
delivered them to gun-toting guards at the Maryland safehouses," Allen D.
Applbaum, a prosecutor, said in his summation. "They are all over this
conspiracy from beginning to end."

Each defendant faces a maximum sentence of life in prison. Judge Louis L.
Stanton set sentencing for March 1996.

Though the prosecution presented more than 30 witnesses, the most condemning
testimony came from two former members of the ring who testified against Mr.
Pham and Mr. Nhat in exchange for reduced charges.

The former members, Chen Chong Jei and Thai Van Nguyen, were on the Blue Chip
when it picked up the illegal immigrants and helped guard the immigrants at
various times during their ordeal.

Mr. Chen also testified about meetings in March between Mr. Nhat and the other
Mr. Chen, who is accused of being the gang leader, at which they hammered out
details of their agreement. The meetings took place in Chinatown and in Atlantic
City, he said.

The operation was smashed on April 5, 1994, when agents from the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the Immigration and Naturalization Service raided the
houses in New York and Maryland, releasing more than 60 illegal aliens who had
not paid ransom.

At trial, the Government presented transcripts of translations of secretly
recorded telephone calls from two cellular phones the smugglers used to call the
hostages' relatives in China. In some transcripts, the immigrants plead for
their lives, saying they have been severely beaten.

The most chilling testimony came from one of the hostages, who was identified in
court documents as Zhu Zchin Di. He described his ordeal from the January day he
boarded a fishing boat in China, to the day in April when Federal agents freed
him from the smugglers.

Mr. Zhu said he paid the smugglers $10,000 in China and planned to get a job at
a restaurant and pay off the rest in $1,000 monthly payments.

He told how several of the immigrants were injured trying to climb aboard the
freighter from a fishing boat in rough seas off the coast of China.

Once they arrived in the United States, instead of being taken to New York to
find a job, Mr. Zhu said he was held in Mr. Nhat's attic in Cape May for almost
two days.

Then, he said, he was taken in the back of a rented truck to a house in Maryland
that amounted to a makeshift prison, complete with armed guards and handcuffs.
He said he was told that if he tried to leave he would be killed.

During his 10 days of captivity, the guards beat the immigrants mercilessly,
forcing them to call their relatives for money repeatedly, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 13, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Heroin Indictments Link Drugs to Smuggling of Aliens

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 707 words


Six Chinese immigrants were indicted yesterday on charges of selling heroin, and
offering discounts in return for forged passports to help them smuggle illegal
immigrants into the United States.

Law enforcement officers said the indictments illustrate the link between Asian
heroin trafficking and alien smuggling. Ships transporting illegal aliens from
Asia to the United States are believed to often carry heroin as well, said the
Queens District Attorney, Richard A. Brown, who announced the indictments.

He said that when the Golden Venture, a ship crowded with illegal aliens, ran
aground off the Rockaways in June 1993, "large quantities of heroin were tossed
overboard."

Mr. Brown's mention of the drugs on the ship was the first public acknowledgment
by investigators that heroin was on the Golden Venture. His spokesman, Richard
Piperno, said officials had known of the heroin after the ship ran aground, but
withheld the information.

The indictments announced yesterday are significant, Mr. Brown said, because
they result from one of the first investigations in which law enforcement teams,
using telephone wiretaps and Chinese-speaking undercover detectives, succeeded
in infiltrating a crime ring from the coastal Chinese province of Fujian. The
province's complex dialect, often unintelligible even to many other Chinese, and
the close family and neighborhood ties of the criminals, made penetration of
their operations particularly difficult.

The six defendants, two restaurant proprietors and four of their employees, are
natives of Fujian. They were charged with selling and conspiring to sell heroin
and conspiring to smuggle illegal aliens, and face maximum sentences of life in
prison if convicted.

A police investigator said he believed that the men were planning to run a
smuggling operation out of at least one of the restaurants, Xin Wei, 6669
Broadway in the Bronx. A search of the restaurant uncovered a trap door under a
freezer leading to six cubicles that the investigator said looked as if they
were built to hide illegal aliens.

According to the indictments, the organization was headed by Kong Xin Wong, 37,
the proprietor of the Xin Wei. The indictments charge that his lieutenant, Yat
Tang Ng, 45, operated the Silver Star Kitchen at 852 Bushwick Avenue in Brooklyn
and two other restaurants in Queens.

Mr. Wong, Mr. Ng, and four restaurant employees -- Yang Foo Lau, Qui He An, Beng
Bun Zheng and Zhi Qiang Chen -- are accused of conspiring over the past year to
sell and distribute high-quality heroin in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens.
During the 10-month investigation, undercover operatives made 10 purchases of
heroin from the defendants.

The ringleaders are alleged to have offered to discount the price -- for
example, by $10,000 for a half-pound of heroin that normally sold for $45,000 --
if the buyers could supply forged passports and visas.

A sale by Mr. Wong of one and a half pounds of heroin to an undercover detective
on May 18, 1994, appears to have provided the first opening in the investigation
that produced yesterday's indictments.

Mr. Wong, Mr. Ng, Mr. Lau and Mr. Zheng are further charged with conspiring last
spring and summer to smuggle illegal aliens using the forged documents, though
it is unclear whether they actually did so. One wiretapped conversation
reportedly referred to 2,000 clients overseas who were each ready to pay $30,000
to get to the United States. Mr. Ng made a trip back to Fujian, allegedly to
arrange for the smuggling, investigators said.

Peter A. Crusco, the chief of narcotics investigations in the Queens District
Attorney's office, said that investigators, concerned that forged passports
seized locally might raise suspicions, asked for help from the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, which provided fraudulent Japanese, Iranian, Sri Lankan, Indian
and Jordanian passports recovered in Canada.

The Xin Wei Restaurant and the Silver Star Kitchen were open yesterday, even
though their proprietors and some of the help were in jail. Ronnie Brown, a
regular takeout customer at the Silver Star, said he did not see anything
suspicious until Sunday, when he spotted three plainclothes police officers
talking with restaurant employees.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 1996, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about the indictment of six Chinese immigrants on drug
charges misstated the month in which the Golden Venture immigrant-smuggling ship
ran aground off Queens in some editions. The shipwreck occurred in June 1993,
not in March 1993.


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 13, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Heroin Indictments Link Drugs to Smuggling of Aliens

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 707 words


Six Chinese immigrants were indicted yesterday on charges of selling heroin, and
offering discounts in return for forged passports to help them smuggle illegal
immigrants into the United States.

Law enforcement officers said the indictments illustrate the link between Asian
heroin trafficking and alien smuggling. Ships transporting illegal aliens from
Asia to the United States are believed to often carry heroin as well, said the
Queens District Attorney, Richard A. Brown, who announced the indictments.

He said that when the Golden Venture, a ship crowded with illegal aliens, ran
aground off the Rockaways in June 1993, "large quantities of heroin were tossed
overboard."

Mr. Brown's mention of the drugs on the ship was the first public acknowledgment
by investigators that heroin was on the Golden Venture. His spokesman, Richard
Piperno, said officials had known of the heroin after the ship ran aground, but
withheld the information.

The indictments announced yesterday are significant, Mr. Brown said, because
they result from one of the first investigations in which law enforcement teams,
using telephone wiretaps and Chinese-speaking undercover detectives, succeeded
in infiltrating a crime ring from the coastal Chinese province of Fujian. The
province's complex dialect, often unintelligible even to many other Chinese, and
the close family and neighborhood ties of the criminals, made penetration of
their operations particularly difficult.

The six defendants, two restaurant proprietors and four of their employees, are
natives of Fujian. They were charged with selling and conspiring to sell heroin
and conspiring to smuggle illegal aliens, and face maximum sentences of life in
prison if convicted.

A police investigator said he believed that the men were planning to run a
smuggling operation out of at least one of the restaurants, Xin Wei, 6669
Broadway in the Bronx. A search of the restaurant uncovered a trap door under a
freezer leading to six cubicles that the investigator said looked as if they
were built to hide illegal aliens.

According to the indictments, the organization was headed by Kong Xin Wong, 37,
the proprietor of the Xin Wei. The indictments charge that his lieutenant, Yat
Tang Ng, 45, operated the Silver Star Kitchen at 852 Bushwick Avenue in Brooklyn
and two other restaurants in Queens.

Mr. Wong, Mr. Ng, and four restaurant employees -- Yang Foo Lau, Qui He An, Beng
Bun Zheng and Zhi Qiang Chen -- are accused of conspiring over the past year to
sell and distribute high-quality heroin in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens.
During the 10-month investigation, undercover operatives made 10 purchases of
heroin from the defendants.

The ringleaders are alleged to have offered to discount the price -- for
example, by $10,000 for a half-pound of heroin that normally sold for $45,000 --
if the buyers could supply forged passports and visas.

A sale by Mr. Wong of one and a half pounds of heroin to an undercover detective
on May 18, 1994, appears to have provided the first opening in the investigation
that produced yesterday's indictments.

Mr. Wong, Mr. Ng, Mr. Lau and Mr. Zheng are further charged with conspiring last
spring and summer to smuggle illegal aliens using the forged documents, though
it is unclear whether they actually did so. One wiretapped conversation
reportedly referred to 2,000 clients overseas who were each ready to pay $30,000
to get to the United States. Mr. Ng made a trip back to Fujian, allegedly to
arrange for the smuggling, investigators said.

Peter A. Crusco, the chief of narcotics investigations in the Queens District
Attorney's office, said that investigators, concerned that forged passports
seized locally might raise suspicions, asked for help from the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, which provided fraudulent Japanese, Iranian, Sri Lankan, Indian
and Jordanian passports recovered in Canada.

The Xin Wei Restaurant and the Silver Star Kitchen were open yesterday, even
though their proprietors and some of the help were in jail. Ronnie Brown, a
regular takeout customer at the Silver Star, said he did not see anything
suspicious until Sunday, when he spotted three plainclothes police officers
talking with restaurant employees.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 1996, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about the indictment of six Chinese immigrants on drug
charges misstated the month in which the Golden Venture immigrant-smuggling ship
ran aground off Queens in some editions. The shipwreck occurred in June 1993,
not in March 1993.


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 30, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Aliens Now Smuggled From Mexico

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 9;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

DATELINE: REYNOSA, Mexico, May 29


In a case that American officials said highlights a new trend in trafficking
illegal immigrants through Mexico, authorities have broken up an organization
that smuggled hundreds of undocumented Asians into the United States along a
pipeline through Russia, Cuba and Central America.

The Chinese, Indian and Pakistani migrants paid up to $28,000 each to smugglers
for a grueling clandestine journey that climaxed in this border city when
teen-agers ferried them in inner tubes north across the Rio Grande to a muddy
floodplain south of McAllen, Texas, United States officials said.

The reputed leader, Gladys Garza Cantu, a bejeweled 51-year-old naturalized
American who kept in touch with clients in Moscow and New Delhi via cellular
phone, was indicted with 14 others on alien smuggling charges in March. Ms.
Garza and 10 others were arrested; a pre-trial hearing is scheduled for a
Federal court in McAllen next week.

The Honduras-born Ms. Garza is the second woman in six months to be accused as a
major trafficker of Asian immigrants. In a similar case, a Peruvian-born woman,
Gloria Canales, was arrested in December in Honduras and charged with smuggling
Asian and Latin American immigrants into the United States.

Ms. Garza worked closely with several Mexican police officers, American
officials said, and one of those indicted was Gabriel Velasquez, a Federal
Judicial Police officer to whom Ms. Garza paid $9,200 for moving seven Indian
immigrants through Reynosa, according to court papers. During an interview at a
highway checkpoint here on Tuesday, Mr. Velasquez appeared stunned when told the
charges.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
called the case a dramatic example of how Asian immigrants are slipping
illegally into the United States through Mexico in mounting numbers, partly
because of a crackdown on maritime smuggling that followed the 1993 shipwreck on
a Queens beach of a steamer carrying hundreds of Chinese migrants.

"We've stopped that illegal boat traffic, but there are still a lot of people
coming from Asia, many through Central America and Mexico," Ms. Meissner said in
a recent interview in Mexico City.

In December, a federal study of alien trafficking estimated that some 100,000
illegal South Asian and Chinese immigrants pass through Central America and
Mexico each year on their way to the United States. An official who helped
prepare the study called Ms. Garza a "classic example" of the new breed of
smuggler specializing in the lucrative Asian migrant traffic.

Ms. Garza has earned more than $1 million annually in recent years, the official
said. She worked with recruiters in several Asian countries, and had connections
in Moscow, which has emerged as a major transit hub for Asian smugglers.

Ms. Garza's activities first came to light in December, when an officer of
Mexico's Federal Judicial Police who had helped her smuggle immigrants and felt
he had been cheated of a bribe reported her activities to I.N.S. agents, who,
posing as immigrant smugglers themselves, infiltrated her organization.

The immigrants told investigators they paid their $28,000 fee in three
disbursements made to handlers in Asia, Nicaragua and Mexico and were lodged
along the way at safehouses in Moscow, Havana, Managua, Guatemala and Mexico
City.

They were ferried from Guatemala to Mexico in a tractor-trailer modified to
carry up to 100 people in a hidden compartment, the officials said. In Reynosa,
Ms. Garza lodged them in a crude riverside shanty owned by a family specializing
in guiding illegal aliens to McAllen.

Sylvia Martinez, the sister-in-law of the shanty's owner, said the Asians were
given no food.

Ms. Garza spoke frequently with the Mexican police by telephone, and uniformed
officers sometimes helped her extort money from the migrants, Ms. Martinez said.

Ms. Garza's police ties highlight anew the difficulties faced by President
Ernesto Zedillo in extending his anti-corruption campaign to the grass roots.
Ms. Garza is only one of several major migrant smugglers protected by Mexican
police, American officials said.

An affidavit filed by the I.N.S. says that in February investigators watched Ms.
Garza pay $9,200 to Mr. Velasquez, whose monthly police salary is just $400, for
escorting migrants through Reynosa.

In an interview on Tuesday night at a highway inspection station near Reynosa,
Mr. Velasquez said he had not previously heard of the American charges lodged
against him. Asked if he had ever met anyone named Gladys Garza, Mr. Velasquez
said: "I'll have to think about it. No -- why lie to you -- I don't know her."


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 6, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Panel Votes for Worker Visas for 250,000

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5


Bowing to big farming interests in California, Florida and Texas, the House
Agriculture Committee today approved an amendment to the House immigration bill
that would grant temporary work visas to as many as 250,000 foreign farm
workers, even though many senior Republicans say this will only encourage a new
flood of illegal aliens.

Among those favoring the guest-worker program at today's packed hearing were
many of the same House members who have clamored the loudest for tighter
restrictions on illegal immigration, as well as many lobbyists for farmers and
ranchers who fear that cutting off the migration of workers across the border
would leave them without the help they need.

The overall bill the committee is considering would strongly crack down on
illegal immigration, which has become a major theme in the Presidential
campaign, and several representatives today condemned the amendment for allowing
undocumented aliens into the United States, even with temporary visas.

"Once you admit hundreds of thousands of people like this, why not just pull the
Border Patrol off the border and let people in?" asked Representative Lamar
Smith, the Texas Republican who is the main author of the bill. "This undercuts
everything we're trying to achieve."

Six of the Republicans who voted for the amendment belong to a House committee
appointed by Speaker Newt Gingrich that last year recommended tough restrictions
on illegal immigration.

What large farmers and ranchers fear, their lobbyists say, is that the new
immigration bill might work too well and that additional border guards and the
need for employers to use advanced new systems to confirm an alien's legal
status would dry up a large part of their labor market. Crop growers estimate
that up to 50 percent of their 1.6 million seasonal workers are illegal aliens
who hold false identification papers, but the Labor Department says the real
figure is closer to 25 percent.

Today, lobbyists from the National Cotton Council, the United Fresh Fruit and
Vegetable Association, the American Farm Bureau Federation and many of the 48
other agricultural organizations favoring the guest-worker amendment darted in
and out of the corridor outside the committee room to buttonhole lawmakers
before the final votes.

"The combination of electronic verification, interior and border control puts
pressure on our labor market," said Monte Lake, a lobbyist for the National
Council of Agricultural Employers.

Representative Richard W. Pombo, a California Republican who sponsored the visa
amendment, said: "We have an opportunity to address the serious concerns of the
farmers and ranchers of America. It is vital to accommodate the legitimate
interests of farmers and ranchers."

The amendment passed 25 to 13, largely along party lines, after lawmakers agreed
to make the program a three-year pilot program rather than a permanent part of
immigration law.

The lobbyists have been making their case for weeks.

"All we're asking for is that if there are worker shortages, we can get
temporary workers to get through," Michael J. Stuart, executive vice president
of the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, said in a recent interview.

Opponents of the amendment, including the Clinton Administration and many
farm-worker organizations, say that there is no farm worker shortage and that
big farming interests are just trying to insure a surplus of cheap, docile
labor. The Labor Department estimates that at any given time, 12 percent, or at
least 190,000 domestic farm workers, are out of a job.

President Clinton said last year that a new guest-worker program was unwarranted
because it would increase illegal immigration, take jobs from American citizens
and lower wages and work standards for American workers.

Moreover, the United States already has a guest-worker program that allowed in
about 17,000 temporary workers last year. Growers contend that the program is
snarled in bureaucracy.

The new program evokes memories of the Bracero program of 1942-64, which brought
in more than four million laborers from Mexico. The House narrowly approved a
guest-worker program in 1984, but the bill died in the Senate.

Proponents of the latest guest-worker amendment said that under their plan, 25
percent of foreign workers' wages would be withheld until the workers returned
to their home countries.

But critics of the proposal said that provision would not be enough to prevent
temporary workers from remaining in the United States.

Lawmakers focused today on the apparent contradiction between wanting a new
guest-worker program and cracking down on illegal immigration. The debate
provoked several sharp exchanges, including one between Representative Earl
Pomeroy, Democrat of North Dakota, and Representative John T. Doolittle,
Republican of California.

"You can't have stepped-up calls for enforcement on the border and then contend
guest workers aren't going to wander off to become illegal aliens once they are
here," Mr. Pomeroy said in the exchange. "Mr. Doolittle, you can't have it both
ways. It's absolutely illogical."

Mr. Doolittle shot back: "We're doing this so we can accommodate people who want
to work, and can work and then can go back to their country. I've got no
interest in immigrant-bashing. If you think this is so illogical, I think you're
being uninformed."


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 1996, Thursday

CORRECTION:

A caption accompanying a photograph yesterday of Republican members of the House
Agriculture Committee just before a vote to grant temporary visas to farm
workers misstated the given name of one of the members. He is Bill Barrett of
Nebraska, not Thomas Barrett.


GRAPHIC: Photo: House Agriculture Committee members yesterday before a vote on
working visas. They are, from left, Saxby Chambliss, Pat Roberts, chairman,
Richard Pombo, Michael Crapo, Larry Combest and Thomas Barrett. ,(Paul
Hosefros/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 8, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Author of Immigration Measure in Senate Drops Most Provisions on Foreign Workers

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;   Page 20;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7


In a victory for business leaders, the author of the Senate immigration bill
said today that he would drop almost all provisions on foreign workers, measures
that American companies had said would hurt their ability to recruit skilled
employees from abroad.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican who heads the Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration, surprised senators and lobbyists at a hearing today
when he promised to strike a provision to reduce to 90,000 from 140,000 the
number of skilled foreign workers that American companies can hire legally each
year.

Mr. Simpson said he would also eliminate a requirement that American companies
pay at least $10,000 per foreign worker to a fund to train American workers.

Under the legislation, it would still be illegal for American employers to hire
undocumented aliens. But if adopted by the full committee later this month, the
changes Mr. Simpson offered today would remove most restrictions on companies
that want to hire particular workers from foreign countries.

"It's a huge step in the right direction," said Jenifer Eisen, director of
American Business for Legal Immigration, a coalition of business organizations.

Mr. Simpson's decision is likely to shore up support for his overall bill -- or
at least neutralize powerful business interests that had opposed him. High-techn
companies like Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard have backed efforts to split the
bill's legal immigration provisions from the more popular restrictions on
illegal aliens.

After meeting with more than 50 business groups, Mr. Simpson said industry's
objections were too many to resolve. "I just got tired of dealing with it," he
said after the hearing.

The Clinton Administration insists on keeping some of the provisions Mr. Simpson
offered to drop, including a bar on employers from dismissing American workers
and replacing them with temporary foreign workers.

"I'll recommend the President veto this bill if it does not protect American
workers," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said in an interview.

In another concession, Mr. Simpson supported an amendment by Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to modify a plan to establish an automated
system that employers would be required to use to verify a worker's legal
status.

The amendment replaces a requirement to have a mandatory system in place within
eight years with a plan to let the Immigration and Naturalization Service test
several pilot programs in states with large numbers of immigrants. Congress
would review the pilot programs after three years and approve any that lawmakers
liked. The amendment passed 10 to 6.

The issue of how employers check workers' legal status is divisive in both the
House and the Senate. An unlikely coalition of liberal Democrats, civil
libertarians and conservative small-business advocates oppose automated systems
as a costly, unwarranted Federal intrusion in the workplace.

But lawmakers from border states say they need new tools to crack down on
illegal aliens.

Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who is the main sponsor of the
House immigration bill, said in a statement today that in response to employers'
concerns, the House bill would probably make a verification system voluntary
instead of mandatory.

At today's hearing, senators agreed to an amendment by Senator Spencer Abraham,
Republican of Michigan, to penalize foreigners who enter the country legally but
overstay their visas.

But by a vote of 9 to 9, they rejected Mr. Abraham's motion to eliminate all
identification systems in the bill. Buoyed by the tie, Mr. Abraham vowed to try
again on the Senate floor.

Before the vote, senators jousted over the merits of a worker-identification
system. "The current system is not working," Mr. Kennedy said.  "It's too easy
for illegal immigrants to get jobs using false documents."

Border-state senators voiced pleas for Federal relief from a new flood of
illegal immigrants armed with fake identification papers.

"People want the Federal Government to carefully regulate and fairly control
immigration," said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California. "You can't
do that if all the documents are bogus."

But other lawmakers expressed fear that an automated system would ultimately
lead to a Big Brotherish national identification card. "I don't want to have to
prove I'm an American citizen to anybody," said Senator Patrick J. Leahy,
Democrat of Vermont.

Senator Hank Brown, Republican of Colorado, fired back, "Well, how then do you
protect American jobs without being able to do that verification?"

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a meeting of a Senate Judiciary subcommittee yesterday on an
immigration bill, Alan K. Simpson, left, conferred with Patrick J. Leahy,
standing, and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah. At right was Edward M. Kennedy. (Paul
Hosefros/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Raids Link Organized Crime to Sweatshops

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1294 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 24


Raids by Federal officials this week have turned up evidence that Asian
organized crime rings may be bringing Asian and other foreign workers into
Southern California illegally, specifically to work in sweatshops in the area's
booming garment manufacturing industry.

This is the second time in three weeks that such evidence has been turned up,
Government officials said. The raids, which were carried out on Wednesday by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, found 56 illegal immigrants at three
sweatshops here. Most were Thais who appear to have been recruited to cut and
sew garments destined for major American department stores, Labor Department
officials said. They also said it appeared that some of the garments might have
been shipped to J. C. Penney.

In the latest case, the abuses have been swept up in Presidential politics,
inciting bitter exchanges today between officials of the Clinton Administration
and Gov. Pete Wilson of California -- not over how the abuses can be stopped or
their ominous economic significance, but over who is to blame.

Mr. Wilson, who is staking his bid for the 1996 Republican Presidential
nomination in part on his battle against illegal immigration, asserted in a
letter to Attorney General Janet Reno that the Clinton Administration had
"allowed slavery to exist for years in the United States and ignored it."

The Governor called for an investigation of the authorities here who oversee
immigration matters, but the Justice Department insisted that it was effectively
enforcing the laws.

In the earlier case, 72 Thai womean who immigrated here illegally were found
being held in slave-like conditions in a factory in El Monte, in eastern Los
Angeles County, some for as long as seven years.

Those raids were conducted by the state authorities after Federal immigration
officials, first in the Bush Administration and then in the Clinton
Administration, investigated but refused to act.

"There's a sense that this is the tip of the iceberg," said Julie Su, a lawyer
at the Asia Pacific American Legal Center who is representing most of the Thai
women found in the El Monte raid. "There are indications that these kind of
labor law violations are rampant here."

William Slattery, the immigration agency's executive associate commissioner for
operations, said there was a pattern of Asian-based crime groups recruiting
Asian workers with promises of high wages, and then transporting them illegally
to the California sweatshops.

"These Asians are not here by accident," he said. "They are here because of
Asian organized crime groups."

The raids carry troubling economic implications. While Southern California has
been losing tens of thousands of high-paying jobs in the aerospace industry and
with military contractors, the garment industry has been applauded for adding
jobs nearly as fast. But now there is concern over what kinds of jobs are being
created and how they may be distorting the economy here.

Southern California has surpassed New York City as the nation's largest garment
manufacturing center, with about 125,000 workers cutting and sewing apparel. The
Labor Department estimates that there are 4,000 legally registered garment
contractors in the area, and perhaps 1,000 illegal shops.

The industry has been known as a persistent violator of labor laws for some
time. A survey done by the Labor Department 14 months ago found that 79 percent
of the shops investigated were failing to pay workers properly for overtime, and
69 percent failed to pay the minimum wage to all their workers.

William C. Buhl, the department's regional administrator here, said today that
it appears that some of those jobs are going to illegal immigrants who are being
recruited by organized crime rings.

Mr. Buhl said department officials found that the illegal workers caught on
Wednesday were apparently owed back wages totaling more than $200,000. He also
said the shops might have fabricated time cards in an effort to show compliance
with the labor laws.

Authorities on the garment industry said there were several deeper economic
problems at work. One is the fact that, with more and more garments produced in
places like China, where wages are a fraction of those in the United States,
American factories are finding it harder to compete except in small niches. Some
manufacturers accuse the retailers of applying too much pressure on them to keep
prices down.

"The retailers in the past turned a blind eye to the effect of their insisting
always on rock-bottom prices from the manufacturers," said Richard Reinis, a
lawyer who represents eight large manufacturers who have initiated a voluntary
labor law compliance program.

Some manufacturers maintain that the real problem is lax enforcement of the
labor laws, which has created an incentive for sweatshops -- most of them
sub-contractors to the larger manufacturers -- to hire illegal workers and pay
them less than the minimum wage.

Ms. Su, the lawyer at the Asian Pacific American Legal Center, also points to
the labor law enforcement problems, saying the raids will only push these shops
farther underground.

The immigration agency said Wednesday's raids were the result of a tip it got
from someone who had been emboldened by the publicity over the raid on the El
Monte factory. Of the 56 people being held today, 39 are Thai, 9 are Mexican, 6
are Salvadoran, one is Honduran and one is Laotian, the agency said.

No criminal charges have been brought yet, but Federal officials said they were
likely soon. In the El Monte case, nine Thai citizens were indicted on criminal
charges that they brought the women here and held them illegally.

State officials identified only J. C. Penney as a destination for garments made
at the three shops, although they said there were others.

Hank Rusman, a spokesman for J. C. Penney, said that the company had not yet
determined whether it had bought garments from the sweatshops, but added that it
"will take appropriate action" if that was borne out.

But the discussion today about the problem quickly degenerated into
finger-pointing by Federal and state officials eager to score political points.

Virginia Bradshaw, the California Labor Commissioner, complained that Federal
officials had acted improperly by not notifying the state of its actions
beforehand.

She added: "Was this for political purposes? There doesn't seem to be any other
conclusion you can draw."

Ms. Bradshaw suggested that Federal officials had moved swiftly this week after
being embarrassed by the Government's lack of action in the El Monte case. Not
only had the immigration agency failed to initiate a raid after receiving a tip
about the Thai workers several years ago, but it had also withdrawn from the
state-run raid at the last minute, saying it could not obtain a warrant.

Mr. Slattery of the immigration agency rejected those charges. He said the
agency had acted properly at all times, was not embarrassed by its previous
failure to act in the El Monte case and had not deliberately excluded state
officials this time.

In his letter to Attorney General Reno, Governor Wilson characterized the
Clinton Administration's handling of the case as "unspeakable." But it failed to
say that the initial failure to shut down the El Monte sweatshop had taken place
under President George Bush, a Republican. The letter sought to make the case
that the Justice Department under President Clinton had shown a pattern of
indifference to illegal immigration.

"She has seen the letter," Ana Cobian, a spokeswoman for the department, said of
Ms. Reno. "She will review his concerns. The United States Attorney's office is
prosecuting the nine individuals to the fullest extent of the law."


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers Aren't Stealing Jobs

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 77 words


To the Editor:

Contrary to Roy Beck (Op-Ed, April 30), the American people support a
distinction between legal and illegal immigration.

Legal immigration brings skilled workers, artists and professionals to the
United States. This is a country founded and built by immigrants, from whose
efforts we gain and prosper. Their descendants want illegal immigration curbed
and legal immigration left alone.

WERNER GIERIG
New York, April 30, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Jail Official Blames Revolt On Agency

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words


Months before an immigration jail in Elizabeth, N.J., exploded in violence, the
company that runs it told immigration officials that tensions were building
among the 300 detainees there, the company's chairman, James F. Slattery, said
yesterday in his first interview since the uprising on Sunday.

The immigrants were being held for months on end in a jail intended for much
shorter stays because it was taking the Immigration and Naturalization Service
more than six months, on average, to process their cases, Mr. Slattery said. The
length and not the conditions of their jailing had provoked the disturbance, he
said.

"The tension in the facility was in direct proportion to the length of stay,"
said Mr. Slattery, chairman of Esmor Correctional Services. "They were
frustrated."

All the detainees were arrested at airports in the New York area after arriving
from around the world without documents or with false documents. Most have
applied for political asylum, a process with various legal layers.

Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said:
"Once an immigrant enters the process, neither the I.N.S. nor the facility can
control the length of time it takes." But the agency, knowing well the vagaries
of the asylum process, nonetheless ordered a detention center built for
immigrants whose stay would average 90 days, Mr. Slattery said.

In the weeks before the uprising, the immigration service was investigating the
detention center following complaints about conditions and abusive guards.
During the same period, Mr. Slattery said, Esmor had moved to alleviate tensions
by holding weekly meetings with detainees to allow them to air their complaints.
Mr. Slattery said he was unaware that tensions were at the point of explosion.

"If I had known, I would have acted," he said.

A note that Esmor officials said they discovered late yesterday while cleaning a
jail cell appeared to show just how calculated were the plans for the uprising.

Esmor officials said they thought the note was written by a detainee and passed
from cell block to cell block. It read, in part: "We are arresting every one of
them to enable us capture control and open doors for everyone to escape. No one
is to beat or harm any. The time is change to 1 A.M. Sunday morning b'cas the
seniors of them do leave here 12 midnight. If their not at dorm at 1 A.M., brake
window glass and pass through."

The jail officials first learned of the detainees' intention to revolt several
months ago, also through a handwritten note. A nurse had intercepted the note
detailing the immigrants' plan to take hostages and take over the control
center.

The immigrants' frustrations -- over the food, the sleeping conditions, their
treatment by guards and the sheer fact of their seemingly indefinite
imprisonment -- built to a head in the last couple of weeks, according to
immigration lawyers and the jail's chaplain.

First, the detainees learned that their unlimited phone privileges would be
curtailed. Then an inflammatory, apparently unfounded rumor swept through the
jail's eight dormitories. According to the rumor, the immigration service's
investigation would give short shrift to their complaints, and award the jail a
clean bill of health.

Joyce Phipps, a lawyer and professor at Seton Hall Law School who represents
several immigrants at the jail, said she received calls from clients upset that
Esmor would not be punished. She said her clients felt as if no one cared what
happened to them.

"They were angry, upset and very frightened," she said. She said they said to
her: "This was our last chance. Why won't anyone listen to us?"

Other lawyers for the immigrants agreed with Mr. Slattery that the length of the
detention played a part in provoking the uprising, but they said Esmor was still
largely to blame.

"This facility was clearly not intended for long-term stays, but the abusive
guards and inadequate conditions were the primary factors in the incident," said
Stephanie Marks, a lawyer with the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. "This
facility was run on the cheap with guards hired off the street with no
training."

The Rev. Martin McGrail of Faith Fellowship Church in Edison, N.J., who was the
chaplain at the detention center, said he had counseled inmates not to attempt
an escape. After the first note was found, he said, he bought red heart-shaped
stickers that he urged the detainees to wear on their jumpsuits as a symbol of
peace.

Mr. McGrail said he knew of at least three efforts to organize an escape between
March and June. Each time, he said, he reported the incidents to Esmor
administrators. He said action was taken to isolate the ringleaders.

"I didn't know there would be a riot on Sunday, but I knew it was going to
occur," he said. "Everything was going wrong in that place, and immigration knew
what was going on."

Carl Frick, who served as the new jail's first warden last year, said he too
could have predicted the uprising. He had been a warden for 22 years, the last
12 as the head of the Hunterdon County Jail in New Jersey.

Mr. Frick said Esmor officials instructed him to lie to immigration officials
and tell them a doctor had been hired. In fact, he said, he could find no doctor
willing to work for the low wages they were offering. He said he also was told
not to discuss any problems with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Mr. Frick also said everything from the food to medical care was done as cheaply
as possible. He said he was instructed to renegotiate a food-service contract
because $1.12 a day was considered too expensive for an inmate's meals.

"They don't want to run a jail," said Mr. Frick, who returned to the Hunterdon
County jail after two months with Esmor. "They want to run a motel as cheaply as
possible. Money, money, money, that's all that was important to them. It was
ridiculous."

Mr. Slattery of Esmor said the company has met all the conditions of its
contract with the immigration service and in some areas exceeded the
requirements.

He said, for example, that the number of calories consumed by prisoners was
increased from 2,400 a day to 3,300 a day after prisoners complained of too
little food.

Mr. Slattery released what he said was a list of nine demands drafted after the
inmates seized the squat, cinder-block center. Only one called for better
conditions. The rest asked for freedom and fair immigration hearings.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:  Esmor Correctional Services, which operates the detantion center in
Elizabeth, N.J., released this note yesterday and said it shows that the
takeover was carefully planned. The company said it found the note while
cleaning up the center. Below the note is the text, attempting to preserve
grammar and spelling. (pg. B4)
Diagram: "CASEBOOK: From the Debris -- A Clue to the Uprising"

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Frees African Fleeing Ritual Mutilation

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words


Fauziya Kasinga, who sought sanctuary in the United States in 1994, saying she
was escaping her African tribe's custom of mutilating the genitals of young
women, was released by Federal immigration authorities yesterday after more than
a year of sometimes harsh confinement in a detention center in New Jersey and
prisons in Pennsylvania.

Immigration officials said they decided to free Ms. Kasinga, 19, of Togo,
because she has developed strong ties in recent months to religious and human
rights groups who have promised to support her and insure she shows up for legal
hearings. The officials phoned her lawyers yesterday with the decision and then
told Ms. Kasinga.

"They called me in," she said. "I couldn't believe I was leaving the prison
today. I was screaming!"

Her case, scheduled to be heard on May 2 by the highest administrative tribunal
in the immigration system, is expected to set a precedent that will influence
the treatment of other women who say they are fleeing genital mutilation, a
common rite in 26 African nations. Officials said the case might not be resolved
for a year, and the limited detention space could be better used.

But Ms. Kasinga's lawyer, Karen Musalo, said she believes the Immigration and
Naturalization Service let her client go only after an April 15 article in The
New York Times detailing the case and the conditions of her detention led to a
public outcry, a barrage of news accounts and the promise of continuing protests
by an array of advocacy groups.

"When their decision to detain her saw the light of day, there was an outpouring
of concern and shock from the public," said Ms. Musalo, acting director of the
International Human Rights Clinic at American University, Washington College of
Law. "I don't want to sound like a curmudgeon -- we're extremely pleased -- but
we hope it doesn't take this kind of outcry for justice to be done for other
asylum seekers who are being detained."

Immigration officials said publicity did not influence the decision to release
Ms. Kasinga. David Martin, general counsel for the Immigration Service, said her
lawyer had within the last week informed the agency that a Bahai family had
agreed to take her in during the appeals process, giving her roots in the Bahai
community and a way for immigration officials to monitor her.

"This decision was made by headquarters in consultation with the district
director and he does concur with it," said Carole Florman, a spokeswoman for the
Justice Department, which operates the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Ms. Musalo and several law students who have worked on Ms. Kasinga's case and
talked to her daily over the last six months picked her up at the York County
Prison in York, Pa., yesterday. Ms. Kasinga skipped through the gate into the
arms of her overjoyed, tearful legal advocates. She held a small box containing
her few possessions.

She spoke hesitantly to a crowd of reporters as the women she has lived with at
the prison crowded at a window to wave goodbye.

"There's nothing like freedom," she said later, laughing exultantly. "I want to
be happy, to start a new life."

Ms. Kasinga will live with a family that is part of the Bahai community in a
Washington suburb and will also spend time with a cousin in the area.
Eventually, she said, her dream is to go to college, get an apartment and a car
and become an accountant.

Layli Miller Bashir, one of the law students who has worked on Ms. Kasinga's
behalf, is a member of the Bahai religion who organized support for Ms. Kasinga
among the Bahais. Ms. Miller Bashir's mother sent Ms. Kasinga yarn and needles
for knitting while she was in prison. Ms. Kasinga said Ms. Miller Bashir is like
a sister to her.

Last night, Ms. Kasinga put on a flowing sun dress sprinkled with pink and white
flowers that Ms. Miller Bashir loaned her -- the first dress she had worn since
she arrived in America. At the conclusion of the celebration with her legal team
and the family she is staying with, Ms. Kasinga blew out a single candle on the
cake but kept her wish a secret.

Ms. Kasinga arrived at Newark International Airport in December 1994, carrying
another woman's passport she said she bought in Europe and seeking asylum. She
was first held at the Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., where she said
she was shackled at times, denied sanitary napkins and put in isolation. After
an uprising there last June, she and other asylum seekers who had entered the
United States in the New York area were sent to prisons in Pennsylvania. There,
she shared a maximum security cell with an American convict and was strip
searched.

In August, an immigration judge in Baltimore rejected her asylum claim, saying
her account was "not credible." In October, Ms. Kasinga's lawyers asked the
immigration service to release her, pending the outcome of her appeal. But in
November, J. Scott Blackman, district director of the immigration service's
Philadelphia office, denied the request, saying that the immigration judge who
heard her case had not believed her and that she might flee before her appeal
could be heard.

In January and February, Ms. Musalo said she negotiated with lawyers in the
immigration service's Washington headquarters and was hopeful they would
overrule Mr. Blackman. But in March, she said, she was informed that Mr.
Blackman still refused to change his decision.

Ms. Kasinga says she came to America, seeking asylum, after her family forced
her to become the fourth wife of a man old enough to be her father, a man who
insisted she undergo genital mutilation, typically done without anesthesia.

She said she had been protected from the tribal practices of polygamy and female
genital mutilation by her wealthy father, a businessman who personally opposed
the practices. Her four older sisters had all married out of the tribe and
avoided the bloody rite.

But Ms. Kasinga said her father died when she was 16. His family took over the
home under the tribe's patriarchal customs, her mother was banished and Ms.
Kasinga was married off and days from being subjected to genital mutilation when
she fled with her oldest sister's help.

Her case will be the first in which the Board of Immigration Appeals considers
whether to grant asylum to a woman who says she is fleeing genital mutilation.
The board's decision will be binding on all 179 of the nation's immigration
judges.

By law, an individual can be granted asylum based on a well-founded fear of
persecution because of race, religion, nationality, political opinions or
membership in a social group. Ms. Kasinga's lawyers say she is part of a social
group: young women of the Tchamba Kunsuntu tribe who resist genital mutilation.

Lawyers for the Immigration Service say they will argue that the fear of genital
mutilation should be a reason to grant asylum in some cases. But they said women
who had already acquiesced to the rite should generally not be eligible for
asylum. Nor is it enough to face ostracism for not acquiescing, they said; a
woman must literally face being forced into it. If the board believes new
evidence merits consideration, lawyers for the service are asking the board to
send her case back for reconsideration.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fauziya Kasinga of Togo was released from a Federal prison in
York, Pa., yesterday after spending more than a year in confinement. (Greg
Mahany for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 21, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Aides Deceived Lawmakers, Inquiry Finds

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;   Page 14;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


Senior Immigration and Naturalization Service managers last year released
detainees, including some with criminal records, to deceive a group of visiting
House members about overcrowding and security problems at the agency's Miami
operations, a Justice Department investigation has concluded.

The inquiry found that immigration officials deliberately sought to mislead the
lawmakers about conditions at the detention center in Miami and the inspection
area at Miami International Airport. The yearlong investigation by the Justice
Department's inspector general, Michael R. Bromwich, also found that top
managers at the agency's district office in Miami and its Eastern regional
office in Burlington, Vt., had obstructed the inquiry, lied to investigators and
destroyed incriminating electronic-mail messages. The immigration service is a
part of the Justice Department.

Department officials said the agency managers sought to conceal overcrowding by
releasing 58 detainees, including nine with criminal records, who had not been
screened hours before the lawmakers arrived.  Another 45 detainees were sent to
a local jail and a detention center near New Orleans, at a cost of $10,267,
until the legislators left.

Mr. Bromwich said in the report's executive summary that he would refer his
findings to the Justice Department for disciplinary action and possible criminal
prosecution.

The summary said, "The conduct of these officials in the context of the
Congressional visit and during the course of the investigation is very
disturbing, all the more so since the most egregious conduct was committed by
persons in positions of substantial responsibility and leadership."

The head of the Congressional delegation to Miami today praised the scope of the
inquiry, but expressed bewilderment at the motives behind the managers'
deception.

"I have a difficult time figuring out why they would want to paint a rosy
picture," said Representative Elton Gallegly, a California Republican who
released the executive summary today. "If anything, you'd think they'd want us
to know, 'Hey, we need as much help as we can get.' "

Doris Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration, said in a statement tonight,
"The report outlines actions that undermine the public trust that the I.N.S. has
worked hard to develop."

Pending any disciplinary action by the Justice Department, Ms. Meissner said she
was temporarily reassigning four senior field managers to nonsupervisory jobs.
Two of these managers are Carole D. Chasse, the immigration service's Eastern
regional director, and Walter Cadman, the Miami district office director.

Ms. Chasse, a major target of the inquiry, today denied wrongdoing.

"There isn't anyone on this staff who was not totally truthful and forthright
about information we had," Ms. Chasse, whose district includes 25 Eastern and
Southern states and Puerto Rico, said in a telephone interview.

A spokesman for Mr. Cadman, would not comment on the inquiry's findings.

When the seven-member Congressional delegation, appointed by Speaker Newt
Gingrich to review changes in immigration policy, visited the agency's Miami
operations on June 10, 1995, Mr. Gallegly said they saw a picture of well-oiled
organization effectively coping with one of the most challenging immigration
portals in the country.

But a few days after the delegation returned to Washington, it received a letter
signed by more than 45 agency employees in the Miami area warning the
legislators that they had been misled.

The investigation subsequently ordered by Attorney General Janet Reno concluded
that the problem-free operation that so impressed the visitors was actually the
product of a stunning pattern of deceit all carefully orchestrated by senior
agency managers.

In addition to the release of unscreened detainees at the Krome Service
Processing Center, one of the nation's largest detention centers, the
investigation found several problems with the agency's inspection operations at
the Miami airport.

The inquiry found that in advance of the Congressional visit, senior agency
managers cleared holding cells of all undocumented aliens except known
criminals, nearly doubled the usual number of inspectors and opened 29 of the
agency's 36 inspection booths, as compared with the 18 booths normally used.

"It is one thing to instruct personnel to comport themselves professionally
because of the arrival of V.I.P.'s," the executive summary said. "It is entirely
different to give instructions that increase the risk of a public safety
incident and that run counter to the very mission of the agency."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 18, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Suspected Organizer of Golden Venture Operation Is Arrested

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1163 words


The man who masterminded the Golden Venture smuggling operation -- a man who
ordered the freighter grounded so its human cargo of illegal Chinese aliens
could swim or die -- was captured on Thursday in Bangkok while washing his new
Mercedes, Federal law enforcement officials said yesterday.

The elated officials said last night that the arrest of Lee Peng Fei -- a
shadowy figure generally known as Charlie or Char Lee even to his immediate
subordinates in the cutthroat business of alien smuggling -- was by far the
biggest catch yet in the 1993 tragedy in which 10 Chinese people perished in the
waters off Rockaway Beach in Queens.

Twenty-one defendants, members of the ship's crew and suspected organizers of
the smuggling operation, were convicted in Federal court in 1994 and 1995. They
received sentences ranging from less than a year for crew members to 10 years
for Kin Sin Lee, believed to have been No. 2 in the smuggling ring.

Lee Peng Fei, 43, was arrested outside his condominium near the Bangkok airport,
according to an American immigration official in Thailand. The official,
speaking on condition of anonymity, said a search of the condominium turned up
numerous passports that Mr. Lee apparently planned to use in his alien-smuggling
business.

The arrest was carried out by the Royal Thai Police, acting on a tip received a
day before by representatives of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Thailand, Federal officials said.

Mr. Lee's arrest was based on a 10-count indictment returned by a Federal grand
jury in Brooklyn in August 1994 and sealed until he was caught yesterday, said
Zachary W. Carter, the United States Attorney for Brooklyn. The charges of
homicide and alien smuggling in the indictment carry a maximum sentence of 85
years in prison and a fine of $2.5 million upon conviction. Mr. Lee is being
held in a Thai jail pending extradition proceedings, the authorities said. "We
persevered and we found him," the immigration official in Thailand said,
exulting over the fact that Mr. Lee had been arrested while washing down his
green Mercedes, so new that it still had temporary plates.

"Bangkok is a very big city," the official said. "We knew from our sources that
he remained in Bangkok, but we've been frustrated at every turn."

Judith Lieb, an assistant United States attorney who will prosecute the case,
declined to comment last night on whether other arrests are expected; whether
government corruption in Southeast Asia might have aided the smuggling
operation, and whether information from the men convicted earlier might have led
to Mr. Lee's capture.

But it seems clear that at least some of the earlier defendants have been
cooperating with Federal authorities.

The freighter was run aground off Rockaway Beach on the early morning of June 6,
1993, and nearly 300 Chinese illegal aliens went into the water to try to reach
shore in the chill dark.

While much remains unknown about the latest, most important defendant -- there
have been reports that the Taiwan-born Mr. Lee has a wife in New York City --
much has emerged about his alleged role in the smuggling.

One count of the indictment places him on a beach in Queens on June 4, 1993, two
days before the grounding. Kin Sin Lee, his top lieutenant and shipboard
enforcer, has already admitted that he was checking out the tides for the
freighter, expected to arrive two days later.

Federal officials have said Mr. Lee was in New York City with other suspected
"snakeheads" -- smugglers of illegal aliens -- at that time, scouting possible
landing spots for the ship. Since the investigation's earliest days, officials
have said the top smugglers knew -- whatever the reason -- that no small boats
would show up to ferry the aliens to shore, as typically happens in such
operations.

An immigration agency spokesman said last night that Mr. Lee was in constant
radio contact with the freighter as it neared, and that it was he who gave the
order for the grounding well in advance, saying, "Those who can swim should swim
to shore."

Had the outcome not been so tragic, it could have been comical. Mr. Lee and his
confederates were reportedly thinking of sending the freighter up the East
River, hoping to unload their passengers just north of the Brooklyn Bridge -- a
nautical feat that one investigator characterized as insanely reckless even in
broad daylight, let alone in darkness.

The homicide charges against Mr. Lee were based on a rarely used statute against
causing death by inducing misconduct by a ship's officer, Ms. Lieb said. Asked
why Mr. Lee faced six homicide counts even though 10 aliens drowned or died of
hypothermia, the prosecutor declined to comment.

As Federal authorities laid it out in the indictment released yesterday, Mr. Lee
became involved in the Golden Venture operation in the summer of 1992. At that
point, the vessel transporting the aliens was the Najd II.

It brought them to Kenya, where it remained for several months, Federal
officials have said. For some reason, the Najd II was stranded, perhaps because
it seemed less than seaworthy, even by alien-smuggling standards, officials have
said. The aliens were loaded aboard the Golden Venture off the coast of Kenya in
early 1993.

Those traveling in hardship to an uncertain future in a strange land had paid up
to $30,000, and they were expected to work themselves half to death to pay it
back once they got to America, investigators who have followed alien smuggling
have reported.

Mr. Kin has characterized his superior as a man who traveled with bags of money
(origins unclear) with which he paid his customers' hotel bills while they were
waiting to board ship in Kenya.

"He is not a general but a top lieutenant who has wide latitude to pay people
whatever is necessary, to make decisions to resolve any problem," Mr. Kin told
investigators months ago in a straightforward attempt to ingratiate himself with
prosecutors.

The ship's captain told the authorities that he knew Mr. Lee only as Charlie and
that he communicated with him by ship's radio. (The indictment announced
yesterday added another nickname: Ma Lee.)

Mr. Kin's comments would seem to suggest that there might be yet another layer
of smuggling entrepreneurs even higher than Mr. Lee, but the authorities were
not commenting or speculating last evening.

Doris Meissner, the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said yesterday that Mr. Lee had been apprehended after an investigation lasting
more than two years, one that involved cooperation among immigration officials
in New York and overseas; the United States Coast Guard, the State Department
and the United State's Attorney's office.

Attorney General Janet Reno expressed gratitude to the Royal Thai Police. "This
case demonstrates our resolve to strike at the very heart of international alien
smuggling -- the barbaric trafficking in human beings for profit," Ms. Reno
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ten illegal immigrants aboard the freighter Golden Venture
perished in the waters off Rockaway Beach in Queens on June 6, 1993. Some of the
300 illegal immigrants who survived the tragedy wore masks at a temporary
detention center to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. (Edward
Keating/The New York Times) (pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Panel Proposes Fee For Bringing In Foreign Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12


A bipartisan Federal commission on immigration recommended today that companies
pay "substantial fees" -- up to $10,000 -- when they recruit and hire some
skilled foreign workers.

The panel, the United States Commission on Immigration Reform, suggested that
paying such a fee would be a way for a company to demonstrate its need for a
foreign worker, as opposed to an American one. As a trade-off, the commission
suggested streamlining the system by which a company certifies that it tried and
failed to find an American worker to fill the job, a process that can take up to
two years.

"We're saying that an employer who wants to hire a foreign worker has to put his
money where his mouth is," Susan Martin, the commission's executive director,
said at a meeting with reporters. "In our market-driven economy, if you really
value something highly, you pay for it."

The suggestion on paying fees for skilled foreign workers is part of a 245-page
set of policy recommendations, and justifications for those recommendations,
that was issued today by the commission. The nine-member panel, whose chairwoman
is Barbara Jordan, the former Democratic Representative from Texas, was
established in 1990 to advise Congress in setting immigration policy.

The commission recommended that after a transition period the number of people
who could qualify as permanent residents based on their skills or education be
lowered to 100,000 a year from the current 140,000. The commission went on to
recommend that companies that recruit foreign workers who have college degrees
but who are not considered to be at the top of their particular fields, or
skilled workers with a minimum of specialized experience, pay a fee -- possibly
as high as $10,000 -- for each of those workers.

In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 1994, about 25,000 immigrants fitting
those categories gained permanent residence. The commission estimated that the
process of certifying that there were no Americans who could do the jobs filled
by such workers costs the Department of Labor about $60 million a year.

Representatives of some business groups said companies were wary of the
recommendation to impose a fee, doubting that the process of certifying their
need for the employees would be streamlined.

"No company is going to bother with the whole immigration process unless they
need the person," said Austin Fragomen, chairman of the board of the American
Council on International Personnel. "So to have to pay a fee on top of the whole
process is just a wrongheaded, ivory tower idea that comes out of things like
commissions."

The document issued today presents a more detailed rationale for a set of broad
guidelines issued in June that, among other things, called for a substantial
reduction in legal immigration. It comes as two bills -- one by Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and one by Representative Lamar Smith,
Republican of Texas -- are being considered in Congress that would impose such
restrictions. The Administration has not put forward an immigration bill.

Critics of the commission's proposals have contended that the panel failed to
justify reducing the yearly level of legal immigration to 550,000 people from
the current figure of about 725,000. Indeed, while the commission's report
spells out a number of overarching principles for immigration policy --
including setting goals and priorities, making sponsors financially responsible
for immigrants, protecting American workers and infusing immigrants with
American mores, including the English language -- the report does not provide a
rationale for reducing legal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 19, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Too Many Engineers, Too Few Jobs

BYLINE: By Michael S. Teitelbaum;   Michael S. Teitelbaum, a demographer, is a
member of the United States Commission on Immigration Reform.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words


Is there such an acute shortage of skilled scientists and engineers that
America's computer industry and research laboratories must recruit thousands of
foreign workers yearly in order to compete globally?

That's what Sun Microsystems, Intel, Microsoft, the National Association of
Manufacturers and the American Immigration Lawyers Association would have you
believe. They successfully lobbied Congress to drop immigration reform proposals
that would have held down increases in the number of highly skilled foreign
workers. Statistics, however, contradict them. There is no shortage of
scientists, engineers or software professionals. If anything, there is a
surplus.

Claims of an impending dearth of scientists and engineers began a decade ago,
when Erich Bloch, then the director of the National Science Foundation, declared
that unless action was taken, there would be a cumulative shortfall of 675,000
over the next two decades.

Congress responded. The National Science Foundation received tens of millions of
additional dollars for science and engineering education. And in 1990, Congress
nearly tripled the number -- to 140,00 per year -- of employment-based visas for
immigrants with certain skills.

Not surprisingly, the number of science and engineering doctorates reached
record levels. From 1983 to 1993, the annual number of Americans earning such
Ph.D.'s increased 13 percent. But the number of slots for graduate students grew
even more dramatically during that time -- about 40 percent. The excess spaces
were filled by foreign students, who often stayed in America to compete in the
job market. Meanwhile, the United States sharply increased the number of
foreign-born scientists and engineers it let in; 39,000 were admitted in 1985,
82,000 in 1993.

The labor shortage never materialized. But global competition rose and the cold
war ended. High-tech corporations and defense contractors were forced to
downsize; state budget crises forced large universities to sharply reduce their
hiring of new faculty.

Unemployment among scientists and engineers remains much lower than for
low-skilled workers, as it does for all highly educated workers. Nonetheless,
tens of thousands of highly skilled professionals have been laid off. For
instance, from 1991 through 1994, I.B.M. laid off 86,000 workers; AT &T, Boeing
and Hughes Aircraft laid off a total of 135,000 workers.

It is an employer's market; stagnant or declining salaries have been the trend.
For instance, from 1968 through 1995, the median annual salary, including
benefits, for an engineer with 10 years of experience declined 13 percent in
constant dollars, to $52,900. Meanwhile, salaries in other professions like
medicine and law greatly increased.

Job prospects for recently minted scientists and engineers have plummeted. A
1995 study by Stanford University's Institute for Higher Education Research
concluded that "too many doctorates are being produced in engineering, math and
some sciences," not including biological and computer sciences. It said:
"Overproduction, estimated to average at least 25 percent, contradicts
predictions of long-term shortages, given current demand."

Engineers and software professionals who have lost their jobs could be easily
retrained by the big high-tech companies. However, there is no incentive to do
so, as long as they can easily hire from U.S.-educated foreign nationals.

As one software professional let go by a computer company reported, he and his
colleagues are "disposable" rather than "recyclable."

In short, the situation is out of balance. A record number of Ph.D.'s, but a
weak job market. Claims of a labor shortage, but stagnant or declining wages.
Thousands of laid-off professionals, but increased foreign recruitment. Shortage
or surplus? Ask any downsized engineer or computer professional for the answer.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers Aren't Stealing Jobs

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 195 words


To the Editor:

By lumping foreign skilled workers in with all legal immigrants, Roy Beck
(Op-Ed, April 30) misconstrues poll findings to support his argument that
business lobbyists are flexing their muscles over the objections of Americans.

Legal foreign professional workers do not take jobs away from American workers.
In many cases, they create jobs for Americans. For example, the Intel
Corporation hired a foreign national as a senior technical marketing engineer on
a team that developed Intel's video conferencing system. This one technological
advancement created 500 United States-based jobs.

United States corporations periodically must look abroad for workers with highly
technical skills that cannot be found in this country. These workers must, by
law, be paid the prevailing wage and are limited in the number of years they may
stay here.

Mr. Beck has done a disservice to the immigration issue. What we are lobbying
for has nothing to do with "mass immigration," and the workers we seek to hire
have no negative effect on American livelihoods.

JERRY J. JASINOWSKI
President
National Assn. of Manufacturers
Washington, May 1, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 24, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Suddenly, the Inflow of Mexicans Seems to Slow

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

DATELINE: CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico, Nov. 21


Victor Covarrubias knows Mexico's northern border well. He has waded the Rio
Grande here many times, slipping past the Border Patrol as he heads north to
America's pepper harvests or construction sites where $6 an hour is 15 times
what he can earn back home.

But this week Mr. Covarrubias, who has crossed the border at many different
points, found that it has changed. For several days, he tried to cross the river
from Juarez into El Paso, only to have American agents block his advance again
and again. Finally he hired a coyote, a people-smuggler who promised to lead him
across the river along a secret route and put him on a plane to Dallas for $400.
But that was a swindle, and although Mr. Covarrubias did finally make it to the
United States, agents detained him before he got close to his plane.

Although thousands of illegal migrants still cross parts of America's 2,000-mile
southwest border virtually unhindered, others are finding that since enforcement
has been tightened along some key stretches, it is no longer an easy matter. It
has become so difficult to breach the border south of Juarez or San Diego, which
until recently accounted for 60 percent of illegal crossings, that after
repeated failures, some migrants, like Mr. Covarrubias, have exhausted their
resources. And thousands of other Mexicans are now weighing a complex equation
of transportation costs, wages and logistical risks before trying to migrate
north.

A recent study by Jorge A. Bustamante, a prominent Mexican demographer,
concluded that despite Mexico's wrenching depression, illegal immigration to the
United States decreased somewhat this year because tightened enforcement greatly
increased the costs.

The study appears to support an assumption underlying a crackdown by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service: If the authorities make illegal border
crossings sufficiently difficult and costly, some people will quit trying.

"As long as there are huge wage disparities between Mexico and the United
States, you'll have a continuing flow," said Robert Bach, an executive associate
commissioner at the I.N.S. "But what Bustamante is showing, and what we believe,
is that our increased enforcement has begun to tip the economic balance. For
many workers, it's become too expensive to come north."

Several respected researchers dispute Dr. Bustamante's conclusions. Frank D.
Bean, a demographer at the University of Texas at Austin, for instance, has
concluded that in the last year not only Mexico's economic crisis but also
strong job growth in the United States have helped increase illegal border
crossings, though he adds, "It's not the mammoth phenomenon that some people are
saying it is."

About 40 percent of the illegal Mexican migrants apprehended each year have
tried to cross from Tijuana, south of San Diego; 20 percent have come from
Juarez. Until recently, these borders were out of control, with thousands of
migrants racing across the line each day and American agents pursuing them
through railroad sidings and suburban patios.

Two years ago, however, the Border Patrol put 400 agents at 100-yard intervals
for 22 miles along the border in the area of El Paso, forming a virtual human
barricade.

One year ago, along the border running east from Imperial Beach, Calif., the
authorities built a 14-mile steel fence, installing searchlights and motion
detectors and fielding hundreds of new agents.

This year, new agents have also been deployed south of Tucson. With $236 million
in additional funds in the fiscal year that ended on Oct. 1, the Border Patrol
increased the number of agents along the 2,000-mile line from Brownsville, Tex.,
to Imperial Beach to about 5,000 from under 4,000.

But even as the Border Patrol has offered new deterrents, the Mexican and
American economies have provided powerful incentives for migrants to go north.
Last December's peso devaluation cut Mexican wages in half and threw millions of
Mexicans out of work, and 1995 has seen a surge in American job growth.

In the wake of these factors, the number of illegal migrants apprehended by the
Border Patrol surged by 30 percent, from 979,101 in the fiscal year 1994 to
1,271,390 in 1995. But how to interpret the increase?

For nearly two decades, the relationship between the number of illegal migrants
apprehended and the number seeking to cross appeared straightforward, because
the Border Patrol's size and tactics were consistent. Now, however, demographers
are divided about whether the increase in migrants apprehended should be
interpreted as a swell in illegal migration, or in the beefed-up Border Patrol.
Further complicating the analysis, agents seize and count thousands of the same
illegal immigrants many times.

Dr. Bustamante's study is not based on I.N.S. statistics. For eight years, he
and other demographers at Mexico's Colegio de la Frontera Norte, a Tijuana-based
research group, have carried out weekly interviews with migrants at crossing
sites in Tijuana, Mexicali, Ciudad Juarez, Nuevo Laredo and Matamoros, and in
1993, they began a parallel survey at several northern cities.

Using the random-sample techniques of a household survey, Dr. Bustamante
estimates the flow of undocumented migrants crossing the border. In the first
three months of this year, he concluded in a recent study, the northward flow
declined by about 9 percent, compared with the same period in 1994. The reason,
he said, was that migration costs, including bus and airplane tickets to
northern cities, have increased, and breaching the border has become so
difficult that many migrants now pay hundreds of dollars to coyotes.

"It's overwhelmingly clear that the number of undocumented migrants has
declined," Dr. Bustamante said. "Costs have risen, and that's largely due to the
increase in the numbers of border agents."

Another factor dampening the flow may be the political climate in the United
States as it is portrayed in Mexico; lately it has seemed openly hostile to
immigrants.

"Five-Year Prison Terms for Illegals!" screamed the Diario de Juarez's headline
on Sunday for an article about a proposal by Republican legislators to increase
prison terms for recidivist illegal immigrants who are using false documents.

Thomas J. Espenshade, a Princeton University demographer, expressed skepticism
that stepped-up enforcement has had any significant impact. "A short-term
decline is not out of the question, but my guess is that it wouldn't be a
permanent reduction," he said. "It's a pretty porous border."

Neverthless, many potential migrants are weighing the risks carefully. In Mr.
Covarrubias's case, he and his wife were barely supporting their four daughters
when in September he was laid off from his job in a tire factory 375 miles south
of the border. When an old friend called from Dallas with news of a job in an
auto-body shop and wired him $500 for travel costs, Mr. Covarrubias boarded a
bus to Juarez.

After the coyote took his money, Mr. Covarrubias waded the river into the United
States southeast of Juarez, but he was detained hours later. He looked a bit
dazed when he was deported back across the bridge into Juarez last week.

"Put in your story that of every five who try to cross, only one gets through!"
Mr. Covarrubias said.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Covarrubias, second from right, being led into the
National Immigration Institute in Mexico for questioning this month after his
most recent journey across the border -- a costly and unsuccessful one. (Joel
Sacaido for The New York Times)

Map: "A CLOSER LOOK: Beefing Up the Border" highlights patrols along the
U.S.-Mexico border.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 13, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 755 words



NEW YORK

Blocking School Board Winners

Legislative leaders reached agreement on a bill that would strengthen the hand
of the New York City Schools Chancellor at the expense of the community school
boards as he investigates corruption. The bill would allow the Chancellor to
block winners of school board elections in some districts from taking their
seats for up to a year. The bill falls far short of what the Chancellor, Rudy
Crew, the Board of Education and Mayor Giuliani had requested: the outright
postponement of elections, for at least year, in all 32 community school
districts. [Page B1.]

Rough-and-Tumble Politics

Politics is never gentle, not even in the seemingly tranquil, ever-so-polite
suburbs. In Harrison, N.Y., a fight over a Town Councilman's seat could lead to
court. Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves. [B1.]

A Blow to Hospitals Plan

Mount Sinai Medical Center has withdrawn from the bidding to take over Elmhurst
Hospital Center and Queens Hospital Center, two of the three hospitals the city
had offered for long-term leases. The decision is a blow to efforts to break up
the city hospital system. [B3.]

Charge Links Drugs and Aliens

Six Chinese immigrants were indicted on charges of selling heroin, and offering
discounts in return for forged passports to help them smuggle illegal immigrants
into the United States. Law enforcement officers said the indictments illustrate
the link between Asian heroin trafficking and alien smuggling. [B3.]

A Warning on Teacher Layoffs

Dr. Crew warned a City Council committee that the school system may have to
resort to laying off teachers if it were forced to reduce its spending by $1
billion. [B4.]

Students Crowded Out of Class

Because of overcrowding, nearly one in every eight public high school students
in Queens attends class for fewer hours daily than the minimum required by law,
according to a Board of Education report. [B4.]

The End of an Incinerator

The $40 million incinerator built in Glen Cove, L.I., in 1983 is to be torn down
and abandoned, a victim of determined opponents, tougher pollution laws and the
changing economics of the trash industry. [B6.]

After a Tree Falls in a Forest . . .

Governor Pataki said that millions of trees damaged when a potent windstorm
pummeled 430,000 acres of Adirondack forest would remain where they lie,
allowing the forest to heal naturally. [B6.]

Death-Case Fees Assailed

The Pataki administration denounced as exorbitant a proposed set of fees for
court-appointed lawyers who represent defendants in death penalty cases,
provoking a debate over how much the state should pay to insure the defense of
poor people facing capital punishment. [B5.]

A traffic dispute ended violently when one driver shot the other to death in
Greenwich Village, the police said. [B2.]

REGION

For Irish, Pride and Concern

Many of the 2.6 million Irish-Americans in the New York metropolitan region find
themselves making distinctions about how they commemorate their Irish heritage.
They are careful to explain that their intense animosity for the British
Government should not be interpreted as applause for violence. [B1.]

Gerry Adams, leader of the I.R.A.'s political wing, Sinn Fein, arrived in New
York for a six-day visit. [B2.]

Ice Ties Up Traffic on Bridge

Ice broke off the towers and cables of the George Washington Bridge in chunks
that smashed onto the roadway, forcing the closure of the upper level and
starting traffic jams on both sides of the Hudson. [B6.]

NEW JERSEY

Backpacks Hauled Into Court

A New Jersey court began hearing a "civil liberties versus school authority"
clash between an eighth grader who wants to keep carrying her backpack to school
and a school that has banned the packs as threats to the health and safety of
students and teachers. [B1.]

Advertising a Tax Amnesty

For the first time since 1987, New Jersey is offering tax amnesty. The state has
planned a $4 million advertising campaign urging anyone who owes the state back
taxes to pay now without any penalty during a tax amnesty program that starts
Friday and runs through June 1. [B6.]

CONNECTICUT

Judicial Layoffs Threatened

Gov. John G. Rowland said that 178 judicial employees would be laid off by the
end of the month and that more layoffs would follow, eliminating about 6 percent
of the Judicial Department's employees. [B6.]

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 30, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Measures Proposed

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;     Page 18;     Column 5;     National Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29


A House task force set up by Speaker Newt Gingrich has proposed firm measures to
curb illegal immigration, including requiring hospitals to report illegal aliens
who come to emergency rooms for treatment and denying Federal education money
for undocumented children.

Under the plan submitted today to Mr. Gingrich, a Georgia Republican, virtually
all Federal benefits would be denied to illegal aliens. They still could receive
emergency medical treatment, but hospitals would be required to report
undocumented patients to Federal authorities for deportation. The plan also
calls for a constitutional amendment ending automatic citizenship for everyone
born in the United States.

Mr. Gingrich broadly endorsed the proposals, calling them "specific,
common-sense, practical recommendations." He estimated the task force plan would
cut illegal entries by at least 70 percent.

An estimated five million undocumented aliens are in the country, with the
majority residing in California, New York, Texas and Florida.

Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, who, as chairman of the House
subcommittee on immigration will have first crack at acting on the proposals,
embraced the task force's goals but did not comment on specifics.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 27, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Standing Up for Immigrants

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 14;   Column 1;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 375 words


Mayor Rudolph Giuliani struck a blow for decency and common sense when he
criticized Congress's proposed crackdown on both legal and illegal immigrants.

In an interview last week with David Firestone of The Times, Mr. Giuliani argued
that measures taking shape in Congress would play havoc with New York City and
other large urban centers. A bill requiring schools to turn away students who
have immigrated illegally, or have been born here of illegal immigrant parents,
could throw 60,000 children onto the streets and deprive them of the education
they desperately need to become productive citizens.

Inevitably, fear of being discovered would force parents to withdraw children
from school. A similar measure forced upon hospitals, even if emergency care
were permitted, could discourage the ill from seeking treatment. That could well
result in the spread of communicable diseases like tuberculosis, which has been
making a disturbing comeback.

The Giuliani administration has worked vigorously to reduce the city's welfare
rolls. Even so, the Mayor has pledged to defy Congressional efforts to deny food
stamps, Medicaid and welfare even to aliens who enter the country legally but
who are not yet citizens. In addition to its xenophobia, such a law would force
the city to bear the cost of caring for thousands of people once they lost their
Federal benefits and became destitute.

As for aliens who are clearly illegal, some may ask why the Mayor has gotten
himself so worked up over people who should not be here in the first place. It
is a fair question with a simple answer. As Mr. Giuliani suggested, keeping
illegal aliens out and sending them home is a job for the immigration
authorities, not the Mayor of New York. They are here, and his responsibility is
to deal with them as fairly and rationally as possible.

Some of what the Mayor finds disturbing emerged from a Republican-dominated
panel on immigration reform that issued its recommendations in June. Mr.
Giuliani was right to characterize key parts of the package as pandering to an
irrational fear of foreigners. The Mayor's remarks underscore the fact that the
G.O.P. is deeply split on this issue. The forthcoming debate is bound to be a
rancorous one.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Republicans Offer to Aid States for Medical Care of Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 34;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 21


States that spend millions of dollars on emergency medical care for illegal
immigrants would get Federal help with that burden under a proposal by House
Republicans.

Speaker Newt Gingrich announced the plan on Friday, a day after using it to gain
support from border state lawmakers to pass the Republicans' Medicare bill.

Under the plan, hospitals would bill the Federal Government directly for
treating illegal immigrants, Mr. Gingrich said. The plan is not part of the
Medicare legislation as passed by the House.

Further details have yet to be worked out between the Senate and House, Mr.
Gingrich said. He offered no specifics.

"By having that provision, Congress will be reminded annually of the importance
of passing much more effective legislation to stop illegal immigrants," Mr.
Gingrich, Republican of Georgia, said before a political event in San Diego.

The Speaker described the plan in a letter to his House colleagues on Thursday.
"You have my assurances that we will create a special and separate Federal fund
which will be capped to provide payments to states with high proportions of
illegal aliens," he wrote.

Mr. Gingrich said money to cover the costs of emergency-room care for immigrants
would be doled out to states based on their "proportion of illegal aliens
compared to the overall national census count."

California Gov. Pete Wilson estimated the plan would pay $6 billion over the
next seven years. Mr. Wilson's office estimated that California will spend $382
million in the 1995-96 budget year on emergency medical care for illegal
immigrants.

The immigrant-health care measure would be included in the Republicans' broad
plan for balancing the Federal Budget by 2002. The budget plan would shave the
growth in Medicare spending for the aged and disabled by $270 billion during the
next seven years. It also includes an overhaul of the Medicaid program for the
poor, which would save another $182 billion.

The House has yet to vote on the Medicaid portion of the Republican budget
blueprint. The Senate is scheduled to take up a combined Medicare-Medicaid
package next week. President Clinton has said he would veto the Medicare plan as
passed by the House.

Mr. Gingrich predicted bipartisan support for the immigration plan.

"The fact is everywhere in America, there is an awareness that illegal
immigration is a very, very real challenge that we have to do something about,"
he said.

The measure follows lawsuits filed by several states demanding Federal money to
cover the costs of social services for people who are in the United States
illegally.

"What we're seeing is a direct consequence of the failure of the Federal
Government to secure our borders," said Representative Brian Bilbray, Republican
of California. "Our ability to provide health care to our poor and disabled
citizens is being jeopardized by the increasing costs of providing health care
to illegals."

Mr. Gingrich referred to a limited pool of money for states.

But Governor Wilson, also a Republican, said in a statement the plan would
"require the Federal Government to assume the full costs of emergency medical
care to illegal immigrants."

Last year, Governor Wilson filed lawsuits seeking Federal reimbursement for
imprisoning and educating illegal immigrants. Florida, New Jersey, Arizona and
Texas also took similar legal action.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 2, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

House Republicans May Split Immigration Bill to Keep It From Bogging Down

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section B;  Page 10;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1


With a huge immigration bill pending in the House, Republicans are debating
whether to split it in two, a move that would allow proposals intended for
illegal aliens to go forward while making action on legal immigration far less
likely anytime soon.

Ten California Republicans, including some of the most conservative House
members, have urged the House leadership to break out the provisions on legal
immigration.

In the letter, the House members said that while they believed in the need to
revise the country's immigration system as a whole, they also believed that
delays in passing the House immigration bill were "attributable to the legal
immigrations provisions of this legislation, resulting in the further delay of
needed efforts to stop illegal immigration."

Paul Mero, chief of staff for Representative Robert K. Dornan, a signer of the
letter and a candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination, said:
"Illegal immigration is such an important issue to Southern California. You tie
it up with the issue of legal immigration and you give cover to the Democrats to
beat the whole bill to a pulp."

At the same time, 35 lawmakers, mostly Republicans, who support limits on legal
immigrants were circulating another letter, this one addressed to Speaker Newt
Gingrich, urging him to keep the measure intact. They included Representatives
Bill Archer of Texas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee; Gerald B.
H. Solomon of upstate New York, chairman of the House Rules Committee, and Floyd
D. Spence of South Carolina, chairman of the Committee on National Security.

An aide to Representative Bob Stump, the Arizona Republican who circulated the
letter, declined to provide details, saying that it had not yet been sent to Mr.
Gingrich, a Georgia Republican.

The immigration bill that was approved last month by the House Judiciary
Committee reduces, over a five-year period, the amount of legal immigration to
no more than 535,000 people annually, down from the current level of about
800,000 a year. It also seeks to curb illegal immigration, mainly by setting up
a system where employers will verify the legal status of all newly hired
employees through a Federal databank.

Opponents of reducing legal immigration hope to remove the question from the
politically powerful appeal of stopping illegal immigration.

The letter proposing the split was circulated by Representative Jay C. Kim of
California, the only Korean-American member of Congress and a lawmaker born in
Seoul. Signers included Representatives David Dreir, Frank Riggs and Dana
Rohrabacher, all Republicans.

The fact that the letter was signed by 10 members from California, a state where
immigration has become a contentious political issue, is indicative of the
conflicting currents that wash through the Republican Party when it comes to
immigration.

While a majority of Congressional Republicans support reducing the level of
legal immigration, others, more free market-oriented Republicans like
Representative Dick Armey, the House majority leader, the former Education
Secretary William Bennett and the former Housing Secretary Jack F. Kemp, all
favor high levels of legal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 14, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Bill Seeks to End Automatic Citzenship for All Born in the U.S.

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;   Page 26;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13


A House panel today began considering a new and unusual idea to discourage
illegal immigration: amending the Constitution to end the automatic grant of
citizenship to everyone born in the United States.

The proposal is among a small group of bills, most introduced by House
Republicans, that would amend or reinterpret the Constitution to deny
citizenship to children born in the United States if their parents are illegal
aliens. To accomplish that, the Congress would have to repeal part of the 14th
Amendment, which was adopted after the Civil War to insure citizenship for
former slaves and their offspring.

The proposals, which were the subject of a hearing before a special House panel,
drew immediate opposition from the Clinton Administration and Hispanic advocacy
groups.

Walter Dellinger, the assistant Attorney General who as head of the Office of
Legal Counsel is the Justice Department's chief constitutional scholar, told the
panel that the proposal would fundamentally alter the American concept of
democracy by creating "a permanent caste of aliens, generation after generation,
born in America but never to be among its citizens."

Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of the Bronx, called the idea the worst
kind of immigrant-bashing, aimed against Hispanic immigration. "If this
complaint involved immigrants from Europe we wouldn't be having this hearing,"
he said.

Nonetheless, some of the bills have received support, especially from lawmakers
from California who complain that their public services are being drained by
illegal immigration, mostly from Mexico.

Representative Brian P. Bilbray, a California Democrat who is a former San Diego
County official, testified that the hospitals in his district were crowded with
illegal immigrant mothers who came to the United States to give birth. Once the
children are born, Mr. Bilbray said, they become United States citizens and the
parents are, in effect, virtually immune from deportation.

Those families then qualify for California's generous welfare plans, he said.
"Why should we continue to reward those who have broken our laws with benefits
paid for by those who abide by our laws?" he asked.

While most of the proponents of changing the citizenship qualification are
Republicans, the idea has also attracted some support among Democrats,
especially those from California.

Although most proposals call for a constitutional amendment, Mr. Bilbray
asserted that the same goal of discouraging illegal immigration could be
accomplished through legislation.

But Mr. Dellinger said it was beyond dispute that, with few exceptions, the 14th
Amendment conferred citizenship on all who are born here and could only be
changed through a constitutional amendment.

The Constitution contained no definition of citizenship until the adoption of
the 14th Amendment in 1868 which states: "All persons born or naturalized in the
United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States and the state wherein they reside." The clause creating an
exception for people who are not subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States has long been interpreted by courts to refer to a small class of people,
including children born to diplomats, who may be born in America but are immune
from its laws.

In 1898, the Supreme Court ruled that a child born in San Francisco to Chinese
parents who could not become citizens themselves under anti-immigrant laws, was
automatically a citizen.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

CORRECTION-DATE: December 19, 1995, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

An article on Thursday about proposals to change the Constitution so that
citizenship is not automatically conferred on those born in the United States
misidentified the party affiliation of Representative Brian P. Bilbray, who
asserts that public services in his home state, California, are being drained by
illegal immigration. He is a Republican.


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 14, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Asylum Cases Must Be Reduced

SECTION: Section A;   Page 30;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 231 words


To the Editor:

Although there has been an increase in Mexican nationals granted asylum in the
United States this year, after years in which such applications were routinely
denied, the number is still small -- 55 -- and represents one-half of 1 percent
of all asylum applicants from Mexico.

Of greater concern is that more than 9,500 Mexican nationals have filed
applications for asylum in a single year.

Based on the rate of approvals, we can assume that the majority of these
applications are frivolous and have been filed by illegal aliens solely to delay
their departure from the United States.

House Resolution 2202, the immigration bill of which I am the principal sponsor,
includes provisions to reduce the filing of frivolous asylum claims. These
include requirements that arriving aliens who have no valid entry documents
establish a credible fear of persecution before they are permitted to enter the
United States and pursue an asylum application.

The legislation also streamlines procedures for adjudicating asylum claims and
for removing illegal aliens from the United States.

Our asylum system should protect legitimate refugees, whatever their country of
origin. But abuse of the asylum system, as shown by the number of Mexican
applicants, must end.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Chairman, Subcommittee on
Immigration and Claims
Washington, Dec. 11, 1995

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 13, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

With Detentions Up, Border Is Still Porous

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1381 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Feb. 9


It is a few minutes before midnight, and Fernando Quiroga is crouched in the
carrizo cane along the banks of the Rio Grande. The air smells sweet, and the
light of a half-moon casts a faint glow on the river.

Mr. Quiroga, a senior agent with the United States Border Patrol, circles like a
cat down to the river, suddenly positioning himself between Mexico and a group
of 15 Mexican men who have just waded across.

"Detenganse!" he shouts, the rough Spanish equivalent of "Freeze!" The Mexicans,
most dressed in caps with sports logos like the Toronto Blue Jays, the New
England Patriots and Duke University, quickly surrender. They quietly throw
their belongings, most wrapped inside plastic grocery bags, into a pile in front
of Mr. Quiroga and three other agents.

Detention of illegal immigrants like this have risen in the past year in all the
nine Border Patrol sectors along the United States-Mexico border. And the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, one of the few Federal agencies to have
a large budget increase approved by the Republican-controlled Congress, is
hiring 1,000 new agents to patrol the border, a 20 percent increase in the size
of the force.

The increase also allows the agency to expand its technical resources, like
motion sensors, night-vision devices and a computerized fingerprint file for
every detainee.

But a day and a night with Border Patrol agents here in Brownsville, even while
offering a glimpse of the new technology at work, offers an even starker
illustration of just how porous the border remains. Even Mr. Quiroga estimated
that while he and fellow agents were detaining their group of men, another three
or four groups of similar size were probably making it across the river
uncaught.

The chief of the Border Patrol section in Brownsville, David Aguilar, said
increased detentions were deterring only some people from trying to enter the
country. With 138 agents, or roughly 46 in each eight-hour shift, to patrol 68
miles of winding riverfront and thousands of square miles between the border and
inland checkpoints, the odds favor the immigrant.

"If someone is determined to come across, they're going to make it," Mr. Aguilar
said. "What's driving these people is human needs."

A shift with Agent Quiroga was marked by hours of quiet waiting, hours of
paperwork to process the detainees, and a few moments of excitement and tension
when he confronted a man wading across the mouth of the Rio Grande with $135,000
worth of cocaine and marijuana. The man escaped back to Mexico, but the drugs,
which he threw into some bushes, were confiscated.

The night even had flashes of humor. As a spectacular sunset came to Boca Chica
beach, near where the Rio Grande empties into the Gulf of Mexico, Agent Quiroga
confronted a woman parked in a Lincoln Continental along the shore. He suspected
her of waiting to pick up an illegal immigrant. Asked what she was doing, the
woman languidly scooped a Chlorox bottle into the salty Gulf water. "Oh, I'm
just collecting some water to put on my lawn," she said, before driving off.

"Gulf water for the lawn," Agent Quiroga said, breaking into laughter. "Now,
that's a new one."

Most people coming across do not bear drugs and say they are simply looking for
work. Interviews with detainees here, virtually all of whom were bused back to
the Mexico border town of Nuevo Progreso and some of whom said they would simply
try to cross again the next day, also demonstrate how the relatively immense
economic opportunities in the United States continue to act as a magnet for
those trying to cross illegally.

"I won't lie to you," 34-year-old Jose Aguirre Garcia, from the city of Linares
in Nuevo Leon province, told Mr. Quiroga as he was being processed at the Border
Patrol center in Brownsville. "I will try to come again tomorrow."

Trying to support a wife and three daughters back home, he said he had earned
$2,000 in a few months picking citrus fruit in Florida last year, with no
substantial work available in Mexico.

"You're doing your job," he told Agent Quiroga with a friendly laugh. "And I'm
doing mine."

And while he had heard that the United States was more hostile to illegal
immigrants these days, Mr. Aguirre remained a bit skeptical. "They certainly
seemed to welcome my work in Florida," he said.

Baltazar Trinidad Guadalupe, a 21-year-old man from a small town a hundred miles
north of Mexico City, said he wanted to get to Houston where his relative say
there are plenty of jobs available laying sheet rock. He said: "Yes, I will try
it again. I have set a goal. Houston is my goal."

Mr. Trinidad said he believed he could make at least $12,000 in a year's work in
Houston, compared with the $1,500 he made this past year doing odd jobs in
Mexico.

Dressed in black jeans that were wet to the thighs from his crossing, a faded
green shirt and cowboy boots, Mr. Trinidad offered a history that illustrates
what immigration officials call the "squeezing the balloon" phenomenon: a
successful crackdown in one part of the border often leads to increased efforts
at crossing elsewhere.

Mr. Trinidad said he had tried a few times without success to cross at Ciudad
Juarez, across the river from El Paso, late last year and had been caught each
time. El Paso has had a much-publicized increase in agents and technology in the
last year and a half to deter immigration. "I heard it might be easier to get
across at Matamoros," Mr. Trinidad said, speaking of the Mexican border city
across from Brownsville. "So I came here."

While detentions are up an average of 66 percent all along the border, to
169,463 this past January, from 102,156 in January 1995, they have skyrocketed
in a few traditionally less-traveled places in particular: 116 percent in the
Tucson, Ariz., sector, 144 percent in Yuma, and 278 percent in El Centro, Calif.
Detentions are up 39 percent here in the Brownsville area, and attempted
crossings appear to be up as well, Mr. Aguilar said.

Immigration officials say that in time, they hope to "squeeze the balloon"
everywhere and make crossing as difficult all along the border as it is in
places like El Paso.

And for every person like Mr. Trinidad who is able to travel elsewhere along the
border, they say, there may be many other would-be illegal immigrants who give
up because the trip to an easier crossing point is too expensive or daunting.

At 4 A.M., Mr. Aguirre and the other men were bused back to Mexico. They had
spent four hours in detention, had had their fingerprints loaded into a
computerized file and had been advised not to enter the country illegally again.

While the United States says it will eventually try to put repeat offenders
behind bars, in most cases it has neither the prosecutors nor the jail space to
do so now.

The front line of defense remains people like the green-eyed, mustachioed Agent
Quiroga, a 30-year-old native of Laredo, Tex., where he once played middle
linebacker for the local high school.

The job has its dangers -- a Border Patrol agent was killed just last month in
Eagle Pass, Tex., in a shootout with drug smugglers, and agents on the Arizona
border have had shots fired at them at least 10 times in the past six months.
Conversely, some Border Patrol agents have been accused of brutalizing
immigrants.

But Mr. Quiroga said that for most agents the job is more typically marked by
days of relatively uneventful work, often involving detentions of people who say
with a shrug that they will come back. He said he no longer even lectures them
about not trying again.

"That's a negative," he said. "No lectures. You could turn blue in the face
trying to do that. A lot of people say, 'Why are you taking me back? I'm just
trying to make a better living for my family. All I want to do is work. Is that
such a crime?' "

And Mr. Quiroga is not at all unique among agents when he says that even in
doing his job as best he can he is not immune to sympathy for people on the
other end of the cat-and-mouse operation.

"In some ways, it's kind of impossible to hold back what's going on," he said.
"You talk to these people, you put yourself in their shoes, and you can see
exactly what the hell is going on out here. You can understand where they're
coming from."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Men who had just illegally crossed the Mexican border into Texas
knelt near the Rio Grande recently after being caught by the Border Patrol.
(Anthony Padilla for The New York Times)

Graph: "TALLY: Stopped at the Border" shows illegal immigrants apprehended in
each border sector in Jan. 1995 and Jan. 1996. (Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Services)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 3, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Washington Talk;
Playing by Senate Rules Wins the Day

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1;              Page 24;              Column 4;
National Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2


For a brief moment last Thursday, it looked as if the junior Senator from
Michigan had pulled off a legislative coup.

Senator Spencer Abraham, a freshman Republican, appeared to have convinced a
majority of Republicans and Democrats on the 18-member Judiciary Committee to
back his effort to split a sweeping immigration bill in two: one bill dealing
with legal immigration and another with illegal aliens.

Mr. Abraham was challenging Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the Senate's leading
expert on immigration, an issue that stirs great fears and emotions on Capitol
Hill.

It also ignites the kind of exchange that erupted at the end of Thursday's
hearing between two of the Senate's senior Republicans, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah
and Mr. Simpson.

The Senate bill under discussion would clamp down on illegal aliens, which is
politically popular. But it would also cut by more than 20 percent the number of
foreigners allowed to immigrate legally, including skilled workers and relatives
of American citizens.

That provision angered many Senators at Thursday's packed committee hearing.

"This bill is anti-family," said Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio.

"Let us not dampen the lamp of the Statue of Liberty," Mr. Hatch said. "Let us
not take counsel of our fears by slamming the door on those who are only trying
to emulate our own ancestors in coming to the land of freedom and opportunity
according to the rules we have set."

But Mr. Simpson and his allies insisted that the two issues were inseparable:
"Coming here legally and then staying illegally is the impetus of our effort."

With vote-rich border states like California clamoring for relief, Congress
desperately wants to pass an immigration bill this election year. Dividing the
bill would let the Senate address illegal immigration but would likely kill
efforts to restrict legal immigration, which are not popular enough to pass on
their own.

No one understood this strategy better than Mr. Simpson, who is retiring this
year and would like to crown his legislative legacy with a major immigration
bill.

When Mr. Hatch recognized Mr. Abraham in the hearing's waning minutes, allowing
Mr. Abraham to offer his amendment to split the bill, victory over the cagy Mr.
Simpson seemed at hand.

That is when the Wyoming Republican went to work. First he argued that it was
wrong to vote on splitting the bill before senators considered amendments that
could satisfy critics. He asked that a vote be deferred. That would buy Mr.
Simpson time to wheedle his colleagues and peel votes away from Mr. Abraham.

He then accused Mr. Hatch of ignoring an important Senate prerogative. "It's
inappropriate to recognize the junior member of the committee" before the
subcommittee chairman and sponsor of the pending bill, Mr. Simpson said.

"I don't think anyone wants to deprive you of anything," Mr. Hatch shot back.

Mr. Abraham interjected, "This is a threshold issue that should be brought up
now."

With voices rising on both sides, Mr. Simpson said he would ask for a point of
personal privilege, a rare procedural maneuver that senators can invoke when
they feel insulted, "and ask members to vote with me and against the chairman on
how to present this bill."

It was Mr. Hatch's turn to be caught off guard.

With his authority challenged, Mr. Hatch began to backpedal, saying, "Every
senator is equal on this panel." But with senatorial privilege on his side, Mr.
Simpson would almost certainly have won his motion.

Mr. Simpson did not give Mr. Hatch a moment to repair his dignity. "Are you the
Senator or these people the Senator?" he asked Mr. Hatch, gesturing to a gaggle
of aides behind the chairman.

That was it. Mr. Hatch quietly acknowledged he would defer to the subcommittee
chairman, and Mr. Simpson's tactical victory won him the chance to fight another
day.

Stunned that he had been outflanked, Mr. Abraham sputtered a plea to proceed
with his amendment. But the hearing broke up with senators rushing to a floor
vote.

"I think we had the votes," Mr. Abraham said after the hearing, adding that he
would try to offer his amendment again.

Afterward, Mr. Hatch tried to play down the incident: "It's a tempest in a
teapot. People don't want to offend Simpson since it's his last year."

Mr. Simpson had another explanation. "It's called legislating," he said with a
grin. "And I'm good at that."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 6, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

House Panel Backs Alien Farm Workers

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 167 words


Bowing to big farming interests, the House Agriculture Committee approved an
amendment to the House immigration bill yesterday that would grant temporary
work visas to up to 250,000 foreign farm workers, even though many Republicans
say the move would only encourage a flood of illegal immigrants.

The overall bill that the committee is considering would impose a tough
crackdown on illegal immigration, which has become a major theme in the
Presidential campaign, and several Representatives condemned the amendment
yesterday.

What large farmers and ranchers fear, their lobbyists say, is that the new
immigration bill might work too well, and that the additional border guards and
sophisticated new systems employers would have to use to confirm an alien's
legal status would dry up their labor market.

But opponents of the measure, including the Administration, say there is no farm
worker shortage and that farm interests are just seeking a surplus of cheap
labor.

Article, page A14.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 14, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Bill to Limit Immigration Faces a Setback in Senate

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B;   Page 12;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13


In a setback to those who want to cut legal immigration, the Senate Judiciary
Committee appears ready to consider new restrictions on legal and illegal aliens
in two separate bills, with illegal immigration to be considered first, rather
than one overall measure.

If the committee approves this approach on Thursday, which its opponents
conceded today was likely, Congress would probably have time in its compressed
election-year schedule to focus on illegal aliens and make few, if any, major
changes in laws governing legal immigration.

Passage of an amendment dividing the immigration bill into two parts this way
would be a victory for an odd coalition of libertarians, religious
organizations, pro-immigration groups and business leaders who oppose
restrictions on the entry of skilled foreign workers and the elimination of
categories of relatives that American citizens can sponsor to live here.

Supporters of legal immigration contend that the law now insures that American
companies can remain competitive in the global market and helps to unify
extended families in the tradition of this nation of immigrants.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is the main author of the
legislation and who is seeking to reduce legal immigration, acknowledged at a
hearing today that he had exhausted all personal pleas and tactical ploys in an
effort to delay the amendment he did not have the votes to defeat. "I can count
the votes as well as anyone," he said.

Mr. Simpson and his allies, who are seeking to cut legal immigration by about 20
percent from its current annual level of 775,000, could always try to recombine
the two bills or add amendments when the full Senate considers the legislation
in April. But those approaches are filled with risks and uncertainty.

With Congress operating on the tightened schedule, pro-immigration groups said
splitting the immigration bill would probably force proponents of deep cuts in
legal immigration to abandon their efforts or make enough concessions to win
House and Senate approval.

"This would send a message that deep cuts in legal immigration are so
controversial that unless they are tabled until next year or minimized
considerably, the whole immigration reform issue may falter," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group in
Washington.

The House is to vote next week on its immigration bill, which includes
provisions on legal and illegal aliens.  But a big fight is brewing over whether
to permit an amendment on the House floor to divide that bill in two.

At today's hearing in the Senate, the Judiciary Committee also approved by voice
vote an amendment by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to
give judges broader discretion to impose stiffer criminal penalties on people
convicted of illegally ferrying undocumented aliens into the country.

And in a victory for small-business owners, the committee approved an amendment
by Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, to eliminate provisions in the
legislation to increase fines levied against employers who knowingly hire
illegal aliens.  The vote was 10 to 8.

If the Judiciary Committee divides the bill, it would represent a remarkable
triumph for Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who has led the
effort to divide it, over Mr. Simpson, the Senate's leading voice on immigration
issues and a skilled legislative tactician.

Mr. Abraham, a freshman senator whom Mr. Simpson outflanked in the committee's
first meeting to consider the legislation, regrouped and fended off Mr.
Simpson's efforts in recent days to peel votes from his side. Although Mr.
Simpson and his allies have said a vote to split the bill represents a vote to
kill legal immigration reductions, Mr. Abraham says he has no such designs.
Under Mr. Abraham's amendment, the committee would take up provisions dealing
with legal immigration within seven days after finishing work on illegal aliens.

"I'm in no way trying to kill legal immigration reform, but it's a distinct and
separate topic, and ought to be dealt with that way," Mr. Abraham said after the
hearing.

But Mr. Abraham added that addressing legal and illegal immigrants separately
would pressure the committee to "put together a legal immigration bill that
enjoyed broad bipartisan support."

The Clinton Administration is a wild card in this legislative equation. The
White House last year endorsed a recommendation by a Federal advisory panel to
cut legal immigration by a third. But recently the Administration has focused
its efforts more on curbing illegal immigration and guaranteeing protections for
American workers.

"The Administration wants a bill that deals with legal and illegal immigration,"
Doris Meissner, the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said on Tuesday. "The tactics are up to Congress."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 15, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Panel Creates 2 Bills On Legal and Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14


By a surprisingly wide margin, the Senate Judiciary Committee agreed today to
consider new restrictions on legal and illegal aliens in two separate bills
rather than one, imperiling large proposed cuts in legal immigration.

After two weeks of jousting, the panel voted, 12 to 6, to strip the more
politically charged cuts in skilled foreign workers and family visas, and deal
with them separately after addressing stricter enforcement measures against
illegal aliens.

Six of the committee's 10 Republicans, including the panel's chairman, Orrin G.
Hatch of Utah, turned a deaf ear to the pleas of the legislation's main author,
Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, to deal with legal and illegal aliens
together.

"This is the way this legislation should be taken up," said Senator Spencer
Abraham, a Michigan Republican who led the effort to split the bill.

Mr. Simpson played down today's vote, saying: "This won't affect anything. We'll
go to the floor with both measures." But others who support deep cuts in the
numbers and types of immigrants who enter the country legally said Congress's
compressed election-year schedule as well as opposition from a broad coalition
of business and pro-immigration groups would make their task more difficult.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that supports cuts in legal immigration, said: "Senators will not have the
time or the political will to deal with two separate bills. Since illegal
immigration excites people the most, that's what's going to come first. Legal
immigration will just shrivel up."

Supporters of legal immigration say current law insures a plentiful supply of
skilled immigrants to serve as a wellspring of economic innovation. But critics
say foreign workers are taking jobs from Americans and placing huge burdens on
public services in states with large numbers of aliens like California, Florida
and New York.

The House Rules Committee decided today that an amendment to divide its
immigration bill into two parts could be offered next week. It is unclear what
effect the Senate decision will have on the House amendment.

Lawmakers said they also expected a heated debate in the House and Senate over
requiring employers to use an automated system to verify the legal status of job
applicants. Supporters say this is necessary to crack down on illegal aliens
with bogus documents. But critics, including liberals and libertarians, argue
that such a system is a dangerous step toward an intrusive national
identification card.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 21, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

House Approves Ending Schooling of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section D;  Page 25;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 813 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20


After a testy partisan debate, the House today overwhelmingly approved a measure
that would allow states to deny public education to illegal immigrant children.

The Supreme Court ruled in 1982 that illegal immigrant children were entitled to
a public education, and Federal courts have decided that meant the states had to
accommodate them in kindergarten through 12th grade.

But in unusual remarks from the floor, Speaker Newt Gingrich criticized the
requirement as a magnet for illegal aliens and an unfair financial burden on
states. California alone spends $1.7 billion a year to educate more than 300,000
illegal immigrant pupils, Mr. Gingrich said.

"This is totally unfair," he said.  "Come to America for opportunity.  Do not
come to live off law-abiding taxpayers."

A leading Democrat immediately accused Mr. Gingrich of playing to public
anxieties over illegal aliens to win political points. "It's outrageous that the
Speaker of the House comes down here to try to make partisan gains," said
Representative John Bryant, a seven-term Texas Democrat. "Shame on you, Mr.
Speaker!  This is a total failure of the leadership of the Speaker of the
House."

Democrats and even some Republicans asserted that the Republican-sponsored
amendment to the House immigration bill was a mean-spirited measure that would
drive young children into the hands of violent street gangs.

"These children didn't choose to be in this country illegally," said Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida. "They don't deserve to be punished."

The vote was 257 to 163, with 44 Democrats supporting the amendment and 20
Republicans opposing it.

The measure may ultimately prove more symbolic than substantive. The White House
strongly opposes the measure, and its chances in the Senate are murky.

But the anger and frustration behind today's vote reflected a groundswell of
opposition to the few benefits illegal aliens now receive, emergency medical
care and schooling for their children. This sentiment is especially strong in
border states like California. The education amendment echoed provisions in
Proposition 187, which California voters approved in 1994 but has since become
snarled in the courts.

The overall House bill, the most sweeping immigration legislation in 30 years,
would crack down on illegal aliens by increasing the number of Border Patrol
officers and Federal prosecutors handling alien-smuggling cases.

After a period of five years, the bill sets a goal of reducing the number of
legal immigrants by more than 30 percent. The bill included a cap on the number
of political refugees entering the country at 50,000 a year, but on a voice vote
tonight the House accepted an amendment overturing the provision.

The legislation, which has divided both Republicans and Democrats, raises
questions about Federal involvement in the work place, the definition of family
and the changing face of a nation of immigrants.

In an effort to weed out illegal aliens with bogus work papers, the bill
provides for a voluntary pilot program for employers to call a toll-free
telephone line to determine the legal status of job applicants.

Business leaders succeeded in watering down the bill's original requirement to
make the pilot program mandatory. But the House today defeated, by a vote of 260
to 159, an amendment to drop the verification procedures altogether. Lawmakers
also defeated, by a vote of 331 to 86, an effort to resurrect the mandatory
program.

But most of the votes today centered on tightening the nation's borders or
imposing harsher penalties on illegal aliens.

The House rejected, by a vote of 269 to 151, a Democratic amendment to allow
illegal aliens whose children are born here, to receive benefits on behalf of
their children. Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of New York, said
that without the amendment, the legislation would deny benefits to which
America's youngest citizens were entitled.

But Representative Randy Cunningham, Republican of California, said the problem
was the parents, not the children: "If we can identify who they are, we ought to
give them a ticket out of here."

The most-heated debate centered on denying educational benefits to illegal
immigrant children.

"If we have the resources to educate them, we should have the resources to
deport them," said Representative Elton Gallegly, a California Republican who
sponsored the amendment.

Democrats insisted the measure not only treated children harshly, but also
placed a new burden on school administrators and teachers to check the legal
status of all students.

"This makes armed guards out of teachers and principals," said Representative
Sheila Jackson-Lee, Democrat of Texas.

The House is scheduled to resume debate on the overall bill on Thursday,
including an amendment to delete many provisions about legal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Bids to Cut Legal Immigration Are Dropped From House Bill

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21


The House agreed today to eliminate most provisions dealing with legal aliens
from its immigration bill.

By a surprising 55-vote margin -- 238 to 183 -- the House set aside provisions
to cut legal immigration by more than 30 percent after five years. Among other
things, the provisions would have made it more difficult for American citizens
to reunite with foreign-born parents, children and siblings, and for employers
to bring skilled workers into the United States.

The Senate Judiciary Committee voted to deal with legal and illegal immigration
in separate bills. The main author of the House legislation, Representative
Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, said a vote for the amendment today would doom
efforts to make changes in legal immigration this year.

An unusual coalition of conservative Republicans, liberal Democrats,
libertarians and religious groups fought the proposed changes in legal
immigration, arguing that they were harmful to American business and American
families.

Supporters of cuts in legal immigration argue that the reductions were necessary
to protect American jobs and avoid depressing wages.

The Clinton Administration, which has been touting its efforts against illegal
entrants, favors modest reductions in legal immigration.

Seventy-five Republicans, including Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the
majority leader, voted to treat legal immigration separately.

"This means that if there is to be a legal immigration bill this year, it's
going to be very modest and much more thoughtful," said Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration coalition.

Later in the day, the House approved, by a vote of 333 to 87 the scaled-back
version of the bill, which now focuses on several new measures to combat illegal
aliens and to restrict access to Federal benefits for illegal and some legal
aliens.

The legislation authorizes 1,000 new Border Patrol agents a year through fiscal
year 2000, and additional Federal prosecutors to handle alien-smuggling cases.
It provides for $12 million to build a 14-mile-long triple fence south of San
Diego, a main entry point for illegal aliens from Mexico.

The bill gives the Immigration and Naturalization Service broader wiretap
authority while investigating suspected alien smugglers. And it increases the
criminal penalties for alien smuggling.

In a provision that faces strong Administration opposition and a certain court
challenge if enacted, the legislation would allow states to deny public
education to children who are illegal immigrants.

Facing strong opposition from the Administration and pro-immigration groups,
lawmakers agreed to extend the time that foreigners have to apply for asylum to
180 days from 30 days.

In a defeat for large farming interests in California and Florida, the House
today rejected an amendment, by a vote of 242 to 180, that would have granted
temporary work visas to as many as 250,000 foreign farm workers. Senior
Republicans expressed concern that allowing these "guest workers" into the
country would only invite a new wave of illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 23, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: ON THE TRAIL;
Dole Toe to Toe, but Side by Side, With Clinton

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

DATELINE: ARNIE'S POINT, Calif., March 22


Trying to distinguish himself from President Clinton, Senator Bob Dole came to
this dusty border town today and declared his support for a measure to allow
states to deny public education to children who are illegal immigrants.

But the Kansas Senator's decision to take a different path on this narrow aspect
of the broader immigration issue, on which he and the President largely agree,
highlighted an emerging problem for the Republican challenger: how difficult it
might be for him to draw sharp distinctions with the President, especially as
Mr. Dole feels pressure to move toward the political center for the November
election.

That became evident today as Mr. Dole discussed three issues of particular
interest to California voters: immigration, financing for the B-2 bomber and the
House vote to repeal the ban on assault-type weapons.

California holds its Republican primary on Tuesday, and Mr. Dole's vast lead
here will give him more than enough delegates to make an unambiguous claim to
his party's Presidential nomination. But polls show California -- the nation's
biggest prize, with 54 electoral votes -- strongly favoring Mr. Clinton.

One of Mr. Dole's challenges as a candidate is to show voters how a Dole
administration would differ from the Clinton Administration. But at least on the
matter of assault weapons, Mr. Dole seemed trapped in the conventions of his
role as majority leader and unable to take a firm stand that might help him in
his role as Presidential candidate.

The 1994 ban, which the House voted today to repeal, is one of the trickiest
issues for Mr. Dole. He has opposed the ban, and he told the National Rifle
Association last year that repealing it was "one of my legislative priorities."

But polls consistently show that voters overwhelmingly favor the ban. Indeed, a
California Senator -- Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat -- was a sponsor of the
measure.

Like abortion, gun control seems to be one of those issues that Mr. Dole would
rather do without. He has not yet scheduled a vote in the Senate on the gun-ban
repeal, which makes him appear to be backing off his pledge to the gun lobby.

Asked today whether he would bring the matter up on the floor, Mr. Dole replied:
"Not that I know of. If there is any vote, it will be on the instant check,
which keeps the hands out of guns of criminals -- guns out of hands of
criminals."

On Thursday, Mr. Dole released a statement in which he belittled the ban as "a
public relations exercise, not effective policy."

His fellow Republican senators, and the gun lobby itself, appear to be giving
Mr. Dole plenty of maneuvering room. Because he does not want to be seen as
advocating an unpopular move, yet at the same time is mindful that many
conservatives support the repeal, Mr. Dole has not forcefully denounced the ban,
which President Clinton strongly supports. The end result is that Mr. Dole is
virtually mute on an issue on which Mr. Clinton appears to have the upper
political hand.

On the matter of the B-2 bomber, Mr. Clinton used his power as President this
week to snatch a potential issue away from Mr. Dole. Anticipating the Senator's
visit today to the Northrop Grumman Corporation plant in Pico Rivera, north of
Los Angeles, where the Stealth aircraft is built, the Administration reversed
itself and announced that it would, after all, finance the refurbishing of a B-2
plane for $493 million, a fraction of the $2.2 billion cost of a new plane.

Just last month, Defense Secretary William J. Perry had said that the B-2, which
supports 25,000 aerospace jobs in California, was too expensive for a military
that needs other equipment more.

Mr. Dole has long supported the B-2 and called Mr. Clinton's move "a halfhearted
election-year conversion." At a Dole rally outside the plant today, workers
chanted, "More B-2's!" the Senator said he favored building 20 more B-2s.

In any case, with both Mr. Dole and now Mr. Clinton supporting the aircraft,
about the most Mr. Dole could do was to mock Mr. Clinton for his changeability.

Here on the Mexican border, just across from Tijuana, Mr. Dole said he wanted to
double the number of Border Patrol agents, to 10,000 from 5,000 over the next
five years, reimburse states for the costs of providing benefits like health
care for illegal immigrants and give states the option of denying free public
education to illegal immigrants.

Mr. Clinton vetoed a measure to reimburse the states because it was part of last
year's budget battle. And he has said he will veto any immigration bill that
denies schooling to the children of illegal immigrants. But otherwise, the
Administration has generally supported the get-tough measures on illegal
immigrants.

Even Patrick J. Buchanan came to a nearby border town earlier this week and said
the Clinton Administration had done a fairly good job of cracking down on
illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 9, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Police Scorn Plan to Deny Schooling to Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8


Some of the nation's largest police organizations are urging Congress to drop a
proposal in a House immigration bill that would allow states to deny public
education to illegal immigrants, arguing that if enacted it would lead to more
crime.

"Forcing young people out of school and onto the streets would have disastrous
long-term effects on public safety," Matt L. Rodriguez, the superintendent of
the Chicago Police Department, said in a letter to Senator Bob Dole, the
majority leader.

The proposal, an amendment in the bill that passed by a wide margin in the House
last month, has caused a split among Republicans but has Mr. Dole's strong
support. The Senate is likely to consider the proposal next week when it takes
up a major immigration bill.

The police organizations, including the Fraternal Order of Police, a major
police union, as well as the Chicago Police Department, wrote last week to Mr.
Dole, the presumptive Republican candidate for President, urging him to reverse
his support for the proposal.

The issue brings together a number of hot political topics in the Presidential
campaign: illegal immigration, crime and children's education. Mr. Dole, Speaker
Newt Gingrich and many other Republicans, particularly those from border states
like California, strongly support the plan.

They say a Federal requirement that all states educate all illegal immigrant
children is a magnet for illegal aliens and an unfair burden on states.
California spends $1.8 billion a year to educate more than 350,000 illegal
immigrant pupils.

"The governor of the state of California ought to have the option to deny free
public education to those in our country illegally," Mr. Dole said when he
visited the Mexican border near San Diego two weeks ago.

But the law-enforcement agencies have allies among some border-state governors
as well as educators and others. The Supreme Court has held that such children
have a constitutional right to a public education and many critics say the
Republican plan is a mean-spirited political gesture that will throw hundreds of
thousands of children into the hands of violent street gangs.

"To us, it is far better to have these youngsters in a structured, nurturing,
learning environment than to have them out roaming crime-ridden neighborhoods,"
said Gilbert Gallegos, national president of the Fraternal Order of Police,
which represents 270,000 officers in local, state and Federal law-enforcement
agencies.

The House bill contains many other provisions that law-enforcement officials
applaud. The legislation is designed, for example, to tighten America's borders
against illegal immigrants and give the authorities broader discretion in
deporting illegal aliens.

Many Democrats contend that by including the education provision in a bill that
the Administration otherwise embraces, Republican leaders are virtually daring
President Clinton to veto a popular bill.

President Clinton, in fact, has vowed to veto any bill that includes such an
education provision. And if the measure ever were enacted and signed into law,
many experts believe it would fail a court challenge.

Any doubts about the issue's political sensitivity and priority among Republican
leaders were laid to rest last month when Mr. Gingrich, in a highly unusual
step, took to the House floor to support the amendment, offered by
Representative Elton Gallegly, Republican of California. He denounced illegal
immigration and pleaded that states be empowered to decide who they educate in
their public schools.

"Come to America for opportunity," Mr. Gingrich thundered in a three-minute
speech. "Do not come to live off law-abiding taxpayers."

Gov. Pete Wilson of California, a Republican, is a staunch supporter of the
measure, which resembles one of the provisions in Proposition 187, the
anti-immigration measure that California voters approved in 1994 but which has
since become ensnarled in the courts. "This is a hard-earned victory for the
people of California who have made it clear, time and time again, that they do
not want to foot the bill for continued illegal immigration," Mr. Wilson said
after the House approved the plan.

But many other Republicans, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, as
well as other governors of states with large immigrant populations, say that
tossing undocumented children out of school will not help solve the nation's
illegal immigration problem.

"I believe once that child is living in our state it makes sense to educate the
child," George W. Bush, the Republican Governor of Texas, says in a position
letter to constituents on the subject. "The view that Mexican nationals will
return home if their children are uneducated is simply not the case."

A spokeswoman for Lawton Chiles, the Democratic Governor of Florida, said: "The
Governor believes this provision would create a whole new class of poverty and
it would probably be the states who pay for it."

In the past, Mr. Dole himself has opposed attempts to allow states to deny
education to undocumented aliens. In 1982, for example, he voted to set aside an
amendment to an immigration bill that would have put Congress on record
supporting such state power.


In addition to the Chicago police and the Fraternal Order, the police agencies
that have written Mr. Dole are the National Association of Police Organizations
and the International Union of Police Associations, to which the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department belongs.

"I have some strong feelings about illegal immigration and the need for the
Federal Government to do a better job dealing with it," Sherman Block, the Los
Angeles County Sheriff, said in a telephone interview. "But one of our biggest
problems is to develop a positive alternative to gangs and drugs for our
youngest children with free time after school. To literally have them loose on
the street, under this provision, I don't see how that would be a positive."


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 16, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Veto Threat On Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15


The Clinton Administration is vowing to veto any immigration bill the Senate
approves if it authorizes additional visas for thousands of new temporary farm
workers or permits states to deny public education to illegal aliens.

The threats were made in two letters from Attorney General Janet Reno, Labor
Secretary Robert B. Reich and Education Secretary Richard W. Riley that were
expected to be delivered to Senate Republican leaders on Tuesday. They came as
the Senate opened debate today on a bill intended to crack down on illegal
aliens and to limit some public benefits to legal immigrants.

Neither the provision on farm workers nor the one on public education is in the
bill now, but Republicans are expected to offer one or both as amendments this
week.

Both issues resonate in California, a crucial battleground in the Presidential
election where large agricultural businesses support a new source of cheap farm
labor. The Administration contends that the provision on farm workers would
cause a new wave of illegal aliens.

The House, behind Speaker Newt Gingrich's strong endorsement, has already
approved the measure.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 26, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Bars Plans to Cut Immigration

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 25;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25


Raising serious doubt that Congress will make any meaningful changes in legal
immigration this year, the Senate today resoundingly rejected two measures to
reduce the number of foreigners entering this country legally.

After six hours of debate, senators rejected, 80 to 20, a proposal to reduce
immigration by legal residents' family members by at least 10 percent over the
next five years.

The proposal would also have effectively shut the door on American citizens'
efforts to bring their adult children or siblings into this country. Those visas
would instead have gone to the spouses and young children of permanent legal
residents; many of those people are already living in the United States but
without proper papers.

Though the proposal was offered by Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming
Republican who is the Senate's authority on immigration, 40 Republicans voted
against it. Among them was Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader.

Those Republicans' position reflected their strong agreement with the Senate
Judiciary Committee's decision last month to deal with legal and illegal
immigration in separate bills. Mr. Simpson's proposal was an amendment to a bill
intended to curb illegal immigration.

The bipartisan vote against the Simpson proposal also reflected strong support
for the position that immigrants who enter the country legally serve as a
wellspring of economic growth and innovation.

A second amendment to the immigration bill, offered by Senator Dianne Feinstein,
Democrat of California, closely resembled Mr. Simpson's but would have allowed
some visas for adult and minor children of legal residents. It was defeated 74
to 26.

Both amendments would have limited family sponsored immigration to the current
level of 480,000 people a year. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
projects a 41 percent increase in legal immigration this year, including family
categories. The number declined 10 percent last year, to 593,000.

Last month the House, by a vote of 238 to 183, removed from its
illegal-immigration bill most provisions on legal immigration and then passed
the bill. The Senate appears likely to pass its bill on illegal immigration next
week.

With the legislative calendar running short and senators now on record against
reducing legal immigration and certain family categories, many experts in
immigration said that the likelihood of the Senate considering the separate bill
on legal immigration might be dimming.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
research group in Washington that favors reducing legal immigration, said that
the legal-immigration bill "technically is still alive," but that its fate
rested with Mr. Dole's clearing time on the Senate floor for debate.

Today's debate over the two amendments, particularly Mr. Simpson's, was as
lopsided as the eventual vote on them.

Even with his amendment, Mr. Simpson argued, "we will continue to have the most
open door of any country in the world."

But senator after senator rose to defend the nation's history of accepting legal
immigrants.

"We've got room for people who want to come and work," said one of them, Senator
Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas. "We don't have room for people who are looking
for a handout."

Many lawmakers, including Republicans, also objected to Mr. Simpson's tactics.
"Tacking this on to the illegal immigration bill is the worst conceivable way to
deal with legal immigration," said Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of
Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 7, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Criticizes G.O.P. And Dole on Immigration

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani criticized Senator Bob Dole today for supporting
Republican-sponsored legislation that would restrict Government aid to
immigrants and called those restrictions "a terrible, terrible mistake."

Mr. Giuliani cited measures in the legislation that would restrict public
benefits to legal immigrants, allow states to bar illegal immigrant children
from public schools and force local authorities and hospitals to report
undocumented aliens who report a crime or seek emergency medical aid.

The Mayor did not single out Mr. Dole during a speech before the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, a policy and research organization. But in
response to questions from the audience, he warned that Mr. Dole, the likely
Republican Presidential candidate, would be committing a damaging political
mistake if he followed public opinion polls that show broad antipathy to illegal
immigrants and to immigrants who receive public benefits.

"He'd be responding to the political consultants' analysis of how he should run
for President as opposed to a more intuitive analysis, which would be: This is
an opportunity to show you're a leader, a statesman and that you can step beyond
the most immediate form of public opinion and really go to the core of what
makes America such a great country," Mr. Giuliani commented after his speech.

Speaking to reporters afterward, Mr. Giuliani again challenged Mr. Dole's
leadership on the immigration issue, saying: "Maybe there's a chance when
Senator Dole takes a really close look at this, what he might gain in doing what
appears to be the politically popular thing might not be as lasting as what he
would gain in showing that he's a leader."

As if to confront Mr. Dole with a historical comparison, Mr. Giuliani several
times in his speech cited the example of Abraham Lincoln as a principled
Republican who stood up to the anti-immigrant policies of the Know-Nothing Party
of the 1850's.

Mr. Giuliani's views on immigration are well known. As the grandson of Italian
immigrants and the Mayor of an immensely diverse metropolis, he has for years
promoted the view that immigrants -- legal and illegal -- are productive,
hard-working contributors to New York's vibrant economy and culture.

But by traveling here to restate those views, and in the details of his remarks
today, he broke new ground at a politically important juncture: Mr. Dole is set
to leave the Senate on Tuesday to begin campaigning full time, and House and
Senate negotiators are preparing to reconcile their respective immigration
bills. Many of the provisions Mr. Giuliani criticized are at the heart of the
debate.

President Clinton is expected to veto any legislation that includes the
education ban.

The Mayor's comments drew immediate fire from House Republicans who support the
bill, and solidified Mr. Giuliani's position as a pariah to the conservative
wing of his own party. "Rudy Giuliani is out of step with America and has a
group of people he has to pander to," said Representative Elton Gallegly, a
California Republican who is the sponsor of the education provision.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Dole did not have an immediate comment on Mr. Giuliani's
comments. The Senator has said he opposes public benefits for illegal immigrants
and has endorsed the education ban, although it is included only in the House
version of the legislation.

Ever since his endorsement of Mario Cuomo for Governor of New York State, Mr.
Giuliani has made it clear that he is not afraid to take positions he believes
beneficial to New York City -- where Democrats outnumber Republicans by 5 to 1
-- even if they clash with his party's views or embrace Democratic policies.

Mr. Giuliani spoke today at the invitation of Doris Meissner, the Commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who was a colleague of the Mayor
when the two served in the Justice Department. Ms. Meissner, a Clinton
Administration appointee, has voiced many of the concerns about the legislation
that Mr. Giuliani mentioned today.

Some of the Mayor's concerns focused on legal immigrants. Both House and Senate
bills, for example, would restrict legal immigrants from applying for such
public benefits as job-training programs, child care and college loans.

"People who are legal resident aliens should be entitled to benefits, all the
benefits that exist for citizens," Mr. Giuliani said after his speech.

But his address focused on illegal immigration, the centerpiece of the proposed
legislation.

Mr. Giuliani took specific aim at the provision that would allow states to bar
illegal immigrant children from public education. California, which spends
nearly $2 billion a year educating these children, favors this approach. But the
Mayor joined a a large number of educators and law enforcement officials who
fear the measure would force onto the streets 60,000 to 80,000 schoolchildren in
New York City alone.

"The reality is that they are here, and they're going to remain here," Mr.
Giuliani said of the children.  "The choice becomes for a city what do you do?
Allow them to stay on the streets or allow them to be educated? The preferred
choice from the point of view of New York City is to be educated."

The Mayor also criticized Congressional efforts to overturn a 10-year-old city
executive order that bars city agencies from notifying the immigration service
of illegal immigrants if such notification would prevent illegal immigrants from
enrolling their children in school, reporting a crime or seeking medical aid.

"If legislation like this passes, there will be no real impact on illegal
immigration," Mr. Giuliani said. "There will be a tremendous amount of
scapegoating and punitive measures put into place. In many cases, cities will
opt to take care of problems that the Federal Government should take care of."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph Giuliani opposes restrictions on aid to
immigrants. (aul Hosefros/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

In California, Dole Opposes Public Spending on Education of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 19


Casting the issue as one of fairness, Bob Dole said today that taxpayers should
not be forced to pay for the education of illegal immigrants.

"We shouldn't stick the states with billions and billions of dollars of extra
expenses, particularly a state as large as California," Mr. Dole, the likely
Republican Presidential nominee, said here at the end of a low-key speech that
was billed as a message on immigration but that dealt equally with military
issues.

"It's not that we don't care," Mr. Dole said. "It's not that we're not
compassionate. Where do you draw the line?"

Mr. Dole seemed somewhat reluctant to wage the kind of full-scale attack on the
immigration issue that he has been waging this week on what he has called Mr.
Clinton's weakness on military matters. He confined his remarks to support for
an amendment that would give states the option of cutting off funding for
education of illegal immigrants. The amendment, sponsored by Representative
Elton Gallegly, Republican of California, is part of the huge immigration bill
moving through Congress.

The Clinton campaign said that in 1982, Mr. Dole voted against a measure to deny
education to illegal immigrants. Joe Lockhart, a campaign spokesman, said
President Clinton, along with "every major law-enforcement group in the country"
opposed the amendment because these children "shouldn't be put out on the
street."

Mr. Lockhart said Mr. Dole had reversed his position on the bill in an effort to
"pander to California voters."

Mr. Dole spoke today as a new California Poll by Mervin Field showed him
trailing Mr. Clinton by 23 percentage points. The poll, conducted June 10-16
among 719 registered voters, showed Mr. Clinton with 57 percent, Mr. Dole with
34 percent, and 9 percent undecided. The poll had a margin of error of four
percentage points.

The House and Senate have passed the immigration bill, but the Senate, including
some of former Senator Dole's Republican colleagues, has balked at the
amendment. The nation's Republican governors are also divided, with Gov. George
W. Bush of Texas against it and Gov. Pete Wilson of California supporting it.
Mr. Wilson introduced Mr. Dole, calling him "a fighter for California."

An estimated 300,000 people enter the United States illegally each year, about
half of them coming to California and costing the state $2.6 billion annually.
The education of illegal immigrants costs California about $1.8 billion a year,
Mr. Wilson said.

Mr. Dole said: "This is one of the most expensive mandates of all -- and you're
picking up the tab -- that states provide a free education to people who
according to our own laws should not be in the United States."

He spoke at the offices of a company that recycles computers, the suggestion
being that if California did not have to pay to educate illegal immigrants, it
could provide more resources, including computers, to its own citizens. He
described the Gallegly amendment as "helping the children of California."

He added: "Each illegal entry into this country is an affront, not just to the
laws of the United States but to every immigrant, every immigrant who did the
right thing, played by the rules and came to America legally."

It was "bad enough," Mr. Dole said, that the Federal Government had failed to
secure the nation's borders, but "what's worse is, the Federal Government tells
the states they got to pay for it. They must provide free taxpayer-funded
benefits to illegal aliens.

"I don't believe it's fair to impose these burdens on the states."

Later, Mr. Dole spoke at a rally in a small outdoor tennis arena here and
criticized Mr. Clinton for promising to secure the nation's borders but failing
to do so. He did not mention the issue of educating illegal immigrants, but he
did say: "We are a caring, compassionate party -- we are just as concerned about
people in need as any party in America."

Despite Mr. Dole's efforts in the state, the new Field poll showed that Mr.
Clinton's lead has been increasing over time. The last time Mr. Dole was ahead
was in February 1995, when he led 49 percent to 44 percent.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Dole paused before giving a campaign speech at El Camino
Resources, a computer company in Irvine, Calif., in which he said taxpayers
should not pay billions for the education of illegal immigrants. (Jim Wilson/The
New York Times)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 14, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Illegal Migrants' Road West Crosses Old East Bloc

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words

DATELINE: ZAKOPANE, Poland


On a recent Saturday morning, some three score residents of this picturesque
mountain community assembled at the ski jump for a trip to the United States,
first by bus to Germany, then on Lufthansa across the Atlantic.

They included a grandmother and her 3-year-old grandchild, a mother and her
three children, several unemployed women in their 20's, and a few men in their
70's. Each had paid at least $6,000.

They had paid the money as sponsors of a local sports club and were accompanying
the national weight-lifting team to a competition in Chicago -- or so their
documents said.

But the only thing these people were sponsoring was their own entry into the
United States. No sports team was going to Chicago or anywhere else.

It was all organized by the chairman of the club, who had been successful in the
past in getting Poles without valid visas into the United States, said two
people who signed up for the most recent attempt. This time, though, an alert
immigration officer at the airport in Frankfurt, Germany, suspected that the
American visas were forgeries, which they turned out to be, Polish and American
law enforcement officials said. The immigrants were sent home.

This is not an isolated case by any means. It is, rather, part of a growing
phenomenon -- trafficking in illegal immigrants from and through Eastern and
Central Europe.

Immigrants from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Afghanistan and from Africa and the
Middle East are being smuggled to the West, moved along routes that have
developed since Communism fell and with it, the rigid border controls. They are
being moved in many ways, among them freight-hauling trucks, the ceilings of
trains and ship containers.

What worries law enforcement officials most is that international criminal
syndicates are increasingly getting involved in illegal immigration. "There are
tangible indicators that the smugglers of stolen automobiles and illicit
narcotics have decided to diversify their portfolio to include alien smuggling,"
Thomas Tass, a Canadian immigration official, wrote in a paper he delivered
recently to a conference in Budapest.

"These organizations should not be underestimated in their ability to move
thousands of people illegally from one country to another while earning huge
profits with minimum risk," said Mr. Tass, who is based in Warsaw and is
considered the leading regional authority on this issue.

Smuggling people fits well into an organized crime conglomerate. A desperate
alien who cannot afford the fee may be allowed to go in exchange for carrying
drugs, and the immigrant will be expected to work for the gang in the United
States or Europe as a prostitute or a drug dealer to pay back the money, law
enforcement officials said.

As for profits, the organizer of the weight lifters' tour, 35-year-old Stefan
Koziol, took in nearly $400,000, said two women in the group, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. Mr. Koziol is now in jail on charges of fraud. He has
not been charged with smuggling people, which is not a crime in Poland and only
a minor offense in most European countries. Polish authorities declined to allow
him to be interviewed, but he has told Polish newspapers that he is innocent.
The club "sponsors" have not been charged.

The International Center for Migration Policy Development, a nonprofit
intergovernmental organization in Vienna, has calculated that illegal
immigration syndicates in Europe raked in between $100 million and $1.1 billion
in 1993.

The wide range in the estimate is a reflection of how little is known about the
problem, the gravity of which is only beginning to register. Interpol, the
international police organization, has no coordinated campaigns in this area,
immigration officials and diplomats said. The funds the European Union has made
available for economic restructuring in Eastern and Central Europe can be used
to combat drug trafficking, but not trafficking in illegal immigrants, said
Tamas Kiss, who works for the Migration Policy Center.

Not surprisingly, the traffickers have been successful in staying ahead of the
ill-trained local police, who are inexperienced in dealing with this problem.

"It is like drugs -- there are routes," said Col. Attila Krisan, spokesman for
Hungary's Border Guards, which seized nearly 15,000 illegal immigrants last
year, from scores of countries, who were trying to move through Hungary.

Common European entry points for refugees from Asia, from the Middle East and
from Africa are Romania and Bulgaria, which have more lenient visa requirements
and weaker law enforcement than other countries in the region.

Earlier this year, somewhere in Romania, 60 Bangladeshis were loaded into the
back of a long canvas-covered truck, which was hauling tomato paste to Germany.
The truck successfully crossed into Hungary and in several hours reached
Slovakia. There, customs officials lifted the cover and were shocked to find
people. The men were heading for the West to find jobs and had paid between
$2,500 and $4,000 apiece to a trafficker.

Bulgaria has become a popular entry point because Balkan Airlines has extensive
routes to the third world and relatively low fares, said a report last year by
the International Organization for Migration, an independent research
organization based in Geneva.

In Bulgaria, trafficking gangs charge up to $4,000 per person to move the
immigrants westward, often along routes used by drug traffickers. "Operating
these organized channels is a profitable occupation and is often part of a
larger 'Mafia-style' operation," the report says.

For illegal Asian immigrants, the Chinese restaurants that have sprung up in
Eastern European capitals provide a cover. They provide the immigrants with work
permits, which get them into the country. After working for a while, they move
on, to Germany, and in many cases to the United States, law enforcement
officials said.

"The raison d'etre for these businesses goes beyond providing alternative menus"
for local residents, Mr. Tass, the Canadian immigration official, noted wryly at
the conference in Budapest.

He told of one Chinese restaurant in Prague that employed more than 800 people.
"Even more remarkable was the fact that the restaurant had only eight tables,"
Mr. Tass said. He told of another "very elegant and modern Chinese five-star
restaurant smack in the middle of an industrial blue-collar working-class area,"
and without any parking.

Another growing gateway to the West is through the Baltic republics of Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania.  Immigrants who move through these countries, including
large numbers from the impoverished former Soviet republics of Central Asia,
then travel by sea to Scandinavia.

Many of the immigrants reach the Baltic countries via Moscow.

Last year, 64 Kurds and Pakistanis, including 26 children, were discovered in a
sealed container on a car ferry from Tallinn, Estonia, to Stockholm.

Last December, a Latvian ship with more than 100 Iraqis, Afghans and
Palestinians, who had paid $5,000 a piece, ran aground off the coast of Estonia.

In late May, the Polish police detained 49 Asians, including 10 children, who
had made it to the Baltic lands, then crossed from Lithuania into Poland, where
their luck ran out.

Moscow has become a major transit center for migrants from Asia, Africa, the
Middle East and former Soviet Republics in Central Asia. By train, bus or plane,
they move west to Poland and the Czech Republic, and then on to the West.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 1995, Thursday

CORRECTION:

A picture caption yesterday with an article about the smuggling of illegal
immigrants through Europe referred incorrectly in some editions to a Hungarian
town where Afghan families were staying. It is Kistarcsa, not Kirtarsca.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two Afghan families without the proper residence permits stayed
next to each other in temporary quarters in Kistarcsa, Hungary. (Laszlo Beliczay
for The New York Times)

Map: "GETTING THERE: For Immigrants, New Routes to the West"

Increasing numbers of illegal immigrants from many countries are being smuggled
into the West through the former Communist states of Central and Eastern Europe,
and international criminal syndicates are increasingly getting involved in the
process. Map shows some of the common routes.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Real Americans, Register Here

BYLINE: By Jack Kemp and Joseph I. Lieberman;   Jack Kemp, a former Republican
Representative and Housing Secretary, is co-director of Empower America. Joseph
I. Lieberman is a Democratic Senator from Connecticut.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 25;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It is hard to imagine legislation so dismal that it is opposed by Bill Kristol
on the right and the American Civil Liberties Union on the left.

But such legislation, intended to fight illegal immigration, is wending its way
through Congress. It would create a computer registry listing the names of
everyone eligible to work in the United States. The aim is to screen out
undocumented immigrants trying to enter the work force.

But it would affect everyone. If you applied for and were offered a job, the
company would type your Social Security number into a computer and wait for an
authorization code verifying your name in the Federal data base.

Suppose your name isn't there?  Maybe you won't be hired. Or maybe you will be,
but you will start work under a cloud while your employer and the Government
sort things out.

Why isn't your name there? Suppose you are a citizen whose name is Phong Nguyen.
What are the chances that a Government clerk would introduce a typographical
error while typing your name into the system?

Businessmen dislike the idea of a national registry. It would be one more
burdensome mandate imposed on small business, says the National Federation of
Independent Business, which represents 600,000 small companies. It would mean
more paperwork, more staff time and more costs -- all in the service of a
dubious endeavor.

The principal Senate bill mandates that a worker verification system be in place
within eight years. The House bill mandates that a computer data base be up and
running by Oct. 1, 1999.

This sets a bad precedent. The Alexis de Tocqueville Institution, a research
group, says the Government has never had a centralized registry of all
Americans, certainly nothing accessible to Federal agencies, computer hackers
and potential employers.

A registry would not decrease illegal immigration because it could be fooled.
"There are thousands of different types of birth certificates, many of which are
easily obtained, counterfeited or altered," according to the General Accounting
Office, which studied the possibility of using Social Security cards as national
identity cards.

An illegal immigrant could buy a fraudulent certificate, go to the nearest
Social Security office and put his name in the new data base.

The Senate legislation would thwart such fraud by requiring a "foolproof"
fingerprint card. Do we really want to have all Americans fingerprinted just so
they can earn a living? Some advocates of I.D. cards go further: they want it to
be based on a retina scan.

Moreover, how can we assume that a company or a family that intentionally hires
illegal workers will suddenly become law-abiding because a data base has been
created?

An Immigration and Naturalization Service pilot project involving nine companies
using a telephone verification system showed that existing Federal data bases
were incorrect or incomplete about a quarter of the time.

If a significant percentage of the 65 million people who obtain a new job each
year are erroneously identified as ineligible to work, there would be
bureaucratic havoc, at the least. Even a 1 percent failure rate would still
affect 650,000 people. Many companies might decide it wasn't worth the hassle to
seek out and hire members of ethnic minorities.

An anti-privacy, anti-business and anti-American approach is no way to run
immigration policy. Congress should reject the registry and the national I.D.
card.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 29, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Let's Make Workplace Immigration Sentinel

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 242 words


To the Editor:

It is one thing to misrepresent an idea so as to discredit it, but it is even
worse to criticize a constructive solution without even bothering to offer an
alternative. Such are examples of Jack Kemp's and Senator Joseph Lieberman's
discourse in "Real Americans Register Here" (Op-Ed, July 21) against the worker
verification system, an idea proposed to help curb illegal immigration and the
millions who sneak into America to work.

First, any verification would not take place until after a job offer is made and
accepted. Verification would not be a part of the hiring decision. Furthermore,
safeguards would insure any employee ample job security, including those the
system must double-check when a question of eligibility arises.

Certainly a nation that possesses millions of automatic teller machine cards
that verify transactions down to the penny should have the resolve and
confidence in a similar system designed to verify work eligibility.

It is impossible for any nation to regulate borders effectively without a more
secure documentary basis. It is ironic how Mr. Kemp and Senator Lieberman both
support on-job drug testing and do not see that as a violation of privacy. But
they feel completely justified in railing against employers who want to
determine whether their hires are eligible to work.

DAN STEIN
Executive Director, Federation for
American Immigration Reform
Washington, July 24, 1995

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

PATAKI ANNOUNCES ALIENS' EXPULSION

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 28


Federal and state officials announced today that 86 illegal immigrants from
Colombia would be placed on an airplane late tonight and flown home under a new
state law that allows for speeded-up deportation of aliens convicted of
low-level, nonviolent crimes.

The action marked the largest single deportation from New York of what officials
call "criminal aliens," who make up roughly 5 percent of the 68,650 inmates in
the state's costly and overcrowded prison system.

Gov. George E. Pataki, in announcing the move -- part of his broad package of
changes to sentencing laws passed in June -- said it was intended to save money
and free up prison space for more-violent, homegrown felons.

[Though Federal immigration officials declined to disclose specific details
about the flight, citing security, a group of men who appeared to be the
immigrants were loaded aboard a jet of Avianca, the Colombian airline, at
Kennedy International Airport about 11:40 P.M.]

And the Governor said this planeload would not be the last.

"We anticipate that this plane leaving this evening is the first of others that
will follow to other countries as we deport these illegal aliens who have been
convicted of crimes and take them out of our state and off the backs of
taxpayers," he said at a news conference at his office in Manhattan.

In an unusual public display of cooperation between the Clinton Administration
and Mr. Pataki, a Republican, the Governor was joined today by Doris M.
Meissner, the Commissioner of the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which conducted the deportations. Ms. Meissner praised New York's new
law as unique in the country, saying that combined with recent Federal actions
to speed up hearings for illegal immigrants, it would greatly accelerate efforts
to deport those who commit crimes. "This is a landmark event," Ms. Meissner
said.

She said the deportation demonstrated "that instead of being held in
taxpayer-funded detention facilities or returned to the streets following the
completion of their state sentence, deportable aliens are immediately removed
from the United States."

Ms. Meissner said that by itself, this planeload would save the Federal
Government the rather modest sum of about $150,000. State officials said their
savings were greater, about $2 million. But the officials said the 86 deportees
-- all but one are low-level drug users or sellers -- were among a total 213
from several countries already identified for deportation. That, they said,
would ultimately save $7 million over five years for the state prison system,
which has an annual budget of $2.2 billion.

The announcement of the mass deportation came on the day that Gov. Pete Wilson
of California, his platform heavy with calls to cut off welfare to all illegal
aliens, staged his local announcement for the Republican nomination for
President at Battery Park in Manhattan, just a few blocks south of the
Governor's office in the World Trade Center.

Aides to Mr. Pataki, who has already endorsed Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas for the
Presidency, said the timing was coincidental.



Until now, New York could seek the deportation of illegal aliens convicted of
crimes only after they had served their minimum sentence; for instance, their
first three years of a three- to nine-year term. State officials said illegal
aliens were then deported alone, in small numbers or, often, just returned to
the streets here after they served their terms.

But under the new law, passed in June as part of the state budget negotiations,
illegal immigrants can be released before they complete the minimum term, as
part of what is essentially a new category for parole. Their shorter prison time
costs the government less money. As part of the condition for parole, the aliens
are prohibited from returning to New York and are subject to immediate arrest if
they do.

State officials and Ms. Meissner said New York's law appeared to be the only one
of its kind in the nation, although Ms. Meissner said Florida has a system in
which prison time for illegal immigrants can be shortened by commuting the
sentence, followed by deportation.

Paul Shechtman, New York's director of Criminal Justice Services, said the 86
former convicts would be detained briefly in Colombia as officials there
determined whether they were wanted for any old or new crimes in that country.
But he said that talks with Colombian officials did not include a request that
they finish their sentences there.

Both state and Federal officials were vague today about exactly how and when the
aliens would be sent back to Colombia. State officials said that Federal
officials, who conduct similar deportations around the nation, were coordinating
the move.

An immigration official in Washington said this afternoon that the prisoners
would board a 10:30 P.M. flight on Avianca, the Colombian airline, from Kennedy
International Airport. But Avianca said there was no scheduled flight at that
hour. And an immigration official in New York said the agency did not use
charter flights.

[But before midnight, three tour buses with the wording "Leprechann Lines" on
their sides drove onto the tarmac at the Delta Air terminal at Kennedy. Their
passengers, a group of men escorted by law enforcement officials, including some
wearing jackets with the logo of the immigration service, were loaded one at a
time onto an Avianca jet starting about 11:40 P.M. Avianca officials at the
airline's desk in the building declined to comment on the flight.]

As the state law requires, the deportation was negotiated with the Colombian
Government. Telephone calls to the consulate in Manhattan seeking comment were
not returned.

Mr. Shechtman said he anticipated that a smaller load of deportees from state
prisons would be bound for the Dominican Republic, which had the second highest
number of illegal aliens in prison here after Colombia. He said others were from
"all over the world."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Law enforcement officials escorted a group of men off tour buses
and onto an Avianca jet at Kennedy International Airport late last night. They
were apparently the 86 illegal aliens whose deportation to Colombia had been
announced earlier by Gov. George E. Pataki. (Steve Berman for The New York
Times) (pg. B4)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Punishing Illegal Immigrants Isn't the Solution

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 483 words


To the Editor:

Many will no doubt be quick to criticize Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's courageous
statements that politicians who blame illegal immigrants for our country's
problems are engaging in the worst kind of scapegoating and that the current
anti-immigrant fervor is based on an "undifferentiated fear of foreigners"
(front page, Aug. 23).

Nonetheless, the Mayor is right, and you fail to mention that he is not alone
even among Republicans. Both Jack Kemp and William Bennett opposed California's
Proposition 187 and have spoken out against similar proposals in Congress.

It is also important to understand that the number of illegal immigrants who
take up residence in the United States each year is far lower than most
observers of the immigration debate assume. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service has concluded that the total number of illegal immigrants who stay in
the country each year is just about 300,000. Of that, roughly half enter
illegally and the other half enter legally but overstay or otherwise violate
their visa requirements.

Of course, the United States, like every nation, has the right to control its
borders. But a wise policy recognizes that real solutions can be achieved only
by addressing the root causes of immigration and by attacking exploitation of
immigrants in sweatshops like the one in El Monte, Calif., where nearly 70 Thai
workers were held in virtual slavery.

People come to the United States not to receive social services but because
global events cause them to be uprooted or because unscrupulous employers want
to exploit them. As long as the immigration debate is dominated by those who
willfully ignore these realities, we will be forever distracted from addressing
international migration issues in a meaningful and constructive way.

Many urgent approaches demand discussion and debate. What policies can prevent
human rights abuses that generate refugee flows, such as those from Bosnia,
Rwanda and Haiti? How can we implement the findings of the 1994 United Nations
Cairo Population Conference and the provisions of the convention addressing
rights of migrant workers?

And can the United States and the international community take constructive
steps to ameliorate rather than exacerbate the desperate financial situation in
Mexico and to address its growing political crisis?

Developing lasting solutions to migration dynamics is not easy and will never
occur as long as the debate remains mired in recommendations for ever more
punitive measures to deny basic education and emergency health care to those
already here.  Those proposals only deceive the public into believing that such
steps will accomplish anything other than threatening public health and casting
thousands of children into the street.

LUCAS GUTTENTAG
Dir., Immigrants' Rights Project
American Civil Liberties Union
New York, Aug. 24, 1995

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Liberals Duck Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By Michael Lind;    Michael Lind, a senior editor of The New Republic,
is the author of "The Next American Nation: The New Nationalism and the Fourth
American Revolution."

SECTION: Section A;   Page 27;   Column 1;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words


New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has been praised by liberals for his courage in
opposing measures to deter the use of public services by illegal immigrants. The
truth is that ignoring the rising costs of mass immigration, legal as well as
illegal, is anything but courageous -- or liberal.

While business-class and populist Republicans have engaged in serious debate
about immigration, discussion of the subject by Democrats is still governed by
taboos. The consensus liberal position rests on two articles of faith.

First, while illegal immigration may cost the jobs of low-skilled American
workers, no legal immigrant has ever displaced an American worker. Second, any
suggestion that the arrival of almost a million legal immigrants a year has any
effect on job opportunities and wages in the United States is said to be
sinister racist "scapegoating."

Though this viewpoint is appealing, the harmful effects of legal as well as
illegal immigration on low-income American workers are real.The Federal Reserve
Bank of Dallas has attributed "heavy immigration to border cities" as the reason
for unusually high unemployment in cities like Laredo, El Paso and McAllen. The
economist George Borjas has calculated that immigration accounted for a third of
the decline in the wages of high school dropouts in the 1980's; a major cause is
the willingness of foreign workers to accept lower wages.

While economists debate the magnitude of the displacement of native labor by
immigrants, the white and black working poor have been fleeing the metropolitan
areas of California, where the economic competition with Latin American and
Asian newcomers is the most intense.

The downward drag on wages caused by immigration is likely to grow worse. The
economy cannot expand rapidly enough to provide decent jobs for the bottom half
of the native population, much less for hundreds of thousands of legal
immigrants arriving each year. Figures from the Census Bureau and the Bureau of
Labor Statistics show that the number of new entrants to the work force will
outstrip the number of jobs created by more than a million and a half between
1995 and 2005.

From the point of view of business-class conservatives, the labor supply can
never be too large and wages never too low. It is no coincidence that spokesmen
for the plutocratic wing of conservatism, like Dick Armey, the House majority
leader, and the editorialists of The Wall Street Journal, favor even higher
levels of immigration and the abolition of the minimum wage.

Unable to win on the facts, all too many pro-immigration liberals resort to
nostalgia. With misty eyes and trembling voice, they invoke the Statue of
Liberty and accuse critics of treason not only to American ideals but to the
memories of immigrant ancestors. This may be good politics for politicians like
Mayor Giuliani, but it is bad history.

The movement to curtail immigration in the early 20th century was opposed by
business leaders enjoying access to cheap labor, but was supported by many labor
leaders. Samuel Gompers, the American Federation of Labor president, argued that
the flood of European immigrants was depressing wages.

He was right. From 1890 to 1920, American wages rose from 1 to 4 percent less
than they would have in the absence of immigration, according to the Harvard
economist Claudia Goldin.

The many ethnic divisions among native and immigrant workers at the time explain
the weakness of the American labor and social democratic movements, compared
with those in Western Europe's low-immigration democracies. And cynical
employers who pursued a divide-and-rule policy of "balancing the nationalities"
exploited these divisions.

The restriction of immigration in the 1920's, by encouraging a tight labor
market and a culturally unified work force, was a precondition for the successes
of the labor movement and New Deal liberalism from the 1930's to the 1960's.

The liberal taboo against realistic discussion of immigration extends to a
refusal to acknowledge its effects on poor blacks. In the 19th century, as
Frederick Douglass and Booker T. Washington noted, European immigrants displaced
black workers from jobs as longshoremen, artisans, barbers and caterers. Closing
the borders in the 1920's opened up job opportunities for blacks in the North,
laying the basis for economic gains and the civil rights movement.

Since 1965, however, the black working poor have suffered again from
competition, this time with Latin Americans and Asians. There can be little
doubt that many employers discriminate against African-American workers and in
favor of immigrants, who are more likely to accept low wages and poor conditions
without complaint.

Many immigrant groups, once they have moved into professions like taxi service
or the grocery business, set up nepotistic networks in hiring and finance from
which long-resident urban blacks are frozen out.

Why have liberals been silent about the economic effects of immigration on their
natural constituency -- the working poor, and black workers in particular? One
reason is the inability of liberals to say no to any apparently generous
program, particularly if it aims to help those in poor countries. Another is the
influence of Hispanic groups seeking to enlarge their constituencies. Many
affluent opinion-makers in politics, the media and academia themselves benefit
from a never-ending supply of low-wage immigrant maids, janitors, receptionists
and other poorly paid, non-unionized employees.

A few courageous liberals like former Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas
have dared to bring up the relationship between mass immigration and falling
wages. Ms. Jordan, chairman of the bipartisan Federal Commission on Immigration
Reform, called for limiting family-reunification immigration to nuclear
families, eliminating the annual allotment of 10,000 visas to unskilled foreign
workers, deterring illegal immigration by means of a national identity card, and
capping legal immigration at 550,000 a year (down from almost 800,000 a year in
1994).

These sensible reforms do not go far enough. We should also follow most other
democracies in making it difficult for employers to hire non-citizens if
qualified citizens are available. When many college graduates cannot find good
jobs, why are we issuing so many work permits for foreign workers (more than
600,000 last year)? Why should a company be allowed to replace American computer
programmers with Indian guest workers in the United States?

The United States can no longer be the world's employment agency and welfare
service of first resort. A genuine liberal policy toward immigration would
reduce the supply of surplus labor by reducing the supply of immigrants. A tight
labor market is the best program for restarting America's stalled engine of
upward mobility.

The liberal case for reform is based on numbers -- on the quantity of
immigrants, not their quality. Under a rational plan, most immigrants would
still come from Latin America and Asia; they would simply arrive in smaller
contingents. Unlike conservatives, liberals should insist that legal immigrants,
while waiting to be naturalized, should have access to the basic civil rights
and entitlements of American citizens.

For 30 years, we have had an immigration policy tailored to the convenience of
the American overclass. Pro-labor liberals and non-racist populists on the right
should unite to demand an immigration policy that puts the interests of American
workers above the interests of the native rich.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 9, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Raids on Sweatshop Lead to Indictments

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 7;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 8


Six Thai and Laotian nationals were indicted today on charges of harboring and
employing 51 illegal immigrants at three sweatshops.

Indicted were Tawach and Kiriya Hirunpolkul of Los Angeles, Apai Pinwattana and
his wife, Sumran Ngernok, of El Monte and Bouaphanh and Vanhvilay Thammagno of
Baldwin Park.

They knew their workers were illegal immigrants from Mexico, El Salvador,
Honduras, Thailand and Laos and made them "work long hours sewing clothing and
would pay them meager wages based on their work product," the indictment said.

The laborers were at three factories raided last month by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

If convicted of harboring illegal immigrants, the defendants could be sentenced
to five years in prison and fined $250,000.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Agency Missteps Put Illegal Aliens at Mercy of Sweatshops

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 20


With the raids on garment sweatshops here last month producing the spectacle of
scores of illegal Thai immigrants being kept as virtual slaves, state and
Federal investigators have begun pointing fingers at one another while issuing
assurances that they are taking action to flush out such operations.

But an examination of past investigations in Southern California, home to the
country's largest garment industry, shows that a series of missteps dating at
least to 1988 have left the workers at the mercy of groups tied to Asian
organized crime rings, with little chance of being rescued.

The local office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service appears to have
had several chances to address the problem uncovered in the sweatshop raids last
month at El Monte, in eastern Los Angeles County. But no action was taken
because of a lack of cooperation among Federal, state and local agencies and
because of what one agent described as a personality conflict within the
immigration office.

In some ways, critics say, the Government's failure to take action illustrates
deep shortcomings in the immigration service's effort to protect immigrants. It
also demonstrates how competing economic interests discourage local and state
governments from cracking down on a problem that has become pervasive in garment
districts from Manhattan to Los Angeles.

"Enforcement has always been a stepchild" of the immigration service, said
Demetrios G. Papademetriou, an authority on immigration policy at the Carnegie
Endowment for Peace. "Businesses complain about the disruptions" caused by
strict enforcement, and enforcement costs are very high, he added.

Politics also plays a role. Gov. Pete Wilson has twice vetoed bills that would
have held big manufacturers responsible for monitoring their subcontractors'
compliance with labor and immigration laws.

Proponents of such laws say they would make it more difficult to exploit illegal
aliens. But Mr. Wilson, a Republican, has said such regulations would place too
great a burden on manufacturers and would drive them out of the state.

There is little doubt that the problem of worker abuse at garment factories is
huge and growing. Last Friday, Federal labor investigators said routine
inspections of 50 garment contractors here had turned up wage and overtime
violations at 46 sites, shortchanging some 600 workers by more than $500,000.
And those were all legally registered factories.

Early last month, in the first of the recent series of raids, 72 illegal aliens
were found in peonage at one site in El Monte. They had been smuggled here by an
organized crime gang that confiscated their passports and told them part of
their earnings would be kept to repay the costs of bringing them here, Federal
and state officials said. The immigration agency acknowledged that the El Monte
factory had come under suspicion once before, in 1992.

In that instance, the agency investigated for three months, secretly observing
the site, but it dropped the case after a request for a criminal warrant was
denied. Federal prosecutors have said the request was rejected because the
initial tip came from an anonymous source, which is considered inadequate
support for a Federal warrant, and because the information was too old.

The immigration agency now says that instead of seeking a civil warrant to gain
entry into the site, it passed along the information to state and local
officials and left it at that.

But people familiar with the investigation, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said the same Thai sweatshop owners had been investigated even earlier, in 1988.
These people said an immigration agent found evidence that illegal immigrants
were being held there. He delivered a letter informing the owners that an
inspection would take place in a few days. But by the time the inspector
returned, the workers had been whisked away.

Three years later, the immigration agency had another opportunity to attack the
problem of illegal Thai immigrants being held in such conditions. In mid-May
1991, Phil L. Bonner Jr., a special agent with the immigration agency here,
wrote several memorandums proposing raids on five garment sweatshops because he
had information that perhaps 200 illegal immigrants were being held there.

Another shop owner had informed him, Mr. Bonner wrote, that the Thais had been
smuggled here by an organized crime ring. He also said he had been told that a
Los Angeles police officer was involved in smuggling and guarding the workers.

Mr. Bonner proposed placing Thai workers in those factories to gather evidence,
and suggested raiding the sweatshops.

No action was taken. Mr. Bonner says he was disciplined, apparently because of a
personality clash with supervisors, according to a pending discrimination suit
he filed against the agency in July 1992. The suit also says he was not allowed
to speak Thai in the office or to pursue any cases related to Thais.

Mr. Bonner says in his suit that he was discriminated against because he married
a Thai woman and speaks Thai, and that the ill will toward him caused the agency
to mishandle the inquiry.

William S. Slattery, the immigration agency's executive associate commissioner
for operations, said the agency would not comment on a pending lawsuit but added
that no valid investigation had been run improperly.

The agency began this year's investigation after it got a tip from someone who
had escaped from the El Monte factory. When the raid on the El Monte sweatshops
took place on Aug. 2, state officials, not the immigration agency, led the raid,
even though the Federal agents had spearheaded the investigation.

The escapee, a Thai woman, had told a lawyer, William Livingston, about
sweatshop conditions at the factory. Mr. Livingston passed along the information
in May, and the agency began an inquiry. This time Mr. Bonner, who had been
transferred to another immigration service office in the Los Angeles area
because of his lawsuit, was involved.

He observed the shop, a group of apartments surrounded by a fence and razor
wire, from an adjacent trailer park. He discovered that materials and finished
goods were going in and out of the shop, but workers neither entered nor left.

The immigration agency brought state Labor Department officials into the
inquiry. The agency was still trying to get enough information for a Federal
warrant when state officials moved on their own. Soon after the predawn raid
began, the immigration agency was called in and the Thai shop owners were
arrested.

Late last month the immigration service raided a different group of sweatshops
in Los Angeles County. In these raids, 56 illegal immigrants, most of them
Thais, were found to be working in appalling conditions, the Government said,
even though they were not being held as slaves.

But that assertion is now being questioned. Julie Su, a lawyer representing many
of the workers in a lawsuit against the owners, said they had, in fact, been
held in servitude but had been intimidated by their captors into denying it. She
said the shop owners had initially been detained with the workers, which allowed
them to continue threatening the workers with reprisals.

Asked about the El Monte case, the immigration agency acknowledged the 1988
investigation. But Mr. Slattery, the agency official, insisted that all cases
involving the Thais had been handled properly.

"I don't think there's anything I would have done differently in 1995," he said
in an interview. "In 1992, I'm not sure I would have done anything differently."

Many experts say the enforcement agencies will never have enough agents to
police an industry that is so large and growing so fast, and whose underground
elements can so easily close shops and move on. The alternative being pushed by
Federal labor officials is to make the big manufacturers and retailers
responsible for insuring that labor laws are followed by subcontractors.

"The goal is to get the major retailers to take a strong stand and use their
leverage," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said in a recent interview. On Sept.
12, he met with a number of large retailers and manufacturers in New York who
said they might consider voluntary compliance programs.

Here in California, Governor Wilson has fought making such programs mandatory.
Last year, when he vetoed the latest bill, Mr. Wilson said such mandates "would
drive the garment industry out of state."

But the experience of some companies contradicts Mr. Wilson's assertion. One
garment manufacturer here, Guess, has adopted what some praise as a model
compliance program. The company trains subcontractors to screen for illegal
aliens and to comply with labor laws.

Stan Levy, the general counsel at Guess, said, "We give them the ultimate
economic incentive: if you don't want to comply, you don't have to work for us."
When the company began the program three years ago, he added, it lost almost a
quarter of its contractors.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two illegal aliens found in peonage at a sweatshop near Los
Angeles left a detention center last month after being held as material
witnesses. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 28, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Clampdown at Border Is Hailed as Success

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 23


Border Patrol agents call it squeezing the balloon. For the past year, aided by
a big infusion of Federal money, manpower and technology, they have been
squeezing as never before, choking off illegal crossings from Mexico at the
busiest section of the border.

The immediate effects are unmistakable at the five-mile Imperial Beach section
of the border that has historically been the scene of one-quarter of all illegal
land entries into the United States and a symbol of the nation's difficulties in
controlling its frontiers.

Once the nights were filled with chaos and violence, as both immigrants and the
bandits who preyed on them clashed with American border guards. Now an ugly
10-foot-high welded-steel wall snakes up hillsides and down ravines, bathed in
the orange glare of high-intensity stadium lights. Scores of Border Patrol
agents keep watch from newly purchased vans, their work made easier by new
night-vision scopes, ground motion sensors and computers.

This new equipment has given the agents the edge, but has not ended their
cat-and-mouse game with border-crossers. As soon as the steel barricade was
erected, replacing a sagging and torn chicken-wire fence, immigrants began
tunneling beneath it, working holes into it and building ramps on the southern
side to help them leap across. In response, agents began reinforcing the wall
struts, anchoring its base in concrete and extending the sheeting as much as 10
feet underground in some areas.

The battle along the border here, part of a $500 million immigration initiative
begun last year by the Clinton Administration, has as its target not only
illegal aliens but also political opponents. Next August, the Republicans, who
have made a campaign issue of illegal immigration, will hold their national
convention here in San Diego, within a 15-minute drive of the border.

The one-year anniversary of the crackdown, Operation Gatekeeper, falls on
Sunday. Academics who monitor the border say it is too soon to conclude whether
this experiment in intensive border enforcement has been effective and worth its
expense. But the Administration claims a measure of initial success.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service puts the cost for the first year of
Operation Gatekeeper at $46 million, covering fencing, lights, vehicles,
equipment, new agents and overtime.

"It is wonderful progress in an area where, frankly, most of us never really
believed that government intervention like this would work," said Robert Bach,
the top policy and planning official for the immigration agency, which oversees
the Border Patrol. "This is historic. These are routes of travel that Mexicans
have been using for decades. We have broken that up."

Along the Imperial Beach section of the border, which runs from the surf of the
Pacific Ocean to the checkpoint in San Diego's San Ysidro section, the initial
results were startling: apprehensions of illegal border-crossers, the main
yardstick used to determine success, were reduced by 40 percent, to 114,460,
over the past year. The Imperial Beach section covers the first 5 miles of a
24-mile wall along what is known as the San Diego Sector. The wall is in three
sections, built where crossings have been most prevalent.

But as Border Patrol agents and planners like Mr. Bach have learned from long
experience, when the balloon is squeezed in one place, it bulges in another.
While apprehensions have dropped along the Imperial Beach section, they have
skyrocketed farther east. Indeed, the total number of apprehensions along the
San Diego Sector have actually risen by 14 percent over the past year, to
512,000.

Mr. Bach and other officials say they were prepared for the eastern bulge,
calling it proof of their rapid success to the west, and insist that it is only
a matter of time before these sections are also brought under control. Their
plan is to push illegal border-crossers still farther to the east where they
will face the obstacles of mountains and deserts and be forced to travel farther
to reach the sanctuaries of cities.

But after a year of the most expensive and determined effort ever mounted by the
Federal Government to bring the Mexican border under control, the fundamental
question remains open: Is it possible to squeeze the entire balloon and to halt
illegal immigration by force?

Is it possible, in the words of Johnny N. Williams, chief patrol agent of the
San Diego Sector, to send the message to people in the poor villages of Mexico:
"Stay home. If you try to cross over, you are going to get caught."

Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for United States-Mexican Studies at the
University of California at San Diego, said his visits to such villages
suggested that the impetus of poverty was stronger than the deterrent effect of
a more difficult border crossing.

"There is no evidence," Mr. Cornelius said, "that pushing illegal migrants into
areas where there are more physical obstacles to crossing will deter more than a
small minority from trying repeatedly to gain entry until they succeed.

"When you consider the economic return from even a short period of employment in
the United States, the cost-benefit ratio still strongly favors illegal entry."

Thus, while Operation Gatekeeper sharply reduced the number of apprehensions in
the Imperial Beach section, those along all other areas of the San Diego Sector
rose. They were the Chula Vista area, up 27 percent, to 133,710; Brown Field, up
90 percent, to 129,326; El Cajon, up 439 percent, to 46,089; Campo, up 1,752
percent, to 24,111, and the Boulevard area, up 889 percent to 10,361.

"The movement eastward has occurred faster than I had predicted," Mr. Bach said,
"and our ability to respond to that traffic in the east has strained our
resources."

But he said the people crossing to the east, with a longer and more difficult
trip to the cities, would be easier to apprehend once the Border Patrol
increased its resources there.

And he said the immigration service was augmenting its border enforcement with
other deterrents, including expedited deportation of criminal aliens and tighter
enforcement of sanctions against employers who hire undocumented workers.

The Gatekeeper crackdown is part of a $540 million immigration initiative
announced by Attorney General Janet Reno in February 1994. Since then, the
Administration has nearly doubled the size of the Border Patrol, to more than
4,500 agents. It has asked Congress to approve the addition of hundreds more
agents each year, with the goal of fielding about 7,000 agents by the end of
1998.

Statistics on apprehensions are notoriously difficult to analyze because they
can be interpreted to reflect either improved enforcement or a surge in
immigration. Mr. Williams, the San Diego Sector's chief patrol agent, said
several factors complicated the current picture.

One is Mexico's economic crisis, after the devaluation of the peso last
December, which most analysts believe has increased the number of Mexicans
seeking employment in the United States. "They turned on the faucet," Mr.
Williams said. "Absent Gatekeeper, we would have had a tidal wave."

A second is the phenomenon of repeat efforts to cross. Once a would-be migrant
reaches the frontier from the interior of Mexico, is caught and sent back across
the border, studies have shown, he or she is likely to try again and again
rather than return home.

"We are apprehending fewer people more often," Mr. Williams said. "We have more
fishermen in the sea, if you will."


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agent Ann M. Summers of the Border Patrol trying to subdue a man
who was caught trying to cross illegally the United States-Mexico border near
San Diego, one of the busiest sections of the border. (Luis Sinco for The New
York Times)

Chart/Map: "A CLOSER LOOK: A Steel Wall on the Border"

The Immigration and Naturalization service has built a 10-foot high steel wall
along 24 miles of the southern Californian border with Mexico and 340 feet into
the Pacific Ocean. The move has forced illegal crossings to take place futher to
the east. The wall is in three sections of 14 miles, 7 miles and 3 miles.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 13, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

6 Guards in New Jersey Charged With Beating Jailed Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Oct. 12


Six Union County corrections officers were arrested before dawn today on charges
of beating and taunting illegal immigrants brought to their jail last June.

The 25 immigrants were being transferred to the Union County Jail after an
uprising at a privately run detention center nearby. As their van arrived,
prosecutors said, jail guards formed a gantlet to punch and kick them.

Over the next four hours, the prosecutors said, the guards broke one detainee's
collarbone, shoved other detainees' heads in toilets, used pliers to pull out
one man's pubic hair and forced a line of men to kneel naked on the jail floor
and chant, "America is No. 1."

Prosecutors said that at least two dozen officers participated in the beatings
and that more arrests were likely.

An attorney for the arrested officers denied the charges, saying the detainees
had fabricated their accounts.

Joyce Antila Phipps, a lawyer for six of the immigrants, said the men were
"shocked and appalled" by the guards' actions. In America, she said, "they never
expected the type of treatment they received from the police in their home
countries."

The 25 detainees sent to the Union County Jail were among 315 people awaiting
immigration hearings who had been held at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service center in Elizabeth. After the June 18 disturbance, which caused
considerable property damage but no serious injuries to guards, an I.N.S.
investigation concluded that the detainees acted because of abusive and inhumane
conditions at the center, which has been closed.

The prosecutors said there was no clear motive for the guards to torment the
immigrants. Union County corrections officers were not involved in controlling
the disturbance at the center, which was administered by a private contractor,
the Esmor Correctional Services Corporation, based in Melville, L.I.

"Some people are arrogant and believe they are above the law," said Edward M.
Neafsey, Acting Union County Prosecutor. "Others don't really care about the law
because this is how they get their kicks."

First Assistant Prosecutor Michael J. LaPolla speculated that the guards may
have been trying to intimidate a new group of inmates in the belief they had
just been involved in an uprising. In fact, prosecutors said, none of the men
sent to the Union County Jail had participated in the disturbance at the center.

Ms. Phipps, the immigrants' lawyer, said that none of the 25 detainees were
criminals or posed any danger to the guards. She said most were professionals or
students who had spoken out against repressive governments and then fled to the
United States.

She declined to identify the men by name, but said one was a chemical engineer
from Ghana, another was a Jehovah's Witness fleeing Romania for religious
reasons and a third was an Algerian student whose father had been murdered by
religious fundamentalists.

The officers charged include Lieut. Joseph Salay, who was in command when the
detainees arrived, two sergeants and three corrections officers. They face
charges of official misconduct, which carry penalties of 5 to 10 years in
prison, prosecutors said.

Anthony Pope, the officers' lawyer, described them as professionals and "family
men," and said the account of the beatings had been fabricated by the detainees.
He suggested the injuries reported by the immigrants had been inflicted during
the disturbance at the I.N.S. center.

"Wherever the injuries may have occurred, certainly it was not at the hands of
these officers," Mr. Pope said.

Mr. LaPolla said the detainees sent to the Elizabeth jail had received brief
medical checks before being taken away from the I.N.S. center. He said that if
any had been injured, they would not have been sent to the Union County Jail.

Mr. Neafsey said he was confident that the detainees had not concocted a story
because they spoke several different languages. Also, the detainees were held in
small groups in different cells before being transferred to Federal custody in
Pennsylvania, so they would not have been able to meet and fabricate a story.

Mr. Neafsey said prosecutors had obtained videotaped statements from 24
detainees. The 25th was deported before the investigation of the beatings began
in early July.

Officer Michael Sica, president of the corrections officers' union, said all the
guards were expected to be free on bail by yesterday evening. He criticized
prosecutors for arresting the officers at 5 A.M., rather than allowing them to
surrender. He said it was part of an effort by prosecutors to intimidate other
officers and persuade them to testify.

But Mr. Neafsey, the Acting Prosecutor, said the officers should not expect
special treatment from his office. "We moved in early for safety reasons," he
said. "These defendants should not expect any treatment that is different than
that accorded to defendants in any other criminal matter."

Immigrants' rights advocates hailed the Union County Prosecutor's response to
the detainees' allegations of mistreatment by guards. They said such accusations
often go unheard.

"I don't doubt that the things we saw happen there go on all over the country,"
said Judy Rabinovitz, senior staff counsel for the A.C.L.U. Rights Project. "But
I don't think there are many prosecutors who pursue them in the same way. My
concern is that this is a widespread problem and that the norm is that this
thing goes on and there is no accountability for it."


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 13, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

The Vietnamese in Germany: No Jobs, No Country

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Oct. 10


If there is a German version of the American dream, it begins and ends for some
in Block F of a housing project at 6 Gehrenseestrasse, in what was once East
Berlin.

Here, framed by the concrete symmetry of Communist-era architecture, hundreds of
Vietnamese trade gossip, buy newspapers in their own language, pay high rents
for mediocre housing and scout for jobs. But they also keep one eye out for the
police and wait for the answer to a question that hangs over them all: Will they
be among the 40,000 Vietnamese that Germany plans to deport to Vietnam over the
next five years?

This plan for systematic expulsion of contract workers hired by the Communist
Government in the former East Germany, who were never given permanent residency
status, and of other Vietnamese who have immigrated illegally, was devised this
year. It has been smoothed by a $140 million German aid package for Vietnam --
what some Germans are calling "head money."

It is a tangled tale of many strands and few heroes -- of cold war divisions
that have worked to the advantage of organized crime.

But, most of all, the deportation, which could become the biggest of its kind in
postwar Germany, exposes the central paradox of the country's attitude toward
foreigners. To prevent a revival of xenophobic neo-Nazi violence, officials
insist, unwanted and undocumented foreigners should be kept out of Germany. But
that, in turn, means that the agenda of the far right -- summed up in its
slogan, "Foreigners go home" -- is being fulfilled by a Government that says it
seeks social peace and justice.

Interior Minister Manfred Kanther, a man of both tough words and strong action,
says that such a policy is "the only guarantee against the abuses of
uncontrollable movements of immigrants in the future and against popular
discontent turning to radical political forces."

That is not how it seems in the hostels and apartment houses here that are so
densely and exclusively filled with Vietnamese that some Germans call them
ghettos.

"The people are afraid," said Son Vu Van, who runs a counseling service for
Vietnamese at another drab housing project nearby. "They are afraid to talk.
They are afraid they will be expelled."

A 33-year-old man who lives in Block F declined to be identified because he
feared that publicity would draw the immigration authorities' attention to him.
"Who knows who will be expelled, or why?" he said. "All we can do is wait and
see. There's nothing for us in Vietnam, so no one wants to go. But it's not good
here, either."

His home, he said, is a 150-square-foot room that he shares with one other
person in the five-story, government-run workers' hostel where many Vietnamese
have found homes. The toilets, kitchens and showers are all communal. The rent
is around $370 a month -- about half his earnings from construction work, the
man said.

The residents of Block F are among an estimated 100,000 Vietnamese currently in
Germany, the product of decades of uneven immigration.

In the 1970's, tens of thousands of South Vietnamese -- the so-called boat
people -- found willing asylum in the former West Germany, which introduced a
special law to give them permanent residence rights.

After the Communist victory in Vietnam, East Germany imported some 70,000
Vietnamese as contract laborers in the 1980's, just as the West Germans imported
hundreds of thousands of Turks as laborers in the 1960's.

Then came the collapse of Communism and German unification.

With too many workers and too few jobs as the newly unified state sought to
implant a free-market economy in the east, the Government offered each
Vietnamese contract worker a $2,000 payment and a ticket home. As many as 50,000
Vietnamese took the money and left.

But, as Europe's border restrictions began to crumble with the end of Communism,
up to 20,000 more Vietnamese workers who had been brought in by other countries
of Eastern Europe came here unlawfully, adding to the flow of Poles, Russians,
Gypsies and others already being drawn to what Mr. Kanther, the Interior
Minister, called "the magnet-like attraction of an economically strong Germany."

The response to the influx of foreigners was a violent neo-Nazi upsurge from
1990 until 1993 that persuaded the German authorities not only to crack down on
the far-rightists, but also to strengthen immigration controls.

Germany's longstanding constitutional guarantees of asylum were scrapped. New
legislation narrowed guarantees of asylum only to those fleeing persecution who
had valid identity documents and who had not traveled through any other country
to reach Germany.

A separate set of rules was adopted to cover the anomalous situation of the
Vietnamese from the former East Germany. These rules offered limited residence
rights for a maximum of two years, but only to those who had jobs, homes and no
criminal record.

In one way, the new rules worked. In 1992, 430,000 people sought asylum in
Germany. In 1994, the figure was 120,000 and of these, only 12,000 were given
residence permits.

Germany's crackdown carries heavy emotional and political cargo: if Germans seem
too tough on non-Germans, it inevitably evokes the country's Nazi past. German
officials respond by boasting that Germany has a large number of foreigners --
some seven million in a land of 81 million people.

Mr. Kanther said in a recent published interview that Germany spends between $8
billion and $11 billion a year to enforce its immigration laws and to provide
social services for people seeking residence.

"That is exemplary," he said. "For me there is not the slightest cause to
suggest that German asylum laws are inhumane."

That did not stop him from ordering the expulsion last month of seven Sudanese
asylum-seekers after a court dismissed their contention that they faced
political persecution at home. They were sent back to Khartoum aboard a
chartered Romanian plane despite the protests from the opposition Social
Democrats and the German Foreign Ministry. For Mr. Kanther, the point was to
prove that Germany is no easy touch for unlawful immigrants.

In the former East Germany, contract workers lived in small rooms and forfeited
part of their salary to the Communist authorities in Vietnam. Then, after
Communism's fall, Vietnam refused to take back the Vietnamese workers who had
not availed themselves of the initial $2,000 offer.

The German authorities, however, were under pressure from German industry to
normalize economic ties with Vietnam and thus to secure access to an emerging
Southeast Asian market. So last January, Germany and Vietnam agreed to a deal
promising aid and export guarantees if Vietnam would take back 40,000 of its own
people -- the first 2,500 by the end of this year.

The agreement, which does not affect those who were granted legal asylum, went
into effect last month. No one has been expelled yet because the Vietnamese
authorities have not approved an initial list of 200 to be deported.

"People are very worried about their stay here," said Hang Trinh Thu, a
25-year-old woman from Hanoi who has been in Germany for six years and who works
at a counseling center in Block F.

"Some of them gave up everything in Vietnam to come here. Here, they have jobs,
houses, children at school. They will do everything they can to stay in Germany.
In their own land, they are strangers."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Vietnamese woman hanging her laundry in the hallway of a
hostel at Gehrenseestrasse No. 6 in Berlin. Germany has said that 40,000 of the
estimated 100,000 Vietnamese there will be deported in the next five years.
(Christian Schulz for The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 20, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Votes to Toughen Stance on Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 19


The New Jersey State Senate held its first voting session since June today to
pass a package of laws that would deal more harshly with youthful offenders,
deny worker's compensation payments to illegal aliens and deny state business to
any company that employs illegal aliens.

With passage of the laws, which remain to be voted on in the State Assembly, the
New Jersey Senate reflects the growing national mood of antagonism toward
juvenile crime and illegal immigration. The juvenile justice changes were drawn
up by the administration of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and are all but assured
passage in the Assembly. The measures dealing with illegal aliens have been
sharply opposed by the Roman Catholic Church and immigrants' rights groups, and
face a less certain future.

The first of the two measures requires that employers receiving state contracts,
tax abatements and the like certify that all of their employees are in the
country legally. The second measure makes undocumented workers ineligible for
worker's compensation and temporary disability payments for workplace injuries.

Both measures passed with only a few dissenting votes, despite the opposition of
the Catholic bishops in the state, who said that the laws could be interpreted
to deny illegal aliens such state services as childhood immunization and
emergency medical care.

"Because of the potential danger to human life inherent in these two bills, the
Catholic bishops are compelled to oppose them," the New Jersey Catholic
Conference, an association of bishops, said in a statement.

But State Senator Leonard T. Connors, a Surf City Republican and the bill's
chief sponsor, said his legislation was needed to protect taxpayers from the
hidden costs of illegal immigration.

"America today is confronted with an invasion of illegal, undocumented aliens,"
Mr. Connors said. "Illegal, undocumented aliens are driving American workers to
the unemployment lines."

Yet the proposal to deny worker's compensation and temporary disability benefits
to illegal aliens was opposed by legislators who said that such a law might
actually encourage companies to hire aliens in the hope of avoiding having to
pay such benefits.

"What we are doing is creating incentives for employers to hire illegal aliens,"
Senator Edward T. O'Connor, a Jersey City Democrat, declared during the debate.
Mr. Connors replied that such illegal hirings would occur regardless.

"Every day," Mr. Connors said, "there are people who jeopardize their freedom by
sticking up banks, mugging people and robbing people. So an employer who is
unscrupulous about the laws of our country would certainly cheat the laws on
worker's compensation or the rules about Social Security, with or without this
law."

Governor Whitman has not yet taken a position on the aliens bills, although she
has generally opposed denying needy people existing benefits.

The juvenile justice changes would unify all related activities under a new
Juvenile Justice Commission; they would also allow the state to compel parents
to pay restitution for a wide range of offenses committed by their children, and
give juvenile judges greater leeway in sentencing young offenders.

Under the new law, for example, imprisonment would be an option for juveniles
considered dangerous.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 27, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico and U.S. to Patrol Border Trouble Spots

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DEPALMA

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 26


After a month of rising vigilantism along the border in Southern California,
during which one illegal immigrant was shot and six others held captive by local
ranchers, American and Mexican officials are creating a joint law-enforcement
operation to protect Mexican aliens and patrol the area.

On Friday, Alan D. Bersin, the United States Attorney for the Southern District
of California who is a special representative for Southwest border issues for
Attorney General Janet Reno, is scheduled to announce a substantial increase in
local, state and Federal agents to patrol a mountainous border area about 25
miles east of San Diego.

At the same time, the consul general of Mexico in San Diego, Luis Herrera-Lasso,
is expected to announce that Mexico has designated a group of agents to work on
Mexico's border to protect migrants from violence.

As illegal crossings have increased in the last year, the number of assaults on
illegal immigrants have risen sharply.

Mr. Herrera-Lasso said that while preventing crime was a concern for both
countries, the Mexican agents would not attempt to prevent Mexicans from
crossing the border illegally.

"By no means will they be supporting or acting in complicity with American
authorities in those acts that have to do with action against Mexican
immigrants," Mr. Herrera-Lasso said in a telephone interview.

Mr. Bersin said that the United States group was being formed because a
crackdown on illegal immigration by the United States in the past year had
shifted the flow of illegal immigrants from the Imperial Beach area in
California -- where migrants could easily reach San Diego in a few hours -- to a
mountainous part of San Diego County about 25 miles east of the city.

In that rugged terrain, he said, it can take immigrants days to reach a city,
giving the border patrol more time to take them into custody.

United States Government figures show apprehensions in that area have increased
as much as 900 percent over the past Federal fiscal year, which ended on Sept.
30, although the number of people detained is still far below the number of
apprehensions in the Tijuana, Mexico-San Diego area.

With more Mexicans crossing the border in eastern San Diego county, often called
East County, crime against personal property also has increased, Mr. Bersin
said.

"The result of that is a very heightened sense of insecurity by residents of
East County who in the past were not burdened with aliens and alien smugglers,"
he said.

In some cases, local residents have taken the law into their own hands. On Oct.
2, Mexican and United States officials said, six illegal immigrants were rounded
up in California by residents armed with shotguns and held for a couple of hours
until the United States Border Patrol arrived.

On Oct. 17, a Mexican illegal immigrant who was wanted by the local police in
connection with a string of robberies was shot and wounded by an American who
knew the police were after the man, officials said.

Mr. Bersin said the new patrols should "establish, without doubt in the mind of
anyone, be they Mexican alien or U.S. resident, that violence or lawlessness
will not be tolerated, either in San Diego County or in Baja California."


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 28, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Wilson Failed To Pay Taxes For 3 Maids

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 7;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 27


Revisiting an issue that haunted his recently aborted Presidential campaign,
Gov. Pete Wilson disclosed today that he had employed three part-time
housecleaners whose Social Security taxes he failed to pay, rather than just the
one he originally acknowledged having employed.

But the Governor insisted that, as far as could be determined, all the workers
were either United States citizens or legal immigrants, not illegal immigrants
as some of his political enemies have speculated.

He also said that as far as possible, he had made good on the missing Social
Security payments by forwarding checks to the Social Security Administration,
with back interest and assessed penalties.

"I have never intentionally failed to make necessary Social Security payments,"
the Governor declared this afternoon in a written statement, accompanied by
supporting documents.

"But I take full responsibility for these oversights," he went on, "and have
satisfied my obligations to Social Security."

The total in back payments was about $15,000.

Early in the Governor's campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination,
which he abandoned last month for lack of money and progress in the polls, his
political enemies asserted that he had employed at least one illegal immigrant
as a maid, and possibly as many as three. His opponents sought, almost gleefully
at times, to contrast that with his repeated calls in campaign speeches for an
end to illegal immigration, a major problem in California.

Initially, Mr. Wilson acknowledged having employed a maid in the late 1970's,
while he was Mayor of San Diego, whose Social Security he had not paid. He said
that the maid, Josefina Klag, had been hired by his first wife, Betty, and that
he knew nothing of the maid's salary arrangements.

But in any case, he said, every indication was that she was a legal immigrant.
Further, he said, he had made a lump back payment on her Social Security taxes.

The Governor's critics were not satisfied. He not only ordered his personal
lawyer, John Davies, to investigate the Klag case, but also instructed him to
determine whether any other domestic hiring irregularities had occurred.

The investigation, according to Mr. Davies, found that in the early 1970's,
before the Wilsons employed Ms. Klag, they employed another maid whose first
name was Inez but whose last name no one could recall.

A third part-time Wilson maid, according to Mr. Davies, was employed by Mr.
Wilson and his second wife, Gayle, while Mr. Wilson was a Senator in Washington
from 1983 through 1990. Her name was Shirley Williams, and the assumption was
that she was an American citizen, Mr. Davies added.

"No report of wages was made to the I.R.S. and no payment of Social Security
taxes was made," Mr. Davies said. "Mrs. Wilson believes that in most years
Williams only worked 8 or 10 times over the course of a year, and Mr. Wilson
didn't realize that was frequent enough to require Social Security payments."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 4, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Police Say Rapist in Queens Poses as an Immigration Agent

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 26;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 321 words


Carrying plastic handcuffs, a fake Immigration and Naturalization Service badge
and a black semiautomatic handgun, a man posing as an I.N.S. agent has robbed
and raped at least five women in Queens, the police said yesterday.

The man apparently seeks out Hispanic women who he believes are illegal
immigrants, knocking on their doors and asking, in Spanish, to see their
immigration papers. Once the door is open, the man pulls a gun and forces his
way in, said Deputy Chief Lawrence F. Loesch, head of Queens detectives.

The police said they believed the rapist preyed on immigrants because many are
afraid to contact the police for fear that they will be reported for immigration
violations. But Chief Loesch appealed to immigrant women yesterday to report
similar incidents and said that the police would not report any witnesses or
victims to immigration officials, even those in the country illegally.

"The police are here to help you," Chief Loesch said at a news conference. "We
need your help to find this individual."

The most recent attack occurred on Oct. 20 near the Queensbridge Houses in
Astoria, when a Peruvian woman reported an attack by a gunman wearing a security
guard uniform who identified himself as an I.N.S. agent. Chief Loesch said the
gunman threatened to shoot the woman's child, then raped her and robbed her of
jewelry.

The police said they believed that the same man had carried out four similar
attacks in Corona, Elmhurst and Astoria since June 1994. During those attacks,
the man, dressed in dark clothing and carried off money and jewelry in a black
backpack.

Detectives described the man as 5 feet 8 inches to 6 feet tall, weighing more
than 200 pounds, with a dark complexion. He speaks both Spanish and English, the
police said.

Anyone with information about the attacks is asked to call the police at (800)
577-TIPS or, for a Spanish-speaking operator, (800) 577-PISTA.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 5, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

3 Men Drown Trying to Enter U.S. Illegally

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 32;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Nov. 4


Three farm workers drowned early Friday in the Tijuana River while trying to
cross into the United States from Mexico, the authorities said.

An agent for the United States Border Patrol in the unincorporated San Ysidro
area saw eight people head into the river channel about midnight, said Ann
Summers, a spokeswoman for the Border Patrol's San Diego sector.

Ms. Summers said that agents sent to the area heard splashing and found three
17-year-old boys, two of whom managed to climb out of the steep channel on the
United States side; a third who was helped to safety. Two men believed to be
immigrant smugglers fled back across the border.

San Diego County lifeguards found three bodies in the river about 90 minutes
later, Ms. Summers said.

The authorities identified the dead as Marcelino Ramirez, 29; Lorenzo Gaitan
Ramirez, 40, and Benito Pacheco Lopez, 29.

The channel at that point is 6 feet deep and up to 30 feet wide. Ms. Summers
said the three drowning victims were caught in a "sinkhole" and just missed
shallower water.

"If they'd gone 5 to 10 feet to either side, it would have been only ankle
deep," she said. "They'd have been fine."

Carlos Felix, Mexico's deputy consul in San Diego, blamed smugglers for the
deaths. "It was an accident motivated by the smugglers who gave them the
instructions to hide in the water," he told The Los Angeles Times.

Recent rain in the area has raised the water level of the river, which typically
becomes deadly for border-crossers later in the rainy season.

The six workers, all related, were from the Mexican state of Oaxaca. Mr. Felix
said they had lived in a camp for agricultural workers near Ensenada.

Ms. Summers said they had paid $150 each to be smuggled across the border and
were heading for Encinitas. They apparently crossed through a nearby culvert or
by jumping a steel fence, she said, adding that the three teen-agers were taken
back to Mexico by the Mexican consul in San Diego.

Ms. Summers said there were at least 15 drownings in the Tijuana River in the
last fiscal year. The five-mile coastal border area "has been traditionally one
of the most popular areas" for illegal crossers.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 8, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Tests Border Plan In Event of Mexico Crisis

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section B;    Page 16;    Column 1;    National Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz., Dec. 7


Sudden ly, a vast flood of illegal immigrants Mexicans driven to desperation by
some unspeakable and unspecified social catastrophe -- surges across the
Southwest border, inundating entire communities as it washes north into the
American heartland.

That was the scenario driving three days of field exercises here this week, in
which the Clinton Administration's top immigration policy-makers tested new
plans to control the border in case Mexico's financial and political problems
worsen dramatically. Their field radios crackling through a border canyon here,
scores of Border Control agents practiced erecting cyclone-fence corrals,
herding immigrants through them for emergency processing, and loading them onto
bus convoys for travel to mass detention centers.

The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Doris Meissner,
who is here overseeing the exercises, said that although last year's mass
migrations of Cubans and Haitians demonstrated anew how foreign events can
trigger sudden immigration emergencies, the chances that a breakdown in Mexico's
social order could unleash an immigrant stampede remained distant.

"I think its remote," she said in an interview. "But this is part of our world.
We must be certain we can handle emergencies if they arrive."

Just as schoolhouse nuclear drills projected, and at times aggravated American
terrors during the cold war, the "enhanced border control plan" practiced here
this week underlined the fears currently associated with uncontrolled
immigration in the American imagination.

Ms. Meissner said the exercise was not intended to send threatening messages to
Mexico City. And a Mexican official who asked not to be identified characterized
relations between the Clinton Administration and the Government of President
Ernesto Zedillo as cordial. But the official said of the exercise, "We don't see
this as appropriate or prudent."

For his part, Juan Rebolledo, Mexico's under-secretary of foreign affairs,
speaking in a telephone interview from Mexico City, said that the cyclical flow
of migrants into the United States in search of work has become a permanent
condition of the North American labor market.

"Conditions in Mexico, with all its problems, are stable," he said. "So I view
an invasion of thousands of Mexicans across the border to be, as you Americans
say, far-fetched."

Several Border Patrol agents participating here said that they could not
remember their agency carrying out any similar exercises for at least two
decades, perhaps ever. But the Arizona exercise was the third this year; the
Immigration and Naturalization Service walked through similar practice
emergencies in June in Orlando and last month in McAllen, Tex.

Dutch Steenbakker, an assistant chief Border Patrol agent, said there were no
specific scenarios for Mexican catastrophe written into the exercise.

"We decided it would be a mistake to start tailoring it around a particular
situation," Mr. Steenbakker said in a briefing for reporters at a barbed-wire
corral erected in a scrub oak campground in the Coronado National Forest six
miles from Nogales on Arizona's southern border. "It could be a natural
disaster, or the economy collapses, or the military attacks the Government, or
any number of other situations."

Mr. Steenbakker called the corral, bathed in floodlights and equipped with five
olive-drab army campaign tents, water tanks, and portable toilets, a "temporary
collection point." During a border emergency, agents would ferry in migrants,
read them their rights, which include seeing a lawyer and appearing before an
immigration judge, and separate them according to their next destination:
immediate voluntary deportation back at the border, or an emergency detention
center set up about 60 miles north in Tucson.

There, immigrants might be held for 30 days or more, transferred to prisons,
county jails or military bases and if all of those facilities were overwhelmed,
held semi-permanently in "soft-cover detention" -- tent villages like those
established last year in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Intelligence agents would participate in the interviewing of immigrants during
an emergency in an effort to establish the cause of the immigrant invasion, Mr.
Steenbakker said.

"If its all of a sudden we're getting inundated, we want to find out what's
causing it and maybe the U.S. Government can help solve it," he said.

In one of the tents, Kevin W. Oaks. a Border Patrol supervisor, gestured toward
a bank of telephones, fax machines, computers and two-way radios. "This is the
command and transportation center," Mr. Oaks said. "We'd be shifting around a
lot of vehicle assets, maybe we'd have 15 vans moving masses of people out to
the detention centers."

If so many immigrants crossed the border that the Nogales border station ran out
of busses, more could be brought down from Tucson or Phoenix or even from
neighboring states, he said.

"Say we're tapped out of people," Mr. Steenbakker said. "We could call in other
resources, the sheriff's department or the national guard."

If these exercises had a certain military air to them, it was because the
Immigration and Naturalization Service requested military help in its
preparation, Ms. Meissner said.  "They're very good at formal contingency
planning and we wanted to tap some expertise," she said. The help came, she
said, in the form of Army Col. Richard Coffin, whom the Pentagon had lent to
immigration office.

Part of the exercise involved role-playing, in which Washington-based officials
pretended to be law-enforcement officers recruited from afar to serve during the
hypothetical emergency. Ms. Meissner, who during the exercise acted the role of
an out-of-state F.B.I. agent detailed to coordinate transportation, said she had
learned during a string of immigration emergencies since the 1980 Mariel exodus
from Cuba that careful planning was essential.

"Planning makes the difference between an effective response and just
dissembling," Ms. Meissner said.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigration officials held field exercises in Nogales, Ariz.,
this week to test plans to control the border in case Mexico's financial and
political problems worsen. The exercises included setting up a camp with Army
tents, water tanks and portable toilets as a "temporary collection point." (Jeff
Tipping for The New York Times) (pg. B16)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 22, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Border Agent Accused in Sexual Assault on an Illegal Alien

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 29;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Dec. 21


A United States Border Patrol agent was arrested here on Wednesday after an
undocumented El Salvadoran immigrant said the agent sexually assaulted her near
the border. It was the latest in a series of accusations leveled against the
patrol.

The woman said she was assaulted shortly after dawn on Wednesday in a remote
area near the Tijuana River. She complained to other Border Patrol agents, who
then called the police.

Detectives arrested Charles Vinson, 41, an agent for eight years, at his home in
Chula Vista. Mr. Vinson was charged with multiple counts of felony sexual
assault and held in lieu of $30,000 bail, said Border Patrol officials. He will
be arraigned on Friday and has been placed on leave without pay.

Officials said they are trying to determine whether Mr. Vinson was involved in
another assault. Capt. Tom Hall of the San Diego Police Department said: "In a
case earlier this year, in the same general area, the suspect possibly was in
uniform. We'll search for other cases."

In this case, the woman reported being raped by a man wearing a green Border
Patrol uniform. She said he approached her at 6 A.M. as she was illegally
crossing into the United States. She was alone, and she said the man assaulted
her in a secluded canyon covered by brush, Capt. Hall said.

After he left, she went to the road nearby and flagged down a Border Patrol
unit, Captain Hall said.

Many advocates for immigrants and border residents from California to Texas say
assaults on illegal aliens are common, but very few cases involving illegal
immigrant and refugee women are reported.

Roberto Martinez, director of the border project of the American Friends Service
Committee, a national human rights organization, said that his office alone had
recorded 120 cases of physical abuse against immigrants by Border Patrol agents
in the last year and a half. "It goes on all the time," Mr. Martinez said, "and
it's getting worse."

Some cases have made it to trial in recent years, particularly in Nogales,
Ariz., where there have been two high-profile sexual assault cases against
Border Patrol agents. In 1994, Nogales police arrested a Border Patrol agent in
connection with the molestation of a 12-year-old girl. The agent, Raul Teran,
44, of Nogales, was charged with one count each of kidnapping, sexual assault
and molestation.

Another former Nogales Border Patrol agent, Larry Dean Selders, was prosecuted
on criminal charges of sexual assault of a 21-year-old illegal alien. In a plea
bargain in October 1994, Mr. Selders was sentenced to a year in prison after
pleading no contest to a charge of trying to transport for immoral purposes.

In San Diego County, where more than 300 agents patrol a five-mile stretch of
the border, Mr. Vinson's arrest comes at a time when the agency is apparently
getting tougher on abuse and misconduct among its own. In October, the chief of
the agency here dismissed five agents after they were accused of hitting an
illegal alien.

Claudia Smith, regional counsel for California Rural Legal Assistance, said that
the reluctance to report sexual abuse by the Border Patrol was based on the
women's fear and their unfamiliarity with United States immigration laws.

The victim in Wednesday's case was treated at a San Diego hospital, then taken
to an undisclosed house where she was reunited with her husband and at least one
child, who were already in the United States illegally. All were granted
temporary legal status pending court proceedings against Mr. Vinson.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 23, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

4 Clerks Charged With Taking Bribes from Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 29;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1021 words


Over the last four years, a small group of low-paid immigration clerks in
Manhattan took hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to issue employment
authorization cards and other documents to tens of thousands of illegal
immigrants and others who were not entitled to them, Federal officials said
yesterday.

The purported scam -- a virtual case history of how a few obscure workers with
access to valuable, coveted documents can wreak havoc on a system -- was
penetrated in a yearlong Justice Department undercover investigation and
disclosed yesterday after the arrest of four immigration clerks on
bribery-conspiracy charges.

Working with shady "brokers" -- middlemen who worked out of apartments or cars
and often solicited bribes from immigrants on lines at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service at 26 Federal Plaza -- the four defendants were accused
of sharing millions in bribes to issue the genuine documents, prosecutors said.

"We're talking big bribe money," said Robert H. Goodwin, the special agent in
charge of the New York office of the Justice Department's Inspector General,
which conducted the inquiry and announced the arrests. As many as 50,000 people
may have illegally obtained documents from the suspects since 1991, he said.

The defendants, Elizabeth Davis, Milagros Ayala, Geneva McNeil and Preisca
Brown, all clerks in the immigration service's employment authorization unit,
were arrested Thursday, arraigned in a Federal court and released on bonds of
$25,000 each, Mr. Goodwin said. If convicted, each faces up to five years in
jail.

While the suspects are all employed in Manhattan and the offenses allegedly
occurred there, they were arraigned in Federal Court in Brooklyn because the
investigation that led to the arrests began there, Mr. Goodwin said.

In a similar but unrelated case, a special immigration agent in Newark was
arrested Thursday on charges of taking a $4,000 bribe for a metal template used
to create registration cards, known as "green cards," which entitle immigrants
to live and work in the United States. The suspect, DeAndre Rudolph, was
arraigned in Federal Court in Newark and released on $100,000 bond.

Bribery is hardly new among immigration service clerks, some of whom take home
pay as low as $250 a week and yet have access to the service's computers and
document-making machines and thus hold far-reaching power over the lives of
immigrants desperate to remain in this country and to find employment.

An investigation by The New York Times last year of major cases over the last
decade found that immigration service bribery had proliferated like a virus and
that the agency had repeatedly failed to shore up security weaknesses, even when
corruption arrests exposed them over and over again.

The latest arrests were reported yesterday in The Daily News. Mr. Goodwin said
the investigation was continuing and that further arrests were likely.

This scam -- uncovered by the Inspector General's office using a confidential
informant who worked with and secretly tape-recorded conversations with the
defendants -- is among the more common, Mr. Goodwin said. But he noted that its
duration and scale made it an extraordinary case.

By Federal law, Mr. Goodwin said, all employers must check the citizenship or
immigration status of all prospective workers, and for legal and illegal
immigrants, possession of the immigration service's employment authorization
card is often tantamount to obtaining more than menial employment.

Taking advantage of that need, smooth-talking, self-styled immigration "brokers"
charge what the traffic will bear: $500 to $2,000 for an employment
authorization card, Mr. Goodwin said. The money is then shared with dishonest
immigration clerks, who supply the cards but get less than half the cut.

Mr. Goodwin said the investigation began about a year ago when a "broker" was
arrested on an unrelated charge and agreed to identify an employee of the
immigration service who had accepted bribes and might serve as a confidential
informant. The employee was then arrested, agreed to cooperate and subsequently
identified the four defendants as bribe-takers.

In a series of tape-recorded exchanges, the defendants and the confidential
informant were quoted by an undercover agent in affidavits submitted to the
court, giving details of the methods they used, the amount and number of bribes
they had accepted, talking about how difficult it was to conceal dirty money
and, in effect, scoffing at a system that allowed them to get away with it.

"I'm not saying that what we is doing is right or nothing, but the system is
stupid," the informant said.

Ms. Davis agreed, according to the affidavit.

"Didn't they know that there was a possibility that somebody would do something
like this?" the informant asked.

"Why?" Ms. Davis said. "Nothing's logged in the computers."

Some spoke of processing 15 or 20 fraudulently issued documents a day for years
in exchange for bribes ranging from $200 to $350 apiece.

In discussing money they had made from the scheme, Ms. Ayala was quoted in one
affidavit as saying: "every time I think about, I be crying, I be like 'cause I
took 60grand, that's what it was, 60 grand."

"How many people you used to do a week?" the informant asked.

"Man, let me tell you," Ms. Ayala replied, according to the affidavit. "I got
the cards at home in a bag, all the people that I did. Yo, it's like this, the
bag is about this big. Filled over."

Asked by the informant if she wanted more, she was said to have replied: "Of
course, I would. Please. Any moment, jump in a hurry."

At another point, the informant asked Ms. Brown: "How many cards you think you
did all together?"

"All together, or the amount of money I made?" Ms. Brown purportedly said. "It
had to be 30-, 35,000."

Speaking of the difficulty of hiding illegal income, Ms. Davis was quoted as
saying: "Then on top of that you got your money, you don't know where to put it
in. You can't put it in no damn bank. Put it in your son's name? Son is living
with mom. So where is she getting the money? You can't do that."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 28, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Large Increase In Deportations Occurred in '95

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 27


Responding to a rising tide of anti-immigration sentiment, the Clinton
Administration said today that the number of illegal aliens deported this year
was a record 51,600, up 15 percent from 1994 and up nearly 75 percent from 1990.

Most of the increase came from deportations of criminals who are illegal aliens.
Nearly 62 percent of those deported this year were prison inmates who were
expelled after serving their sentences, up from 52.6 percent in 1991 and 4
percent in 1986.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service also announced a sharp increase in
the number of people turned away at the nation's borders for trying to enter
illegally, to 9,400 from 5,669.

"We're putting a very heavy emphasis on making the system work properly," said
Doris Meissner, Commissioner of the Immigration Service. "In order for the
system to work properly, the final orders for deportation and exclusion have to
count for something. In the past, they have not been effectively enforced."

The increase is occurring as Congress is considering bills aimed at reducing
both the number of legal and illegal immigrants, and when immigration is
expected to be an important issue in big states like California and Florida that
will be crucial to President Clinton in the 1996 election. Contenders for the
Republican nomination, especially Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative
commentator, have made anger about immigration a central campaign theme.

At the White House, the issue is being handled by Rahm Emanuel, the former White
House political director who now is President Clinton's assistant for strategic
planning and communications. This assignment indicates the political importance
the Administration places on immigration.

For illegal aliens who manage to evade the border patrol, overstay their
temporary visas and do not run afoul of the law once here, the chances of being
caught continue to be slight. Not counting the inmates, more than 90 percent of
the illegal immigrants who are sent back are halted at the border.

And, some anti-immigration groups say, with an estimated four million illegal
aliens living in the country and with 200,000 more settling here every year, the
removal of 51,600 persons represents little more than opening a small sluice in
a lake being fed by many streams. As a result, the groups say, the increase in
deportations is more symbolic than significant.

"It's nice that they're making a priority of removing criminal aliens, but the
bottom line is most illegal aliens don't go home," said Dan Stein, executive
director of the Federation of American Immigration Reform, a group that wants to
cut both legal and illegal immigration. "The chances of being apprehended and
deported, once you get past the border patrol is less than 1 percent."

Still, officials of some pro- and anti-immigration groups say the increase in
removals is a significant change of focus for the I.N.S.

"This is a pretty big increase," said Jessica Vaughan, assistant director of the
Center for Immigration Study, a research institute that argues that current
levels of immigration have a harmful affect on minorities and the poor. "I
remember a few years ago it was around 30,000 a year. The goal seems to be
getting it up as high as possible so that the Administration could be seen doing
something about it."

And while some experts say the the emphasis on deportation is good policy,
virtually all say there is a political dimension to the Administration's stepped
up efforts.

"There is an anti-immigrant wave that's sweeping the country right now, which is
being exploited politically by people in the Republican and Democratic parties,"
said Lucas Guttentag, director of National Immigrants Rights Project of the
American Civil Liberties Union. "And the Clinton Administration wants to
pre-empt immigration from being a political issue in the 1996 campaign."

Experts in the area of immigration attribute much of the rise in deportations to
the agency's decision to concentrate its resources on enforcement. In addition,
while many Federal agencies are coping with budget cuts, the spending bill for
the I.N.S. pending in Congress would provide a $128.7 million increase for the
agency's enforcement divisions, including an increase of 1,400 people, mainly
detention and deportation officers.

But, in recent years two other changes in law and policy have spurred
deportations.

In July, the I.N.S. and the Justice Department beefed up inspections of
documents of people crossing the border south of San Diego. As a result, 3,029
illegal aliens were turned away and their names entered in a computerized
identification system.

In 1994, the service expanded its program to hold deportation hearings for
illegal aliens who were incarcerated for various crimes in state prisons. The
program was begun in 1988, but was expanded last year in the five states with
the largest populations of illegal aliens: California, Florida, Illinois, New
York and Texas.

Before the program aliens were sent to Federal detention centers after serving
their terms to await deportation hearings. If there was no space available for
them, they were set free and were ordered to return voluntarily for their
hearings.

Now, Ms. Meissner said, "Once the state sentence is over, we take them right to
an airplane."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Immigrants Sent Back Home" shows the number
excluded and deported, 1990 to 1995. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization
Service)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 31, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

DECEMBER 24-30;
Haven Forbid! Deportations Rising

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 2;   Column 2;   Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 136 words


America has often thought of itself as a haven for the world's poor and
oppressed, a place where there is always a welcome mat. But in keeping with the
rising tide of anti-immigration sentiment, increasingly the Clinton
Administration is showing the door to illegal immigrants.

Last week, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, long considered one of
the least efficient Federal agencies, reported that in 1995 it deported a record
number of foreigners who were in the United States illegally -- 51,600, a 15
percent increase over 1994 and a jump of nearly 75 percent since 1990.

Showing that the I.N.S. can really work may mean a lot for President Clinton
during the 1996 election, particularly in states like California and Florida
where illegal immigration is a hot issue.   STEVEN A. HOLMES

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Man Falls to Death Fleeing U.S. Agents

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 168 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Jan. 22


Six illegal immigrants who had been stopped by Federal agents near the Mexican
border fell off a 120-foot cliff after they ran away in the dark, the Border
Patrol said on Sunday. One man died and the others were injured, as was the
Border Patrol agent who went to their assistance.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation was looking into the incident, which
occurred Saturday night, to make sure that proper procedures were followed, said
a Border Patrol supervisory agent, Ron Henley.

The fall occurred about four miles north of the border here, at Otay Lakes Dam,
on a route often used for border crossings. A Border Patrol agent fell to his
death there last year.

United States Attorney Alan Bersin said smugglers who guide aliens to such
trails were responsible for the deaths and injuries.

The man who died was declared dead at the scene, the authorities said. The other
aliens were taken to local hospitals, where four remained today. The condition
of the injured agent was not disclosed.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 28, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WHAT IMMIGRATION CRISIS?

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 14;   Column 2;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 106 words


By casting the debate on illegal immigration as one about values, Rayner ignored
the fundamental complaint many Americans have on this topic. After a lifetime of
employment, and the subsequent financing of numerous social programs via taxes
on our incomes, we now question who really benefits.

Rayner's solution of providing "Federal assistance to heavily impacted areas
such as Los Angeles" is the most disturbing aspect of his article. While
economic expectations for most "native" Americans have been diminished,
government assistance for those who are not citizens seems unlimited.

JEFFREY BATES
Kirkland, Wash.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH RODGRIGUEZ/BLACK STAR)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 28, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WHAT IMMIGRATION CRISIS?

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 14;   Column 1;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 79 words


Another "illegal immigrants are good for the country" story. As an American, I
really don't have any rights, except to pay my taxes, serve in time of war and
keep my mouth shut for fear of being called a racist.

I loved the new math at work in your article. Let's see, pay $7 billion in taxes
and get $11.8 billion in education benefits. Not a bad return on your money. And
you didn't even include the cost of health benefits.

DAVID HARRIS
New York

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH RODGRIGUEZ/BLACK STAR)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 29, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Agents Face Hurdles on Border Patrol

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

SECTION: Section A;   Page 10;   Column 3;   National Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif.


When Sara G. Guzman, a United States Border Patrol agent, tells her father about
chasing illegal aliens through the canyons and scrub along this stretch of rusty
frontier fence with Mexico, he says in Spanish: "Yes, I remember. I used to
cross there."

Ms. Guzman, an immigrant from Mexico, stakes out the same hillsides here, south
of San Diego, where her father clambered illegally into the United States over
the years before becoming a legal resident in 1978. She detains mostly people
like him, Mexican, but also Central American, and almost always poor: people
looking for hope and opportunity in the agricultural fields and construction
gangs of California.

It is just one of the many conflicts faced by Hispanic Border Patrol agents --
both American-born and naturalized United States citizens -- who together make
up 40 percent of the agency's force. Though Hispanic agents are valued by the
Border Patrol for enforcing United States immigration laws and their frequent
Spanish language fluency, they are reviled by many in their own community as
traitors and are cajoled by illegal aliens they capture with entreaties of
cross-border brotherhood.

"Aliens try the guilt trip: 'How can you do this to your own people?' " said Ms.
Guzman, who eventually moved legally to California from central Mexico with her
family and then became a United States citizen 11 years ago. "After that it's,
'I have nothing in Mexico. You ought to know how things are down there.'

"I do feel what they are going through," Ms. Guzman said. "But it's not that I
feel guilty apprehending them. It's my job. Am I supposed to let people go who
are breaking the law just because of their ethnic background?"

These days, nearly 2,000 of the 5,000-member Border Patrol are Hispanic, as the
agency swells in size to pacify public demand for a secure southern frontier.

Meanwhile, people are crossing this international line like never before in
places like San Ysidro, a consequence of Mexico's year-old economic crisis.

Just on the other side of the fence from here, in the slums of Tijuana, people
mass at the border every day. That is especially true this month, when illegal
aliens traditionally return to the United States from a Christmas spent in
Mexico, and in time for winter harvest. They generally wait for nightfall to
make a dash past Border Patrol agents, many of whom have the same heritage and
celebrate the same Latin American religious holidays as their quarry.

Often, aliens who are captured barb Hispanic agents with reminders of their
roots, no matter how far removed, in hopes of being let free.

"They know you have relatives down there," Mr. Dominguez said, whose
great-grandmother immigrated to the United States from Mexico. "They try to
throw that at you."

David R. Saucedo, a Hispanic Border Patrol agent born in the United States,
tells of being raised in a predominantly Hispanic San Diego neighborhood,
speaking only Spanish until elementary school and holding contempt for the
Border Patrol. Now, during lulls in his duty at the fence, he sits in a
four-wheel drive Government-issued truck listening to Mexican ranchera music on
a Spanish-language radio station.

"In my neighborhood, there was a lot of Chicano activism," Mr. Saucedo said,
whose father emigrated from Mexico. "They always had their rallies, saying, 'We
have got to get la migra out of our neighborhood.' "

Because of that sentiment, Mr. Saucedo says he never wears his green Border
Patrol uniform when traveling between work and home. It could be dangerous
because agents are considered by some to be an unwelcome obstacle for others at
the border.

"There are groups out there who think we are the No. 1 enemy of the Hispanic
community," he said. "That can be major. There can be a few people who are
really militant."

Tensions along the border here were recently exacerbated by California voters'
approval of Proposition 187, which would eliminate state benefits now available
to illegal aliens, including education and health care. That law, ruled partly
unconstitutional by a judge in November, is viewed by some as racist.

Also, in the San Diego area, the Border Patrol is adding fencing and
coordinating activities with police and the military as part of an operation
called Gatekeeper. Some groups on both sides of the border have said this
build-up is unneighborly.

Decades ago, it was the Border Patrol that did not put much trust in Hispanic
agents, according to Leon C. Metz, author of the history book, "Border: The
U.S.-Mexico Line." He said Hispanic agents were few, and that those who joined
the Border Patrol were relegated to being interpreters or detention guards.

"There was some fear," Mr. Metz said, "that if you assigned people who speak
Spanish and whose ancestors came from Mexico to the border, they would be
sympathetic to those they should be apprehending."

As a sign of a dramatic shift in policy over the years at the Border Patrol, Ms.
Guzman considers her job to be a good one and the agency well-integrated. Her
father is amused that she joined the very agency he once tried to avoid. It is
her American-born uncles who chide her career choice.

"I tell them, 'Hey, I'm a U.S. citizen,' " Ms. Guzman said. "I tell them Mexico
didn't care enough to keep its citizens in its country. Why should I feel any
loyalty to Mexico?"

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States Border Patrol has a growing number of Hispanic
agents, like Sara Guzman, who escorted two illegal aliens into custody. (Robert
Burroughs for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 27, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Bill Bars Benefits to Aliens

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 68 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


Only three days after a state appeals court held that undocumented immigrants
are entitled to worker's compensation, the Senate approved a bill yesterday that
would deny them those benefits.

The bill's sponsor, Senator Leonard Connors Jr., Republican of Surf City, said
the measure would protect state taxpayers from "the invasion of illegal,
undocumented aliens," The Associated Press reported.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 3, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Home Improvement;
A 2,000-Mile Fence? First, Get Estimates.

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section 4;              Page 1;              Column 1;
Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


IF he is elected President of the United States, Patrick J. Buchanan vows, "I
will stop this massive illegal immigration cold. Period. Paragraph."

Or, as he put it to a crowd in Waterloo, Iowa: "I'll build that security fence,
and we'll close it, and we'll say, 'Listen Jose, you're not coming in!"'

Leave aside that any fence, in itself, could only do so much to accomplish Mr.
Buchanan's aim: half of all illegal immigrants come to this country legally but
overstay their visas, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
And leave aside that even Mr. Buchanan, when pressed for details, says he is not
really talking about building a fence or a wall across all 2,000 miles of the
U.S.-Mexican border.

But just how much would such a thing cost?

The answer is, anywhere from $166.8 million to $45.2 billion, a wild range that
will make sense to anyone who has ever tried to pin down a home improvement
contractor. These figures, gleaned from experts ranging from professors of civil
engineering to industry representatives and salesmen vary for several reasons,
including the cost of materials and of labor.

The on-the-cheap estimate is for a standard chain-link fence, using figures from
the Chain Link Fence Manufacturers Association of America of Washington, D.C.,
and Atlas Fence Co. in Houston.

"Let's see now," said Chris Cashore, Atlas's senior estimator, punching some
numbers into his calculator. "You're talking 2,000 miles by 12 feet high, at our
standard rate of $15.80 per linear foot." (No offer was made of any volume
discount.)

"That'd be $166,848,000," said Mr. Cashore, letting out a low whistle. "Man, I'd
love to have that job."

Southwestern Fence Co. ("No job too small or large," says the ad in the phone
book) offered a strikingly similar estimate, but advised there were no
guarantees that such a fence could not be cut or torched through. A thicker,
stronger steel fence would run upwards of $835 million.

At the other end of the price range, the $45.2 billion estimate is for the only
kind of barrier that some experts said might work: an exact duplication of the
Great Wall of China, 25 feet high and 20 feet deep at its base, tapering to 12
feet up top.



A Prototype Exists

Walter W. Boles, a civil engineering professor at Texas A & M University,
calculated the price using the 1996 edition of an industry bible known as the
Means Building Construction Cost Data Manual.

"It's pretty simple to give you an estimate," said the professor. The Great Wall
job would require 180 million cubic yards of concrete, and the industry
standard, factoring in prevailing union wage rates, is $250 per cubic yard.
Result: $45.2 billion.

The wall would be longer than China's 1,500-mile prototype. (The Great Wall was
assembled over hundreds of years; in this country, legal wrangling over the
environmental impact statements alone might take that long before concrete was
poured.) It would dwarf any construction project envisioned by President
Franklin D. Roosevelt, making President Buchanan more of a New Dealer, in one
sense, than F.D.R.

Of course, Mr. Buchanan, who is running as a fiscal conservative, could save the
American taxpayer at least $18.3 billion on this New Great Wall by doing what
many contractors do: hire illegal immigrants from Mexico at $1.25 an hour, less
than one-twelfth the union rate.

Or he could privatize the job. But companies that might truly have the resources
to do the work -- behemoths like the Bechtel Group and Brown & Root -- said it
was impossible to provide estimates.

"There are fences and there are fences," said a Bechtel spokesman. Besides, he
added, the company might not even bid on the a project: "We're pro-Nafta."

The only institution with any experience building fences along the border, the
Federal immigration service, said there was no way to estimate the cost of a
barrier from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific Ocean. "There are just too many
variables," said a spokesman. The agency already has about 316 miles of various
kinds of fences along the border, including 281 miles in the Arizona desert.



Pyramid Scam

If there are no official price quotes available from Washington, there's always
the Yellow Pages.

At Cliff's Concrete & Construction (where the receptionist said: "You want to
build a what? Hold on a minute, darling, let me get you an estimator") the bid
came in at $2.4 billion for a high-grade, two-foot thick concrete wall.

But such a wall would not be insurmountable. "If you get three or four guys,
they can build a little pyramid and get one guy up top," said William T.
Cannady, a professor of architecture at Rice University. "Then this one guy
throws down a rope and bingo, everybody's over."

There are esthetic considerations too. At the Brick Institute of America, Mark
Nunn, the trade group's senior building codes engineer, said that a very
attractive, 2,000-mile-long, 12-foot-high brick wall, would go for around $1.9
billion. Said another institute official: "Hmmm, we may just have to start
backing Buchanan."



Why Stop There?

Extras would cost more. Representative Duncan Hunter, a Southern California
Republican, has proposed a "multiple barrier system consisting of three fences
with patrol roads in the zones between fences" on parts of the California
border. Triple that earlier estimate on the fence.

And there's another important consideration: those pesky Canadians. Why not a
northern version on the fence?

The question of cost was put to Charlie Barziza, vice president of Dave Barziza
Contractor (and Dave's cousin) in Houston. The U.S.-Canada border is almost
exactly twice the size of the U.S.-Mexico border.

"Now," he said, "you're getting into some real money."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "Walls That Add Beauty and Security to Your Back Yard" show
various types of walls and the estimates for building them between the border of
the United States and Mexico.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 6, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

California Governor Sues U.S. For Cost of Imprisoning Aliens

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5


Stepping up his battle with the Clinton Administration over the politically
charged issue of illegal immigration, Gov. Pete Wilson of California today sued
the Federal Government for failing to reimburse his state for the costs of
incarcerating undocumented aliens who have been convicted of felonies.

The suit, filed in United States District Court for the District of Columbia,
asserts that the Administration has refused to abide by a 1994 Federal law
requiring the Government either to reimburse states for the costs of housing
criminal aliens or take custody of them.

Mr. Wilson in part based his successful re-election campaign for Governor as
well as his abortive bid for the Republican Presidential nomination on denying
Government services and benefits to illegal aliens and on criticism of the
Clinton Administration for failing to secure the country's borders. He said
today that he had written several letters to Attorney General Janet Reno
demanding that the Administration provide more money or take charge of the
criminal aliens, but that to date the Government has not provided enough money
to satisfy him.

"Despite my letters and requests, the Clinton Administration has continually
refused to comply with a Federal law requiring that the Federal Government take
custody of criminal alien felons or reimburse the states for the costs of
incarcerating them," Mr. Wilson said in a news release. "As a result, we have no
other option than to seek a Federal court order instructing the Clinton
Administration to comply with the very Federal law it enacted."

State officials said California currently has about 20,000 illegal aliens who
are serving time in the state's prisons for committing felonies, at a cost of
$400 million a year.

Administraton officials contend that while Federal law does require payments to
the states to defray the average costs of incarcerating prisoners, Congress has
not appropriated enough money to compensate them in full, nor to take custody of
those alien felons who costs are not covered. Specifically, officials say,
Congress has appropriated $130 million in the 1995 fiscal year and $300 million
in the 1996 fiscal year for these costs.

Should California be fully reimbursed, Administration officials say there would
be no money left for any other states. As it is, officials say the state
received $64 million last and this year to help pay for the costs of imprisoning
illegal aliens, the first time the Federal Government has paid states for these
expenses.

"The Justice Department can provide no more money to states than what has been
appropriated by Congress," said Paul Risley, spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. He added that by applying for money, California has
agreed to the provisions of the law with regard to how much of the state's cost
would be reimbursed.

But California officials do not accept the explanation. They say if there is not
enough money to reimburse them fully, then the law requires the Federal
Government to take illegal alien felons into custody.

"Even if there were no appropriation, I think that narrows the options for the
Attorney General," Mr. Wilson said in a telephone interview. "But it does not
relieve her of the responsibilities imposed by the law."

Administration officials said privately that they felt that Mr. Wilson's suit
was little more than a publicity stunt intended to embarrass Mr. Clinton in
California, a state that is crucial to his re-election.

These officials said the suit was similar to Mr. Wilson's highly publicized
photo-op in January when he personally escorted a 25-year-old convicted drug
dealer, Eliseo Gonzalez de la Cruz, who was serving time in a state prison to an
I.N.S. detention center in El Centro, Calif. Arriving at the center with a
gaggle of reporters and camera crews in tow, Mr. Wilson demanded that the
Federal authorities take charge of Mr. de la Cruz, who is an undocumented alien,
and that he serve the remainder of his sentence in Federal custody.

But I.N.S. officials told Mr. Wilson they did not have the authority to
incarcerate a felon who has been convicted on state charges. If Mr. de la Cruz
was left on their doorstep, the only option they had, they said, would be to
deport him.

Knowing that would mean Mr. de la Cruz would escape having to serve the rest of
his sentence, Mr. Wilson backed down.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 7, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Candidates Criticized for Sound-Bite Approach to Problem of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section B;  Page 10;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, March 1


Bryan Fenley's eyes hardly left the video screen as he watched small groups of
men darting through the hills and arroyos, trying to sneak into America.

"Maybe I'm too close to the situation," said Mr. Fenley, a United States Border
Patrol agent as he sat in his truck on a windswept mesa about three miles west
of El Paso. "But I listen to these politicians, and I wonder what they say has
to do with what I do."

Mr. Fenley is not alone in his opinion. Pushed by Patrick J. Buchanan, the
conservative commentator, and by President Clinton, who has supported some of
the the most restrictive immigration policies since the 1920's and 1930's, most
Republican Presidential candidates are tripping over themselves to display
toughness on the issue of illegal -- and for some, legal -- immigration.

But as they do so, some critics say, they are often overstating the problem
without offering any new, well-thought-out solutions.

"With the candidates, I think most of their ideas are silly sound bites, rather
than thoughtful policy pronouncements," said Frank Sharry, executive director of
the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group in Washington. "There is
no relationship between the serious policy debate over immigration that is going
on and what the candidates are saying."

The issue cuts different ways in different states. In California, which holds
its primary on March 26, illegal immigration is expected to be emphasized by the
candidates. But because of differences in demography and business structures,
observers here in Texas think it will not play well.

Nearly 15.5 percent of the 9.5 million registered voters are Hispanic and, like
all Texans, they can vote in either the Democratic or the Republican primary.
Recent public opinion surveys among Hispanic residents of Texas indicate that
while most support reducing legal and illegal immigration, they strongly oppose
what they see as more Draconian measures like building fences along the border
and denying government services to illegal aliens.

In addition, Texas did more than $24 billion in trade with Mexico in 1994, a
figure that was slightly less last year because of the peso devaluation. And
some politicians worry that harsh words about immigration could poison
relationships with the state's main trading partner.

"We have to insist that our immigration policy understand the important nature
of having a strong and friendly relationship with Mexico," Gov. George W. Bush
said in an interview. "Bayonets pointed at Mexico are not the way to go about
doing that."

Mr. Buchanan, for example, has decried the "invasion" of illegal aliens who
enter from Mexico. "That's what's taking place when one, two, three million
people walk across our borders every year," he said in a recent debate.

But experts, whether they favor or oppose cuts in legal immigration, generally
agree that the number of foreigners entering the country illegally is about
300,000 to 400,000 a year, far less than the millions Mr. Buchanan sees.

"It's total baloney," said Jessica Vaughan, assistant director for the Center
for Immigration Studies in Washington, which supports lower levels of
immigration. "We think it's probably about 400,000. That's our high-end guess
using census data. One million a year? That's a lot of illegals."

Some experts who have studied or worked with the issue also look askance at Mr.
Buchanan's major proposal: building a 200-mile-long "security fence" in areas
along the United States-Mexican border that are favorite crossing points for
illegal aliens.

Current and former Justice Department officials involved in immigration control
say that 98 percent of the illegal crossings of the Mexican border take place in
or near urban areas like San Diego, Nogales, Ariz. or El Paso -- an area that
comprises less than 100 miles, and, which in most places, already has fencing.
Building a 200-mile fence they say would mean constructing much of the barrier
in desolate desert areas where few illegal aliens attempt to cross the
2,013-mile boundary.

"We certainly need some more fencing," said Silvester Reyes, the recently
retired chief patrol agent for the Border Patrol in El Paso. "But we don't need
three-tiered fencing throughout the whole border."

Equally as dramatic a proposal was the idea of Lamar Alexander, who ended his
candidacy on Wednesday, to create a new branch of the military to oversee the
effort to stop the flow of illegal immigrants.

While Mr. Alexander's proposal conjured up images of armed combat troops
patrolling the border, his aides said he merely wanted the military to perform
support roles like monitoring sensors, providing aircraft and communications
equipment and other logistics for the border patrol. Experts say this is no more
than what the National Guard has already been doing on a limited basis since
1991.

But experts on both sides of the immigration debate say Mr. Alexander's proposal
would have done nothing to thwart those illegal immigrants who enter the country
legally on student or temporary work visas and merely stay when their visas
expire. Such overstayers represent slightly more than half of the yearly influx
of illegal aliens.

Some experts and advocacy groups contend that since the major draw for illegal
aliens is jobs, the only way to find those already in the country is to have
some kind of system to verify the legal status of job applicants. That idea,
however, is anathema to civil libertarians and to business groups who see it as
another Federal burden.

But so far, no candidate has expressed support for a verification system, except
one -- Mr. Clinton, whose Administration is conducting a pilot verification
program among 200 businesses in California and plans to expand the program to
1,000 companies this year.

"We strongly believe in a verificiation system, but we don't think anyone has
the answers on how to do it yet," said Doris Meissner, commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

When it comes to legal immigration, there are major differences between the
candidates, with the most restrictive positions so far being taken by Mr.
Buchanan and Mr. Clinton.

Mr. Buchanan said he supported a five-year moratorium on legal immigration
except for the spouses and children of American citizens -- about 233,000 people
a year. But Mr. Buchanan has attached such conditions to the lifting of his
moratorium, including a requirement that its end have no adverse effect on the
wages and working conditions of American citizens, that the ban would, in
effect, be permanent.

For his part, Mr. Clinton has endorsed the recommendations by a commission
headed by the late Barbara Jordan that would cut the rate of legal immigration
by about one-third.

As for the other candidates, Steve Forbes, the magazine publisher, does not
favor cuts in legal immigration. And Senator Bob Dole has said he supports
"modest, temporary" reductions in legal immigration, but has not been specific.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 9, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 89 words


Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the stands taken by
Presidential candidates on immigration referred incorrectly to the rise in the
number of illegal immigrants in the United States. Immigration experts generally
agree that the number of foreigners in the country illegally increases by about
300,000 to 400,000 annually, not that that number are entering the country
illegally each year. Experts estimate that about half enter the country
illegally; the rest are admitted legally but overstay their visas.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 10, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World: Alien Expressions;
Wretched Refuse Is Just the Start

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY CHRISTENFELD;   Timothy Christenfeld is a doctoral candidate
in political science at Columbia University.

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 860 words


BOB DOLE, in his campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination, talks
about illegal immigration as a "flood." Patrick J. Buchanan calls it an
"invasion." This meeting of the metaphors offers a quick summary of the images
that Americans invoke in discussions of immigration. Other countries have their
own metaphors.

In the United States, as in many European countries, one consistently neutral
metaphor for immigration is water. Immigration is a flow, a flood, a tide, a
wave, an influx, a stream, a tsunami, or, after restrictions, a trickle.
Immigrants are drained from their homelands. They wash up like "wretched refuse"
on the shores. The country is inundated, swamped, submerged, engulfed, awash.

Another common metaphor is the nation as a house and the immigrant as a visitor
knocking at the door or the window, standing at the threshold or in the
backyard.

A more menacing metaphor, especially popular in the United States, is the
military one. Two weeks ago during the candidates' debate in New Hampshire, Mr.
Buchanan said, "When you have one, two, three million people walking across your
border every year, breaking your laws, you have an invasion." (Of course, it
isn't an invasion if the "people walking across your border every year" happen
to be the 250,000 essential farm workers approved by the House Agriculture
Committee last week.)

The proponents of Proposition 187 in California, the successful 1994 ballot
initiative to cut off social services to illegal aliens, also relied on military
metaphors. Ruth Coffey, the head of Stop Immigration Now, said just before the
election, "I have no intention of being the object of 'conquest,' peaceful or
otherwise, by Latinos, Asians, blacks, Arabs or any other group of individuals
who have claimed my country."

This rhetoric of immigration as invasion has roots in the nativist movements of
antebellum America, which culminated in the Know Nothing Party. In 1850, a Know
Nothing paper, declared that Catholic immigrants "march and countermarch with
the precision of regular soldiers, at the tap of the Popish drum." (If the Know
Nothings had prevailed, Mr. Buchanan's Irish ancestors would not have been
allowed to come to the United States.)



Weeds, Whelps, Dirt

British politicians, with a strong sense of their country as an island, also use
water metaphors for immigration. But while those who wish to appear neutral talk
about tides and waves and flows, those who oppose immigration use more insidious
liquid metaphors.

In 1978, Margaret Thatcher commented that she could understand that British
citizens might feel "swamped" by immigration. Recently her words have been
echoed by Tory extremist Stuart Millson: "We have had an unnatural multicultural
society imposed on us.  Creeping into every part of our national life today is a
wetness and weediness that would have been unimaginable 50 years ago."

While mainstream Germans, like other Europeans, talk about immigration in terms
of rivers and floods and doors and windows, far-right Germans speak of filth.
One neo-Nazi leader in Chemnitz, talking about immigration in 1992, said, "In
the Hitler era, Germany was something good, something clean, something big and
powerful. Now we're covered with dirt." Another Chemnitz extremist said, "We're
going to clean up this country. No foreigners, no filth, no drugs, no
pornography, and work for everyone."

These metaphors of pollution expose not only contempt for immigrants but also a
fixation on a pure nation, which has few close parallels in Britain or the
United States.

In China the uncomplimentary expression for a migrant laborer is "zaizi,"
meaning a young animal or whelp, but with the same feeling as "bastard" in
English. The implication: foreigners are, like bunny rabbits, promiscuous.

What's striking about Japanese vocabulary for immigration is that there hardly
is any, as befits a traditionally closed society. The one word the Japanese do
use to refer to either immigrants or emigrants is "imin," and it is borrowed
from Chinese.

How people talk about perceived threats gives clues about how they view their
homeland. As water metaphors reveal a nation-as-island, and filth metaphors
reveal an obsession with purity, the French habit of discussing immigration with
metaphors of disease reveals an implicit conception of France as a body, and
particularly as a female body.



The Fragile Body

In France, the far right National Front's original program, in 1972, stated that
the party opposes immigration because "it imperils the health of the French."
Another reactionary leader wrote in 1985 of "the immigration plague," and said
that immigration "could become a mortal threat." Jean-Marie Le Pen, the National
Front's leader, wrote in 1984 that "some French regions were literally
gangrenous because of the foreign invasion."

Mr. Le Pen then extended his metaphor one step further, suggesting that France
is threatened not just by disease but also by rape. "Tomorrow," Mr. Le Pen
wrote, "the immigrants will be moving into your house, eating your food and
sleeping with your wife, your daughter or your son."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A sinister view, by the cartoonist E. S. Bisbee in Harper's
Weekly in 1871, of immigrants boarding "The Modern Ark" for America. (New-York
Historical Society)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 12, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Let Immigrants Take Jobs From the Poor

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words


To the Editor:

In "Candidates Criticized for Sound-Bite Approach to Problem of Illegal Aliens"
(news article, March 7), you quote immigration "experts" decrying Patrick J.
Buchanan's assertion that "one, two, three million people walk across our
borders every year." They suggest instead a total of 300,000 to 400,000.

But this confuses gross and net immigration. According to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the Border Patrol makes around a million apprehensions
on the border every year. It has long estimated that it catches only about one
out of every three trying to cross. Thus, Mr. Buchanan is right: gross illegal
immigration is two million to three million annually. Your experts are right
too, sort of: the stock of illegal immigrants permanently living here is thought
to increase by 300,000 to 500,000 annually, net. But gross illegal immigration
is the key measure for disease, crime and the failure of public policy.

PETER BRIMELOW
New York, March 7, 1996

The writer is author of "Alien Nation: Common Sense About America's Immigration
Disaster."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 20, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE CHALLENGER;
Looking Ahead to California Vote, Buchanan Lashes Out at Immigrants

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section D;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 19


Hopping from Michigan to California today, Patrick J. Buchanan turned his fire
from threats posed by foreign companies to threats posed by foreigners,
declaring that "this country is literally being overrun" by illegal immigrants.

Anticipating a strong showing in Michigan, Mr. Buchanan came here hoping to
revive his national standing and bolster his leverage within the Republican
Party by spending the week leading up to California's primary hammering at
illegal immigration, which he called today "an invasion of my country."

Indeed, after a series of disappointments in Southern primaries, Mr. Buchanan
was encouraged tonight by his showing in Michigan.  With more than 60 percent of
the votes counted, he had 35 percent of the ballots cast, his best showing of
the day.

"We basically won the campaign for Michigan," Mr. Buchanan said tonight, noting
that he had rebounded from extremely low levels in newspaper polls.

Earlier, a top aide to Mr. Buchanan said he had done so well in Michigan that
Senator Bob Dole might have to consider Mr. Buchanan as a running mate.

Mr. Buchanan would bring strength to the ticket in the Midwestern states, argued
Gregory R. Mueller, Mr. Buchanan's communications director.

"The Dole people are going to come to the realization that they cannot win this
election on their own, that they need the Buchanan voters," Mr. Mueller said.

Elbowing for attention and position within the Republican Party, Mr. Buchanan
and his aides have talked about a number of possibilities in recent days,
including one of Mr. Buchanan's mounting a third-party challenge.

But today Mr. Buchanan emphasized his determination to keep contesting the
Republican nomination itself and to keep trying to change the party's stance on
issues like immigration.

"There's a wholesale violation of American law here," Mr. Buchanan said at a
press briefing here. "I believe Congress and the President are utterly derelict
in their duty by not enforcing the immigration laws."

California has more illegal immigrants than any other state, according to
immigration officials, and how the state should deal with them is a simmering
issue here.

In a referendum in 1994, Californians overwhelmingly supported a measure that
would have denied illegal immigrants a broad array of welfare benefits and state
services, including nonemergrency medical help and schooling. The referendum,
known as Proposition 187, has since been tied up in a series of lawsuits.

Backing that measure helped Gov. Pete Wilson rebound in the polls and win
re-election that year. And Mr. Buchanan tried to turn the issue to his advantage
today, advocating a similar measure at the national level.

He also said he favored cracking down on corporations that hire illegal
immigrants, although he said he was not sure criminal punishments were
necessary.

Mr. Buchanan seized on Proposition 187's fate as an opportunity to push another
of his themes, the power of judges -- what he called "little dictators in black
robes" -- to shape public policy.

"Too much power has been usurped by judges in this society, and we have ceased
in many ways to be a self-governing people," Mr. Buchanan said.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

$1.5 Million Penalty Over Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 87 words


Federal authorities yesterday announced the largest fine ever levied against a
company for hiring illegal immigrants -- $1.5 million against a Westchester
County cleaning business -- as part of a national effort to increase pressure on
employers to comply with immigration laws.

A lawyer for the company, Colin Service Systems Inc., which is based in White
Plains and employs 4,200 people in seven states, said it had never knowingly
hired illegal workers and would contest the fines.

Article, page B3.


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 23, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE CONVENTION;
Parallel Agonizing Over Immigration

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1489 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Just as the Presidential primaries have often made the Republicans look like two
opposing parties struggling within one body, this glittering seaside city on the
Mexican border, where the Republicans will hold their convention in August,
often feels like two deeply conflicting communities, one of anger, one of hope.

Gilbert A. Partida certainly knows about the hope. Mr. Partida, 33, moved here
in 1987 right out of law school, set up the first Mexican trade practice at a
big law firm and then three years ago became the first Hispanic president of the
Greater San Diego Chamber of Commerce. He has led the chamber from near
bankruptcy to buoyant growth, partly by opening to the Mexican-American
community and building ties with Tijuana, a neighbor that, though 20 minutes
from downtown, was long ignored.

And yet, Mr. Partida said, he is all too familiar with the anger. Eighteen
months ago, during an emotional battle over a California state initiative to ban
public benefits to illegal immigrants, Mr. Partida said he was assaulted by
loads of hate mail, much of it racist, for leading the chamber in opposition to
the measure.

Mr. Partida said such hostility was a dying vestige of the old San Diego, but it
is clearly more complicated than that. San Diego's voters supported the
initiative on immigrants, known as Proposition 187, by a lopsided margin of 67.4
percent, compared with 59 percent statewide. The measure's chief supporter was
California's Republican Governor, Pete Wilson, a former Mayor of San Diego and a
favorite son here.

"Every sector of the economy here is heavily dependent on immigrants," said
Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the
University of California at San Diego. "They all draw heavily on this labor
pool, and most of it is illegal. It underwrites an affluent life style. But the
anti-immigrant line is very popular because of all the anger. People really want
to have it both ways."

The Republicans, too, are divided in their views on immigrants, trade and
Mexico. Senator Bob Dole, traditionally a proponent of free trade, has thrashed
Patrick J. Buchanan in the primaries so far. But Mr. Buchanan's acerbic
insistence on all but stopping the flow of goods, investment and people across
the Mexican border has forced the party and Senator Dole to take a harder line
on immigrants.

For San Diego, this comes at an awkward time. The city wants to appear open and
optimistic when the convention begins, not angry.

As one local businessman put it, "When Pat Buchanan gets up in the morning and
marches down to the border to shake his fist at all those Mexicans, who do you
think is going to be making the bed at his hotel? It's the people he says are
destroying our society."

This city's business and civic leaders are struggling to put that conflict
behind them, but so far with only modest success.

"Historically, you talked about integration across the border and you were
almost shot," Mr. Partida said.  "This represents a shock to a community that
was very isolationist. People are finally starting to see Mexico differently,
but there's still a real disconnect between impressions and reality, and there's
so much fear."

Susan Golding, the city's Mayor and a proponent of the more open attitude toward
Mexico, conceded that it is an uphill battle.

"There are still people in San Diego who would prefer this to be an elegant
cul-de-sac, if it could still be elegant," said Ms. Golding, a Republican. "I
just don't think that's possible."

With 1.2 million residents, San Diego is the sixth-largest city in the country,
and it has long been a Republican bastion. For decades, it was effectively a
company town, and the company was the Pentagon. The Navy maintains several huge
operations here and numerous aerospace and military factories are in the area.

This was no accident. Early this century, the Chamber of Commerce raised money
to buy the land for the Navy. Mr. Partida said recent research into the
chamber's minutes showed that the business community had pursued the Navy in
part because, at the time, it was regarded as the whitest of the services.
Today, San Diego has the largest military payroll, uniformed and civilian, in
the country: $3.7 billion a year.

For years, Mexico and Tijuana had little place in the comfortable life that San
Diego had created, except as the home of bars and brothels. "Sailors went to
Tijuana," said Mayor Golding, who recalled that when she arrived here 20 years
ago and suggested a visit south, a friend told her in effect that nice girls did
not do such things.

And although tens of thousands of Mexicans came to San Diego to work at manual
and agricultural jobs, they were often treated with disdain, many here say.

"I was not prepared for what I found when I started the office here eight years
ago," said Claudia Smith, the lead lawyer in San Diego for California Rural
Legal Assistance, which represents immigrants.  "Even today, the anti-immigrant
feelings are raw and much stronger here than anywhere else in the state."

Times began to change a few years ago. The aerospace and military factories were
hit hard by the steep, post-cold war decline in Pentagon procurement. Aerospace
jobs have plummeted from a peak of 27,800 in 1989 to about 9,000 now. Although
the Navy bases will remain, business leaders realized they had to look elsewhere
for growth.

"We started to focus on economic integration with Mexico all of a sudden because
we had to," Mr. Partida said.

San Diego set up a sister city relationship with Tijuana in 1993. Greater
attention was paid to the growth of the maquiladoras, the factories built in
Tijuana that were allowed to move parts and finished goods across the border
duty free. Often, two plants would be built, one in San Diego to do the more
complex work, and one in Tijuana to do the assembly, using the cheaper wages of
Mexican workers.

With that opening, the San Diego-Tijuana area has become the largest
manufacturer of television sets in the world, many made by companies like Sony,
Samsung and Matsushita. Many American companies have also built plants in
Tijuana, part of a thriving high-technology sector here.

San Ysidro, one of several crossings here, is the busiest overland border post
in the world. San Diego Dialogue, an organization affiliated with the University
of California at San Diego, estimates that about 40,000 people legally cross the
border for work each day, about 10,000 of whom are American citizens who choose
to live in Tijuana. The group also says that Mexicans spend more than $2 billion
a year in San Diego's stores.

A recent survey by the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies has found that 51 percent
of the labor in the high-technology sector is foreign born, 95 percent of
agricultural labor, 63 percent of construction workers and 87 percent hotel
workers.

Even the world of sports has changed. Under new ownership, the San Diego Padres
baseball team started marketing heavily to Hispanic residents and in Tijuana
over the past year. The Padres will play three regular season games this year,
against the New York Mets, in Mexico -- a first for the league.

Nevertheless, a battle of perceptions still rages.

"I think they're naive and headed for great disappointment," Roger Hedgecock, a
former Mayor of San Diego and now a popular local talk show host, said of those
who want a closer relationship with Mexico. "This illegal immigration is a
runaway train and we don't know all the consequences. They're coming in in a
tidal wave."

Mr. Hedgecock and others argue that immigrants are swamping the welfare system
and causing widespread crime. But figures supporting the view are hard to come
by.

Violent crime has dropped 24 percent in three years. Only about 10 percent of
the 4,892 inmates in San Diego's jails are illegal immigrants.

People here complain that Mexicans are stealing American jobs, but the city's
unemployment rate, 6 percent, is significantly lower than the state average of
7.7 percent. The county government is among the leanest in the state, with
spending per capita about half the level of Los Angeles County, suggesting that
the welfare system is under control.

The number of people caught trying to enter San Diego illegally from Mexico has
risen sharply. From Oct. 1, 1995, to March 17, the Border patrol apprehended
237,286 people, a steep increase from 175,891 in the comparable period a year
earlier.

But Mark Moody, a spokesman for the Border Patrol, said the jump reflected
better policing rather than more people trying to slip in.

The conflicting views have left some people apprehensive about which San Diego
will be on display.

"With people here just starting to see Mexico as an opportunity rather than a
negative, the last thing we want is a convention directed toward extremist
themes," Mr. Partida said. "We want to people to see the new San Diego."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants like Jesus E. Garcia, who came from Ensenada, Mexico,
30 years ago, are at the heart of a furious debate in San Diego. Mr. Garcia
repaired fishing nets with the city's downtown skyline in the background. (Jim
Wilson/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 24, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Votes in Congress

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 800 words


Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York

House

1. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to an immigration bill that would allow
states to deny public education to illegal immigrant children. Approved 257 to
163, March 20.

2. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to an immigration bill that would delete
provisions for a voluntary pilot program for employers to call a toll-free
telephone line to determine the legal status of job applicants. Rejected 260 to
159, March 20.

3. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to an immigration bill that deletes
provisions to cut legal immigration by more than 30 percent after five years.
Approved 238 to 183, March 21.

4. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to an immigration bill that would have
granted temporary work visas to as many as 250,000 foreign farm workers.
Rejected 242 to 180, March 21.

5. Immigration: Vote on passage of an immigration bill toughening enforcement
provisions against illegal aliens and restricting access to federal benefits to
illegal aliens and some legal aliens. Approved 333 to 87, March 21.

6. Assault Weapons: Vote to repeal the 1994 ban on manufacture and sale of many
semi-automatic weapons. Approved 239 to 173, March 22.

                                 1    2    3    4    5    6
Connecticut
1. Kennelly (D)                Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
2. Gejdenson (D)               Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
3. DeLauro (D)                 Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
4. Shays (R)                   Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay
5. Franks (R)                  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay  Yea  Yea
6. Johnson (R)                 Yea  Nay  Yea  Yea  Yea  Nay

New Jersey
1. Andrews (D)                 Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
2. LoBiondo (R)                Yea  Nay  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea
3. Saxton (R)                  Yea  Nay  Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay
4. Smith (R)                   Yea  Yea  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
5. Roukema (R)                 Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay
6. Pallone (D)                 Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
7. Franks (R)                  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
8. Martini (R)                 Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay
9. Torricelli (D)              Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
10. Payne (D)                  Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
11. Frelinghuysen (R)          Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay
12. Zimmer (R)                 Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
13. Menendez (D)               Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay

New York
1. Forbes (R)                  Yea  Nay  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea
2. Lazio (R)                   Yea  Nay  Yea  Yea  Yea  Nay
3. King (R)                    Yea  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
4. Frisa (R)                   Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Yea
5. Ackerman (D)                Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
6. Flake (D)                   Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
7. Manton (D)                  Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
8. Nadler (D)                    A    A  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
9. Schumer (D)                 Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
10. Towns (D)                  Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
11. Owens (D)                  Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
12. Velazquez (D)              Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
13. Molinari (R)               Nay  Nay  Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay
14. Maloney (D)                Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
15. Rangel (D)                 Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
16. Serrano (D)                Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
17. Engel (D)                  Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
18. Lowey (D)                  Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
19. Kelly (R)                  Yea  Nay  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea
20. Gilman (R)                 Nay  Nay  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea
21. McNulty (D)                Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
22. Solomon (R)                Yea    A  Nay  Yea  Yea  Yea
23. Boehlert (R)               Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
24. McHugh (R)                 Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea
25. Walsh (R)                  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea
26. Hinchey (D)                Nay  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay  Yea
27. Paxon (R)                  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea  Yea
28. Slaughter (D)              Nay  Yea  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
29. LaFalce (D)                Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Nay  Nay
30. Quinn (R)                  Nay  Nay  Yea  Nay  Yea  Nay
31. Houghton (R)               Nay  Nay  Yea  Yea  Yea  Nay


Senate

1. Spending: Vote on passage of a spending bill that would cover the remaining
six months of the fiscal year 1996 for some of the largest departments and
agencies of the Federal Government. Approved 71 to 29, March 19.

2. Cloture: Vote to cut off debate and proceed to vote on a bill that would
limit damages available to people who are hurt by faulty products.  Approved 60
to 40, March 20.

3. Liability Damages: Vote on passage of a bill limiting damages in lawsuits
involving faulty products. Approved 59 to 40, March 21.

4. Grazing: Vote on passage of a bill that would loosen restrictions on hundreds
of millions of acres of federally owned ranch land. Approved 51 to 46, March 21.


* Senator Moynihan's office says that his "Yea" vote on grazing was recorded
incorrectly and will be changed.

Connecticut
Dodd (D)                       Yea  Yea  Yea   Nay
Lieberman (D)                  Yea  Yea  Yea   Nay

New Jersey
Bradley (D)                    Yea  Nay  Nay     A
Lautenberg (D)                 Yea  Nay  Nay   Nay

 New York
D'Amato (R)                    Yea  Nay  Nay   Yea
Moynihan (D)                   Yea  Nay  Nay  Yea*



Key: (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 30, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Aliens Set Fire in Riot at Navy Brig

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 174 words

DATELINE: MIRAMAR NAVAL AIR STATION, Calif., March 29


Illegal immigrants jailed in a Navy brig burned several mattresses today,
panicking nearly 200 inmates and causing a disturbance that shut down the base.

About 10 inmates, protesting what they said were inadequate cafeteria
privileges, ignited the fires, injuring 24 people, United States Attorney Alan
Bersin said.

The 28 injured inmates were all taken to area hospitals for treatment of smoke
inhalation, Mr. Bersin said. The injuries were not believed to be
life-threatening.

The inmates were moved into a brig yard, then transferred to Metropolitan
Correctional Center.

There were 384 inmates in the jail -- 174 civilian federal prisoners, mostly
illegal immigrants, and 210 incarcerated military personnel, said Cmdr. Steve
Burnett, a Navy spokesman. The brig was opened to civilian inmates just a week
ago. to ease crowding at the Federal detention center downtown.

The U.S. Corrections Corporation of Kentucky has an $11 million contract with
the United States Marshal's Service to house civilian prisoners at the brig.


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 7, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Crash Kills 7 Suspected Illegal Aliens After Agents Follow Truck

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 17;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: RIVERSIDE, Calif., April 6


Seven people suspected of being illegal Mexican immigrants were killed today and
18 others were injured when their stolen truck crashed near a United States
Border Patrol checkpoint.

The pickup was being followed by border patrol agents when the driver
accelerated and lost control about 5:30 A.M. near the town of Temecula, about 60
miles north of the border in Riverside County.

The seven dead were all men, officials said.

The accident occurred less than a week after a truck carrying 21 Mexicans was
chased from the Temecula area at high speeds for 80 miles into Los Angeles
County. The chase ended with the beating of at least two of the Mexicans by
Riverside County Sheriff's Department officers.

The incident was videotaped from a news helicopter.

A California Highway Patrol spokeswoman, Julie Page, said the truck involved in
today's crash was stolen from Spring Valley, near San Diego.

Law-enforcement officials said a Border Patrol cruiser was following but not
chasing the 1989 General Motors full-size pickup truck when officers discovered
that it had been stolen.

The pursuing officers did not alert the driver of the truck that he was being
followed, the spokeswoman said, but the driver sped up, losing control of the
vehicle, which overturned in a rural area about five miles northwest of
Temecula.

"They were just following behind the vehicle, no lights or sirens on," Ms. Page
said of the pursuing patrol vehicle. "The pickup truck accelerated and for some
unknown reason the truck lost control, went off the road and overturned in a
ditch."

The Mexican consulate in Los Angeles issued a statement this afternoon from the
Mexican Government asking United States authorities to conduct a full
investigation of the incident.

It also said there should be a "revision of all methods and procedures for the
application of the migrancy laws in the United States."

"These methods and procedures," the statement continued, "have provoked in the
last few days two very serious incidents in which Mexican citizens have been
participants."

The Mexican Government express concern for protecting "the 'human rights' of all
Mexicans abroad."

The statement also said that three of those hurt in the crash were critically
injured and that eight have been released from the hospital.

Immigration and Naturalization Service Officials say all 21 Mexicans involved in
the earlier incident have been given temporary six-month resident permits to
live in the United States while the case is investigated.

Enrique Funes Flores and his girlfriend, Alicia Sotero Vasquez, who were beaten
in the incident, were released Friday evening from the hospital where they were
being treated for injuries.

The two deputies involved have been been suspended with pay pending an inquiry
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and local law-enforcement authorities for
possible criminal charges against them.

One focus, officials close to the investigation have said, is on whether the
Riverside County deputies violated department regulations for handling vehicle
pursuits.

Also, department officials have said deputies were taught to use batons only as
a last resort, after trying to subdue suspects with other means, including
chemicals like mace or pepper spray.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 13, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Police Brutality in Mexico, Echoing California Case, Puts Zedillo on the Spot

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 12


As Mexico continues its sharp criticism of the United States for the recent
beating of illegal immigrants by police officers in California, the Mexican
Government itself is being condemned for a brutal attack against peasants by its
police.

The episode took place on Wednesday when local policemen opened fire on peasants
heading to an anniversary commemoration of the death of the Mexican
revolutionary hero Emiliano Zapata. They planned to take part in an
environmental protest there.

The confrontation, which killed one person and wounded dozens, took place in the
state of Morelos, where Zapata was killed by government forces 77 years ago.

"If the Government is going to demand justice for Mexicans in another country,
it has to begin by protecting the rights of its own people at home," said Adela
Bocanegra de Medina, 69, who was in the group of people who were attacked,

A group of up to 500 people was headed to the annual Zapata commemoration in
Tlaltizapan, the site of Zapata's headquarters. They intended to protest against
a golf course planned for environmentally sensitive land in Tepotzlan, which is
about 60 miles south of Mexico City.

They planned to make their case in front of President Ernesto Zedillo, who was
to appear at a Zapata anniversary event. But some 60 police officers blocked the
highway at the town of San Rafael, setting off the violent face-off.

The Government contends that the peasants were armed and acted in a threatening
way and that the police were far outnumbered, but the peasants say that the
police ambushed and attacked them.

The attack by state police officers in Morelos puts Mr. Zedillo's Government in
a politically and morally difficult position because it comes at a time when
Mexican officials have made the recent episode in Riverside, Calif., into a
symbol of racism and brutality by the United States against Mexicans.

On April 1 a California television crew videotaped two Riverside County
sheriff's deputies, after a police chase, clubbing two illegal Mexican
immigrants who had been riding in a pickup truck. The police suspected the truck
was being used to transport other illegal aliens.

The Mexican Government expressed indignation at what it called "the flagrant
violation of the human rights" of Mexican citizens and demanded that the United
States re-examine its policies in areas near the border.

That position will be harder to sustain after the incident in Morelos. "It is an
ambiguous and contradictory policy," said Jesus Martin del Campo, a leader of
the opposition Democratic Revolutionary Party.

At first the Governor of Morelos denied that the shooting had taken place,
contending that the police officers had been unarmed. But after participants and
witnesses contradicted that version, and the protesters produced a videotape
that showed the police carrying weapons, the Governor conceded that in fact the
police were armed and had fired on the peasants.

As a result, four police officers have been suspended and 28 others assigned to
limited duty while an official investigation gets under way.

A similar episode occurred in the state of Guerrero last June, when state police
officers tried to block truckloads of peasants from attending an anti-Government
rally. Shots were fired and 17 subsistence farmers were killed.

Such incidents of state repression have weakened Mr. Zedillo's statements that
he is turning Mexico into a country of laws. On Thursday, the President sent a
"respectful call" to local authorities to punish those responsible for the
violence, said his spokesman, Carlos Almada.

"The presidency condemns whatever action obstructs citizens' rights to exercise
their individual guarantees -- in particular, the freedom of expression," Mr.
Almada said.

But one official, speaking on condition he not be identified, expressed Mr.
Zedillo's quandary. He said the Government is now is in the position of having
to "decry and oppose any kind of abuse by law enforcement agents anywhere
against Mexicans," and that is the case, he said, "in Morelos as well as outside
Mexico."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Mexico showing location of Morelos.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 28, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Crash at a Border Checkpoint Kills 2 in Van and Injures 19

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 28;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: ALPINE, Calif., April 27


A van crammed with nearly two dozen people crashed near an immigration
checkpoint on Friday, sending people flying as it shot across a freeway and
overturned. Two people died and 19 were injured.

The van was trying to ram a Border Patrol vehicle when it went out of control,
said Ron Henley, a spokesman for the Border Patrol. A Border Patrol agent had
pulled alongside the vehicle and motioned for the driver to stop.

Instead, the driver braked and swerved into the Border Patrol vehicle, the
authorities said. The van then ran off the road, flipping over at least four
times.

"Bodies were laying all over -- it was like a plane crash," said Mike Vacio, one
of the first Alpine firefighters on the scene.

Both the Border Patrol vehicle and the van appeared to be traveling at the speed
limit of 70 miles an hour, officials said.

The California Highway Patrol said the van's passengers appeared to be illegal
aliens, although officials were still investigating. At least three of the van's
passengers fled, but two were later found.

The accident, which occurred about 24 miles east of San Diego, was the second
deadly crash in Riverside County in recent weeks involving vehicles crammed with
people near the border. Earlier this month, eight illegal immigrants were killed
and 17 injured when a pickup crashed near another immigration checkpoint.

In another case, Riverside County Sheriff's deputies were videotaped beating two
immigrants on April 1 after a long chase involving a van crammed with illegal
aliens.

The accidents will not make the Federal Government abandon its 18-month-old
crackdown on illegal immigration, said Ana Cobian, a spokeswoman for United
States Attorney Alan Bersin.

"The people who are to blame are the smugglers who have a total disregard for
human life," Ms. Cobian said. "We cannot look the other way and not prosecute
these people."

She added, "It is harder to cross the border, so the risks are higher."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 6, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Sympathies Sharply Divided On Beatings of 2 Immigrants

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 10;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 5


Nearly a month after a television news crew here videotaped the clubbing of two
Mexicans by sheriff's deputies, the incident continues to transfix Californians,
generating extraordinary soul-searching over the issue of illegal immigration.

Many people were pained by the videotape, released within hours of the beating
and played with numbing repetition on the local news. The grainy images stirred
a range of feelings including embarrassment, anger, sadness and horror as the
officers used nightsticks on the unresisting Mexicans, a man and a woman, both
illegal immigrants.

But although polls show that a majority of people believe the deputies used
excessive force, a vocal and politically influential minority has directed their
outrage instead at the people who were beaten. They have argued loudly, on talk
radio, in sound bites on the nightly news and in newspaper opinion columns, that
people who sneak into this country illegally, take American jobs and burden
social services deserve what they get.

"When you are engaged in a felony, some force is likely to be used," said Ron
Prince, the chairman of Save Our State, an organization that wants a crackdown
on illegal immigration. "If our borders were secure, we wouldn't have these kind
of incidents."

Joseph Perkins, a conservative columnist for The San Diego Union-Tribune, wrote
recently that while no reasonable person would condone the beatings, it was not
unreasonable to suggest that any fleeing felon of any race or nationality who
leads the police on an hourlong chase at speeds up to 75 miles an hour is not
going to be treated with kid gloves.

The disgust with illegal immigrants was palpable on a local talk radio show last
week, when a caller railed against "wetbacks" who "ought to be sent back to
Mexico." Or, as another put it: "They come in, break our laws and get to stay.
They have more rights than we do."

Even some civil libertarians with strong liberal credentials have found it hard
to defend the illegal immigrants. While deploring the beatings, some say
privately that they were appalled by the decision of lawyers for one of the
Mexicans to file a lawsuit against Riverside County, saying the deputies
violated their client's civil and human rights and seeking $10 million in
damages. The Mexicans should not receive a windfall, critics complained, because
they were breaking the law.

Joel Kopkin, a senior fellow for public policy at Pepperdine University in
Malibu, Calif., said: "A lot of people feel that what the cops did was wrong,
and they should be punished for it. But should the felons be rewarded for the
fact that the police did something wrong? It's like these people have won the
lottery."

The beatings occurred on April 1, after a high-speed chase over 80 miles of
Southern California highways, ending about 20 miles east of downtown Los
Angeles. The two victims, Alicia Sotero and Enrique Funes Flores, were among
about 20 illegal immigrants packed in a pickup truck. The others fled after the
truck was stopped by the deputies.

The two officers involved, Kurt Franklin and Tracy Watson, have been suspended
with pay pending an investigation by the Justice Department and other agencies.

A decision on whether to indict the officers could come in the next two weeks,
said a person close to the investigation.

Some critics have found it galling that Mexico, through its consul in Los
Angeles, Jose Angel Pescador, encouraged the beating victims to sue for damages.
Foreign Ministry officials in Mexico City have also said Mr. Pescador was in
contact with several Mexican-American and Hispanic grass-roots groups to
encourage their protests to the Clinton Administration and in the streets.

"Mexico Hypocrisy," thundered an editorial in The Fresno Bee, which went on to
say that Mexican officials, given their own dismal human rights record, had
little standing to preach human rights to the United States.

Sentiments against the victims were defiantly displayed at a rally in the city
of Riverside two weeks after the incident, where speakers bashed immigrants and
the news media. Daryl Gates, the former Chief of the Los Angeles Police
Department and the featured speaker, told the crowd of about 500 that he was
still angry that after the acquittal of four Los Angeles police officers on
state charges in connection with the beating of Rodney G. King in 1991, Federal
authorities successfully prosecuted two of them on civil rights violations.

Mr. Gates urged the Federal Government to stay out of the Riverside case. "We do
not need the F.B.I., the civil rights section of the Justice Department, any of
that," he said.  People in the crowd held up signs reading, "Police get
punished, criminals get $$$" and "Put the illegals away, not our deputies."

Among the most striking developments since the incident has been how the
Hispanic community, which often has been divided over the question of illegal
immigration, has been galvanized. In recent weeks, several rallies have been
held to honor the two victims.

"Latinos were very offended by the beating," said Gregory Rodriquez, a research
fellow for public policy at Pepperdine. "It was almost a delayed reaction to
Proposition 187," the 1994 state ballot measure designed to deny government
benefits to illegal immigrants.

"It was like, 'Oh, no, not again,' " Mr. Rodriquez said. "People took it very
viscerally."

                             --------------------


Crash Involving Migrants

LAKE ELSINORE, Calif., May 5 (AP) -- A truck with suspected illegal immigrants
lost control and flipped onto its roof today after speeding away from a highway
patrol officer. Three people were hurt.

The truck, carrying 25 to 30 people, was traveling north on Interstate 15 when a
California Highway Patrol officer tried to stop it to check its registration
stickers. After the crash, 10 passengers were held as suspected illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Bill Penalizes Illegal Hiring

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 88 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


Inspired by the discovery last March that illegal immigrants were doing
maintenance work at the State House, a Democratic State Senator has introduced a
bill to bar companies that hire illegal immigrants from doing business with any
state or local government agency for three years.

Senator Ronald L. Rice, who is also a Newark Councilman, said yesterday that he
would also introduce a motion at the Council on May 15 to require the city to
make sure that companies with city contracts do not employ illegal workers.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 24, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Expands Status Checks On Job Seekers

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23


Stepping up its assault on illegal immigration, the Clinton Administration today
announced a nationwide expansion of a pilot program in California that requires
participating employers to verify the legal status of job seekers.

Specifically, the Immigration and Naturalization Service reached agreement with
the nation's four largest meat-packing companies, representing 80 percent of the
industry's 70,000 employees, to use a computerized data system at 41 plants in
12 Western and Midwestern states to determine if job applicants are legal
workers.

In the pilot program in California, employers found that 22 percent of the
noncitizen job applicants presented invalid identification.

The immigration service estimates that about 350,000 immigrants enter the
country illegally or overstay their visas every year. And the meat-packing
industry has historically attracted some of the largest numbers of illegal
workers, most recently from Mexico, because the industry pays unskilled workers
relatively high wages.

Today's announcement carries significant political overtones, since President
Clinton and Senator Bob Dole, the presumed Republican Presidential nominee, are
competing to demonstrate their tough stances against illegal immigration. By
allying himself with the Midwest-based meat packers, Mr. Clinton is taking dead
aim at Mr. Dole's political base to show he is protecting American jobs there.

"This is another step in the Administration's efforts to reduce the illegal
immigration magnet by making it harder for illegal aliens to obtain a job here,"
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner of the immigration service said at a news
conference.

Mr. Clinton recently issued an order barring Federal contracts with companies
that break immigration laws by hiring illegal immigrants. In addition, Congress
has supported the Administration's request to nearly double the number of Border
Patrol officers.

The effort announced today builds on the seven-month-old pilot program in two
Southern California cities, Santa Ana and the City of Industry. That program
involves 234 companies and tourist attractions, including Brinks Inc.,
Disneyland and Knott's Berry Farm, which employ a total of 80,000 workers.

"The system has been easy to use and appears to be almost 100 percent
fool-proof," said Craig Gosselin, general counsel for Vans Inc., a large shoe
manufacturer that is in the pilot program. "We don't have to guess any more
about whether someone's green card is good or not."

Since the program began, ot started, Ms. Meissner said, the California employers
have checked the job applications of 11,400 people who identified themselves as
noncitizens, and found that 22 percent of them, or about 2,500, did not have
valid work papers.

Employers entered the identification data supplied by the noncitizen applicants
in a computer linked to an immigration service data bank. If the applicant could
be employed legally, a reply could be received within seconds. To determine the
status of some applicants, however, could take up to a month.

Ms. Meissner said the immigration service did not try to track down or prosecute
those seeking work illegally because that was not the intent of the pilot
program. Instead, the agency is satisfied for now with denying jobs to
immigrants not entitled to have them so that they go to legal workers.
Immigration officials said that by the end of September they planned to have
about 1,000 employers in industries including hotels, restaurants and garment
making signed up.

The issue of verifying workers' legal status has touched off a fierce debate in
Washington and in border states. Proponents of the program, including California
legislators, insist the programs are needed to weed out people using bogus
identification papers. Critics, including many civil libertarians, say that
using national data bases could eventually lead to an intrusive national
identification card.

Immigration bills approved by the House and Senate, and now awaiting resolution
in a conference committee, include differing provisions for pilot programs to
verify the eligibility to work.

Critics will probably cite as proof of their concerns a second pilot program
that the immigration service is developing. In that program, employers would be
able to tap into the vast data bases of the Social Security Administration to
check on all workers. The current program relies on applicant's telling the
truth about whether they are citizens.

"No one is representing this is a perfect system," Ms. Meissner said of the
pilot program. "Ultimately, we have to have a verification system that deals
with all people who are working."

Meat packers volunteered to join the expanded program, but once in they are
required to verify the legal status of all noncitizens who apply for jobs. The
four big meat packers in the program are IBP Inc. of Dakota City, Neb.; Monfort
Inc. of Greeley, Colo.; the Excel Corporation of Wichita, Kan., and BeefAmerica
of Omaha, Neb. Five smaller meat-packing companies have also volunteered to
join. These companies have meat-packing plants in Washington, Idaho, Colorado,
Nebraska, Iowa, Indiana, Illinois, Texas, Minnesota, Kansas, Missouri and
California.

Industry executives who joined Ms. Meissner today said the program would enhance
their existing hiring procedures.

"We see this electronic verification as a supplement and improvement to our
screening," said Ken Kimbro, an IBP vice president.

Meat-packing officials said they did not know how many illegal immigrants they
unwittingly hire. But the industry, which offers jobs for the unskilled starting
at $8.50 an hour, has frequently run afoul of the immigration service.

In April, immigration agents arrested 47 illegal immigrants employed by
All-States Quality Foods in Charles City, Iowa, who had presented fraudulent
immigration cards. A month later, agents arrested 63 illegal immigrants at an
IBP plant in Storm Lake, Iowa.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH  ; MEXICO;

GRAPHIC: Photo: Commissioner Doris M. Meissner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service yesterday after announcing plans in Washington to expand
nationwide a pilot program to determine the legal status of job seekers. (David
Scull/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 24, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

34 Mexicans Endure A Harrowing Trip

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 4;   National Desk

LENGTH: 153 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, May 23


Thirty-four apparently illegal immigrants from Mexico spent three days crammed
inside a horse trailer towed from Arizona before they were discovered here by
the authorities early Wednesday. The driver was found sleeping at a motel
nearby.

The trailer measured 8 feet by 20 feet, said officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, who were called to the motel by the police. "There
wasn't enough room for those 34 people to sit down at the same time," said Fred
Alexander, a spokesman for the agency.

Mr. Alexander said the Mexicans had told immigration agents that they had
entered the trailer at the Mexican border in Arizona and been promised jobs in
the Atlanta area. They were locked inside, he added, and some said they had not
had food or water during the entire trip.

The driver, Kenneth Carnduff of Phoenix, was charged with alien smuggling, and
the immigrants were taken into custody.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 26, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

San Diego Judge Bars Group's Anti-Immigrant Patrols of Airport

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, May 24


A county judge today extended a ban on an anti-immigration group from patrolling
the terminals at San Diego's airport in search of illegal immigrants boarding
planes.

Members of the group, called U.S. Citizens Patrol, had been roaming Lindbergh
Field for nearly a month in an effort to deter illegal immigrants from using the
airport to travel around the country.

Hispanic groups were angered, alleging in a complaint to the United States
Attorney's office in San Diego that the Citizens Patrol had asked travelers for
identification and had violated civil rights through intimidation. The complaint
also contended that the group's clothing, navy blue T-shirts with "U.S. Citizens
Patrol" in gold letters, mimicked that of the United States Border Patrol and
the Customs Service.

"There is no room for vigilantism," said Claudia Smith, a lawyer with the
California Rural Legal Assistance, a group that provides help to migrant
workers.

Members of Citizens Patrol denied that they talked to passengers. Rather, they
said they asked airline ticketing employees to check all passengers'
identification, as required by the Federal Aviation Administration.

Peter D. Lepiscopo, a lawyer for Citizens Patrol, said that the issue was one of
free speech. "The Federal Government has only a few powers under the
Constitution," he said. "Protecting the border is one they are not carrying out.

"This ruling is just heavy-handedness by the Government to quiet the issue and
not worry if they violate my client's rights," Mr. Lepiscopo said.

He added that charitable and religious groups were permitted to use the airport.

Ana Cobian, a spokeswoman for the United States Attorney's office, said Federal
Bureau of Investigation officers monitored the Citizens Patrol at the airport
and found no evidence of law violations. She said no victims had come forward to
report being harassed.

Nonetheless, Judge William J. Howatt of San Diego County Superior Court agreed
with airport officials that the Citizens Patrol's activities were disrupting
airport security. He extended a temporary restraining order issued on Thursday
after an airport news conference held by Hispanic groups turned into a shouting
match when a Citizens Patrol member appeared.

Judge Howatt said the Citizens Patrol could assemble outside the airport
terminal in designated areas.

The temporary restraining order will remain in effect until an injunction
hearing is held.

Rudy Murillo, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in San
Diego, which patrols the airport for illegal immigrants, said his agency needed
no assistance. He said immigration officers catch up to 24 illegal immigrants a
day at the airport.

Mr. Murillo said illegal immigrants use San Diego's airport to bypass border
patrol checkpoints on the highways out of town.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 9, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

At the U.S.-Mexican Border, Drought Is Taking a Deadly Toll

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 36;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., June 8


A drought in the Southwest, coupled with an unusually large number of people
trying to enter the United States illegally, have led to more deaths of would-be
immigrants this year than normal.

Four illegal immigrants were found dead of dehydration and heat exhaustion this
week after smugglers sent them into the scorched South Texas brush to walk
around border checkpoints, Federal and Texas authorities said.

During the hottest months of last year, from May to September, three illegal
immigrants died from the heat in the same region of South Texas in which the
four were found.

The four, all women from 21 years old to 38, were apparently members of
different groups who had been smuggled across the border. They were found by
Border Patrol agents near the towns of Falfurrias and Sarita, Tex., about 100
miles north of the border and 70 miles south of Corpus Christi.

"So much more alien traffic is coming over," said Hector Rios, a Border Patrol
agent. "The traffic is just way up, and a lot of times they get lost."

The drought in Mexico, combined with the country's continued lagging economy,
has led more of the country's citizens to try to improve their lives in the
United States, said Letty Valadez, a Border Patrol spokeswoman in McAllen, Tex.

After crossing the border, which can be as easy as wading the Rio Grande at a
desolate site, Mr. Rios said illegal immigrants were picked up by smugglers in
cars and trucks and driven north, where they were dropped off before border
checkpoints.

The checkpoints, like the one at Sarita, can be far north of the border, and the
illegal immigrants try to trek through the woods and meet the smugglers on the
other side. They are then driven farther into Texas.

"They're sometimes dropped off one day's walk from here," said Mr. Rios, who was
in Sarita, "and some of the trails they take, we don't even know about. And
water's so scarce out there in the brush. It's happened before. They're not able
to find water readily. It's very sandy, very dry and desolate."

Ms. Valadez said that the drought and temperatures in the high 90's had all but
dried up natural water holes and lakes in the region. Indeed, many illegal
immigrants who are captured are ill.

Border Patrol agents are now being equipped with extra water supplies and
emergency medical kits, Ms. Valadez said.

The bodies of two of the victims were turned over to the Brooks County Sheriff.
They were identified as Maria Helena Gonzalez, 30, of Guanajuato, Mexico, and
Myrna Ayala, 38, of Montemorelos, Mexico. Both women were said to be traveling
in groups of five and were reported dead by companion travelers on May 28.

A third illegal immigrant, in her early 30's, was found dead the next day near a
rest area on U.S. 77, eight miles north of the Sarita checkpoint.  Her name has
not been released.

The cause of death for the three was "hypothermia and dehydration," said Chief
Deputy Rolando Garcia of the Brooks County Sheriff's Department.

The most recent victim, a woman in her late 20's, was found dead on Tuesday in a
brushy area on what is called the "Ho Chi Minh Trail," wearing a shirt and
shorts, with no identification. She has not been identified.

"It appears she died of severe exhaustion and dehydration," Ms. Valadez said.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Agents Return To Garment Factories

SECTION: Section A;   Page 24;   Column 6;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 189 words


To the Editor:

A June 3 front-page article states that critics regard the New York City pilot
program to arrest illegal immigrants at garment factories to be "an expensive
and futile election-year exercise." It also suggests that immigration agents do
not return to garment factories after raids to insure that factory owners
replace arrested workers with legal hires.

I personally return to every factory where I acted as the case agent within one
week of a raid to determine whether the owner is employing the same workers. In
cases where the factory owners continue to hire illegal immigrants, further
action is taken against them.

Furthermore, starting in November, a provision of the Antiterrorism Law that was
signed by President Clinton will allow the Immigration and Naturalization
Service immediately to deport illegal workers without the necessity of first
conducting hearings. When the new law takes effect, our enforcement efforts will
have a much more obvious effect.

THOMAS E. TIERNEY
New York, June 3, 1996

The writer is an immigration agent for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 19, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Add to Population Peril

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 222 words


To the Editor:

The debate over legislation that would allow states to deny public education to
illegal immigrants' children (news article, June 11) is misplaced. Why should
illegal immigrants be allowed to remain here at all?

They came here with the knowledge that they are in violation of our laws. If
they were identified and deported, the problem of schooling would not exist
because there would be no illegal immigrants living here permanently. Congress
should be debating how to devise programs that would identify and deport every
illegal immigrant in this country.

Our support of such programs has nothing to do with the merit of illegal
immigrants as individuals. Most are hard working and industrious. We understand
their wish to live here and their desire for better lives for themselves and
their children.

We urge a halt to illegal immigration and a large reduction in legal immigration
because of their contribution to the growth of our population.  According to
conservative projections, our population will approach 500 million by the end of
the next century.

We will never be able to stabilize our population unless we halt illegal
immigration and reduce legal immigration to a fraction of its present numbers.

DONALD MANN
Teaneck, N.J., June 14, 1996

Pres., Negative Population Growth

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

THE AD CAMPAIGN;
The Republicans Attack on Spending for Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 591 words



BODY: This is a 30-second commercial called "More," released this week by the
Republican National Committee. Republican officials would not say where it is
being broadcast, but Democratic officials, who are tracking the ads, said their
research found Republicans spent $1.5 million for a week of advertising
nationally, notably in California.


PRODUCER: New Century Media Group.

ON THE SCREEN: The picture opens up with a black-and-white shot of a border
crossing, under a sign that says, "MEXICO." From there, words alternate with
photographs of immigrants -- presumably illegal and apparently Mexican -- riding
boats in the churning sea, running in the flare of spotlights, and fleeing up a
road. Statements on the screen assert: "You spend $5.5 billion to support
illegals" and spending for illegal immigrants went up 12.7 percent under
President Clinton, while wages for "typical workers" dropped 2.5 percent. It
ends with the statement: "Tell President Clinton: stop giving illegal benefits
to illegals. End wasteful Washington spending."

SCRIPT: The producers of the advertisement chose a woman as a narrator, a device
often used to soften hard-edged political commercials. The script reads: "Do you
know there are over five million illegal immigrants in the U.S.? And that you
spend $5.5 billion a year to support them with welfare, food stamps and other
services? Under President Clinton, spending on illegals has gone up, while wages
for the typical worker have gone down. And when efforts were made to stop giving
benefits to illegal immigrants, Bill Clinton opposed them. Tell President
Clinton to stop giving benefits to illegals and end wasteful Washington
spending."

ACCURACY: The details of the advertisement were the subject of dispute
yesterday. The Democratic National Committee asked television stations to pull
the advertisement for what it described as "a blatant and demonstrable
falsehood," that illegal aliens receive food stamps. A Republican National
Committee spokeswoman Virginia Hume said the Republicans stood by the
advertisement.

Democratic officials noted that illegal immigrants are barred from obtaining
food stamps, and questioned why the advertisement focused on food stamps and
welfare in complaining about spending on illegal immigrants. Republican
officials say that notwithstanding the law, immigrants obtain the benefits
illicitly by using phony identification.

For the $5.5 billion figure, the Republicans relied on 1990 figures provided by
the Center for Immigration Studies. That figure is a combination of money spent
on 13 social service programs, ranging from education to Medicaid to prisons to
unreimbursed hospital costs. Mr. Clinton's aides did not dispute this figure,
but argued that it "ignores the fact that when illegal immigrants are in the
United States, they buy goods and services" and that "helps to offset the costs
illegal immigrants have on society."

SCORECARD: The commercial was intended to track remarks by Bob Dole in which he
endorsed a proposed Congressional amendment that would allow states to stop
educating the children of illegal immigrants. The advertisement is aimed at
states roiled by immigration issues, and where Mr. Dole is in trouble, including
California. The commercial is provocative, with pictures of brown-skinned people
scurrying under the glare of spotlights. The highlighting of a particular ethnic
group in a political commercials of this type has been controversial in the
past, but has also proved to be effective.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

House G.O.P. Moves to Cut Immigration

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21


Congress today began an ambitious effort to rewrite American immigration policy
as House Republicans offered legislation to reduce the numbers of aliens, legal
and illegal alike, who settle in the United States.

The chief sponsor of the bill, Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, said at a
news conference that generations of immigrants had contributed "work, creativity
and vibrancy" to the nation. But, he said, it is time to "put the interests of
America first: the interests of the American worker, the American taxpayer and
the American family."

Mr. Smith is chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and
Claims. The ranking Democrat on the subcommittee, John Bryant of Texas, endorsed
the bill, saying it would reduce the displacement of American workers by cheap
labor from abroad.

Similar legislation to be taken up by the Senate has substantial backing there,
and Mr. Smith predicted that the Clinton Administration would support much of
his bill because it echoes a Federal advisory commission's recommendations,
which President Clinton has generally endorsed. The commission, headed by former
Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas, has called for substantial reductions in
the number of legal immigrants allowed to enter the country.

Representative Anthony C. Beilenson, Democrat of California, said he would be a
co-sponsor of Mr. Smith's bill. "The proposal stands a pretty good chance of
passage and, I would hope, approval by the President," Mr. Beilenson said.

The major provisions of the bill are these:

*Legal immigration would be reduced by about a third, to 535,000 people a year.

*The number of refugees, those admitted into the country because of a
well-founded fear of persecution in their homelands, would be cut by half, to
50,000 a year.

*A new requirement would be imposed on employers to verify that job applicants
are eligible to work in the United States: employers would have to call the
Government to check the authenticity of applicants' Social Security numbers. But
the bill would not create a national identification card, a proposal advanced
from time to time for more than a decade as a way of verifying employment
eligibility.

*The strength of the Border Patrol would be doubled, to 10,000 agents.

*A barrier along a 14-mile stretch of the Mexican border near San Diego would be
bolstered with the construction of two fences, in addition to the one that
already exists there.

*Any foreigner who illegally entered the United States could be fined a sum
ranging from $50 to $250.

*New procedures would speed the deportation of illegal aliens by keeping them
from delaying their departure through numerous appeals.

The immigration issue cuts across party lines. Some Republicans, like Alan K.
Simpson of Wyoming, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
Immigration, support Mr. Smith's approach. But others, like Representative Dick
Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, oppose new restrictions on legal
immigration, which they see as an engine of economic growth. And some
Republicans, like Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, dislike the idea of making employers check the immigration status of
job applicants and punishing those who hire illegal aliens.

Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat on the House immigration
subcommittee, said legal and illegal immigration ought to be handled in separate
bills. He said that he would support efforts to reduce illegal immigration but
that Mr. Smith was using public concern about that problem to justify "an
assault on legal immigration."

Charles Kamasaki, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic organization, said that "the bill won't do much to reduce illegal
immigration" and that it "heightens a climate of suspicion around any person who
looks or sounds foreign."

Under Mr. Smith's proposal, the yearly total of 535,000 legal immigrants would
be divided this way: 330,000 close relatives of United States citizens and
permanent resident aliens, 135,000 skilled workers and 70,000 people fleeing
persecution or civil strife.

In addition, the bill would provide 50,000 visas a year for five years to reduce
the current backlog of spouses and minor children of legal permanent residents.
But it would eliminate longstanding visa preferences for siblings and adult
children of United States citizens.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 22, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

House Panel Approves Plan To Register Immigration Status

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 29;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21


The House Judiciary Committee today approved a plan to establish a national
registry of names, Social Security numbers and immigration data on all citizens
and legal aliens and to require employers to use it to verify the legal status
of job applicants.

The 17-to-15 vote, which crossed party lines, came after a debate that pitted
public anger over illegal immigration against concerns about privacy.

Seven Republicans voted to delete the verification system from a bill to revamp
the nation's immigration policy, saying it would mean that the Federal
Government would have to approve every hiring decision made by an employer. And
four Democrats on the committee, including some staunch liberals, voted in favor
of the proposal.

"If we do not get a better handle on illegal immigration, the ability of those
of us who believe in legal immigration as an important benefit to this society,
as well as an important human right, will be further undermined," said
Representative Barney Frank, a liberal Democrat from Massachusetts, in
explaining his support for the plan.

Despite its approval today, the future of the registry plan remains in doubt.
House leaders, including the majority leader, Representative Dick Armey of
Texas, have expressed unease over the idea, contending that it could lead to a
national identity card.

Under the proposal, the Attorney General would have four years to set up a
national system to verify the legal status of any potential employee. The system
would, in essence, be a huge data bank holding the Social Security numbers of
all American citizens and the registration numbers that are given to all legal
aliens.

Businesses considering hiring a worker would be required to notify a central
registry by dialing a toll-free number or using a computer link to verify the
validity of the Social Security number or the alien registration number that
have been provided by the job applicant.

If a job applicant was rejected, he or she would have two weeks to appeal the
Government's designation of legal status.

Proponents of the proposal say it is the only way to put teeth into the 1986 law
that provides sanctions on businesses that knowingly hire illegal aliens. That
law has widely been considered a failure, in part because employers have found
it difficult to check the validity of documents that workers provide.

But opponents say the system would be unwieldy and burdensome to businesses.
They also maintain that it would violate privacy and be a huge growth in
governmental power and intrusion.

"The system has been referred to as dialing '1-800 Big Brother,' " said
Representative Steve Chabot, an Ohio Republican who sponsored the amendment to
delete the provision from the bill. "It will be costly to operate, it won't
work, and it will send exactly the wrong message as to whether government is to
be the master or servant of the people."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Reform Immigration In America's Interest

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 12;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 243 words


To the Editor:

"Congress Plans Stiff New Curb on Immigration" (front page, Sept. 25) suggests
that my bill slashes the annual number of legal immigrants from 800,000 to
535,000. My bill allows for an average of more than 660,000 annual admissions
for the next five years. You should examine Section 553, which will reduce the
backlog of spouses and minor children of permanent resident aliens over the next
five years.

You also say my bill establishes a national employment registry. The toll-free,
quick-check system in H. R. 2202 would rely on existing information in the
Social Security Administration or Immigration and Naturalization Service.

There is no identification card, no data base and no registry. The system is
designed to keep illegal aliens from using fraudulent documents to take jobs
away from American citizens and legal immigrants.

You state that the bill hurts companies that are seeking specialized employees
from overseas. Under the bill the percentage of immigrants admitted on the basis
of education and skills is increased to 28 percent from 18 percent.

Further, the number of skills-based visas available annually is increased by
10,000.

The question is not whether to reform immigration but how. Now is the time to
enact immigration reform legislation that accurately reflects America's national
interests.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Chairman, Subcommittee on
Immigration and Claims
Washington, Sept. 25, 1995

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Smite The Gate Closers

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words


Take in the stranger, care for him. The major religions of the world all teach
that. At the time of holidays -- holy days -- that might be worth thinking
about.

The above paragraph is a blatant attempt to use religion, the holiday season,
emotion, compassion and sentiment in the cause of a generous American
immigration policy.

Yes, and it is an unashamed effort to call down the words of Jehovah, Jesus,
Allah, Krishna, Buddha and the great Sikh gurus to smite and warn American
politicians who fight to keep narrowing the opening in the gates of America.

They struggle, with all their sour passions, to treat legal immigrants as a
special caste to be deprived of rights and privileges for the offense of being
foreign-born.

Well -- I really do not expect religion to move American politicians and their
propaganda mentors who want to create America in their image -- America the
Mingy, mean from shore to shining shore.

But when the strangers set immediately to build cities, take in crops and
strengthen the country with their skills, culture and genius, we get that lovely
combination -- virtue and responsibility coming together to promote our
self-interest. That is what generous immigration gives us, a thought that might
move Americans who sit by, not noticing its approaching demise.

As a holiday gift, I give you three particularly useful recent pieces on
immigration.

Julian L. Simon, a professor of business at the University of Maryland, has put
the essence of his noted immigration studies into 51 pages -- "Immigration: the
Demographic and Economic Facts."

Here's a taste, backed by statistics, to answer the charges made by the gate
narrowers en route to their goal of gate closing:

Despite the propaganda about America being overwhelmed with immigrants, the rate
of immigration is about one-third what it was at the beginning of the century.
Immigrants do not increase the rate of unemployment among native-born Americans.
Total per capita government expenditures on immigrants are much lower than those
for the native-born. The education levels of immigrants have been increasing
every decade. Natural resources and the environment are not at risk from
immigration -- in fact, they are helped by the technical knowledge it brings.

You can get this report from the Cato Institute, a conservative think tank, at
1000 Massachusetts Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001. It is excellent for
smiting.

But the immigration issue is not just about statistics. Without immigration,
America would not have long existed. Now, without immigration it cannot exist as
a world power. Immigration helped create the weaponry and technology, from the
atom bomb to the cruise missiles of the Persian Gulf war that empowered America
militarily.

Today, immigrants of genius are essential to American industry and to high
standards of American life. One-third of all American Nobel winners are
foreign-born and judging by mathematical doctorates, science degrees, patents,
prizes and publications, one-third of American geniuses are foreign-born.

Those conclusions come from "Geniuses from Abroad" in the Wall Street Journal of
Dec. 18, by George Gilder, a fellow of the Discovery Institute in Seattle.

It would be handy if the U.S. could just pick up geniuses full blown, rejecting
all others at the gate. But geniuses have a way of arriving in America disguised
as little kids. Or they come from the wombs of non-genius immigrant mothers.
That's the way it works.

But when an immigrant or immigrant-family genius does flower, he turns out to be
thousands of times more productive economically than ordinary people -- a
reality ignored by too many economists.

Then, for an idea how gate closers are endangering immigration and perverting
the Constitution, read the analysis of the anti-immigration measures now pending
in Congress. Get it from National Immigration Forum, 220 I Street N.E., Suite
220, Washington D.C. 20002-4362. Then have a chat with your local Congress
member, a lot of chats.

I wish I had a pulpit to instruct the anti-immigration types that their defiance
of the religious commandments on the stranger weakens their country and,
incidentally, endangers their immortal souls, but a column will have to do.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 31, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
The Strange Politics of Immigration

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 3;   Column 1;   Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


EVERY other week between April and mid-November, an odd mixture of interest
groups met in Washington to plot strategy on how to defeat Congressional
proposals to overhaul the country's immigration policy. Dubbed the "Left-Right
Coalition on Immigration" by one of the participants, it contained organizations
that seldom see eye to eye on anything, and, indeed, are often barely on
speaking terms.

Among those in the meetings: the Institute for Justice, a conservative civil
rights group that strongly opposes affirmative action; Americans for Tax Reform,
an anti-tax, anti-big government group; the Home School Network, a Christian
fundamentalist group; the American Civil Liberties Union, and the National
Council of La Raza and the National Immigration Forum, both of which oppose
attempts to scale back legal immigration.

"I've been in a meeting where an A.C.L.U. guy, the National Immigration person
and Cato guy have all come in here to talk about strategy -- at the same time,"
said an aide to Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican. "I've never seen
that before."

Get used to it. On the matter of the country's immigration laws, the issues are
large, the proposals complex and the bedfellows strange.

This issue puts Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator and Republican
Presidential candidate and Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat, on
one side (favoring more limits), while the other side claims Representative
Robert K. Dornan, the gay-bashing California Republican, and Representative
Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat, who is openly homosexual. The
prominent conservative Republicans William Bennett and Jack Kemp are strongly
pro-immigration, while Barbara Jordan, the famously liberal former Democratic
Congresswomen from Texas, chaired a national commission that recommended cutting
legal immigration by one-third -- a proposal that was endorsed by President
Clinton.

Immigration is like that. It is an issue so visceral, and its impact so
geographically uneven, that it tends to blur traditional party and ideological
lines. The label "liberal" has usually embraced environmentalist causes, for
example, but now some environmentalists have emerged as a major force behind the
anti-immigration coalition. Among conservatives, the immigration issue has
highlighted the re-emergence of old divisions between isolationists (now
resurgent with the fall of Communism) and free-market internationalists.

"It's a mistake to think liberals are pro-immigration and conservatives are
anti-immigration," said Sanford J. Ungar, dean of American University's School
of Communication and author of "Fresh Blood: the New American Immigrant" (Simon
and Schuster). "That's a common mistake made in the current debate."

Of course, the debate summons concerns that are predictable, even if they cut
against traditional loyalties. Some of the liberal politicians who want
immigration slowed, for example, are from states like California and Florida,
where a surge of immigrants has led to a backlash that politicians ignore at
their peril.

Also, some of the proposals being bandied about in Congress are so sweeping that
they contain some provisions that are bound to provoke someone. For example,
Christian fundamentalists assert that the proposal to end or restrict
immigration preferences for parents and siblings of American citizens is
"anti-family." The A.C.L.U. and the National Rifle Association object from
opposite political poles to a proposal by Senator Feinstein for a national
identification card that contains a person's photograph and other identifying
features like fingerprints.

"The N.R.A. position is simple," said Grover Norquist, executive director of
Americans for Tax Reform, who has been a leader in galvanizing conservative
opposition to many of the proposals. "If you're going to register people, why
not guns?"

Some students of Congress say the weird concoctions of allies in the immigration
debate is an outgrowth of a trend in Congress to produce more and more "omnibus"
bills, sweeping pieces of legislation that are an amalgam of nearly every
proposal under the sun. Omnibus bills have been the preferred way to deal with
other issues like crime and health care. Devised as a means to win support from
different lawmakers by incorporating many pet proposals, the omnibus bills can
become a lightning rod for disparate interest groups seeking to deep-six them.

For those who want to know where the players tend to line up on immigration,
here is an ideological scorecard that might help:

Free marketeers. To them, the debate over immigration is a reprise of recent
legislative battles over the North American Free Trade Agreement. They believe
that the free flow of people across national borders, like that of goods and
capital, leads to prosperity. Major proponents: House Majority Leader Dick Armey
of Texas, the Wall Street Journal editorial board.

Nativists. They believe that the current levels of immigration, which since the
Immigration Act of 1965 has been dominated by people from Asia and Latin
America, pose a threat to the Anglo-Saxon part of America's culture. Some major
proponents: Mr. Buchanan and The National Review.

Civil rights and ethnic advocates. Immigration is to them a human rights issue;
they view hostility to immigration as racist. Major proponents: The National
Council of La Raza, the National Immigration Forum and various Asian-American
organizations.

Environmentalists and population control advocates. Many of these groups believe
that the immigration-fueled increase in the United States population portends an
overcrowded America unable to preserve its environment and its quality of life.
Major proponents: the Federation for American Immigration Reform and the
Carrying Capacity Network, which advocates population control.

Job protectionists. Concerned about income stagnation among American workers,
and declines at the bottom of the scale, they believe that immigration, both
legal and illegal, depresses wages and takes jobs from unskilled Americans.
Major proponents: some labor unions and the usually liberal writer Michael Lind.

Antigovernment libertarians. They are skeptical of large government programs
such as a national identification card or a requirement that employers check
with a national registry of Social Security numbers or alien registration
documents before hiring. Major proponents: the conservative Cato Institute, the
A.C.L.U.

Antitax advocates and selected businesses. They are incensed over provisions
requiring employers to pay a tax on every foreign worker they sponsor. Major
proponents: Americans for Tax Reform, the National Association of Manufacturers
and high-tech companies like Microsoft and Sun Systems.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barney Frank, liberal foe of limits. (David Scull/The New York
Times); Robert Dornan, conservative foe.; Patrick Buchanan, conserative
advocate.; Dianne Feinstein, liberal advocate. (Associated Press); The
immigration debate has made allies of Democrats and Republicans, gays and
gay-bashers. Above, a protest in Los Angeles. (Mark Ludak/Impact Visuals)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 12, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bills' Deadlines May Imperil Asylum Seekers

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1691 words


Oumar A., a gangly 25-year-old man from Mauritania, said the police in his
country hung him upside down by his feet, beat him and burned him with a heated
hammer, while in the next cell they tortured and killed his father, an opponent
of the military-dominated Government.

Oumar said he fled his village fearing for his life, and arrived in New York
City in November 1994, where a doctor later said his scars were consistent with
torture. He waited almost a year before he applied to the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service for political asylum. He says he did not
know a soul in America. He spoke no English. He had no money. And he was
terrified that he would be sent home if he came forward.

Such reasons for delay are common among the thousands of people who ask the
United States for sanctuary each year. But a little-noticed provision of
immigration bills now moving through the House and the Senate would disqualify,
with few exceptions, people who do not seek asylum within a month of arriving
here.

There is no deadline now. Immigration officials estimate that fewer than 5
percent of those who requested asylum last year did so during their first month
in the United States.

A Democrat from Brooklyn and a Republican from Florida who are pushing for a
deadline say most people who flee to America know that it offers asylum and have
a responsibility to ask for it promptly. A deadline, they say, would also make
it more difficult for illegal immigrants to apply fraudulently for asylum long
after they entered the country solely to avoid deportation, filing appeals that
can last years.

"If you believe enough in America to claim asylum, you ought to come forward and
not wait till someone says, 'Gotcha,' " said Representative Charles E. Schumer,
the Brooklyn Democrat.

He cites the case of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the Egyptian cleric sentenced to
life in prison for a plot to terrorize New York City. Mr. Abdel Rahman applied
for asylum only after immigration authorities revoked his permanent-resident
status and moved to deport him two years after he entered the country. Mr.
Schumer said he could support extending the deadline to two or three months.

Clinton Administration officials call a deadline unnecessary and too harsh. They
say most abuses have been halted through strengthened enforcement and regulatory
changes. They also say a deadline would drive legitimate refugees underground
and could force them back to countries where they would be persecuted.

"It would come at great cost, foreclosing good-faith claims made by people who
had good reasons not to apply within 30 days," said David A. Martin, general
counsel at the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "It's entirely
disproportionate."

At a time when anti-immigrant sentiment seems strong and international turmoil
is producing streams of refugees, the debate over a deadline for asylum claims
reflects the persistent tension between sometimes conflicting priorities:
providing haven for the persecuted from around the globe and quickly sending
illegal immigrants back where they came from.

Representative Bill McCollum of Florida, the sponsor of the deadline, said he
was outraged by the case of Mir Amal Kansi, a Pakistani who was suspected of
gunning down two people in 1993 outside Central Intelligence Agency headquarters
in northern Virginia. Mr. Kansi entered the country with a visa that would have
allowed him to stay a month, and applied for asylum a year later. He left the
United States the day after the shootings.

That same year, the CBS News program "60 Minutes" did a segment on the thousands
of people who arrive at Kennedy International Airport with no documents and make
what appear to be false claims for asylum. That summer, President Clinton
announced that the Administration would move aggressively to deter fraud in the
asylum system.

One problem was a backlog of more than 400,000 cases. Immigrants had apparently
discovered that by applying for asylum, they could immediately obtain a precious
work authorization card.

The Administration's new strategy went into effect in January 1994. Immigration
officials stopped automatically handing out work papers, instead requiring
applicants to wait six months for them.

The agency expanded the corps of asylum officers to 325 from 150 and increased
the number of immigration judges to 179 from 112. In the New York region, which
receives the second highest number of asylum claims after Los Angeles, a new
asylum office opened in Rosedale, Queens, with a staff of 53 asylum officers.
The number of immigration judges in New York City was increased to 25, from 14.

A year later, Doris Meissner, the I.N.S. Commissioner, called the results
"stunning." The number of people who came forward on their own to ask for asylum
fell by more than half in a single year, to 53,255, while the agency more than
doubled the number of cases completed, to 126,165.

New asylum cases filed in New York City and Newark declined to 18,483, from
42,199. With the new office in Queens, the number of cases completed rose to
37,673, from 5,836.

The number of people who requested asylum after the immigration service caught
them and moved to deport them dropped to 15,322 last year, from 21,811 in 1994.
More than 95 percent of all the new asylum claims were resolved within six
months, before asylum seekers could qualify for work papers, officials say.

A backlog of 460,000 cases remains, but immigration officials say they believe
they will dispose of it in two or three years if there are no major new refugee
crises.

Immigration officials say they shudder at the prospect of trying to carry out a
30-day deadline. Phyllis Coven, director of the Office of International Affairs
at the immigration service, said it would often be extremely difficult to figure
out when asylum seekers entered the country. How will immigration officers know,
for example, when applicants hiked across the Mexican border or came ashore in
Florida?

"A deadline will gum up the process and have us spinning around on an issue --
when a person entered the country -- which is difficult to prove, rather than
just hearing the claim and getting to the substance," Ms. Coven said.

Representative McCollum said he would introduce an amendment he had yet to work
out that would prevent the deportation of those who face persecution but fail to
apply within a month. He would not, however, give such refugees the benefits
that come with full asylum, a status that enables them to bring over their
immediate families and eventually to become United States citizens.

While he and other members of Congress agreed that the immigration service had
made progress in repairing the asylum system, they said that the process was
still subject to abuses, especially from illegal immigrants who claim asylum
only when immigration officials move to have them deported.

Human rights groups say the proposed deadline overlooks the enormous
difficulties that people fleeing persecution face in the months immediately
after they arrive in the United States. The refugees' first priority, advocates
say, is to avoid being sent back home. Often, they mistrust people in authority,
especially immigration officials.

Refugees who have found lawyers through the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights
in New York City offered many reasons for applying months or even a year after
arriving. Pierre Isaac Simon, who was a minor figure in the Government of
Jean-Bertrand Aristide in Haiti, fled to the United States in 1992 after a
military coup. But he said he did not apply for asylum for almost a year because
he believed he would return home when international pressure restored Mr.
Aristide to power. When that did not happen, he came forward to apply and was
granted asylum in 1994. He now lives in Brooklyn.

Darnilda Juana Pardave Trujillo, who said she was wrongly imprisoned as a
suspected terrorist in Peru, said she fled the country in such a hurry that she
did not have time to obtain a biopsy of a large lump in her breast. Her first
month in New York was spent finding a doctor and getting medical treatment. She
was granted asylum in March.

Most commonly, refugees say they have great difficulty finding a lawyer to
represent them free and have no money to hire one. A Turkish man who said he was
tortured for his political beliefs contacted the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights just two weeks after he got to the city. But he had to wait a month for
an appointment and another month before he was matched with a lawyer.

Nathaniel Chapin, an associate with the Park Avenue law firm of Hunton &
Williams, said it took many meetings to win his client's trust. The law firm had
to locate a person to translate a raft of documents and a doctor who specialized
in treating torture victims to examine the client.

The lawyer, the doctor and the translator were all working for nothing, juggling
volunteer work with full-time jobs. By the time his two-inch-thick application
was filed, the man, who asked that his name not be used to protect family
members still in Turkey, had been here for more than a year.

Oumar, the Mauritanian, filled out the I.N.S. application by himself. He was
quickly granted an interview with an asylum officer who just as promptly denied
his claim -- a fate that is common for refugees who try to represent themselves,
lawyers say.

Dr. Allen Keller, who directs a program at Bellevue Medical Center to care for
torture survivors, had submitted a letter on Oumar's behalf after the interview,
but it apparently did not sway the I.N.S. asylum officer. In his affidavit, Dr.
Keller wrote that Oumar had scars on his back consistent with being burned by a
heated hammer as Oumar had described, as well as a damaged shoulder.

The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights has since found a lawyer to handle
Oumar's case before an immigration judge, the first level of review after the
asylum officer's decision. Oumar wept as he contemplated what would become of
him if he were sent back.

"I'll have the same fate as my father," he said. "I'll be burned like an
animal."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pierre Isaac Simon, who fled Haiti in 1992, was granted asylum
in the United States in 1994. Mr. Simon and his wife, Garmerose, and their
children, from left on a bunk bed, Ifamust, 10, Idrose, 11, and Peguito, 7,
gathered in their Flatbush apartment in Brooklyn. (Michelle V. Agins/The New
York Times); Darnilda Juana Pardave Trujillo was granted asylum in March after
having been held as a suspected terrorist in Peru. She sat in the living room of
her home in Mineola, L.I., with her husband, Julio Daza Lancouce, who has been
in the United States less than a week. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg.
B3)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 12, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Let Immigrants Take Jobs From the Poor

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 120 words


To the Editor:

Re Representative Lamar Smith's March 6 letter on his proposed immigration
reduction bill, H.R. 2202:

Under his proposal, family immigration will be, in fact, reduced by one-third
(from 465,000 to 335,000) and several categories of family relatives will be
barred from immigrating to this country, including adult children and brothers
and sisters of United States citizens as well as adult children of United States
residents. In addition, it would make it extremely difficult for citizens to
bring their parents as legal immigrants. Only rich people will be allowed to
reunite with their close relatives.

JOHN H. KIM
New York, March 6, 1996

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 25, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration -- Just the Facts

BYLINE: By Priscilla Labovitz;   Priscilla Labovitz is an immigration lawyer.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress is debating two bills, Patrick Buchanan used the issue to rev up his
Presidential campaign, and a few polemicists have even called for a moratorium.
Immigration may be hotly debated, but the facts and figures speak for
themselves.


Percentage of the United States population that white Americans think is
Hispanic: 14.7.
Percentage that is Hispanic: 9.5.
Percentage that whites think is Asian: 10.8
Percentage that is Asian: 3.1.
Percentage that white Americans think is black: 23.8.
Percentage that is black: 11.8.
Percentage that whites think is white: 49.9.
Percentage that is white: 74.

Number of legal immigrants admitted in 1820 (the first year for which statistics
are available): 8,385.
The number of legal immigrants in 1907: 1,285,349.
The number admitted in 1990: 1,536,483.
The number admitted in 1994 (the latest figures available): 804,416.

Percentage of decrease in legal immigration from 1993 to 1994: 9.3

Countries that sent the most students to America in 1994: Japan (more than
65,000), South Korea (more than 38,000), China plus Taiwan (more than 36,000).

The number of Americans who emigrate each year: 195,000.

Countries from which legal immigration decreased most since 1993: El Salvador
(32 percent), Vietnam (30.6 percent), China (17.7 percent), Philippines (15.3
percent).

Percentage that employment-based legal immigration decreased from 1993 to 1994:
16.
Percentage of decrease in applications for political asylum from 1994 to 1995:
57.

Number of bills introduced in Congress to reduce legal immigration: 8.
To reduce illegal immigration: 7.

State with the largest number of legal immigrants from Mexico: California.
State with the largest number of legal immigrants from all foreign countries
combined: California.
Percentage (estimated) of all illegal immigrants who live in California: 43.

State where fewest legal immigrants settled in 1994: Wyoming.
Home state of Alan Simpson, the senator who authored the principal bill to
reduce immigration: Wyoming.

Countries from which most illegals in New York City emigrate: Colombia,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Italy, Poland.
Countries from which the highest number of legal immigrants on welfare in New
York City emigrate: Russia, Dominican Republic.

Proportion of United States population that was foreign-born in 1994: 8.7
percent.
Proportion that was foreign-born in 1924 (when national-origins quotas were
imposed): 15.

Continent of origin of immigrant group with highest educational attainments:
Africa.

Welfare programs for which illegal aliens are not eligible: Aid to Families With
Dependent Children, food stamps, Medicaid, Medicare, Supplemental Security
Income.



Presidential candidate who said: "I think God made all people good, but if we
had to take a million immigrants in, say Zulus, next year, or Englishmen, and
put them in Virginia, what group would be easier to assimilate and would cause
less problems for the people of Virginia?" Patrick Buchanan.
Total number of immigrants who settled in Virginia in 1994: 15,342.
Total number of legal immigrants born in United Kingdom who settled in Virginia
in 1994: 404.
Total number of Zulus: Unknown.

Sources: Census Bureau statistics, Immigration and Naturalization Service
statistics, National Immigration Law Center, New York City Planning Commission,
The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawings.

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 29, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Advances in the Senate

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 4;   National Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 28


The Senate Judiciary Committee today approved legislation that would slightly
increase the number of foreign-born relatives who can be brought into the
country by American citizens and legal residents in the next decade. Most of the
relatives would be wives and minor children.

The committee, voting 13 to 4, also adopted provisions favored by business
leaders to protect American workers from losing their jobs to temporary skilled
foreigners. But backers of organized labor, including the Clinton
Administration, said the safeguards were insufficient.

The bill could "put hundreds if not thousands of skilled U.S. workers' jobs at
risk," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said. Democrats vowed to offer amendments
to protect American workers when the full Senate takes up the bill in April.

The panel's action came on the day that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service announced that the number of legal immigrants had fallen by more than 20
percent during the last two years.

According to the immigration service, 720,461 legal immigrants were admitted in
the fiscal year ending last October, down from the 904,292 in the 1993 fiscal
year. The 20 percent decline is the largest two-year drop in legal immigration
since the 1930's and is part of an overall trend in immigration during the last
four years.

Supporters of legal immigration are sure to use these statistics as fresh
evidence that efforts to curb legal immigration -- mainly to appease large
border states whose social services are being taxed by new immigrants -- are
unnecessary. These advocates say the rush to crack down on illegal immigrants
has unfairly included attacks on an American tradition of legal immigration that
reunites families and serves as a wellspring of economic innovation.

The House last week overwhelmingly approved an immigration bill that would
impose tough new restrictions on illegal immigrants, but dropped most provisions
dealing with legal immigrants.

The Senate Judiciary Committee this month decided to address legal and illegal
immigration in separate bills. The panel's illegal-immigration bill resembles
the House provisions. Since the House has few remaining provisions governing
legal immigrants, the Senate bill approved today will become the main
legislative vehicle this year for changes in legal-immigration law. The full
Senate is to consider both bills during the week of April 15.

A coalition of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans, supported by
religious organizations and pro-immigration groups, today reversed proposals in
the original Senate bill that would have cut legal immigration by over 30
percent after five years. Family immigration makes up most of this category.

Instead, the panel adopted, by a vote of 11 to 4, a different family-visa
approach offered by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and
Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan. That approach allows citizens
to sponsor their spouses, minor children and parents. It is expected to allow
about 250,000 people to immigrate a year.

The original Senate bill, written by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, would have limited eligible parents to those people 65 or older who had
a majority of their children living in the United States and who had health
coverage.

The current bill would also allocate 175,000 family visas a year for citizens
and legal residents to bring in other relatives. The provision would reserve at
least 75,000 of the these visas for children of citizens. The remaining 100,000
family visas would then go to, in priority, the spouses and minor children of
legal residents, the children of citizens, the children of legal residents and
the siblings of citizens.

Finally, the bill provides an additional 75,000 visas a year for 10 years to
help reduce the backlog of 1.1 million spouses and minor children of legal
residents and a backlog of 1.6 million siblings of citizens.

As a result, the bill approved today would allow for 500,000 family visas a year
for 10 years, compared with 480,000 allowed now, a 4 percent increase. The
original Senate bill would have eliminated the adult children and siblings
categories.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 19, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Slamming the Door

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 29;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The case of 19-year-old Fauziya Kasinga, who says she fled her native Togo to
avoid the rite of female genital mutilation, has aroused much sympathy. She
arrived at Newark Airport in 1994, told officials she was using someone else's
passport, sought asylum, was turned down and has been held in prison ever since.
The Board of Immigration Appeals will hear her appeal on May 2.

But in future we are not likely to know about desperate people like Ms. Kasinga.
If their pleas for asylum are turned down by a low-level U.S. immigration
officer, they will not be allowed to appeal -- and review by the courts will be
barred. They will be sent back at once to the land where they face persecution.

This extraordinary change in our law is part of the counter-terrorism bill
awaiting President Clinton's signature. It is not directed at terrorists. It
applies to anyone seeking asylum who arrives here with false documents or none
-- the situation of many people fleeing persecution.

The issue raised in Fauziya Kasinga's case, female genital mutilation, is an
important one: Does that cruel practice come within the grounds for asylum? But
the new summary process of exclusion will affect many more people seeking asylum
for traditional reasons: the man fleeing a Nigerian Government that executed his
political colleagues, for example, or the Vietnamese who escaped from a
re-education camp.

The asylum provisions effectively impose the absurd presumption that anyone who
flees a country without proper papers is not a genuine refugee. By that test
Fidel Castro's daughter was not a true refugee because she fled Cuba with a
false passport. Nor were Jews who fled the Nazis without papers.

Political refugees are not the only losers. The bill trashes the American
tradition of courts as the arbiters of law and guarantors of freedom. I have
seen a good deal of nastiness in the work of Congress over the years, but I do
not remember such detailed and gratuitous cruelty.

The bill gives virtually final authority to immigration officers at 300 ports of
entry to this country. Each is directed to interview people seeking asylum and
exclude them if he finds that they do not have "a credible fear of persecution."
That phrase is unknown to international law.

The officer's summary decision is subject only to "immediate review by a
supervisory office at the port." The bill prohibits further administrative
review, and it says, "no court shall have jurisdiction" to review summary
denials of asylum or to hear any challenge to the new process. (Our present
system for handling asylum applications works efficiently, so there is no
administrative need for change.)

Stripping away the protection of the courts may be the most alarming feature of
the legislation. It is reminiscent of the period after the Civil War, when a
Congress bent on punishing the South took away the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court to consider cases that radical Republicans thought the Court would decide
against their desires.

Political asylum is one saving grace in a world of too much political brutality.
Why should Americans want to undermine the asylum concept? And why should a bill
supposedly aimed at terrorists be used as a vehicle to keep the victims of
official terrorism from finding refuge?

Why should senators as decent as Orrin Hatch, chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, stand still for such harshness? The asylum restrictions originated in
the House and were kept in the bill by conferees, so the Senate was presented
with a fait accompli. A motion by Senator Patrick Leahy to send the terrorism
bill back to conference on that issue failed, 61 to 38.

President Clinton has been so eager for an anti-terrorism bill that he is not
likely to veto this one, over the asylum sections any more than over the gutting
of habeas corpus. But he could call on Congress to reconsider the attack on
political asylum.

The Senate will in fact have another chance to consider the issue when it takes
up the immigration bill, which has in it a similar provision for summary
exclusion of asylum-seekers. On reflection, Senator Hatch and others should see
the threat to victims of persecution and to our tradition of law.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 26, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
'A Public Charge'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 31;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words


Imagine that 2-year-old Irina Dovsky comes to America with her parents as legal
immigrants. A year later her father dies. Her impoverished mother manages to get
Irina into the Head Start program. She does wonderfully there over the next two
years, and goes on to success in school and college.

After graduating, Irina decides it is time to become a United States citizen.
She applies -- and is told that she is going to be deported. She is put on a
plane out of the only country she knows.

That is what would happen if the immigration bill now before the Senate becomes
law. It provides that any immigrant who got help from a means-tested government
program for 12 months or more during her first five years in America is
deportable as "a public charge."

The Draconian provision applies to someone like Irina who got the help as a
child. No matter how independent and prosperous the immigrant becomes later, she
must be deported when officials learn that she once was in an assisted program.

Participation in Head Start is not the only activity for which an immigrant can
be so harshly punished, not by any means. The rule would apply to virtually all
means-tested programs, Federal, state or local. Someone who used Medicaid, who
had a local legal aid lawyer for a divorce or who got a college student loan:
All would be deportable.

Another set of provisions in the pending Senate bill aims at the financial
responsibility of Americans who sponsor people for immigration. When an
immigrant uses any means-tested program, his sponsor's income would be deemed to
be his for purposes of eligibility.

For example, an immigrant child applying for meals under the Federal School
Lunch Act would have to show that her family's income and their sponsors',
combined, did not exceed the limit for eligibility. That would also be the case
for health care given at schools under Medicaid -- and for many other things.

The National Conference of State Legislatures, together with organizations of
counties and cities, has told senators that the immigration bill would put heavy
new burdens on state and local governments. The group said in a letter that the
bill would require them "to extend a complicated administrative procedure to
more than 50 Federal programs." The cost could run to hundreds of millions of
dollars.

For example, teachers or school assistants who decide eligibility for the school
lunch program would have to check every child's citizenship. If he or she was
not a citizen, the school would have to check immigration status, how long the
child had been in the country and the finances of the child's family and the
sponsor's.

"We also strongly support amendments to exempt vulnerable populations . . . from
the deeming restrictions," the state legislatures' letter said. Among the
vulnerable it mentioned immigrants who become disabled here, children and
prenatal and postpartum women.

The Senate bill takes one step on sponsor responsibility that most observers
would regard as sound. It would allow the Government, for the first time, to sue
a sponsor who swears that he will be responsible for an immigrant but then does
not help if the immigrant because of illness or some other reason cannot support
himself and uses public aid.

The House version of the immigration bill, already passed, goes much further. It
does not allow any American to sponsor a foreigner for immigration unless the
total income of the sponsor's family and the immigrant is at least twice the
official poverty level. That would prevent about 100 million Americans from
sponsoring immigrants.

By all signs, then, the legislation is driven by something more than any
budgetary cost of new immigrants. In any event, most immigrants, in the classic
American story, contribute far more to this country than they cost.

There is evidently an animus toward the idea of immigration lurking in this
legislation. It sets up all kinds of devices to trap those who come to the
United States in one complicated rule or another.

The curious thing is that this bill is supposed to deal with the problem of
illegal immigration. Yet all these provisions are aimed at people who have
played by the rules, made it past all the hurdles and come as legal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 13, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Policy Should Reflect Concern for Environment;
Limit Legal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words


To the Editor:

You say (editorial, May 7) that the original Senate immigration bill "would have
done more harm than good" because it would have reduced legal as well as illegal
immigration. The opposite is true. By failing to act on legal immigration,
Congress missed an opportunity to address one of the most important issues
affecting our future.

Our historically high level of legal immigration -- 800,000 a year -- is fueling
a population boom that will double our nation's size to half a billion by 2050.
Primarily because of immigration, the Census Bureau predicts, our population
will grow unabated into the late 21st century, when it could reach 700 million
or more.

It is not true that reductions in legal immigration would hurt employers'
ability to recruit workers with special training and skills, as you state. The
proposals under consideration have involved reducing admissions of extended
family members, not skilled workers. Since many of those immigrants compete with
United States citizens for unskilled jobs, they are creating competition in the
labor market and putting downward pressure on wages.

ANTHONY C. BEILENSON
Member of Congress, 24th Dist., Calif.
Washington, May 9, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 13, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Policy Should Reflect Concern for Environment;
Don't Cut Off Aid

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 193 words


To the Editor:

Re "A Better Senate Bill on Immigration" (editorial, May 7): You fail to
acknowledge the devils in the details of this legislation.

Only 16 months ago Congress promised not to pass laws that shift costs to states
without financing. While the bill claims to target only illegal immigration, the
National Council of State Legislatures estimates that new measures to prevent
legal immigrants from participating in just 10 assistance programs will put a
$744 million strain on state and local budgets. That's hypocrisy. The
Constitution gives the Federal Government sole responsibility for immigration.
Yet Congress is passing the buck to state and local taxpayers.

This bill also endangers public health by effectively barring legal immigrants
from Medicaid. If a legal immigrant's sponsor can't pay for medical services and
the Government refuses reimbursement, a hospital can deny nonemergency medical
coverage, increasing risk of contagions and other health problems, or it can
accept the patient, assume a financial loss and risk interruption in services to
all.

BOB GRAHAM
U.S. Senator from Florida
Washington, May 9, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 16, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

When Charge Is Racism in Immigration Reform;
Out, Wretched Refuse!

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words


To the Editor:

Re "No More 'Wretched Refuse' " (Op-Ed, June 7): Stephen Jay Gould renders a
public service by reporting the deliberate omission of a line from Emma
Lazarus's historic poem, reproduced on a plaque at Kennedy International
Airport, but his explanation is naive. To strike out those powerful words --
"The wretched refuse of your teeming shore" -- is hardly a mere "puerility" or
"silly censoring."

How embarrassing to proclaim a welcome to the very people being barred from
entry (Haitians? Mexicans? Cubans?)! Aren't the crusaders doing their best to
get rid of "the wretched refuse," the poor, in our own country? So stay out,
refugees, especially those of darker hue.

Let's face it, Emma Lazarus's poem is obsolete. In the present atmosphere of
greed and callous indifference, of raging rhetoric and flagrant hypocrisy --
along with the public's willingness to sell its soul for a tax cut -- the
American Dream has become obsolete. The whittling away of that poem should serve
as a metaphor for the dangers ahead.

Who came up with the idea of deleting that line: Congress? Government spokesmen?
Airport officials? Or some Madison Avenue advertising specialist?

MYRA T. RUSSEL
New York, June 8, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 16, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

When Charge Is Racism in Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 451 words


To the Editor:

In "Native-Born Displaced" (letter, June 7), commenting on immigration policy,
Peter Brimelow complains about critics "blindly dismissing any reform effort as
'racist.' " Not true. We don't dismiss any reform effort as racist. But consider
Mr. Brimelow's particular approach to this problem, as set forth in his new
book, "Alien Nation."

He says, at page 10, that "the American nation has always had a specific ethnic
core. And that core has been white." And Mr. Brimelow wants to keep it that way.
In 1965, he says, America was "nearly 90 percent white." Then came the 1965
Immigration Act.

"The effect of the 1965 Act," Mr. Brimelow says at page 61, "was not merely the
absolute size of the influx it triggered. Even more important, it dramatically
skewed the sources of that influx." Now, he says at page 19, "immigrants are
overwhelmingly visible minorities from the Third World."

He goes on. Current immigration policy, he says at page 129, "is turning the
U.S. into a multiracial society. . . . There is no precedent for a sovereign
country undergoing such a rapid and radical transformation of its ethnic
character." And then, at page 264, "Race is destiny in American politics. . . .
Americans have a legitimate interest in their country's racial balance. . . .
Indeed, it seems to me that they have a right to insist it be shifted back."

The interesting thing is that Mr. Brimelow himself is an immigrant, but from
England. He complains about Britain's "disastrous post-imperial immigration
policy" and says in 1967 he "decided all was lost in England." Now he has become
a U.S. citizen. But America is changing.

To enter an Immigration and Naturalization Service waiting room, he says at page
28, is like descending into the New York City subway, where "you find yourself
in an underworld that is not just teeming but is also almost entirely colored."

And he worries frequently about what it will be like for his little son,
Alexander, a "white male with blue eyes and blond hair," to grow up in this
multiracial world. If current immigration policy continues, he speculates, more
than half the population will be people of color "within the lifetime of my
little son." He talks wistfully about the way America was circa 1965, and says,
at page 221, "If only for my son Alexan
der's sake, I'd like it to stay that way." A "racial transformation," he says,
is being inflicted on America.

I would not dream of "blindly dismissing" Mr. Brimelow's reform efforts as
"racist." No, I think his own words, pervasive throughout his book, speak quite
clearly for themselves.

IRA GLASSER
Executive Director
American Civil Liberties Union
New York, June 9, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Jail Company Faults Immigration Service

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 148 words


Months before an Elizabeth, N.J., immigration jail exploded in violence, the
company that runs it had warned immigration officials that tensions were
building among the 300 detainees there, the company's chairman, James F.
Slattery, said in his first interview since the uprising on Sunday.

Mr. Slattery, chairman of Esmor Correctional Services, said immigrants were
being held for months in a jail designed for much shorter stays, because it was
taking the Immigration and Naturalization Service more than six months on
average to process their cases. The length of their incarceration, not the
conditions, provoked the disturbance, he said.

"The tension in the facility was in direct proportion to the length of stay,"
said Mr. Slattery. "They were frustrated." He added that immigration officials
had asked him not to speak publicly about the incident.

Article, page B1.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 1995, Saturday

CORRECTION:

A brief front-page summary on Wednesday for an article about the uprising at an
immigration detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., misstated some elements of
discussions between immigration officials and James F. Slattery, chairman of the
company that ran the center. While Mr. Slattery said he had discussed tensions
at the center with the officials, he did not characterize those discussions as a
warning. And Mr. Slattery did not say the officials had asked him not to speak
publicly about the incident.


TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Officials Considering Ways to Improve Detention Center

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 704 words


Top immigration officials met with local authorities yesterday to plead for the
reopening of the immigration jail in Elizabeth, N.J., assuring them that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service would consider their ideas about how to
make it a better place.

The immigration officials said the service would consider raising guards' wages,
creating a civilian review board or even ending its contract with Esmor
Correctional Services, the private company that runs the 300-bed detention
center that exploded in violence on Sunday.

"Everything is on the table," Carol D. Chasse, the eastern regional director of
the Federal immigration agency, said in an interview. "I understand people's
anger, but we need to work together because we need a facility there."

Ms. Chasse and other immigration officials met with Union County Prosecutor
Andrew K. Ruotolo Jr., who said this week that he would fight the reopening of
the year-old jail because it was so poorly run that it constituted a threat to
public safety. She also met with Representative Robert Menendez, who had
persuaded the immigration service to investigate conditions at the detention
center before the uprising; with Ralph Froehlich, the Union County Sheriff, and
with Elizabeth officials.

After the meetings, Mr. Ruotolo and Ms. Chasse announced that the agency and
local law enforcement authorities would conduct separate but cooperative
investigations of the uprising.

Ms. Chasse said she believed that there were many options that could ease local
officials' fears and satisfy the needs of the immigration service, which detains
most illegal immigrants caught at airports until the courts resolve their
deportation or asylum cases.

Ms. Chasse said the Esmor facility could be turned into a short-term staging
center, where immigrants would be held briefly before being transferred to other
detention centers. It could also decide not to renew its contract with Esmor,
based in Melville, L.I., she said.

The contract expires this year, although there is an option to renew for four
more years, she said. Because Esmor owns the detention center, on Evans Street
just south of Newark International Airport, ending the contract could force the
immigration service to find a new site.

James F. Slattery, the chairman of Esmor, would not comment on his company's
possible loss of its contract with the immigration service. He released a
statement, saying "We support fully the I.N.S. and their efforts to reopen the
center."

Ms. Chasse said a detention center in the Newark area was crucial because of the
high number of illegal immigrants apprehended at the airport. She said the
center is particularly important because of an expected expansion of service at
the airport in October that could double the number of passengers each year.

"I'm hoping we can take their concerns and come up with a solution," she said.

Late Thursday, Commissioner Doris M. Meissner of the immigration service ordered
all of its local offices to review immigration detention centers in their areas.

"We must meet our legal obligation to detain these aliens," she said. "But we
must and will insure that any facility we use for detention is safe, secure and
humane."

The immigration service started an investigation of the Esmor detention center
about two weeks before the uprising on Sunday morning. Detainees, through their
lawyers, had complained of substandard conditions and harsh treatment.

Mr. Slattery said this week that the detainees were more frustrated by the
length of incarceration than by the conditions at the center. He said they
averaging more than six months in a jail designed for short-term use.

Ms. Chasse said yesterday that detention had been prolonged because there was
only one immigration judge at the center. She said the service was hiring more
judges when the uprising occurred. But she added that it was premature to blame
the prolonged stays for the riots.

The 300 detainees have have been transferred to detention centers and local
jails around the East Coast. The immigration service has begun moving them to
the Philadelphia area and has set up a telephone line there to help lawyers and
relatives find them.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 30, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Detention Under Study

SECTION: Section A;     Page 26;     Column 6;     Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words


To the Editor:

Re "The Lessons of Esmor" (editorial, June 21): You believe that the Attorney
General should appoint a commission to study the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's detention policies. Congress has already done so; addressing detention
and removal policies are part of this commission's comprehensive mandate.

In our first report to Congress last year "U.S. Immigration Policy: Restoring
Credibility," the bipartisan United States Commission on Immigration Reform
recommended more effective policies for the removal of criminal aliens. We are
undertaking a review of other issues related to deportation, including detention
of aliens. The report will be available this year.

SUSAN MARTIN
Executive Director, United States
Commission on Immigration Reform
Washington, June 23, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 30, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Split by Immigration Law, Couple Seeks a Solution

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH

SECTION: Section D;     Page 20;     Column 1;     National Desk;     Law Page

LENGTH: 1048 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 29


When arrows flew from Cupid's bow, obviously none fell even near the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service headquarters on I Street in
Washington.

An immigration law relating to draft dodgers in World War I is forcing a
Canadian man and his American wife to live apart.

That is not what the law intended, immigration experts agree, and many
immigration service officials and American diplomats are sympathetic to the
couple. Yet no one has found a way out of the imbroglio.

The Canadian, Gerald Carriere, enlisted in the United States Marines in 1963 and
is a veteran of the Vietnam War. His wife, Sandy, lives on a 25-acre ranch in
eastern Indiana. They desperately want to live together in Indiana, but a
section of immigration law is preventing that.

He was not denied a permanent-resident visa for the usual reasons, like a
criminal record, health problems, involvement in genocide, or practicing
polygamy or terrorism. Instead, the reason was his early discharge from the
Marines, 10 months before his four-year enlistment was up.

Both Mr. and Mrs. Carriere work for the Monsanto Company as chemical
firefighters. They met at a school for firefighters in Texas, and since their
marriage in 1993, they have spent thousands of dollars on telephone and airline
bills to stay in touch, managing to meet only every 10 to 12 weeks.

"I find the bureaucracy that we're going through absolutely disgusting," said
Mrs. Carriere, 46, from Sunman, Ind. From Montreal, Mr. Carriere, 54, said, "How
I really feel you couldn't print."

Mr. Carriere has been denied a visa to become a permanent resident of the United
States. He needs it for his green card, which would enable him to work in the
United States and eventually become a citizen. He can enter the United States
any time he wants, but he can stay for only six months, and he can not work.

To obtain the early discharge from the Marines, which Mr. Carriere sought to be
with his wife at that time, he had to cite his "alien status." He did not know
that a provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Section 315, says that
a person is ineligible for American citizenship if released from military duty
because of alien status. And a person not eligible for citizenship, according to
Section 212 A8 of the same act, is ineligible for immigration.

Although spouses of American citizens are usually on a fast track to
citizenship, the American Consulate in Montreal, while sympathetic to Mr.
Carriere, reluctantly denied him a visa and urged the couple to retain a lawyer.

The Immigration and Nationality Act was conceived in World War I when thousands
of new immigrants used their alien status to stay out of the Army. Congress's
rationale in passing the act was that people unwilling to fight for the United
States should not be allowed to enjoy its benefits.

But the Carrieres' lawyer, Drew S. Diehl of the McKinney & Namei Company, a
Cincinnati firm, said that some American lawmakers and legal scholars were
convinced that Congress never envisaged the law as barring citizenship to
someone like Mr. Carriere, who volunteered for the United States military.

Ten of Mr. Carriere's 38 months in the Marines were spent aboard the aircraft
carrier Independence off Vietnam. He won a personal-commendation letter from the
ship's captain, as well as a unit commendation, is eligible for the Vietnam
Service Medal and obtained an honorable discharge. The Vietnam Veterans of
America and Veterans of Foreign Wars have petitioned the Government on his
behalf.

Near the end of his third year of service, Mr. Carriere married a Canadian who
urged him to quit the Marines to be with her. He resisted, saying he wanted to
make the Marine Corps his career. But his wife's persistence led him to relent,
he said in an interview, and seek an early discharge. The couple returned to
Canada, but soon divorced.

Representative Lee H. Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who is the ranking minority
member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said Mr. Carriere's exclusion
from the United States was unfair. Mr. Hamilton, in whose district Mrs. Carriere
lives, has introduced a bill applying specifically to Mr. Carriere; it would
exempt him from the provisions of Section 315.

But Mr. Hamilton acknowledged that his bill's chances for passage were slim.
"Congress doesn't usually take easily to private bills," he said.

"We usually have hundreds, if not thousands, introduced each year, and very few
pass."

Mr. Hamilton said that he first considered trying to change the law, but added,
"That's not likely, given the mood of the Congress and the country."

Mr. Hamilton said he had been in touch with the Clinton Administration,
including Vice President Gore's office. "I've been in touch with everyone on
this," he said.

An interpretation of Section 315 that appears to be gaining ground in the
immigration service as a result of the Carriere case is that the exclusion from
citizenship does not apply to aliens who were not liable for American military
service under Selective Service laws. Since Mr. Carriere came to the United
States expressly to join the Marines and was not subject to the draft, he would
be exempt.

A 1950 Supreme Court decision, McGrath v. Kristensen, supports this
interpretation, said both the Carrieres' lawyer, Mr. Diehl, and Stanley Mailman,
an expert on immigration law and a partner of Satterlee, Stephens, Burke & Burke
in New York City. That case involved a Danish citizen who entered the United
States as a visitor in 1939 and was prevented from returning to Denmark by World
War II. As an alien, he refused the draft.

The Supreme Court held that since he could not return home, he was not
technically an American resident liable for military service and was thus
eligible for naturalization.

The "best hope" for the Carrieres, Mr. Hamilton said, is the adoption of this
interpretation of the law by the immigration service's Office of General Counsel
in Washington. The State Department says it will not act on Mr. Carriere's visa
request without an advisory opinion from the general counsel's office.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Ray Dudley, said that the case was
being reviewed and that the review should be completed "in a short matter of
time."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An immigration law on World War I draft dodgers is forcing a
Canadian and his American wife of two years to live apart. The Canadian, Gerald
Carriere, lives in an apartment in Montreal, and his wife, Sandy, in a house in
Sunman, Ind. "How I really feel you couldn't print," Mr. Carriere said. ( Mark
Lyons for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

ABOUT NEW YORK;
I.N.S. Withdraws a Helping Hand

BYLINE: By Michael T. Kaufman

SECTION: Section B;   Page 3;   Column 4;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 815 words


IF the Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York City gets its way,
those huddled masses yearning to breathe free who turn up at its offices at 26
Federal Plaza will have to cope with market forces.

The I.N.S. is getting tough. Maybe it is impossible to keep track of green card
violations and it is hard to assure humane conditions for people awaiting
deportation. But taking on a 63-year-old nonprofit group authorized by Federal
law to help newcomers obtain identification photographs at low cost, that's
another matter.

"We really don't know what is behind this," Harold Grimes, a retired refugee
resettlement worker, said. He has for years guided the Welfare Photo Studio,
which is facing expulsion from the 12-by-17-foot windowless and rent-free room
on the third floor of 26 Federal Plaza.

"We received word that we would have to get out on July 15," Mr. Grimes said,
pointing to a letter that advised that the immigration service's New York
director had determined that the district no longer needed a photographic studio
operated by a welfare organization for the benefit of applicants.

Francis Lyons, a retired judge of the immigration court who serves on the photo
studio's board, has tried to debate the decision. He insisted that by providing
sets of four photographs for a total of $3.50, less than half of what is asked
at commercial studios in the neighborhood, the studio was offering a useful
service in the same spirit of hospitality in which it was conceived. That was in
1932, when Congress authorized the Secretary of Labor "to provide quarters
without payment of rent, in the building occupied by the Naturalization Service
in New York City, for a photographic studio operated by welfare organizations
without profit and solely for the benefit of aliens seeking naturalization."



 EVER since then, the Welfare Photo Studio has done that. An attempt to shut it
down three years ago collapsed after Senators Moynihan and D'Amato came to its
defense. Now Vladimir Polischuk, who came from Kiev 10 years ago, and Mohammed
Ogbes, an immigrant from Eritrea, who together make up the entire staff, worry
about what will happen to their jobs as they continue to shoot pictures for as
many as 200 applicants a day. The third-floor room is cramped and therefore
cannot provide fingerprinting and copying services like the commercial studios
just across the street.

Young men stand in front of the building and give out fliers advertising the
commercial studios. Over the years some of the commercial photographers and
fingerprinters have tried to sue the board of the Welfare Studio, and some
old-timers recall how people they thought to be associated with these commercial
enterprises had stood in the hallway for hours, staring menacingly at them.

It is obviously a competitive business, and clearly the commercial photographers
do not like the idea of the studio, with its rent-free status, giving immigrants
a break on their identification pictures. But is this the reason that the
Welfare studio is being asked to leave? No one has said.

Has generous hospitality to immigrants been swamped by an unwavering commitment
to unfettered competition? Has someone decided that after 63 years, with its
staff of two, unable to offer fingerprinting or copying, the studio restrains
trade and seriously undermines market forces? Or is the immigration service
seeking to communicate a broader and more mean-spirited message about how it is
getting harder to become an American and how no one should expect any favors
along the way?



 "WE really don't know why they are doing this," Judge Lyons said. He said that
he and other board members met two weeks ago with the district director, Edward
McElroy, but that no explanation was given. "I'd have to characterize his
response as peremptory," the judge said.

This column's pursuit of motive was also unproductive. Mary Ann Gantner, the
Acting Deputy District Director who was said to be overseeing the expulsion of
the studio, would not come to the phone. Her secretary suggested calling Amy
Otten at the I.N.S. Eastern Regional District in Burlington, Vt.

Ms. Otten did not return calls, but David Kane at the immigration service's
headquarters in Washington said he would look into the matter. He called back to
say he would have something soon.

A day later, Russ Burgeron from the same office called and said he too would
have something soon. A few hours later, he called and said, "We pursued the
matter, and all we can say is that we have been advised by our general counsel
for the Eastern District in Burlington, Vt., that the issue is in litigation,
and as such it would be impossible to discuss at this time." Asked what
litigation, Mr. Burgeron answered that because of the litigation he could not
say.

He wished us a happy Fourth of July holiday, and we wished the same to him.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 8, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Out of Sight, Out of Mind, but Not Out of Work;
Town Finds Space for Welcome Mat, Postage-Stamp Size, for Immigrant Laborers

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1425 words

DATELINE: GLEN COVE, L.I.


In the century that this community has existed, crises have often been resolved
with bluster and bravado.

In the 1980's, Glen Cove taunted the Soviet Union with the ultimate municipal
threat -- canceled beach passes. In the 1990's, city officials sought to rid
their downtown of large groups of Central American day laborers with a tough
ordinance aimed at ousting undocumented workers who used the community's street
corners as outdoor hiring halls.

The law earned the community the arguable reputation among immigrant rights
groups as "the most aggressively anti-immigrant community in Long Island." But
five years after the passage of the ordinance, Glen Cove has become a reluctant
pioneer for immigrant rights, part of a spreading suburban movement to make room
for men that many communities simply hoped would vanish.

With Glen Cove's cautious support, a parking lot near the Glen Street train
station has been transformed into a work stop with a trailer, a portable toilet
and a view of the local soccer fields.

A small sandwich board advertises "Employees Available for Day Work." A red
arrow pointed toward the workers -- immigrants in paint-specked work boots and
faded T-shirts who speak in the soft Spanish accents of El Salvador and are
willing to mow lawns or paint walls for $50 a day for contractors and gardeners
who recruit them from passing trucks.

The work stop was launched quietly two summers ago, an experiment in peaceful
coexistence that was reached only after a cycle of anger and frustration. Glen
Cove is the first community to institutionalize the work stop on Long Island,
although there are at least five informal "shape-up stops" scattered through
Nassau and Suffolk counties.

"There are two prongs to this," Glen Cove's Mayor, Thomas R. Suozzi, said. "If
you work and obey the rules of our community, we'll help you with a centralized
location. But if you break the rules we'll punish you."

Glen Cove's work stop basically imitated those of suburban communities from
California to Maryland that had struggled with the issue and come to the same
conclusion: The immigrant workers are not going away.

"The forces of immigration are fairly strong," said Douglas Massey, a University
of Pennsylvania sociologist who studied immigration patterns for two decades.
"Immigration will go where the low-wage jobs are, and as it shifts from the
cities to suburbs, that's where they will be. You can move them from street
corner X and they probably will pop up at street corner Y. Probably, it's a more
realistic strategy to try to regulate it."

In California's affluent Orange County suburb of Laguna Beach, the community
carved a work stop for Mexican immigrants on vacant land near a lumberyard and
equipped it with a toilet and benches. Other suburbs, like Silver Spring, Md.,
have tried to offer more, shifting immigrant workers from Guatemala and Peru
from a 7-Eleven store parking lot to a formal work stop that provides the basics
plus job training and English lessons.

"In the beginning, the community didn't accept us very well and we had problems
with the police," said Byron Diaz, an employment specialist for the Casa de
Maryland project. "But when they realized we were organized, some of them began
to look for people who could clean their houses or mow their lawns."

The early morning ritual at the Glen Cove lot has its own distinct rhythm. After
sunrise, the men begin gathering and are greeted by a staff worker for La Fuerza
Unida de Glen Cove, who jots down the license plate numbers of arriving
contractors -- insurance in case paychecks bounce or bosses vanish, a not
infrequent occurrence.

A local minister from Brookville Reformed Church, the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez,
rolls up an hour later in his car with steaming cups of coffee or T-shirts to
dole out to the circle of men who consider themselves lucky to get a day job
more than three times a week.

Earlier this month, a police car also came to a halt in the circle, and a lanky
sergeant emerged to deliver a warning to men who had strayed into the streets.
"It's against the law to hang out on the streets in groups," he told them.
"That's from the Mayor himself. We'll have to give you an appearance ticket or
jail, at worst, if we see you hanging around."

With a Spanish translation, the full meaning of the message sank in. Francisco
Martinez, 26, a Hempstead resident from El Salvador, raised his hand to the sky,
and spoke: "One question! We don't have the right to buy a coffee? If we go to
buy a coffee, they're going to think we're hanging around?"

It is a question that is sidestepped. All the players involved in the issue
concede that when the men are invisible from the main streets, there are fewer
complaints, less pressure and more tolerance.

Before the move, Glen Cove city officials and the police fielded regular
complaints from merchants, including Richard Leggio, whose parking lot by his
sneaker store, Street Gear, drew day workers every morning.

"It was horrible," Mr. Leggio. "I'd have 30 guys hanging out, and my girls would
be afraid because they would make comments and customers don't like it. My store
is recessed and so you get 40 Spanish guys and not too many ladies would come
in."

The complaints about the men basically fell into three categories: They litter.
They make crude comments. They urinate in public.

But local Hispanic rights groups considered the complaints code words for the
very real discomfort the residents felt with strangers in their midst.

"When the Salvadorans started going there, the first reaction was, why are they
coming to Glen Cove and no place else?" recalled Patrick Young, the legal
services director for the Central American Refugee Center, or Carcen, in
Hempstead. "When you reminded them that there are a large number of Italian
immigrants that settled in Glen Cove, they would say, 'But they fit in.' "

The situation erupted into a campaign issue during the 1993 mayoral race, which
pitted the present Mayor against a candidate who proposed searching school
records to track down illegal immigrants. And the losing candidate, John L.
Maccarone, a councilman, remains critical of the day labor site, saying that the
city has not done enough to guarantee that the workers are properly paying the
taxes on their income.

Sensitive political issues have a habit of festering during Glen Cove's mayoral
elections, which take place every two years. Critics said local politics
probably figured in the town's famous effort in 1982 to deny beach passes and
tennis court permits in a tax dispute with Russian diplomats who used the
37-acre Killenworth Estate in Glen Cove as a weekend retreat and spy post.

"It's still tremendously sensitive," Mr. Suozzi said, adding that there was a
lot of misinformation about the men. "I think there are some people who simply
don't want any changes, and they want things to be as it always was and they
don't want people from El Salvador."

The Salvadoran community was relatively small in Glen Cove in 1979, but in a
common pattern of immigration, these pioneers invited their relatives when the
civil war intensified in El Salvador. Their numbers grew steadily, drawing
largely from the rural town of Poloros in the province of La Union, where the
fighting was concentrated.

They came searching for the same kind of unskilled jobs that drew Italian
immigrants to Glen Cove decades earlier to work on the great estates of the Gold
Coast, which sometimes employed 200 to 250 people full time. Italians remain the
largest ethnic group in Glen Cove, although now the Loggia of the Sons of Italy
shares the main street downtown with a Hispanic grocery store.

Perhaps the most praise for the changes comes from the workers themselves, who
do not dwell on the fact that the city does not want them gathering in large
groups on its street corners. They leave it to the ministers, like Mr. Ramirez,
or Omar Henriguez, of the the Workplace Project in Hempstead, to complain that
their rights are limited because of the dark color of their skin.

"I'm grateful for the system," said Jose Vicente, 18, who recently emigrated
from El Salvador to live in the United States with his father. "Everything is
fine, although I don't get many jobs. I get maybe one job a week and then the
rest of the time I look for jobs in the restaurants."

Standing next to him, Hector Cardone, 22, of Guatemala agreed that the site is
an improvement, adding, "I would like it better if I could get more work."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A parking lot near the Glen Street train station in Glen Cove,
L.I., has been made into a work stop for immigrants. The Rev. Allan B. Ramirez,
above left, handed out clothing, and a sign, below, told employers where to find
day laborers. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg.21); Glen Cove
is the first community on Long Island to institutionalize the "work shop," a
designated area where contractors, who drive up in trucks, can recruit day
laborers for gardining and other work. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg.25)

Map: Glen Cove, once called the Long Island community most hostile to
immigrants, is now something of a pioneer for immigrant rights. (The New York
Times)(pg.21)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 28, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. DETAINS ARAB TIED TO MILITANTS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27


United States officials have taken into custody a Palestinian they say is one of
the senior leaders of Hamas, the militant Islamic group that has claimed
responsibility for recent bombings in Israel, Attorney General Janet Reno said
today.

Immigration officials said they detained the Palestinian, Mousa Mohamed Abu
Marzook, at Kennedy Airport in New York on Tuesday as he was arriving from
abroad because he was on a terrorist watch list. Mr. Marzook, who American and
Israeli authorities say is the head of Hamas's political committee, is being
held at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service filed papers this afternoon in
immigration court in Manhattan that called for expelling Mr. Marzook because he
"appears to be an alien who is engaged in terrorist activity" and because the
Attorney General "has reasonable grounds to believe" that he is likely to engage
in terrorist activities after being admitted.

If Mr. Marzook is not indicted under American law or extradited to Israel,
immigration officials said, he would most likely be expelled to the United Arab
Emirates, the country he most recently left from.

Administration officials said the exclusion proceedings might be pre-empted if
the Justice Department decided to prosecute Mr. Marzook for activities they are
investigating, such as illegally raising funds to promote terrorism.

Stanley L. Cohen of Manhattan, a lawyer for Mr. Marzook, said his client
supported Hamas's goals like hundreds of thousands of other Palestinians, but he
denied Mr. Marzook was a leader of Hamas.

"We categorically deny that my client has been involved in any criminal
activities anywhere at any time," said Mr. Cohen. "He denies categorically that
he is a terrorist. He denies categorically these wild and sweeping claims being
bandied about by the Israelis and U.S. as disinformation."

Administration officials said Mr. Marzook was surprised to be taken into custody
because he has had a green card since 1990 and has maintained a residence in the
United States for 14 years, most recently with his wife and six children in
northern Virginia. Mr. Cohen said the Marzook family was in the process of
moving to Brooklyn.

One Administration official said Mr. Marzook was not arrested previously because
he was only recently put on the watch list.

Mr. Marzook arrived at Kennedy Airport with his wife and children on a flight
from the United Arab Emirates that had stopped in London. His lawyer said Mr.
Marzook's entire family had been subjected to strip searches, which he called an
outrage.

American and Israeli officials called Mr. Marzook one of the most influental
members of Hamas, who, they said, had traveled in recent months to Syria, Iran,
Sudan and Egypt to promote terrorism and undermine Middle East peace efforts.
Last month, Jordan expelled Mr. Marzook after calling him a ringleader in
efforts to sabotage Jordan's peace prospects with Israel.

Israeli security officials said Mr. Marzook is the top political leader of Hamas
and thus sets political as well as strategic policy, including questions like
whether the group employ terrorist attacks.

Law enforcement officials said Mr. Marzook had been one of the most active
members in the United Association for Studies and Research, based in
Springfield, Va., which they said was a Hamas front. But one leader of an
Arab-American organization said that assocation was a small propaganda outfit.

While the American authorities said they could not link Mr. Marzook to any
specific terrorist act, they said the political leadership of Hamas helped
promote the organization's terrorist activities, including recent bombings in
Israel.

Administration officials also said they were seeking to determine if Mr.
Marzook, who holds a Yemeni passport, had engaged in illegal fund-raising
activities for Hamas. They were also studying whether to turn him over to
Israeli authorities.

Dan Arbell, a spokesman for the Israeli Embassy, said, "We have a keen interest
in Dr. Marzook, who is one of the acknowledged leaders of Hamas, the head of its
political bureau, and as such has been one of the principal orchestrators of
attacks against Israeli civilians." But it was not clear if the Israelis would
seek his extradition.

Israeli officials said Mr. Marzook was born in 1951 in the Rafiah refugee
district at the southern end of Gaza. They said he has a doctorate in
engineering.

In a statement today, Imad Faluji, a senior Hamas official in Gaza, condemned
the decision to detain Mr. Marzook and virtually acknowledged that he was a
Hamas leader. "This is a serious precedent, an unjustified step," he said. "It
comes as an attempt to tighten the ring on the Islamic movement."

Mr. Faluji urged the United States to free Mr. Marzook on the ground that he was
a political figure and not a terrorist.

One senior Administration official said the situation was complicated because
some Israeli officials had hinted they would like Mr. Marzook extradited, but
the Israeli Government has said only that it is considering whether to seek
extradition.

At the same time, American officials acknowledged that while they strongly
believe he promoted terrorist activities abroad, they are not sure he commited
any crimes in the United States that they can prosecute.

Mr. Marzook is said to have spent most of his time in the Middle East over the
last three years, after which, officials said, he came under intensified
investigation for his pro-Hamas work in the United States. Security officials
say he went to Teheran in October 1992, in the role of Hamas's "foreign
minister," to establish relations with Iran.

Mr. Cohen, Mr. Marzook's lawyer, said: "During the time he has lived in the
United States, he has never been arrested, charged with any offense or suspected
of any criminal activities. It's interesting that given the extensive
intelligence sharing between the Israelis and the United States, even now he's
not charged with any crime. What's happened is outrageous."

Mr. Cohen said that his client had worked in the construction business and
investment business.

According to immigration officials, Mr. Marzook was last in the United States
five months ago. They said he was not detained when he left because the
Government does not usually check if departing passengers are on the watch list.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 29, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Israel May Seek Extradition of Arab Detained by the U.S.

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 28


Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said today that Israel would like to seek the
extradition of a man identified as a top leader of Hamas, the militant Islamic
movement, from the United States and was exploring whether this was feasible.

The man, Mousa Mohamed Abu Marzook, was detained on Tuesday on his arrival in
New York on the ground that he belongs to a terrorist organization. He is
described by Israeli officials as the political leader of Hamas, which opposes
any agreement with Israel and has carried out several terror attacks against
Israelis.

"We are very interested in reaching a situation in which first of all if
possible he will be extradited to us," Mr. Rabin said in an interview with
Israel Radio scheduled for broadcast over the weekend. The radio disclosed parts
of the interview dealing with Mr. Marzook in an evening newscast.

Mr. Rabin said the Justice Ministry was exploring whether there was enough
evidence to begin extradition proceedings. There apparently are no formal
charges against Mr. Marzook in Israel, but he could be indicted under laws
against taking part in terrorist activities.

No decision is expected until Sunday, when the Cabinet next meets.

In Washington, Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said today that the Government had scheduled a hearing
in Manhattan on Monday at which it will move to expel Mr. Marzook. Immigration
officials said it normally took at least four months, and sometimes as long as
two years, to complete expulsion proceedings.

One Administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the
Justice Department was scrambling to find grounds to indict Mr. Marzook for
violations of Federal law. If Federal prosecutors find such grounds, Mr. Marzook
will be arrested and tried in the United States instead of being deported,
several officials said.

While the Federal authorities say they have compelling evidence that Mr. Marzook
promoted terrorist activities overseas, they said their evidence that he
committed crimes in the United States was less strong.

One official said Federal prosecutors were focusing on whether Mr. Marzook broke
the law by transferring funds from the United States to support terrorist
activities overseas.

"There's never been any indication that this is a hands-on guy on terrorist
activities," one official said.

The United States has asked Israel and Jordan to furnish whatever information
they have on Mr. Marzook to help build the case for expelling or indicting him.

A spokesman for the Palestinian Authority in Gaza said it would "naturally offer
to accept brother Abu Marzook, who is of Palestinian origin, in its territory if
no place of residence is found for him."

Yasir Arafat, the leader of the Palestinian Authority, has arrested many Hamas
members in recent months, partly in response to pressures from Israel. The
statement was therefore viewed less as a statement of support for Mr. Marzook
than as recognition of the fact that he is from Gaza, where his brother, Brig.
Gen. Mahmoud Abu Marzook, heads the Palestinian Authority's civil defense
department.

The general said that his brother was not personally involved in terrorism. "He
is among the few who call for casting aside violence and terrorism and for
solving matters through dialogue," Reuters quoted him as saying.

It is not unusual for members of the same family to have been members of
different Palestinian liberation groups, and there was no evidence that Mr.
Marzook's brother has had Hamas ties.

For its part, Hamas issued a statement denouncing Mr. Marzook's detention as a
"serious and provocative move" and demanded his immediate release. "Hamas warns
the U.S. authorities against contemplating the handing over of Dr. Abu Marzook
to the Zionist occupation authorities," the organization declared in a statement
faxed to news organizations. "The U.S. Administration is hereby held fully
responsible for whatever harm that may befall Dr. Abu Marzook."

Mr. Marzook, who was born in 1951 in the Rafiah refugee district at the southern
end of the Gaza Strip, lived and studied for many years in the United States.
While it is possible to transliterate the spelling of his name from the Arabic
in various ways, he chose the spelling Marzook in his documentation for entry to
the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mousa Mohamed Abu Marzook, who is being detained by the United
States, in an undated photo. (American Muslim Council via Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 11, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

The Latest Big Boom: Citizenship

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 10


Doing their part in the greatest rush for citizenship in the nation's history,
student volunteers are setting out almost every weekend in the Hispanic
neighborhoods of this city to fingerprint their immigrant elders, take
photographs of them and guide them carefully through Form N-400, Application for
Naturalization.

The forms, once completed, become part of a surge of citizenship applications
that have poured into the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the last
year or so, many from people who lived in the United States for years or even
decades before giving citizenship much thought.

"We are seeing record numbers of naturalization applications," said Virginia
Kice, a spokeswoman for the immigration service in California. "April was the
peak, with 2,200 a day in Los Angeles, and the numbers are still high."

Records are being set all over the country, said an I.N.S. spokesman in
Washington, Rudolph Brewington. In the nine months through June, nearly 715,000
people applied for citizenship, a 78 percent increase over the corresponding
period a year earlier. Mr. Brewington said Congress had approved the hiring of
1,000 new I.N.S. employees to help process the applications.

Several factors are feeding the surge, according to immigration officials and
immigrant rights groups alike.

One is sheer numbers: Nearly three million undocumented aliens who were granted
amnesty and legal residence under the 1986 immigration reform law are now
becoming eligible to proceed with applications for citizenship.

Another is fear: Anti-immigration sentiment, as demonstrated by Proposition 187
in California and Federal legislative proposals, threatens to deprive
noncitizens of education, all but emergency health care and other services.

Further, the Mexican Government is preparing to adopt a constitutional amendment
that would remove both economic and emotional obstacles to a change in
citizenship among Mexicans, by far the majority of California's immigrant
population.

The proposed amendment, which is expected to gain legislative approval next
month and ratification by the states within a year or so, would change the law
to allow Mexicans to retain their property rights, as well as a nonvoting
cultural Mexican "nationality," while taking foreign citizenship.

"It is important that they understand that they are becoming citizens of this
country but that they keep their cultural Mexican roots," said Jose Angel
Pescador, Mexico's consul general in Los Angeles. "People were afraid of being
ashamed in Mexico because they changed their nationality. Now they will not
change their nationality."

Indeed, among people at a "citizenship fair" at Belmont High School in downtown
Los Angeles last weekend, the cultural issue seemed to weigh much heavier than
the matter of property rights.

"There's always been rumors in the immigrant community that when you become a
United States citizen, people will ask you to spit on the Mexican flag or step
on the flag," said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the fair's sponsor, the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials. "These were
rumors that people actually believed."

For whatever reasons, Mexicans have traditionally been among the slowest
immigrant groups to apply for citizenship. An immigration service study in 1992
showed that just 17 percent of Mexicans who entered the country legally in 1977
had sought to become citizens since, compared with 63 percent of immigrants from
the Soviet Union, the group with the highest figure.

Now the amnesty program, anti-immigration sentiment and the Mexican Government's
assurances have contributed to a shift in attitudes in the city's vast Mexican
community, several Hispanic leaders agreed.

"There's even peer pressure," Mr. Vargas said. " 'Why, you haven't become a
citizen yet? What's your problem? What are you waiting for?' This is something
I've never seen before, and I grew up in L.A. You'll be talking politics, and
someone will say, 'I can't vote,' and it's like, 'What?' "

Antonia Hernandez, president of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said political and economic changes both here and in Mexico
seemed to have contributed to a social awakening among Mexican immigrants.

"People who have been here 20 years will tell you, 'I'm becoming a citizen,' "
she said. " 'I want to vote.  I want to vote against Pete Wilson. I want to be
heard.' "

Among many immigrants, Governor Wilson is the personification of Proposition 187
and of what they see as a political trend in which immigrants are blamed for the
state's problems.

But beyond that, Ms. Hernandez said, a Hispanic voting bloc is harder to define.
Republicans claim it, arguing that Hispanic people have strong family values
consistent with Republican principles. But the Hispanic vote has traditionally
been largely Democratic, a result, Ms. Hernandez said, of a prevailing sentiment
that government should be actively involved in promoting the common good.

At the citizenship fair at Belmont High School last weekend, Manuel Jasso, now a
37-year-old telecommunications engineer, said he first came to the United States
from Mexico as an illegal worker in 1982 and had not considered citizenship till
now.

But so long away from a native land changes a person, Mr. Jasso said. "When you
go back, you feel lonely, you feel like a stranger," he said. "You go back to a
street that was a two-way street, and suddenly it's one-way. And you realize, 'I
don't belong here.' "

Dora Monzon, 40, who sews jumpsuits for race-car drivers for a living, first
came here, illegally, in 1969. She obtained legal residency five years ago under
the amnesty program. She has not visited Mexico since 1976.

"In my heart, I am Mexican," she said. "I come from there. But my children are
here, and for that I have to be an American citizen."

Paula Gomez, an American-born high school student who was helping Ms. Monzon
with her application, is a daughter of Mexican immigrants, both of whom, like
many Mexicans here, continue to resist citizenship.

"I see myself as more modern-thinking than my parents," Miss Gomez said. "Like,
my father is very macho and I am extremely feminist, and I don't put up with his
macho stuff.

"When he says these things, I just let loose on him. 'You're a girl, and you're
supposed to stay at home and make dinner,' and I'm like, 'Oh, dad, I'm going to
college and be a lawyer and be a prosecutor like Marcia Clark, only more
professional and not so emotional.' "

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many immigrants now applying for naturalization lived in the
United States for years or even decades before giving citizenship much thought.
One is Acetia Cantero, who arrived from Cuba 22 years ago and did not act until
attending a "citizenship fair" last weekend at Belmont High School in downtown
Los Angeles, where she was fingerprinted and got help in completing her
application. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 15, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Holds Up Citizenship

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 194 words


To the Editor:

The tragic downside of the surge in applications for citizenship (news article,
Aug. 11) is the Immigration and Naturalization Service's slothlike pace in
processing the applications. Many applicants desperately need citizenship so
that they can live again with their husbands or wives, children or parents:
there is a quota unless the spouse in the United States is a citizen. They may
have to wait as long as two years from application to getting sworn in.

The immigration service forced hundreds of thousands to come in and replace
their green cards during the last year, then suggested that they instead apply
for citizenship. A nice gesture and good public relations, but with chronic
staff shortages and little flexibility in assignments, this only added to the
stacks of untouched files.

Congress is partly to blame. Most of the funding increases go to beefing up the
border, not to making the immigration service serve. Aliens don't vote. But in a
couple of years many will, and as you indicate, they will remember their shabby
treatment.

ROGER C. WOLF
Tucson, Ariz., Aug. 11, 1995
The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 26, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian Exile Is Fighting Deportation

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 460 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Aug. 25


Emmanuel Constant, once Haiti's most feared paramilitary commander, was brought
in chains before an immigration judge today. Seeking a legal loophole by which
he might avoid deportation and a trial on charges of crimes against humanity, he
swore he was a legitimate presidential contender in his homeland.

The founder of the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haiti, known as
Fraph, Mr. Constant is a former informer for the C.I.A. who stands accused of
overseeing hundreds of acts of brutality -- including murder, torture and rape
-- under the military junta that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in
1991.

From the witness stand, Mr. Constant, a tall, 39-year-old man with a handlebar
mustache, presented himself as a civilized man of wit and reason, a born leader
who wanted only to return to Haiti a free man, win the presidency and rule with
wisdom.

"I was part of the new generation that was supposed to take over" in Haiti, he
said wistfully in near-perfect English. He and his followers were "the voice of
the silent majority of the people," he said.

Mr. Constant came to the United States last Christmas -- the immigration
authorities say they made a mistake by approving his visa -- after President
Aristide returned to Haiti under the wing of the United States military. He was
arrested in Queens on May 10 after his visa was revoked at the order of the
State Department, which charged that his presence in the United States created
"potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United States."
He is being held at a detention center in Salisbury, Md.

The law creates an avenue by which he could escape deportation: he must prove to
the immigration judge, John F. Gossart Jr., that he is a legitimate presidential
candidate being deported solely on the basis of his political beliefs.

"I am running as an official candidate" in presidential elections tentatively
scheduled for December, Mr. Constant said. However, he said, to be deported to
Haiti "would mean my physical execution, assassination."

Mr. Constant's political prospects in Haiti would appear to be slim. His Fraph
organization is considered an illegal paramilitary organization under laws
passed since Mr. Aristide returned to power in October. In Haiti, Fraph is
considered responsible for a significant percentage of the murders of roughly
4,000 supporters of Mr. Aristide during the military regime that ruled from his
ouster in September 1991 to his return in October 1994.

He told the judge that being deported would damage "my political image." It
would, he said, "be a confirmation of all those allegations of human rights
violations."

The judge said he would rule within 10 days on whether Mr. Constant would be
deported.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Punishing Illegal Immigrants Isn't the Solution;
Words to Heal

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words


To the Editor:

Many of us agree with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's statement that immigration
restrictions by Congress would indeed have "catastrophic social effects" in New
York and in every other city (front page, Aug. 23). Mr. Giuliani's voice in an
angry America is proof that one can transcend one's own party and that words can
bring about healing.

I see nowhere in the Christian Coalition's Contract With the American Family an
acknowledgment that America is multicultural. The Mayor's challenge to the
baseless fears that grip many Americans is courageous.

(Rabbi) STEVEN B. JACOBS
Woodland Hills, Calif., Aug. 24, 1995

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 6, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

World News Briefs;
Haiti Paramilitary Chief Is Ordered Deported

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5


A Federal immigration judge in Baltimore has ordered the former chief of a
Haitian paramiltary force deported to Haiti to face murder charges, court
officials said today.

The order, signed late Friday, is subject to appeal.

Emmanuel Constant, who led the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haiti
during the military rule that replaced President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, left
Haiti for the United States after President Aristide returned to power nearly a
year ago.

Mr. Constant is wanted in Haiti on charges of murder, torture and rape.

Mr. Constant, who secretly served as a paid informant for the Central
Intelligence Agency, entered the United States last Christmas Eve under a
tourist visa. Immigration authorities said later that they erred in granting him
entry.

He was arrested in New York on May 10, after his visa was revoked at the State
Department's behest.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani, at U.N. Opening Ceremony, Assails New Isolationist Mood in Congress

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN

SECTION: Section B;    Page 3;    Column 5;    Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, N.Y., Sept. 19


In a strongly-worded attack on the isolationist mood swelling in a Congress
dominated by his fellow Republicans, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani helped kick off
the 50th session of the United Nations General Assembly today, criticizing the
"potent strain of isolationism that once again is infecting our political
discourse."

The Mayor did not mention the Republican Party by name and said in an interview
later that he was not singling out his party or fellow politicians. Still, his
defense of the United Nations' achievements and of immigrants' contribution to
the nation marked the latest in a series of attempts by Mr. Giuliani to set
himself apart from the newly dominant conservative wing of the Republican
majority. Many of those Republicans want to end or cut back financing to the
U.N. and favor severe immigration restrictions.

"Sometimes, leadership means taking unpopular positions, rejecting harmful
political fads," Mr. Giuliani said today. "Sometimes, leadership requires
challenging myths. That's the kind of leadership we need in defining our
relationship with the U.N. and also on the issue of immigration."

Mayor Giuliani's speech echoed his criticism last month of immigration
restrictions proposed by a panel named by the Speaker of the House, Newt
Gingrich, which recommended cracking down on benefits for illegal aliens. At the
time, Mr. Giuliani said such restrictions not only violated basic decency but
could also have "catastrophic social effects" on New York and other large
cities.

Today's speech marked the first such appearance by a mayor of New York City in
nearly half a century. The last mayor to address the General Assembly was
William O'Dwyer, who welcomed the delegates at their temporary quarters in
Flushing Meadows Park in 1947.

Mr. Giuliani spoke to delegates from 185 member states who convened in the
General Assembly chamber for the opening of three months of speeches and debate.

While the United Nations invited Mr. Giuliani to attend the Assembly's opening
session, the United States representative, Madeleine K. Albright, gave her spot
on the list of speakers to the Mayor.

The Mayor's kind words about the United Nations came at a time when it is beset
by an array of problems, ranging from a rocky peacekeeping mission in the
Balkans to a financial crisis caused by the failure of member states like the
United States to pay their full assessments.

"The U.N. provides a crucial forum for international debate and cooperation,"
the Mayor said.

Mayor Giuliani described the drive on Capitol Hill to cut back support and funds
for the United Nations as "an ill-conceived proposition that would achieve only
symbolic savings in the Federal budget, while greatly impeding the operations of
the United Nations and hurting the economy of the United Nations' host country,
the United States," as well as that of New York City.

The case he made for immigration was even more spirited. "You can't be a New
Yorker -- you can't be part of this city -- and deny the contributions of
immigrants," said Mr. Giuliani, whose grandparents immigrated from Italy.

"Our nation owes its existence to the hard work, determination and vision of
immigrants," he said, "and in the end I am confident that support for
immigration will prevail over this latest advent of suspicion."

The Mayor hailed New York as "not only the world's most diverse city but also
the world's most cosmopolitan and tolerant city."

The Mayor also has an economic incentive to be supportive of the U.N. A recent
study for the city's Commission for the United Nations, Consular Corps and
International Business found that the United Nations, its agencies and
accredited diplomatic missions spend $3.3 billion a year in New York City and
create 30,000 local jobs, according to Jane R. Steiner, a deputy commissioner.
She said this includes $10 million for parking tickets.

Mr. Giuliani joked that he wanted the delegates to visit every part of the city
"and spend money." But he also stressed that New Yorkers welcomed their
presence.

"We want to say to all of you that wherever you come from and however long you
are here, you are New Yorkers," Mr. Giuliani said.

The General Assembly will open its general debate next Monday and wind up in
mid-December. More than 150 foreign leaders are expected to attend a special
session commemorating the U.N.'s 50th anniversary, which will take place from
Oct. 22 to 24.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

17 Arrested in New York In a Nationwide Drug Sting

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 553 words


Using the prospect of immigration documents as bait in a sting operation, law
enforcement officials lured scores of suspected Jamaican drug traffickers out of
hiding and were rounding them up yesterday in six cities across the country, the
authorities said last night.

Of 119 people charged with violating drug laws or immigration laws or both, 17
are from New York City and were arrested as they went to the Holiday Inn at
Kennedy International Airport to get their documents, or green cards.

"We had none to provide them," said Charles Domroe of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. "Just handcuffs."

The 17 arrests in New York smashed a Brooklyn-based Jamaican gang, or posse,
that has operated in the shadows in recent years but has shown no reluctance to
spill blood to attain its goals, said Mr. Domroe, an assistant special agent in
charge of the F.B.I.'s criminal division in New York.

The undercover operation, which led to 43 indictments charging the 119 people,
was centered in Miami, where it was begun in January 1993 by the F.B.I. and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the authorities said.

Mr. Domroe said that by early 1993, Federal investigators had noticed a
conspicuous increase in the number of known or suspected drug traffickers who
were in the United States illegally and were seeking immigration documents --
the better to travel freely and dispense their wares without distraction.

So an anti-drug task force set up an immigration-consulting business in Miami,
using an F.B.I. undercover agent as chief "adviser." The business was fake, but
the immigration documents were real and soon there was a brisk trade.

Drug-trafficking suspects based in Miami showed up to buy temporary documents
which, they were assured, would soon be convertible to green cards. Sometimes
the purchasers paid in cash, other times in cocaine, the authorities said. The
going rate was said to be eight and a half ounces of cocaine or $5,000.

Soon, Florida traffickers told dealers around the country about the Miami
business, and before long traffickers from as far away as California were
heading to Miami to buy their documents, the authorities said. About 110 pounds
of cocaine and $60,000 in cash were collected at the Miami undercover site.

All day yesterday, agents were rounding up suspects in Miami, Los Angeles,
Philadelphia, Trenton and Springfield, Mass., as well as in New York, Federal
officials said. About half of the 119 had been arrested by midafternoon, they
said.

Sixty-one of the 119 have been indicted on charges of cocaine possession with
intent to distribute it or conspiring to possess and distribute it, 116 have
been charged with unlawful use of temporary residence cards and 7 have been
charged with alien smuggling.

The arrests at the Holiday Inn near Kennedy International Airport were carried
out by 65 F.B.I. agents, 12 immigration agents and 4 New York City police
officers, as well as a police dog that was busily sniffing the suspects' cars as
dusk fell.

The authorities said the 17 arrests in New York virtually smashed the Heartless
drug-trafficking posse that has been operating in Brooklyn. Officials said those
arrested included the leader, Anthony F. Meyers, 35, whose address was unknown,
and Humbert Duggan, 33, of Brooklyn.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Slamming the Door On Asylum Seekers

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 235 words


To the Editor:

"Congress Plans Stiff New Curb on Immigration" (front page, Sept. 25) makes
brief reference to the impact those changes will have on refugees seeking
political asylum in the United States. Many of those proposals would place the
United States in violation of its international obligations toward refugees.
Asylum seekers would need to have the language capability and knowledge of
asylum standards to file an asylum application within 60 days of arrival; or
they would need to have the financial resources to hire a lawyer who will
immediately do it for them.

Though most refugees are indigent, they would be prohibited from working while
their application is pending. There is no room for error by the applicant or the
asylum officer, since there is no administrative appeal from an adverse
decision.

Most asylum seekers arrive fearful and impoverished, having experienced the
death of loved ones, persecution or threats to their own lives.

Those escaping persecution need time to understand the immigration system,
establish trusting relationships with others who can help them, and to prepare
and present applications for asylum. The legislation would effectively slam the
door in the face of those seeking refuge in the United States as their last hope
for survival.

SHERI RICKERT
Attorney, Asylum Program, Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights
New York, Sept. 27, 1995

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 21, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Congressional Bills Threaten Aid for Immigrant Students

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 1;   Column 5;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1329 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 20


A little-noted provision in the Senate welfare bill could deny Federal education
aid to tens of thousands of legal immigrants, more than half of whom are college
students in New York and California.

The House version, though less strict, could also limit Federal grants and loans
to foreign-born college students who live in this country legally.

Advocates for higher education said the changes would strip the rungs from a
ladder that has allowed generations of immigrants to climb out of poverty.

At the City University of New York, officials say 40,000 legal immigrants, of a
total 210,000 students, receive the most commonly used Federal college tuition
grants that would be affected by the proposed changes. The officials said that
most of the students would become ineligible under the rules being considered in
the Senate.

At Rutgers University in New Jersey, nearly 3,000 immigrants could be affected.

"This is just a small provision in a big bill that will have a huge impact,"
said Terry W. Hartle, vice president of the American Council on Education, which
represents 2,000 public and private colleges.

"Legal immigrants are individuals who have played by the rules and who we have
decided to let into the country," he added. "The impact of this proposal would
be to say to these individuals: 'We'll let you in, but if you want to get ahead,
as other Americans do, you are on your own.' "

Though President Clinton has hinted that he could sign awelfare bill that is
similar to the Senate's, a senior Administration official said this week that
the Administration had deep concerns about the proposed changes to educational
aid to immigrants. The bills already include many reductions on Federal
assistance to legal immigrants. The President's concern was mentioned in a
letter outlining his views on the welfare bills, sent on Wednesday to the
leadership of each House and signed by Alice M. Rivlin, director of the Office
of Management and Budget.

"Eliminating student aid and loans is really counterproductive for our plan
basically to assimilate immigrants into the American economic machine," said the
official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Neither the Senate nor House version would actually issue a blanket prohibition
on educational assistance to legal immigrants. Rather, the provision would
require that immigrants report the income of their sponsors when applying for
Federal assistance programs, including education aid -- even though sponsors are
not required by law or practice to provide for the cost of education.

Education officials said that could disqualify many legal immigrants who now
receive financial aid, particularly the most common form of Federal assistance
-- the Pell grant for needy undergraduates. The reason is rooted in the vague
legal responsibility of the sponsor. Most immigrants who cannot demonstrate
their financial independence, or who do not have a job that pays adequately when
they enter the country, must have a sponsor.

Sponsors are usually family members, though the relation is often distant. The
sponsors must prove that they have enough money to prevent an immigrant from
becoming a "public charge." That means they may have enough money to prevent an
immigrant from receiving Federal aid -- even though in many cases they may not
be willing or financially able to spend it on the immigrant's education.

Adele Kurbanali, 21, who immigrated from Trinidad a year ago with her family,
said the rules under consideration could hit her hard. A freshman who is
studying nutrition at New York University, Ms. Kurbanali qualified for a Pell
grant (named for Senator Claiborne Pell, the Rhode Island Democrat who sponsored
the legislation) even though both her parents work six days a week. Her father's
brother sponsored the family, but "if he knew he had to pay money for my
education, he would not have sponsored my family," she said.

"We are just trying to build ourselves up," she continued. "America is built on
immigrants. I don't think they should be taking our aid away just because we're
immigrants."

Dick Day, the chief counsel to the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration,
which drafted the Senate provision said the rationale for the provision is based
on the idea that education aid and welfare are not fundamentally different. He
noted that Congress is also seeking to bolster the legal responsibility of
sponsors to immigrants.

"It is like job training or other welfare," he said. "The deal was not to bring
people here that are going to have to then be trained at the public expense."

But educators contend there is a crucial distinction: that welfare simply
supports a person whereas education aid -- historically open to citizens and
immigrants alike -- helps spring a person into prosperity. The effect on
immigrants who lost aid, educators say, would be the same as on any other
student: taking longer to graduate, transferring to a less expensive school, or
simply dropping out.

"There really has been the thought out there that those who can pay more should,
and we'll have ways the poor, talented students can go to school," said W. Ann
Reynolds, the CUNY chancellor. She has been lobbying Congress hard to scuttle
the provision.

"Now we are taking away the support for that poor talented student," she
continued. "We are simply knocking that poor, talented, energetic student out of
college with this."

In the Senate version, when a legal immigrant applies for financial assistance,
the sponsor's income would count for five years from the date the student
entered the country. For new immigrants, that income would be counted until they
worked and paid taxes for a minimum of 10 years -- even if the immigrant became
a naturalized United States citizen in the meantime. Critics said that would
create two classes of American citizens.

In the House version, immigrants who are already in the country would not be
affected. For new immigrants, sponsors would have to report their income
indefinitely -- or until the immigrant they are sponsoring becomes a naturalized
citizen.

In either version, Congressional aides said, the income reporting would not
apply to immigrants who do not have sponsors. But those people generally have
significant jobs or resources of their own. So they might not qualify for
Federal assistance in the first place.

A draft report from the General Accounting Office issued this month states that
390,000 legal immigrants nationwide received Pell grants in 1992-1993,
representing about 10 percent of all students who received the grants. The
maximum grant is $2,400 a year. But the report showed that 82 percent of those
immigrants lived in seven states, led by California with 31 percent and New York
with 25 percent. The other top states were Florida, Texas, New Jersey, Illinois
and Massachusetts.

In New York, there were 96,273 immigrants who received Pell grants, or 26.5
percent of the 363,698 students who received them.

In California, 120,488 legal immigrants received the grants, or 32.6 percent of
the 369,078 total students who received the grants, the report said.

At the University of California in Los Angeles, 4,300 immigrants receive Pell
grants, and most probably would not qualify under the proposed rules, according
to Ronald W. Johnson, the school's director of financial aid.

"It is totally unfair," he said.

In Florida, 30,199 legal immigrants received Pell grants, or nearly 16 percent
of the total who receive them. The office of Senator Bob Graham, a Democrat who
has been outspokenly against the provisions, said that 8,000 of the 20,000 legal
immigrants at Miami Dade Community College stood to lose their Federal financial
aid.

"It's so much in the America's national interest to have legal immigrants go to
college, to go to vocational school, to be better equipped to contribute," Mr.
Graham said in an interview on Thursday. "To cut them off like this is
self-defeating."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Is Doubtful on Salinas, but the U.S. Hints at Welcome

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 12


Carlos Salinas de Gortari, Mexico's former President, will face tightened
immigration restrictions in Canada, where he has made his base since traveling
into exile in March. But the Clinton Administration threw down a welcome mat for
Mr. Salinas today, calling him "a friend of many people in the United States."

Canada's move complicates efforts by Mr. Salinas to establish a stable overseas
home. Several weeks ago, the former President was reported to be in Cuba.

The six-month "visitor status" of Mr. Salinas in Canada expires Dec. 14, and
immigration officials have orders to question him if he shows up at border
crossings or airports to determine that he has a "legitimate purpose" for
visiting Canada, the Citizenship and Immigration Ministry said today.

Mr. Salinas got better news from Washington today, when the State Department
denied a report, broadcast yesterday by NBC News, that he is the target of an
investigation by the Drug Enforcement Administration and that as a result "the
U.S. put out a drug watch lookout order at all borders" for him.

The NBC News report caused an uproar in Mexico, where the case of Carlos Salinas
and his older brother, Raul, who is jailed here on murder charges and is the
subject of a Swiss money laundering inquiry, remains the subject of wild
passions.

Today, several Mexican newspapers dedicated their front pages to extensive
articles about the NBC broadcast, and callers flooded radio talk shows. The
Foreign Ministry asked for a formal United States Government denial of the
broadcast report, or for information to verify its accuracy.

In that context, Nicholas Burns, the State Department spokesman, said that
although United States officials are participating in the Swiss investigation
into how Raul Salinas accumulated more than $106 million in European bank
accounts, the former President himself has come under no formal scrutiny.

A spokesmen for the Justice Department also denied any United States
investigation of the former President, or that his name has been added to any
formal Government list of persons sought for involvement in crimes or terrorism.

Other American officials, however, said that the Clinton Administration had, in
fact, issued an informal request to officials at borders and airports for
information about Carlos Salinas's whereabouts.

Although during Mr. Salinas's six-year term two American Administrations
lavishly praised Mexico's cooperation in fighting the drug trade, in recent
months law enforcement officials have acknowledged that protection for
traffickers reached high into Mr. Salinas's Government. Those implicated in
taking bribes include former federal police commanders and two of three drug
enforcement directors.

Nonetheless, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, responding to
written queries from Senator Jesse Helms, chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee, said recently that the D.E.A. does not "have any specific information
that links President Salinas to drug traffickers."

Mr. Burns, the State Department spokesman, was even more emphatic today.

"Its important to clear the air here," he said. The former president "is not
under investigation by any branch of the United States government. He is a
Mexican citizen, a frequent visitor to the United States, and he is a friend of
many people in the United States."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 28, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WHAT IMMIGRATION CRISIS?

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 14;   Column 1;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 115 words


Debating immigration policy is such dirty work, it seems best left to
immigrants. In "What Immigration Crisis?" (Jan. 7), Richard Rayner, an arrival
from England, with a Finnish wife and American-born son, injects the usual
cliches and cites the usual sources. Ultimately, however, his largely anecdotal
analysis contains the seeds of its own counterargument.

America is a nation of laws. The flagrant abuse of our borders, even by
sympathetic figures like Maria T. and Maria V., is unacceptable -- as it should
be. Ditto Maria V.'s fraudulent green card and driving without a license (and
doubtlessly without insurance).

WILLIAM E. MURRAY, JR.
Portola Valley, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH RODGRIGUEZ/BLACK STAR)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 26, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Immigration Bill Debate, Divisions and Odd Alliances

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25


Congress will begin final debate this week on the most restrictive immigration
laws in 30 years and the first cuts in the number of foreigners entering the
country legally since the 1920's.

As lawmakers return from a three-week recess, Republican leaders are counting on
passage of a major immigration bill to enhance their thin legislative record
this term. But the bills in the House and Senate face resistance from an
unlikely alliance of high-technology companies, grass-roots immigrant groups,
civil-liberties organizations and conservative research groups.

There are Republicans and Democrats on both sides of the issue, but Republicans
are most deeply divided. Both parties support tightening the country's borders
against the estimated 300,000 foreigners who enter the United States illegally
or overstay their visas each year. But many Republicans also want to cut levels
of legal immigration, now about 775,000 people a year, by 30 percent or more.

"The current legal immigration system is indefensible," said Representative
Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who is the chief sponsor of the House bill. "We
just can't admit everybody who wants to come."

However, free-market-oriented Republicans like Representative Dick Armey of
Texas, the House majority leader; former Education Secretary William J. Bennett,
and former Housing Secretary Jack F. Kemp support high levels of legal
immigration as a wellspring of economic growth and innovation.

"Immigration today simply is not in the crisis stage that critics portray it to
be," Mr. Armey has written to constituents who ask his views on immigration.
"Most immigrants today are not sponges off the system; they are hard-working,
and they carry with them that work ethic that made America great."

The demographics of immigration raise the political stakes dramatically in a
Presidential election year.  More than 70 percent of the nation's legal and
illegal immigrants live in six large, voter-rich states -- California, Texas,
Florida, New York, New Jersey and Illinois -- where many officials are worried
that immigrants unduly burden local services.

In California, for example, immigrants make up 21 percent of all households but
receive 40 percent of public assistance like Medicaid, food stamps and housing
subsidies, said George J. Borjas, a professor of public policy at Harvard
University's John F. Kennedy School of Government.

But some Republican strategists fear the immigration bills could backfire by
angering vast numbers of potential voters who are sponsoring nearly two million
family members now on waiting lists in visa categories that would be eliminated.

Morever, many high-technology companies that need more skilled workers than the
United States produces, including Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Texas
Instruments, have expressed anger that the Senate bill would hinder their
ability to hire skilled foreign workers.

"As a political issue, this could blow up in the Republicans' face," said
Stephen Moore, a former aide to Mr. Armey who is director of fiscal policy at
the Cato Institute, a conservative research organization that opposes
restrictions on legal immigration.

The three leading candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination have
given only very general positions on the politically charged issue. Patrick J.
Buchanan favors a five-year moratorium on most legal immigration. Senator Bob
Dole supports modest cuts in the number of foreigners entering the country
legally. Lamar Alexander endorses current legal immigration levels but would
create a new branch of the military to patrol the border.

The Clinton Administration has taken several high-profile steps in recent months
to fight illegal immigration and to open jobs for American citizens: using the
military and local law-enforcement agencies to bolster the Border Patrol and
barring Federal contracts to companies that illegally hire undocumented workers.

But the White House is not reminding people of Mr. Clinton's endorsement last
year of a Federal advisory panel's recommendations to cut legal immigration by
one-third. That position puts Mr. Clinton at odds with many of his usual
supporters, like Hispanic, Jewish and Asian-American groups.

The immigration debate in Congress heats up again this Thursday when the Senate
Judiciary Committee considers its version of the bill. The House is scheduled to
vote on a similar bill the week of March 18.

The political drama is set against the nation's largest influx of immigrants
since the turn of the century. Nearly 10 million immigrants have taken up
residence in the United States legally in the last 10 years, including three
million illegal aliens who were given amnesty under the 1986 Immigration and
Reform and Control Act.

But economic recession and a public perception that the United States has lost
control of its borders have powered popular movements to clamp down on illegal
immigration and, increasingly, on which family members may be brought into the
country legally by citizens or permanent residents.

"Is it in the national interest to bring in people through chain migration with
no skills, who do not learn English, who join their extended family but don't
join our society?" asked Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is
the chief sponsor of the Senate bill.

Fueling much of this debate are two questions: Do immigrants displace Americans
in the job market, and do immigrants receive more in public assistance than
American citizens?

Both sides have marshaled statistics to support their positions. The information
regarding jobs is incomplete. Some studies suggest that while immigrants may not
take away jobs (in fact, in many cases they create new ones), they reduce the
prospects for lower-skilled workers in weak local economies.

The welfare question is just as muddied. Each side uses definitions of public
assistance and census information that supports its point.

The Urban Institute, a research organization, says that 95 percent of immigrants
do not receive welfare.

But Professor Borjas of Harvard says that 21 percent of immigrant households
receive some type of public assistance, compared with 14 percent of native
households.

As lawmakers debate these arguments, the first challenge to the House and Senate
bills is expected this week. Some lawmakers hope to separate the two issues of
legal and illegal immigration; the bills now combine them.

"The current approach would dramatically hurt the American economy and cost us
jobs," said Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who opposes
restrictions on legal immigration and who is heading the effort to split the
Senate bill into two parts.

Mr. Smith has fended off similar challenges in the House by accommodating
concerns of business groups. Mr. Simpson suggested that he, too, was open to
compromise.

"We're not out to stop Bill Gates from getting the best guy in Germany to do
some kind of X chip," said Mr. Simpson, referring to Microsoft's chairman. "I'll
take care of the business community."

High-technology companies are also upset at provisions in the Senate bill that
would cut the number of visas issued to foreigners sponsored by businesses to
90,000 a year from 140,000, and would require companies to pay at least $10,000
for each new foreign hire.

"It strikes me as very odd that this bill is coming out of a Republican
Congress," said Ira Rubinstein, a senior lawyer for Microsoft.

Mr. Smith and Mr. Simpson may have more trouble promoting a national
verification system to check visa status. Critics including the National Rifle
Association and the American Civil Liberties Union fear such a system would lead
to a national identification card.

But the most emotional issue centers on efforts to cut family-sponsored
immigration. The House and Senate bills would eliminate visa categories for
brothers and sisters of citizens, and for adult children of citizens and
permanent residents. Those visas would go to clear up a 1.1 million-member
backlog of spouses and minor children of permanent residents.

This tradeoff between "extended" and "nuclear" family members has angered many
citizens sponsoring their relatives.

Dr. Janaki Manian, a 51-year-old psychiatrist in Detroit, emigrated from India
and in 1984 became a naturalized citizen. Two years later she sponsored a visa
request for her older brother, Chandra Vasudevan, a tax-auditing expert who is
waiting to emigrate from India. The proposed bills would eliminate Mr.
Vasudevan's chances to immigrate.

"It's really disappointing they want to wipe it out completely," Dr. Manian
said. "Having gone through all this paperwork and phone calls, I think it's fair
to let people in who applied 10 or 15 years ago."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 20, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

3 Stowaways Found Dead in Ship's Hold

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 889 words


A cargo ship from Africa docked in Brooklyn yesterday carrying three dead
stowaways -- all young men -- who were apparently poisoned when the crew
fumigated the hold they were in to kill any insects in burlap bags of cacao
beans, officials said.

Immigration officials said they did not know who the stowaways were or what
country they came from. Their bodies were found in a tight space between the
ship's bulkhead and stacks of burlap bags in a lightless, sealed compartment. A
few water bottles were found nearby. The hold itself was saturated with the
overpowering smell of cacao beans.

"It's a very dusty, very heavy, chocolaty smell," said Kevin McCabe, a deputy
chief inspector for the United States Customs Service.

A fourth stowaway, a 24-year-old man from Ghana who identified himself as Seth
Lawson, was found alive and healthy in another compartment of the ship, which
had not been fumigated. He told authorities he did not know the three dead men.
He was not allowed to set foot on American soil and will return to the Ivory
Coast on the same ship that brought him, immigration officials said.

Officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said the
discovery of stowaways is rare in the New York district, which covers New York
City, Long Island and Westchester County. Since October 1994, only 10 have been
found, including the four yesterday.

Shipping companies have a strong incentive to find stowaways and eject them
before they sail, said Franco Pollini, a special assistant in the district
director's office of the immigration service. Under American law, shipping
companies are responsible for returning stowaways to the ports where they
boarded, and the companies face fines if stowaways manage to enter the United
States.

Yesterday, the Ostfriesland, a bulk container carrier that sails under a
Singapore flag, was swarming with agents from the customs service, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and the immigration service who were trying to piece
together what happened to the stowaways on the voyage. The ship had docked at
6:15 A.M. at a cargo terminal in Red Hook, a desolate waterfront area of aging
red brick warehouses.

Six stowaways made their way onto the ship in Abidjan, the economic capital of
Ivory Coast in West Africa. But two of them were discovered and removed from the
ship, while four remained secreted in its holds, Mr. McCabe said.

Crew members, many from Singapore, told authorities that the ship left Africa
about two weeks ago. While at sea, they fumigated the holds filled with cacao
beans in a routine effort to destroy any infestation. They sprayed with
phosphine gas, then sealed the hatches.

"It's a nerve gas," said Fred Winters, a spokesman for the New York City
Department of Health. "It's quite potent and lethal," he said, but agreed that
its use was legal and routine and said that it dissipated quickly.

The holds remained closed until Monday, when the crew opened them to let the gas
dissipate before the ship arrived in New York. It was then that the crew
discovered the bodies, Mr. Winters said. Monday afternoon, an agent with Bay
Ship Management in New Jersey alerted the United States Coast Guard to the
presence of the stowaways, alive and dead, on board.

It was unclear yesterday who owns and operates the Ostfriesland. Several
officials said Torm Lines was the owner. But Ben Massa, who works for the Kerr
Steamship Company, which represents Torm, said that Torm does not own the ship.
He referred calls to Bay Ship Management.

A woman at Bay Ship Management who identified herself only as Susan, said no one
was available yesterday to discuss the stowaways. She declined to say whether
Bay Ship is the owner. "No one in the office is in a position to give that
information," she said.

The bodies were removed from the ship yesterday afternoon and transferred to the
New York City Medical Examiner's morgue. Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the
medical examiner, said autopsies on the three victims will be conducted today.

Joseph Valiquette, a spokesman for the F.B.I. in New York, said the bureau's
decision about whether to open a full investigation into the deaths will depend
largely on the medical examiner's findings. Because the stowaways died at sea
and were found when they docked in New York, the F.B.I. has jurisdiction to
investigate.

"Based on what we've seen today," Mr. Valiquette said, "there's no indication of
any crime having been committed. On the face of it now, it appears to have been
an accident."

It was unclear exactly when the stowaway who survived the voyage was discovered.
Some officials said he was found a couple of days ago, while others said he was
found and detained early in the trip.

Paramedics from the Emergency Medical Service examined him, as did Dr. Benjamin
Mojica, deputy commissioner for the bureau of communicable diseases of the City
Health Department.

The survivor, Mr. Lawson, spoke enough English to tell them that he was healthy
and did not need medical care. Dr. Mojica determined that he was not carrying
any communicable diseases.

Mr. Lawson did not say why he wanted to come to America, nor did he request
political asylum. "He will never set foot off that ship until he gets back to
the Ivory Coast," said Mr. Pollini of the immigration service.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Ostfriesland yesterday in Red Hook, Brooklyn, after three
stowaways were found dead on board. A fourth stowaway survived. (John
Sotomayor/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 18, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Case Exposes Cultural Ignorance

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 123 words


To the Editor:

It's hard to understand why Fauziya Kasinga, imprisoned as a result of trying to
gain asylum from the practice of female circumcision, has to go through such a
dehumanizing legal process in the United States.

Ms. Kasinga's experience in prison is reminiscent of slavery. Denial of
necessities, chains, strip searches -- why is this necessary? What crime did
this woman commit?

Women the world over should speak out against the treatment this woman has
received from immigration officials and against female circumcision. Aside from
the racial overtones of this case, none of us can be truly liberated as long as
women are forced to undergo this mutilation.

JOYCE S. DINDAYAL
New York, April 15, 1996

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 22, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Detains African Woman Despite Lack of Security Risk

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 338 words


To the Editor:

Re "Woman's Plea for Asylum Puts Tribal Ritual on Trial" (front page, April 15):
There is more to know about Fauziya Kasinga, the young woman who fled Togo more
than a year ago to avoid female genital mutilation and who has been held in
detention since then by United States immigration authorities.

In October 1995, Ms. Kasinga's attorneys petitioned Scott Blackman, a district
director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, to release her on
parole, on the grounds that she did not pose a security risk, was unlikely to
abscond and had relatives in the United States into whose custody she could be
released.

The agency's guidelines recommend release of asylum-seekers in these categories.
Representatives Patricia Schroeder and Cynthia A. McKinney sent supporting
letters.

Mr. Blackman refused to release Ms. Kasinga, despite receiving the I.N.S.
general counsel's recommendation to do so. Her attorneys have filed a habeas
corpus petition in United States District Court, contending that Mr. Blackman's
denial was "arbitrary, capricious and abuse of discretion, and otherwise not in
accordance with the law."

In March, a psychiatrist visited Ms. Kasinga in prison and declared that she was
so seriously depressed that she should be released immediately as a suicide
risk.

What purposes are served by keeping this young woman and hundreds of other
asylum-seekers in prison and subjecting them to psychological and physical
abuse?

Prisons make a profit from the maintenance payments they receive from the
Federal Government for detaining illegal aliens.

Some asylum-seekers become so demoralized by the conditions and length of their
detention that they ask to be sent home, despite fears of persecution. Their
time spent in United States prisons amounts to trial by ordeal, a classic
example of cruel and unusual punishment and a clear violation of their human
rights.

LINDA RABBEN
Takoma Park, Md., April 18, 1996

The writer is a member of Amnesty International.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 26, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Is U.S. Too Generous In Immigration Policy?

SECTION: Section A;  Page 30;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 277 words


To the Editor:

Re Anthony Lewis's "Slamming the Door" (column, April 19): Efforts in Congress
to gut political asylum are outrageous. It would be cruel to require victims of
human rights abuses who arrive in the United States without valid travel
documents to immediately prove they face "credible fear of persecution" to a
low-level immigration officer or be summarily deported without a fair hearing.

Victims of rights abuses who come to this country seeking political asylum are
not hiding bombs but physical and psychological scars from being interrogated,
beaten, burned, subjected to mock executions or raped. Such punishment happened
at the hands of their governments because of their race, ethnicity, religion or
political beliefs.

As we treat survivors of torture, we have come to appreciate the difficulty they
have recounting their experiences, even years later. We can only imagine the
psychological devastation caused by being required to recount these events to an
immigration officer, in a foreign language, without any assistance. Such
reluctance could be mistaken for a lack of "credible fear," especially by
someone inexperienced in evaluating survivors of torture.

Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont has offered an amendment to strike the summary
exclusion provisions from the immigration bill and restore the procedural
protections of administrative and judicial review. The Senate should adopt this
amendment.

ALLEN S. KELLER , M.D.
DAVID P. EISENMAN , M.D.
New York, April 21, 1996

The writers are, respectively, program director and associate medical director,
Bellevue-N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of Torture.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 30, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Antiterrorism Law Gives Immigrants No Second Chances

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 465 words


To the Editor:

Re your April 25 news article on President Clinton's signing of the
antiterrorism bill:

In the name of combating terrorism, the nation's politicians have passed thinly
veiled anti-immigrant legislation, pandering to an electorate they perceive as
disenchanted with the presence of "aliens" in our midst. While highlighting
self-righteous displays of supposed antiterrorist bipartisan solidarity, the
reporting of President Clinton's signing of the Antiterrorism Act of 1996 failed
to disclose the bill's mean-spirited anti-immigration provisions.

The law eradicates significant relief against deportation, which was previously
available to non-United States citizens. For example, before the effective date
of one provision of the new law, the Immigration and Nationality Act permitted a
long-term lawful permanent resident of the United States to have certain
crime-related grounds of deportability waived, if it was demonstrated that there
existed compelling reasons for an immigration judge to so order.  Such relief
was granted only after a demonstration of extraordinary equities and compelling
arguments against the applicant's deportation.

Countless Americans born in the United States have reaped the benefits of
receiving a second chance, to redeem themselves in the eyes of the public and
the law.

Not to permit a long-term lawful resident of the United States to avail himself
of that same opportunity, the only difference being national origin, is nothing
more than xenophobia.

Another unfortunate provision of the bill prevents a person who entered the
United States without inspection to apply for another form of discretionary
relief known as suspension of deportation.

Under the new law, a person who has built up a thriving business, employed many
American citizens, paid taxes and has been a vital contributor to his community
and to the American economy, whose only failing is having entered without a
visa, is no longer prima facie eligible for such relief. No matter how valuable
an asset to this country such a person proves himself to be, he will not get his
day in court under the law.

A particularly punitive aspect of the new law is its summary exclusion
provision, which severely limits certain asylum seekers' access to adjudication
of their claims of fear of persecution. People who fear persecution do not
arrive at our nation's airports with fully developed and documented claims for
political asylum, complete with letters from their oppressors.

Our politicians are certainly courageous in enacting legislation that curtails
the rights of those least able to defend themselves and least likely to finance
an electoral campaign.

RICHARD A. GEDULDIG
New York, April 26, 1996

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Hearing to Decide Rights of Women Who Flee Genital Mutilation

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1541 words


In a band of countries spanning Africa's midsection, more than 85 million women
and girls have undergone genital mutilation and two million more are subjected
to it each year, health experts estimate.

Halfway around the world, at the headquarters of the United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service in Washington, Clinton Administration officials have
been trying to choose which of them, if any, should be given asylum here.

In a small courtroom in Falls Church, Va., today, the immigration service's
general counsel, David A. Martin, aware of the large numbers, will try to
convince the Board of Immigration Appeals that the dangerous rite should be
grounds for granting asylum only in narrowly defined circumstances. He plans to
argue that women who have already undergone it as children or who would be
ostracized if they refused it would not qualify.

The issue of whether to grant asylum because of genital mutilation is before the
board, the highest administrative tribunal hearing immigration cases, for the
first time, in the case of Fauziya Kasinga, a 19-year-old who says she fled Togo
to escape having a tribal elder "scrape my woman parts off."

Last August, an immigration judge denied her asylum and she appealed. She was
detained for more than a year in a New Jersey detention center and Pennsylvania
prisons until immigration authorities released her last week.

Worried that a broad ruling could provoke an unpopular surge of asylum seekers,
Mr. Martin is asking the board to establish a framework that would deny asylum
in most cases to women who had endured the practice as young girls "at a time
when they consented or at least acquiesced." That would disqualify many if not
most potential applicants, since the rite is typically performed on girls 4 to
10 years old.

He would also exclude women who face social and economic hardship for refusing
to comply. "The home society persecutes if it forcibly subjects uncircumcised
women to the knife," he says in his legal brief. "It does not necessarily
persecute if it simply subjects such persons to ostracism or economic
pressures."

Although Ms. Kasinga says her relatives would force her to undergo the procedure
if she were sent back to Togo, the immigration agency's legal brief addresses
the issue in general terms and does not argue for or against asylum in her case.
Immigration officials say they want the board to set guidelines that a judge
could follow in deciding Ms. Kasinga's case.

Advocates for refugees say Mr. Martin's vision would deny protection to many
deserving girls and women. If a teen-ager's only choices were to undergo genital
mutilation or to be a social outcast forced into a life of prostitution, she
should be given asylum, they say.

"Instead of applying the Refugee Act to keep its impact limited, it should be
interpreted in a way that fulfills its humanitarian promise," said Ms. Kasinga's
lawyer, Karen Musalo, who heads the International Human Rights Clinic at the
Washington College of Law, American University. "If that results in a large
number of people eligible for relief, the United States should take a leadership
position in negotiating with other countries for a form of burden sharing."

Ms. Musalo and other advocates point to the example of Canada, which in 1993
became the first country to make genital mutilation grounds for granting refugee
status, and has found that only a small number of women have sought protection
on those grounds. "We referred to it here as the floodgates argument," said
David Austin, spokesman for the Canadian Immigration and Refugee Board. "It just
did not happen."

Ms. Kasinga's case is expected to set a precedent that will strongly influence
the handling of other such claims. The ruling of the board, 12 civil servants
appointed for indefinite terms by the attorney general, will be binding on all
United States immigration officials, including asylum officers and 179
immigration judges.

Typically, in genital mutilation, the clitoris and the labia minora are cut off
with unsterilized equipment and without anesthesia. In some cultures, the vulva
is also stitched together to cover the vagina.

The custom is observed by Muslims, Christians and followers of traditional
religions, primarily in Africa. Studies cited by the World Health Organization
have found that the reasons given to defend the practice are that it is thought
to discourage a woman's promiscuity, to increase a husband's sexual pleasure and
to enhance a woman's fertility and matrimonial prospects.

Ms. Kasinga's case has brought into sharp focus what Mr. Martin, a former
University of Virginia law professor, describes as contradictory impulses in
American immigration policy: one is to give sanctuary to the world's persecuted
and the other is to control the flow of immigrants to this country.

Mr. Martin argues for a balancing of these conflicting goals to avoid a large
increase in the number of asylum seekers that could stir a public backlash
against refugees generally. "People are legitimately concerned about too
expansive a doctrine leading to numbers that are too high in the views of the
body politic," he said. The immigration service says it has drawn up its
proposal regarding genital mutilation on its own, without consulting the State
Department.

A question that looms over this debate is simply this: How many of those who
have been subjected to genital mutilation, or who will be, would come here if
they could successfully claim asylum?

Only a handful of such women have asked the United States for sanctuary in
recent years, and such cases have remained a rarity even since last May, when
the Immigration and Naturalization Service issued guidelines that recognized
genital mutilation as one of several forms of violence against women that could
be a basis for asylum.

Officials in the asylum program say women have been unlikely to request asylum
for practical reasons: Usually, genital mutilation occurs when women are too
young to escape. Those old enough to flee usually live in patriarchal societies
where fathers or husbands control the money needed to buy a ticket on an
international flight. Finally, many are ashamed to talk about such an intimate
problem with a stranger in a foreign country.

"The sad thing is that women refugees don't have access to the American asylum
system," said Phyllis Coven, director of the Office of International Affairs at
the immigration service. She added, "It's not going to be a growth industry."

Ms. Kasinga said that women in her tribe are generally mutilated at age 15, but
that she had been protected by her wealthy father, who opposed the practice,
until he died suddenly when she was 16. A grown sister helped her escape
mutilation and a forced polygamous marriage by getting her to an airport in
Ghana and putting her on a midnight flight out of Africa, she said.

Faustina Annan, 24, who was granted refugee status in Canada last year, said her
parents' first daughter died of a pelvic infection after being subjected to the
ritual. Ms. Annan said her parents fled to a different part of Ghana and changed
their names at the time of her birth to save her from the same fate.

As a young woman, she said, she rejected the marriage proposal of a police
inspector's son. He and his friends later kidnapped her, raped her, discovered
she had not been "circumcised" and said they were bringing in someone to do it.
She said she managed to get away and fled to Canada with the help of her priest.

Khadra Hassan Farah and her 10-year-old daughter, of Somalia, were granted
sanctuary in Canada in 1994. The mother said she would be unable to prevent her
daughter from undergoing genital mutilation if they were sent home -- the kind
of mutilation she suffered as an 8-year-old.

The mother said her own mother, aunts and other women had tied her arms behind
her back, grabbed her legs and spread them apart, while one of the women took
out a knife. The panel that heard Ms. Farah's claim quoted her written statement
at length in their decision:

"She was holding the blade in her hand when she disappeared between my legs. She
inserted her finger into my inside to search for my clitoris. She got a good
grip of my clitoris and started to pull it out, and I felt the pain and started
to scream. She cut off my clitoris with the blade and I screamed more and more.
This did not deter her nor did it make her to stop cutting my body any further.
She continued slicing away my labia minora, at which point I lost
consciousness."

In immigration law, persecution generally means the punishment of a person
because of race, religion, nationality, political opinions or membership in a
social group.

But with genital mutilation, the society's intent is not to punish, but to
follow a custom. Nonetheless, Mr. Martin said in his legal brief, when the
custom itself "is so extreme as to shock the conscience of the society from
which asylum is sought," it can be considered persecution.

Ms. Kasinga's lawyer, Ms. Musalo, is asking the board itself to grant her client
asylum because she faces persecution as a member of a social group, women of her
tribe who oppose genital mutilation and have no protection against it.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fauziya Kasinga, 19, sitting, says she faces ritual circumcision
if sent home to Togo. She appeared in Washington on Monday with Layli Miller
Bashir, a law student helping with her appeal for asylum. (Amy Toensing for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Refugees From Mutilation

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words


The case of Fauziya Kasinga, a young woman seeking asylum in the United States,
has drawn renewed attention to an abhorrent practice, female genital mutilation.
Ms. Kasinga, threatened with this barbaric fate, fled her home in Togo 18 months
ago. After first being denied by an immigration judge last year, her claim will
be reviewed today by the Board of Immigration Appeals.

Ms. Kasinga presents a compelling case and should be admitted. Meanwhile, the
plight of millions of other women who confront mutilation but cannot escape
their homelands deserves international priority.

In many African countries, young women have parts of their genitals cut off, a
cultural practice that in some places is performed on infants and in others
signifies initiation into womanhood. The procedure is often performed without
anesthesia and with unsterilized instruments, including knives and broken glass.
It can cause infection, hemorrhaging, infertility and death.

An estimated 80 to 115 million women have been subjected to the practice. Some
potential victims -- hardly enough to cause an unmanageable flood of
applications -- are seeking asylum. Under international and American law, asylum
may be granted if the applicant has a well-founded fear of persecution based on
membership in a social group. The authorities judge each case on its merits.

Ms. Kasinga, now 19, fled Togo before she could be mutilated as a condition of a
coerced marriage. She could face the same threat if she returned. In legal
papers filed with the Appeals Board, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
says that female genital mutilation presents a "new and difficult" area in law
but agrees that it involves an extreme bodily invasion that "shocks the
conscience." The I.N.S. recommends that Ms. Kasinga's case be reconsidered by
the immigration judge, but the Appeals Board could reasonably decide on its own
that she deserves asylum.

Representative Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado, acting on reports that
some immigrants have brought the practice with them to America, has introduced
legislation to make it illegal here. Female genital mutilation has been
condemned at recent international women's and peace conferences as a recognized
women's and human rights issue. Yet much more can be done to end the practice,
including increased funding for programs sponsored by the World Health
Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund and many local groups that
encourage alternative initiation rites and help young women exercise more
control over their lives. A favorable ruling in Fauziya Kasinga's case will also
send a powerful message.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 3, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Board Hears Asylum Appeal in Genital-Mutilation Case

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2


Fauziya Kasinga, who says she fled Togo to escape genital mutilation, sat
quietly today in a red leather armchair in a small courtroom as 12 men and women
on the highest administrative tribunal in the nation's immigration system
considered whether to give her asylum in the United States or send her home.

As the chief lawyer for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, David A.
Martin, and Ms. Kasinga's lawyer, Karen Musalo, debated the sometimes arcane
legal issues raised by her case, members of the Board of Immigration Appeals
occasionally glanced at the young woman, who had been shackled and handcuffed
the last time she left an American courtroom.

That was last August, when an immigration judge in Philadelphia, Donald V.
Ferlise, denied her asylum. Much of the hourlong appellate hearing focused on
the validity of Judge Ferlise's stated conclusion that Ms. Kasinga's story was
not only unbelievable but also irrational and unpersuasive.

The questions today seemed sympathetic to Ms. Kasinga's case, the first to raise
the issue before the board of whether genital mutilation can be a reason to
grant asylum. The board is expected to issue its ruling in the case later this
year. Health experts estimate that more than 85 million women, primarily in
Africa, have been subjected to the practice, which causes serious health
problems and even death.

The sharpest queries were directed at Mr. Martin. He was arguing that Ms.
Kasinga's case should be sent back to Judge Ferlise because of what Mr. Martin
called inconsistencies in her story and gaps in the trial transcript.

"Is there something irrational about this story or inherently unpersuasive?"
asked a board member, David B. Holmes, who went on to cite evidence submitted to
Judge Ferlise that documented the prevalence of female genital mutilation in Ms.
Kasinga's homeland, ogo.

Paul W. Schmidt, chairman of the appeals board, came back to the same issue,
noting that the State Department paper submitted to the judge said the
Government of Togo had "not demonstrated much interest in protecting women.
"Wouldn't that be sufficient?" he asked.

Another board member, Lory D. Rosenberg, asked Mr. Martin, "Aren't you asking us
to give the immigration service another chance to defeat a case?"

Professor Musalo, who heads the International Human Rights Clinic at the
Washington College of Law, American University, pleaded with the board to grant
asylum to Ms. Kasinga, who is 19. "The judge did not read the record and he
should not be given another bite at the apple at the expense of my client," she
said.

But Mr. Martin held to his position that the case should be sent back to Judge
Ferlise, who was a lawyer with the immigration service for 19 years before he
became a judge in January 1995. Mr. Martin also asked the board to narrow the
range of women who could qualify for asylum, mandating, for example, that only
those who are subjected to severe forms of mutilation qualify.

One board member, Lauri S. Filppu, asked Professor Musalo about milder forms of
the practice that are commonly called circumcision in Africa.

She replied that one of the milder forms is the removal of the clitoris. "The
analogue in a male is removal of most of the penis," she told Mr. Filppu, who
did not pursue that line of questioning any further.

After Ms. Kasinga left the courtroom, she said she felt frightened and did not
understand the legal issues. As she got on an elevator crammed with lawyers,
Government officials and reporters, Professor Musalo turned to her and told her
that it was time to talk to reporters.

"I'll just put my head in your jacket," she whispered.

She walked out into the glare of a bright spring day, a bank of cameras and
microphones at the ready, flanked by her legal team. She hung back and let them
field the questions.

But Barbara Jackson, who works for the Social Security Administration in the
building where the hearing was held, slipped around the back and approached Ms.
Kasinga, handed her a bracelet and asked for her autograph.

"I think what she's doing is going to help a lot of women," Ms. Jackson said.
"I'm African-American, born in this country. But I have a feeling for what those
girls go through when this is done to them."

Away from the incessant questions, in the home of the family in suburban
Washington where she is staying, Ms. Kasinga said she was more than relieved to
be free after more than a year of often harsh treatment in a New Jersey
detention center and in Pennsylvania prisons. A broad smile never left her face.

She lives in a frilly bedroom papered in flowers with a clock radio next to the
bed that constantly plays American pop music. "I just touch the walls," she
said, "I jump on the bed and ask myself, 'Is this real?' "

She learned to distrust her dreams in prison, the dreams that brought her
happiness in sleep. "I don't believe in dreams," she said. "Then you wake up; no
happiness there."

And she still does not know whether to let herself fully believe what is
happening now -- the nights out at the movies, dinner parties with her new
friends, shopping at Marshall's and T. J. Maxx. She told her friend, Layli
Miller Bashir, a law student: "I don't want to wake up from this sleep. It's not
a dream, is it?"

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 9, 1996, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article on Friday about an asylum hearing involving genital mutilation of
women in some African nations misstated the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's view of what constitutes severe mutilation, and therefore what the
Government considers ground for asylum. The service considers removal of the
clit oris to be severe and cutting the hood of the clitoris as "relatively
mild."


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fauziya Kasinga, 19, of Togo, was accompanied by lawyers
yesterday as she arrived for a hearing before the Board of Immigration Appeals.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 9, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Backs Asylum for Mutilation Cases

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 115 words


To the Editor:

Two front-page articles (April 15 and 25) concern conditions at York County
Prison in Pennsylvania. The Immigration and Naturalization Service uses that
prison and others to comply with Federal law requiring the detention of
individuals deemed inadmissible to the United States.

Contrary to your articles, these facilities are safe, secure, humane and fair.
To insure the proper treatment of I.N.S. detainees at the York facility,
immigration officers have been stationed there full time since late last year to
supervise and monitor the conditions.

J. SCOTT BLACKMAN
District Director, Immigration
and Naturalization Service
Philadelphia, April 29, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 9, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Backs Asylum for Mutilation Cases

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 247 words


To the Editor:

Part of your May 3 news article on the asylum appeal of Fauziya Kasinga, who
says she fled Togo to escape genital mutilation, misrepresents the position of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The agency argued that the threat of such mutilation can be the basis for an
asylum claim. The doctrine we advocated, if adopted by the Board of Immigration
Appeals, would extend the definition of persecution to include genital
mutilation of an unwilling woman.

You say that we would "narrow the range of women who could qualify for asylum"
and that we seek protection for only those who would be subjected to the most
severe mutilation. We did not argue that women at risk of "milder forms" of the
practice should not have protection, but we seek to insure that asylum is
available only for those who really need it. This means reserving protection for
those at risk of forcible mutilation on return to their country.

You also make it sound as if I.N.S. seeks to defeat Ms. Kasinga's claim because
we asked to have the case remanded to court. We supported many of the legal
points she raised, but her claim was originally denied by the immigration judge
in part because he questioned her credibility.

I.N.S. has taken the opportunity presented by this case to ask the board to
establish that female genital mutilation can be the basis for asylum.

DAVID A. MARTIN
General Counsel, Immigration
and Naturalization Service
Washington, May 7, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 13, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Policy Should Reflect Concern for Environment

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words


To the Editor:

Your May 7 editorial in support of the revised, "sensible" Senate immigration
bill is inconsistent with your other opinions, especially those pertaining to
environmental issues.

Continued high levels of immigration, now accounting for 30 to 50 percent of the
country's population growth, carry a high environmental cost that cannot be
sustained. To argue in favor of high levels of legal immigration, as you do,
while advocating for wilderness protection in Utah and California, old-growth
forest conservation in the Pacific Northwest, wetland protection and mineral
policy reform on our public lands is hypocritical.

We are unable to protect our natural resources adequately while providing homes,
cars and jobs to 260 million people. How can we expect to improve this record
when our population grows to half a billion within the lifetime of today's
teen-agers?

Legal-immigration reform in the Senate and the House was held hostage to a
"perceived popular anger against foreigners," as you put it. While that is true,
allowing it to get in the way of environmentally sustainable population policies
is a mistake.

ALAN N. WEEDEN
New York, May 8, 1996

The writer heads an environmental philanthropy.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 14, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Grants Asylum to Woman Fleeing Genital Mutilation Rite

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 943 words


The highest administrative tribunal in the United States immigration system
granted political asylum yesterday to a 19-year-old woman from Togo who said she
had fled her homeland to escape having her genitals cut off.

The decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals in the case of the woman,
Fauziya Kasinga, is its first recognition ofgenital mutilation as a form of
persecution and a basis for asylum. The rite has been practiced on millions of
women in 26 African countries.

The ruling sets a precedent that is binding on the 179 immigration judges across
the country. The few who have heard such cases have been divided in their
decisions.

The board, part of the Justice Department, rejected the position of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, also part of the department. It had
argued that although genital mutilation should be a reason for granting asylum
in carefully defined circumstances, Ms. Kasinga's case should be sent back to an
immigration judge to consider what the service said were inconsistencies in her
story and new testimony from an expert on Togo.

Immigration law calls for asylum to be granted to people who can show that they
have a well-founded fear of persecution because of their race, religion,
nationality, polical opinions or membership in a social group.

Ms. Kasinga's lawyers sought a narrow ruling that would also not foreclose
future claims by women in different circumstances, for example those who had
already been subjected to the practice. The immigration service argued that
women who had already undergone the procedure as children, or who would face
ostracism, not actual mutilation, for opposing it should not qualify for asylum
in most cases.

The ruling, written by the chairman, Paul W. Schmidt, rejected the framework
proposed by the immigration service. "We decline to speculate on, or establish
rules for, cases that are not before us," he wrote.

The ruling went on to say that genital mutilation as practiced by the tribe to
which Ms. Kasinga belonged, the Tchamba-Kunsuntu, constituted persecution.

Karen Musalo, the lead attorney on Ms. Kasinga's legal team from American
University, said that by rejecting the immigration service's proposed framework,
the board "had clearly left open the door to women who have been mutilated in
the past." Ms. Kasinga could not be reached for comment, but Ms. Musalo said her
client was jubilant. "Her reaction was one of joy, ecstasy and relief," she
said.

Acknowledging that the board had not adopted his proposed framework, the
immigration service's general counsel, David A. Martin, said, nonetheless,
"We're pleased that the board recognized that female genital mutilation came be
the basis for asylum."

Researchers on women's refugee issues have said that making genital mutilation a
basis for asylum claims would be unlikely to lead to a flood of new claims. Most
women are subjected to genital mutilation as young girls, before they have the
means to escape. Even those who want to flee later often lack the money to do
so, they said.

Only a handful of women have asked the United States for sanctuary in recent
years because of mutilation. Canada, the first country to grant asylum to women
because of genital mutilation, has found that such claims have remained
relatively rare.

The board's ruling quoted from a report prepared by the immigration service on
female genital mutilation in Africa. "It remains particularly true," the ruling
quoted the report as saying, "that women have little legal recourse and may face
threats to their freedom, threats or acts of physical violence, or social
ostracization for refusing to undergo this harmful traditional practice, or
attempting to protect their female children."

The board flatly dismissed the conclusion of an immigration judge, Donald V.
Ferlise, that Ms. Kasinga's story lacked rationality and credibility. In
contrast, the board found her story "plausible, detailed and internally
consistent."

Ms. Kasinga told the immigration authorities that her father had opposed
polygamy and ritual mutilation and, as a wealthy businessman, was able to defy
the tribal customs. But he died suddenly when she was 15, and an aunt arranged
for her to become the fourth wife of a middle-age man. To avoid the marriage and
genital mutilation, Ms. Kasinga said she fled, first to Ghana, then to Germany
and finally to the United States, where she had relatives.

Landing at Newark International Airport, Ms. Kasinga asked for asylum. She was
detained in the Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., run by a private
company under contract with the immigration service. The immigration service
later found that Esmor detainees has been subjected to arbitrary cruelties by
guards, strip searches and isolation. The conditions led to a disturbance a year
ago and Esmor's closing. Ms. Kasinga was then held in Pennsylvania prisons.

At the York County (Pa.) Prison, Ms. Kasinga was strip-searched and locked in a
maximum security cell with an American convict, said the warden, Thomas H.
Hogan. A week before her case was to be heard by the immigration tribunal, after
an article in The New York Times described her case, Ms. Kasinga was released.
She has been living in the Washington area since her release in April.

The detention of a teen-ager seeking political asylum for more than a year
brought a pointed footnote in yesterday's ruling. The tribunal noted that Ms.
Kasinga had no criminal record and questioned the value of keeping her behind
bars. It suggested that immigration service officials "might well wish to review
this policy should future cases of this type arise."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fauziya Kasinga. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 16, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

June 9-15;
Asylum From Mutilation

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 2;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 203 words


United States immigration authorities last week ruled that female genital
mutilation is a form of persecution and that the threat of it can be a basis for
granting asylum. In a precedent-setting decision, the Board of Immigration
Appeals granted asylum to Fauziya Kasinga, a 19-year-old woman from Togo who
said she had fled to America to escape having her genitals cut off.

The decision means Ms. Kasinga is now a legal resident of the United States
after more than a year in detention here, during which she was sometimes
shackled, strip-searched and locked in maximun-security cells with American
felons.

In many African countries, young women or girls must endure having some or all
of their genitals cut off, a cultural practice that in some places is performed
on infants and in other places signifies initiation into womanhood.

Because of the inability of many African women to flee their circumstances, not
many are now expected to seek protection from the practice in the United States.
But for those who do, the ruling may mean a more sympathetic hearing from the
179 immigration judges across the country, who are bound to follow the precedent
set in the Kasinga case.   CELIA W. DUGGER

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

The Asylum System Needs Work

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words


The recent decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals to grant political
asylum to Fauziya Kasinga, a young African woman who feared genital mutilation,
was both a personal victory and a broader acknowledgment that many women are
victimized by cultural practices that violate human rights. Ms. Kasinga's case
has raised the profile of gender-based asylum claims. It also highlights the
fact that these claims need fairer treatment by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Like many other countries, America has adopted internationally recognized
standards for extending asylum to foreigners. The standards cover people who are
persecuted because of their race, religion, nationality, membership in a social
group or political opinions. Women who have been raped, or threatened with
genital mutilation, coerced sterilization and other forms of gender-related
persecution surely fall within these categories. But their claims have not
always been taken seriously. For example, the immigration judge who first heard
Ms. Kasinga's story ruled against her claim of asylum because he was
unsympathetic to her ordeal -- fleeing Togo, her homeland, to avoid having parts
of her genitals cut off in a forced marriage ritual. The appeals board has now
reversed that ruling. The majority of the judges were satisfied that Ms.
Kasinga's fear of being mutilated against her will constituted persecution
because of her membership in a social group.

While deciding favorably in this case, however, the board did not establish
comprehensive rules for future cases. Broader sensitivity to gender-related
claims would be welcome. In 1993, Canada became the first country to issue
national guidelines for including a range of women's claims within the existing
categories of persecution.

Last year, the I.N.S. also issued guidelines aimed at making officials more
sensitive to gender-related claims. But they only apply to asylum officers,
generally the first level of review in the refugee application process.
Representative Carolyn Maloney, Democrat of New York, has introduced legislation
requiring the Attorney General to issue new regulations insuring that women's
asylum claims will be heard with equal sensitivity at every review level,
including immigration judges. It deserves approval.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 15, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Woman's Plea for Asylum Puts Tribal Ritual on Trial

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2486 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., April 12


Fauziya Kasinga says she fled her homeland of Togo at age 17 to avoid the tribal
rite of female genital mutilation and an arranged marriage as the fourth wife of
a man nearly three times her age. When she arrived at Newark International
Airport, she felt sure that she would find sanctuary in a country that "believed
in justice."

Instead she has passed her 18th and 19th birthdays behind bars. First,
immigration officials took her to the Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.,
where she describes being shackled in chains at times, denied sanitary napkins
and put in an isolation cell.

Last June, she said, she was tear-gassed and beaten during a melee at Esmor,
where immigration authorities later concluded that guards had abused detainees.

After the Esmor disturbance, she and many other asylum seekers who entered this
country illegally in the New York area were sent to prisons in Pennsylvania,
where she has been strip-searched and locked in a maximum security cell with an
American convict -- an account confirmed by the York County Prison warden,
Thomas H. Hogan.

"I feel empty, mute," Ms. Kasinga said today in a barely audible whisper, as she
sat in her prison blues at the York prison. "I keep asking myself, 'What did I
do to deserve such punishment? What did I do?' "

Ms. Kasinga's two-year ordeal will reach a critical juncture on May 2, when the
Board of Immigration Appeals, the highest administrative tribunal in the
nation's immigration system, is to consider her asylum request.

Immigration officials and advocates for refugees say her case is likely to set
an important precedent that could influence the handling of a broad array of
claims from women who have suffered because of discriminatory cultural practices
in their home countries.

"It's the first case in which the board will directly take on the issue of
female genital mutilation as the basis for an asylum claim," said Karen Musalo,
the lead lawyer for Ms. Kasinga at the International Human Rights Clinic,
American University, Washington College of Law.

By law, people can win asylum if they are found to have a well-founded fear of
persecution because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinions or
membership in a social group. The statute does not mention gender. Ms. Kasinga's
lawyers contend that she is a member of a social group: young women of the
Tchamba Kunsuntu tribe who resist genital mutilation.

The rite is widespread in 26 African nations. Typically, a tribal elder cuts off
the clitoris and sometimes other portions of a woman's genitals without
anesthesia. It often leads to serious health problems or even death, which
according to Ms. Kasinga, was the fate of her maternal aunt. The World Health
Organization estimates that 85 million to 114 million girls and women have been
mutilated.

The board's ruling in the Kasinga case will be binding on the nation's 179
immigration judges, who have been divided in their handling of such cases, still
a rarity.

Paul A. Nejelski, a judge in Arlington, Va., granted asylum to a woman from
Sierra Leone last August because he said the rite violated her basic human
rights. But John F. Gossart Jr., a judge in Baltimore, denied asylum to another
woman from Sierra Leone last April. He said the woman could not change her sex,
but she could choose whether to submit to her tribe's customary genital
mutilation.

At the appeal hearing on the Kasinga case, lawyers for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service will argue for a new legal framework that would allow
genital mutilation to be a reason for granting asylum in carefully defined
circumstances.

Beyond the issue of asylum, human rights advocates say Ms. Kasinga's case
illustrates the injustice of the immigration service's practice of detaining
asylum seekers in prisons that are far from lawyers and families and
inadequately supervised by the agency.

Immigration officials said the asylum seekers were detained in part because of a
quirk in the law that treats people entering the country illegally at an airport
more severely than those who are caught within the nation's borders. They said
they released those who appeared to have credible claims and family ties in
United States.

Ms. Kasinga said she believed that immigration authorities were just heartless.
She said the prospect of being deported to Togo terrified her.

Merrick Polansky, an anthropology professor emeritus at the University of
California at Los Angeles, who has testified on Ms. Kasinga's behalf, says she
is right to be afraid. The professor, who has done research in Togo since 1979,
said women in Ms. Kasinga's tribe were sometimes forced into polygamous
marriages and forced to undergo genital mutilation.

Her story is highly believable, the professor said. And if she is deported, the
police, demoralized and underpaid, would almost certainly return her to her
husband for a bribe, he said.

Tribal Rule
Defying a Custom, Paying a Price

The following is Ms. Kasinga's account, pieced together from court records, her
sworn affidavit, an interview with her at the prison and the bits of documentary
evidence she has from Togo:

Hers was a charmed childhood of privilege. Her father owned a successful
trucking business. The close-knit, devoutly Muslim family -- five daughters, two
sons and parents -- lived in a suburb of Kpalime, Togo, in an eight-bedroom
house.

Unlike most family patriarchs in their tribe, her father, Muhammad Kasinga,
opposed polygamous marriage and the ritual mutilation of girls at age 15. When
he was a boy he had seen his sister tied up and mutilated. "She was screaming
and he swore he would never allow any of his daughters to have it done," Ms.
Kasinga said.

He was able to defy tribal customs because his wealth made him independent. He
sent Ms. Kasinga to a private boarding school in neighboring Ghana to be
educated. All four of his elder daughters married men of their own choosing
outside the tribe, and none were mutilated. He himself married a woman who had
never been mutilated because her own sister had died of a tetanus infection
after the ritual.

But in 1993, when Ms. Kasinga was 16, her father died suddenly after a severe
asthma attack -- and everything changed.

In accordance with the tribe's patriarchal customs, Ms. Kasinga's mother was
banished from their home, and the father's only sibling, a sister, Haja-Mammud,
moved in and took control of the finances. She was the fourth wife of a man who
had died the year before, and she no longer wanted to live with the other wives.

She disapproved of the freedom her brother gave his wife and daughters. That
summer, Ms. Kasinga was pulled out of school because her aunt believed it was a
waste to spend money on the education of a girl who would only marry anyway. The
next year, a well-to-do, middle-age man, Ibrahim Isaka, who already had three
wives, began visiting their home.

Ms. Kasinga was horrified when her aunt told her that she had negotiated a
"marr" or payment of money from the man toward a marriage with Ms. Kasinga.

One morning, Ms. Kasinga said, "I saw the wedding clothes on the bed, the
jewels, the shoes and the bag. 'This is from your husband,' she told me. 'He
wants you today.' I said 'No, please, I don't want to marry. Please.' She said
it was already arranged."

The marriage took place that very day, Oct. 17, 1994, with the bride and groom
in separate locations as custom dictates. A wedding photograph of Ms. Kasinga
shows her dressed in lavish tribal garb, but her eyes are downcast, her
expression unutterably sad.

One of the few bits of documentary evidence of Ms. Kasinga's story is her
marriage contract, which bears Mr. Isaka's signature and year of birth, 1950. In
defiance, Ms. Kasinga refused to sign.

A few days later, a tribal woman was supposed to come "to scrape my woman parts
off," Ms. Kasinga said. By custom, 40 days after the wounds had healed, her
husband was to consummate the marriage.

"I was afraid," she said. "I didn't know how I could get away."

The day after the marriage, Ms. Kasinga's eldest sister, 32-year-old Ayisha,
came to visit. While their aunt visited with company, the sisters slipped out of
the house to Ayisha's car and drove pell-mell to the airport in Accra, Ghana.
Her sister gave her $3,000 and put her on the first plane out, a midnight flight
to Germany.

For two months, Ms. Kasinga lived in Duseldorf with a woman she met at the
airport, in exchange for cooking and cleaning for her. For $600, she bought a
passport from a Nigerian man who told her she could ask for asylum in America,
where she had a cousin in the Washington area.

Behind Bars
Stripped and Alone In a Cold Room

She arrived at Newark airport on Dec. 17, 1994. She said she immediately told
the customs officer that the passport was not hers and asked for asylum.

To her shock, she was transported to the Esmor detention center where she was
put in a large, cold room with no windows except for a small one in the metal
door. A guard told her to take off her clothes. It was the first time Ms.
Kasinga, then 17 years old, had undressed in front of a stranger. She was
menstruating and asked to keep her underwear, but she said the guard refused.

Freezing and scared, she sat on a toilet in the room, shivering. When she looked
up at one point, she saw a male guard looking at her through the door.

The humiliations of life at Esmor, a jail that was privately run under a
contract with the immigration service, had only begun. She was given a pair of
sandals, both for the right foot, and stained underwear that fell down unless
she tucked it under a belt.

At one point, she was put in a small isolation cell for five days because she
washed her hands before sunrise in a ritual before her morning prayers, breaking
a rule that no one was to use the showers before 6 A.M.

Then she lived through the melee that swept through Esmor last June.

The immigration service issued a report after the disturbance that documented
many of the abuses Ms. Kasinga said she had endured. The agency concluded that
the poorly paid guards had treated the inmates with capricious cruelty.

Ms. Kasinga and other asylum seekers were moved to prisons in Pennsylvania that
had contracted with the immigration service. First, she went to the York County
prison, then was moved to the Lehigh County prison last August.

The Judge
'This Alien Is Not Credible'

On Aug. 25, Ms. Kasinga's case went before Donald V. Ferlise, an immigration
judge in Philadelphia.

But her lawyer Eric Bowman, hired by her cousin, had not submitted a sworn
affidavit from Ms. Kasinga providing a narrative of her experience, as is often
done in asylum cases. And Layli Miller Bashir, a 23-year-old law student at
American University who had researched the case for Mr. Bowman, conducted the
direct examination of Ms. Kasinga, crucial for establishing her story in the
absence of an affidavit.

Ms. Miller Bashir said she had never met Ms. Kasinga in person until that
morning, nor had she ever examined a witness in court before. They had spoken
only a few times on the phone. The law student said she felt she quickly lost
control of the hearing.

At the hearing's conclusion, the judge said he found several elements of Ms.
Kasinga's story unbelievable: that her aunt would have consulted with the
banished mother about the marriage she was arranging for the girl; that Ms.
Kasinga had met a woman at the airport in Germany who let her move in right
away, and that Ms. Kasinga had met a man on a train who sold her a passport.

The judge also said it did not make sense that Ms. Kasinga claimed she would be
forced to undergo mutilation since her sisters had avoided it, and Ms. Kasinga
herself had delayed it until after her marriage.

"The court wonders then how absolute can this tribal law be with so many
exceptions being allowed for that rule," the judge said at the hearing.

In a withering comment, the judge said, "I have taken into account the lack of
rationality, the lack of internal consistency and the lack of inherent
persuasiveness in her testimony, and have determined that this alien is not
credible."

Mr. Bowman said he believed that the judge was not open to this kind of asylum
claim.

After announcing that asylum was denied, Judge Ferlise asked Ms. Kasinga if she
understood his ruling. Devastated, she whispered inaudibly.

"Hello," the judge said, repeating his question. Again she could not be heard.
"Hello," he said again, until finally she answered with a "yes" that the
transcriber could hear.

Her feet were then shackled in chains, she was handcuffed and led out of the
courtroom.

Dreams
In Deep Despair, Imagining Togo

Ms. Miller Bashir, distraught by the outcome of the case, returned to law school
that fall and persuaded Professor Musalo, who heads the international human
rights clinic there, to take the case on appeal, pro bono.

In January, Ms. Kasinga was moved back to the York County prison and placed in
maximum security because minimum security was full, the warden, Mr. Hogan, said
in an interview.

Ms. Kasinga said she was often strip-searched. "What I hate is when they put 20
or 30 people in a room," she said. "They strip all of us together. They tell us
to turn around, open your legs, squat. They stand there looking at you.
Sometimes they laugh."

Asked how many times she had been strip-searched, Ms. Kasinga said, "I can't
count. Plenty, plenty times."

"I don't know how high she can count," the warden replied angrily, when asked
about her assertion, saying that she was strip-searched once when guards mistook
her for an American and perhaps on other occasions when she left the prison for
a meeting or hearing.

The warden said the asylum seekers and other immigrant detainees were
intermingled with the American convicts in the prison, who range from drug users
to murderers, without any problem until the Women's Commission for Refugee Women
and Children issued a scathing report in September, denouncing the prison
conditions for immigrants in Pennsylvania.

Mr. Hogan said the I.N.S. detainees were given separate sleeping quarters
sometime after the report was released. Ms. Kasinga, who has been shifted to
minimum security, said that happened only two weeks ago.

"The I.N.S. has very little control once they contract for the space," Mary
Diaz, the commission's director, said. "They allow the jailers to run the show."

At York, the days drag on monotonously, and Ms. Kasinga says she often feels
despair. Sometimes, she said, she dreams she is back in Togo in her family's big
house with the flowers blooming in profusion at the front porch and green fish
darting in the courtyard pond. In the dream, her father is always alive.

Then she wakes up on a prison pallet. "All my spirit is gone," she said. "I just
want to leave the prison. Why am I here?"

NAME: Fauziya Kasinga

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fauziya Kasinga says she fled Togo to avoid mutilation and an
arranged marriage; she has been held in detention since. (Steven M. Falk for The
New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 28, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Aliens, Dirty Jobs

BYLINE: By Lloyd M. Krieger;   Lloyd M. Krieger is a resident at U.C.L.A.
Medical Center.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


I am in residency to become a plastic surgeon. Part of the training for that
branch of medicine is in hand surgery. I once had a professor who said that you
can tell a lot about a person by the type of hand injury they suffer.

My work at a Los Angeles County hospital has given me a fresh perspective on
California's Proposition 187, the measure that, if it survives in court, would
limit non-emergency medical treatment to illegal aliens, among other things.

People get all sorts of hand injuries. In barroom brawls, some people break
their fists while punching someone in the jaw. Or people scrape their fingers
against the other fighter's teeth, leading to severe infection. Others injure
their fingers by putting their hand through a window. Some break their wrists
while punching the wall in a drunken rage.

People also injure their hands on the job. I have seen all of these hand
problems. Who gets what type of injury is interesting.

County hospitals cater to people without health insurance. Some of these people
are unemployed. Others work but do not get insurance. In Southern California,
many of the patients at county hospitals are illegal aliens.

It is often easy to tell who the illegals are, because they have no county
hospital identification card, and they are wary of giving their names or
addresses.

Two of these patients are particularly memorable. Manuel, a mechanic, came to
the emergency room after crushing his right hand in an engine. The motor was
running while he made some adjustments and with a split-second slip, his hand
was sucked into the gears. His index finger was broken in several places; he had
deep cuts and dirt in all of his fingers and his wrist.

From the moment he came to the emergency room, Manuel had one concern. He wanted
his hand to work again so that he could return to his job. He explained in
Spanish that he was supporting people back home in Mexico, and they depended on
his checks.

Enrique, a gardener, also came to the emergency room with a hand injury. His
mower had become clogged with freshly cut grass, and he turned it over to
release the jam.  As he cleaned away the debris, the blades began spinning
again. He suffered an amputation of the tip of his right thumb. Enrique also
expressed only one concern. He wanted to have his hand repaired so that he could
go back to work.

Manuel had surgery to fix his broken bones and sew up his cuts. Enrique had the
skin of his thumb sewn together to cover the defect. When these men returned to
the clinic for follow-up visits, I noticed something these men had in common. At
no point did Manuel, who had fresh grease stains on his shirt, or Enrique, who
had fresh grass stains on his pants, ask for a doctor's note to excuse him from
work. The stories of these two men are typical of the many illegal aliens I have
treated.

It is said that illegal immigrants take jobs away from American citizens. It is
also said that they place a drain on the already strained California educational
system and medical resources. I can't argue with these points. But I can say
that the illegal aliens I encountered hurt their hands on the job, working
vigorously to earn a living.

They did not seek tax-subsidized medical attention after a barroom brawl or a
drunken wall-punching incident. I have no data to support it, but I would bet
that the money the state and county spent to treat their hand injuries was more
than returned to the California economy in the form of productivity from these
men.

The fate of Proposition 187 will be determined in the courts and by the voters.
If it is decided that illegal aliens should be denied medical care, I will
comply. But from what I have seen, these patients might be more deserving of
state resources than people realize. Providing those services might be a wise
investment after all.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 7, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Migrants Warned: Stay South of the Border

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

DATELINE: SAN FELIPE, Mexico, Jan. 3


With the desert sun casting a rosy afternoon glow, Guillermo Martinez and his
wife meandered hand in hand through the town plaza, pausing to gossip with
friends and to admire the creche under the bell tower of the 18th-century
church.

For Mr. Martinez, who like hundreds of men from this central Mexican town works
in the United States illegally, this was quality time. He was home from Memphis,
where he saved enough cash pouring cement last year to return to his family
laden with gifts and wearing new cowboy boots with glittering toe caps.

So the holidays brought glad tidings, except for one troubling interruption: a
broadcast by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, beamed to televisions
across much of Mexico the week before Christmas, warning undocumented workers
not to return to the United States.

"The message was that the Border Patrol has gotten very tough, so don't take the
risk of coming back, that by seeking something better you can go to jail or get
hurt," said Mr. Martinez, who watched the 30-minute broadcast with his family.
"But I had to come home for Christmas. Now we'll just wait and see how hard it
is to cross back north."

Mr. Martinez's wife, Mikaela, spoke up. "Sure, I'd like him to stay here with me
and the children," she said, squeezing his hand. "But if he doesn't go back,
we'll go hungry."

The I.N.S. broadcast, part of a Clinton Administration campaign against illegal
immigration, was the first of its kind. Two more are planned in the coming
weeks.

In the broadcast, an official warned of severe sanctions while video images
showed Border Patrol agents chasing undocumented workers through a patch of
cactus before leading them away in handcuffs. The message was timed to dissuade
tens of thousands of illegal migrants from returning to the United States in
January, after visiting for holiday season.

But San Felipe and other towns in this region of mesquite hills and hardscrabble
sorghum plots have for decades said farewell to entire generations of young
workers, and few familiar with this tradition believe that the broadcast will
change many minds.

"Our people will keep traveling north, despite all risks, because they have to
eat," said Florencio Myers, the local Agriculture Ministry agent, who listens in
his office each day as landless laborers and dirt ranchers spill out the
hard-luck stories of rural life in 1990's Mexico. "They won't be dissuaded by
threats."

But that is not to say the current crackdown has no one nervous. Outside in the
plaza, Isidro Rodriguez, 74, sat on a park bench enjoying the sun with five of
his grown boys, migrants all, home from harvests in Oklahoma and Kansas. But his
22-year-old daughter, an undocumented worker who cleans houses in Dallas, missed
the holidays, Mr. Rodriguez said, choosing to remain in Texas in virtual hiding
after she saw immigration agents detain and handcuff a group of illegal migrants
shopping in a supermarket.

"The Border Patrol has her scared," Mr. Rodriguez said. "She said it didn't even
matter that those people had a basket of groceries."

Inside a cantina down a cobbled San Felipe street, there was a coming and going
of young men that was one sign of an undiminished emigrant flow: seated at a
table, an agent for an immigrant-smuggling organization was selling illegal
border crossings.

The smuggler, 32, declined an interview with an American journalist, but he
answered questions relayed to him by a reporter for El Tiempo, the San Felipe
paper. During the first three days of 1996, the smuggler said, he and two
partners sold northbound passages for 147 young men. They would leave San Felipe
in cars and vans and be smuggled across the border at various points between Del
Rio and Eagle Pass, Tex.

The smuggler said he told his clients they could expect to ford the Rio Grande
in small boats and then walk for at least 15 minutes, and perhaps three hours,
before a vehicle would pick them up on the American side of the river and
continue on to Dallas. His price for the journey, he said, was $700, with $100
paid in advance.

There are hundreds, perhaps thousands, of such smugglers operating across
Mexico, and their prices for illegal crossings have risen considerably in the
last year during the United States border crackdown.

Congress voted $236 million in additional funds for the Border Patrol last year,
allowing the agency to increase the number of agents deployed along the
2,000-mile frontier from Brownsville, Tex., to Imperial Beach, Calif., from less
than 4,000 to about 5,000.

Along several border stretches, the authorities also installed steel fences,
searchlights, motion detectors and video cameras. But what the immigration
service has not done until now is reach right down into remote villages like San
Felipe to warn Mexicans to stay home.

"If I can offer a word of advice to those who may consider visiting or living
and working in the United States illegally, I would urge them to put this
thought out of their mind," Chris Sales, a deputy commissioner of the
immigration service, said in the satellite broadcast on Dec. 20 to regional
television stations not only in Mexico but also in Guatemala and El Salvador.

"Added resources, personnel and technology are helping us to locate, identify,
arrest and deport increasing numbers of those who violate our immigration laws,"
she said, and repeat violators "can expect tougher penalties, including
prosecution and prison."

Despite her tough words and other seemingly unmistakable signs of hostility
toward undocumented immigrants in the United States, Jorge Durand, an
anthropologist at the University of Guadalajara, said in a phone interview that
many Mexicans believed that American society was divided about whether illegal
immigrants are welcome.

For years, employers in the United States have bought commercials on Mexican
radio advertising jobs, and many employers still seem to welcome cheap foreign
labor.

"The current anti-immigration campaign will have to overcome the cumulative
effect of decades of previous messages calling Mexican workers north," Mr.
Durand said.

That was a view echoed by Rogelio Ortiz, 29, who traveled to San Felipe for
Christmas from his home in Arlington, Va., where he works as bricklayer. "On the
ranches in Texas, its practically 100 percent illegals," said Mr. Ortiz, who has
crossed northward without documents many times. "I don't think they really want
to keep us out. They need us."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In its campaign against illegal migrants from Mexico, the United
States has broadcast warnings to people like Guillermo Martinez, who returned to
his home in San Felipe for the holidays. With money he saved from working
illegally in Memphis, Mr. Martinez helped build a house for his father.
(Francisco Mata Rosas for The New York Times)

Map of Mexico

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 26, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Agua Prieta Journal;
Border Patrol vs. 'Illegals': Now, the Desert War

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 4;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

DATELINE: AGUA PRIETA, Mexico, March 21


Raul Gutierrez had put in much of a day's work by the time he sat down for lunch
in the Yolanda Cafe near the international border station here, so he ordered a
T-bone steak.

And since his mother was not around, Raul, who is 14, seized the steak in his
hands and gnawed the meat right off the bone. Then he wiped his fingers with a
tortilla, peeled a $20 bill from a wad of cash to pay the bill and rode his bike
back to work along the tattered cyclone fence dividing Agua Prieta from Douglas,
Ariz.

Thousands of Mexicans hoping to enter the United States are streaming into this
watering hole in the Sonoran desert every week, jamming hotels and sidewalks,
and Raul is cashing in on his knowledge of the local topography by leading
groups through the fence and along back alleys and drainage ditches 10 blocks
north into downtown Douglas. At $20 a head, he earned $280 before lunch on this
day, but business has been so lucrative recently that he found this take
disappointing.

"I had five more clients, but another boy took them away," Raul said.

Raul works in a cottage industry that has blossomed here in recent months as
United States crackdowns south of San Diego and El Paso have made Agua Prieta
one of the most popular crossing points for illegal immigrants to the United
States.

So many migrants poured across here in January and February that the Border
Patrol detained nearly 35,000 people, more than six times as many as in the same
period last year. Along the whole border from Texas to California, 146,000
illegal crossers were detained during January and February, up by 24 percent
from 1995.

No one can say for sure that the increase in detentions reflects more than the
recent addition of hundreds of new Border Patrol agents. But many demographers
believe that Mexico's economic crisis, combined with strong American job growth,
is persuading more Mexicans to travel illegally into the United States.

Robert Bach, director of policy research at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, sees the thousands of Mexicans streaming into Agua Prieta as a triumph
for Washington's get-tough policies. "We're restructuring the flow, squeezing
people into Arizona, and that's favorable terrain for us," Mr. Bach said. The
difficulty of crossing the Arizona desert has forced most migrants to hire
smugglers to get across, driving up costs and discouraging others from making
the trip, he said.

Douglas Massey, a University of Pennsylvania demographer, said there was no
evidence yet that the northward flow had slowed. "But if the I.N.S. puts enough
resources into it, maybe they can raise the probability of apprehension high
enough to persuade people not to try," he said.

And so Agua Prieta is the new immigration battleground. Time was when the only
news here was when a pack of wild dogs would move into town and start howling.
And the Border Patrol used to be a sleepy outfit. When George Lopez, second in
command of the local border station, was first assigned to Douglas about 15
years ago, there were just two agents.

Today Mr. Lopez commands 127 officers equipped with ground sensors,
tower-mounted cameras, night-vision scopes and helicopters, but the Douglas
station still seems overwhelmed at times. At least a dozen smuggling
organizations are operating here, and many migrants are detouring hundreds of
miles to cross at Agua Prieta, Mr. Lopez said.

Thirteen young men from Baja California, for instance, who had crossed illegally
for several years at Tijuana on their way to jobs in Naperville, Ill., crossed
through Agua Prieta this week. One of the men, Gerardo Cordero, a 28-year-old
dishwasher who returned to Mexico to see his family at Christmas, said the group
hired a smuggler after a woman at the Agua Prieta bus terminal offered them a
package deal: the migrants would be spirited north into Douglas, ferried to
Phoenix, and driven on to Chicago in the back of a rental van. The price, Mr.
Cordero said, was $800 a head.

The group's first crossing attempt ended in frustration last week, when Border
Patrol agents chased them into a cul-de-sac near the Douglas airport, detaining
and expelling all 13 back to Mexico.

But two days later, the 13 were assigned a new guide: Raul Gutierrez. His
mission, he said, was to get them to the McClain's Hotel in Douglas, a popular
migrant way station, where a van would be waiting for them. Because he is a
minor, Raul does not worry about criminal prosecution, though he said he had
been detained many times in Douglas. Once, he said, a Border Patrol agent got
one handcuff on him before he broke free and sprinted back to Mexico.

"I paid a Mexican policeman 20 pesos to unlock the cuff," Raul said.

The sun was setting, and at the Hotel Yolanda two blocks south of the border,
Raul's 13 clients were stuffing their belongings into plastic bags and pulling
on sweat shirts and high-top sneakers. Minutes later, they were at the fence
along the border, where Raul was staring at a Border Patrol jeep moving along a
line of warehouses on the United States side. Raul positioned the 13 men near a
hole in the fence underneath a tower supporting one of the Border Patrol's
powerful video cameras, making surveillance difficult.

"Let's go!" he said, and the men ducked through the fence and raced north past
the warehouses. Minutes later, however, they came huffing back, scooting through
the fence just as a Border Patrol van roared into a defensive position opposite
them.

"I told you to stay together," Raul yelled at the men, most of whom were twice
his age. "Now keep down and wait." Minutes passed, an I.N.S. helicopter
clattered overhead, peering downward with a searchlight, and the Border Patrol
van eventually moved off.

Then Raul ordered a new advance. The migrants and their teen-age guide sprinted
past a line of buildings and disappeared into the cool desert air.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Crackdowns south of San Diego and El Paso have made Agua Prieta,
across the border from Douglas, Ariz., a popular crossing point for illegal
immigrants from Mexico. One made use of a hole in the fence recently. (Keith
Dannemiller/SABA)

Map of Mexico showing location of Agua Prieta.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 495 words



GIULIANI FAULTS ILLEGAL-ALIEN CRACKDOWN

The immigration restrictions gathering steam in the Republican-led Congress
would have "catastrophic social effects" in New York City and other large
cities, Mayor Giuliani said, charging that the proposals violated basic decency
and could throw as many as 60,000 immigrant children out of the city's schools
and onto the streets. [Page A1.]

A SETBACK FOR THE SHORTER SCHOOL DAY

State education officials rejected, at least for now, a request by the New York
City Board of Education to shorten the elementary school day by up to two
periods a week, leaving the city's community superintendents scrambling to find
another way to cut $30 million from their budgets just two weeks before the
start of school. [A1.]

NEW YORK CITY



POLICE LAPSE AT CHURCH MELEE

As black religious leaders criticized the way the police handled a melee at a
Queens church on Sunday night, a senior police official said that officers did
not confer with supervisors before going into the church to arrest a
parishioner. [B3.]

ANOTHER OFFICER CONVICTED OF PERJURY

A police officer linked to the corruption scandal in the 30th Precinct in Harlem
was convicted of perjury, the second New York City officer in a week to be found
guilty of lying during court proceedings. [B3.]

HINT OF COMPROMISE ON SCHOOLS CHIEF

Offering a possible compromise with Mayor Giuliani, the president of the Board
of Education said the board would be willing to hire a business person with
fiscal and managerial experience as a deputy to the new schools chancellor.
[B2.]

MAYOR VETOES QUEENS PATHMARK PLAN

Mayor Giuliani vetoed a plan to build a giant Pathmark store in Queens, saying
the city had acted unlawfully when it included a deal under which the company
would donate more than $400,000 to other merchants. [B2.]

A defendant in a bomb plot trial denied that he knowingly helped make
explosives. [B3.]

REGION

SCHOOL TOUR IN NEWARK

Three weeks before the Newark school district is to open under state control,
the Acting Superintendent spent a few hours inspecting refurbished buildings and
serving notice to principals that they would be held responsible for both the
academic and physical conditions of their schools. [B5.]

PINE BARRENS FIRE PROMPTS EVACUATIONS

A stubborn fire in the Long Island Pine Barrens consumed more than 2,500 acres
of dry brush and prompted the residents of 35 houses and 150 people from two
retirement homes at the edge of the forest to evacuate. [B5.]

DOCTOR CHOICE BECOMES LAW FOR H.M.O.'s

Governor Pataki signed legislation that will require health maintenance
organizations to offer policies allowing individuals to use the doctors of their
choice and not just those who are members of the H.M.O.'s network. [B5.]

A wayward manatee continues wandering off the Northeastern coast. [B5.]

Chronicle B2

About New York by David Gonzalez B3

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Housing Starts" shows number of housing started in
various areas, and the percent change from '94 to '95. (Source: National
Association of Home Builders)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 21, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 494 words



BILL THREATENS IMMIGRANT EDUCATION AID

A little-noted provision in the Senate welfare bill could deny Federal education
aid to tens of thousands of legal immigrants, more than half of them college
students in New York and California. Advocates for higher education say the
changes would strip the rungs from a ladder that has allowed generations of
immigrants to climb out of poverty. [Page 1.]

NEW YORK CITY

FIRE IS TRACED TO STOVE PIPE

A gas explosion that ripped through several apartments at a housing complex in
Coney Island, injuring 20 people, may have been caused by a man who had been
ordered to leave the apartment where the blast occurred, a city official said.
The man apparently removed the stove from the apartment, leaving the gooseneck
gas pipe exposed to fill the apartment with gas fumes. [25.]

CREW AND GIULIANI HOLD CORDIAL MEETING

Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew ended his first week in office with what seemed to
be a cordial, cooperative meeting with Mayor Giuliani at City Hall and by moving
to fill the two top posts in his administration. [25.]

Hundreds of teaching aides, being shifted to new districts in a budget move,
awaited reassignment, many with foreboding. [25.]

BIDS SOUGHT FOR DEFENDING POOR IN COURT

In a move to diminish the role of the Legal Aid Society as the primary courtroom
defender of the city's poor, the Giuliani administration asked for bids from
other legal groups to handle much of the work. [25.]

ANOTHER WOMAN IS RAPED IN CENTRAL PARK

A Manhattan woman was raped and beaten unconscious in Central Park by a man who
accosted her on a subway car, then followed her out of the station, the police
said. [24.]

YOUTHS GO ON TRIAL IN FATAL BEATING

Two teen-agers went on trial on murder charges in the fatal beating of a
40-year-old homeless Ecuadorean immigrant in Dyker Beach Park in Brooklyn last
year. Prosecutors described the beating, by a group of white youths, as a
savage, bias-driven attack. [24.]

REGION

A LAWYERS' CALL FOR DEFENDERS

The New Jersey Bar Association began a campaign to push state government to
provide public defenders for indigent sex offenders filing appeals under
"Megan's Law" instead of relying on private lawyers to represent them without
charge. [26.]

POLICE FIND BODY OF CARJACKING VICTIM

The body of a Long Island man who was the victim of a carjacking 10 days ago was
found hidden beneath brush in a woodland preserve just east of Manhasset Bay.
[26.]

NEW INDICTMENT IN RESTAURANT RAPE

Four men accused of raping an unconscious woman in a restaurant in Gouverneur,
N.Y., in 1991 were indicted on new charges handed up by a special grand jury.
[26.]

MEDICARE BILL ROILS A DELEGATION

In the battle to pass the Medicare bill in the House on Thursday, no state
delegation proved to be as divided and as conflicted as New Jersey's eight
Republican representatives. [National Report, page 8.]

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Deadly Trucks" shows percentage of vehicles in 1994
involved in fatal crashes that were larger trucks in the Tri-state area.
(Source: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 18, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Case Exposes Cultural Ignorance;
Making Asylum Policy

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 254 words


To the Editor:

A. M. Rosenthal (column, April 12) is right that we should be working around the
globe to end the practice of female genital mutilation, but he is wrong that the
courts should offer protection to Fauziya Kasinga.

If our asylum protection is broadened to cover these cases, we will be issuing
an invitation to all who can get to the United States and claim to be escaping
female genital mutilation. Next we may be asked to protect those seeking
protection against forced marriage or spousal abuse.

What this might mean may be seen in the our response to China's one-child family
planning policy. The issue is a government policy rather than a cultural
practice, but the result is instructive. As a result of our sympathetic standard
for evaluating pleas by Chinese for protection against the intrusive family
planning policy, smugglers coach their human cargo to claim asylum on that
basis, and our asylum screening process becomes tied up in knots.

What is most unjust in cases like these and in the Kasinga case is the prolonged
detention. It is not fair to the asylum-seekers or to the taxpayers, who pick up
the tab.

We need a streamlined asylum screening process to decide quickly on these
claims. But Congress, not the courts, should decide, because broadening the
definition of what practices our asylum policy protects against is a political
issue, not a legal issue.

JOHN L. MARTIN
Special Projects Dir., Federation
for American Immigration Reform
Washington, April 12, 1996

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 699 words



THE MURKY WORLD OF CHINATOWN OFFICERS

Officers John Gaw and Michael Lee were partners on both sides of the law,
officials say. As the authorities tell it, the two spent virtually their entire
police careers on the payrolls of high-level Chinatown criminals, feeding them
advance information about raids on their gambling and prostitution dens. Their
story is emerging as the New York City Police Department grapples with a
succession of scandals involving misconduct and criticism that the department
has been slow to spot wrongdoing.  Detective Gaw, the senior partner, operated
with such audacity -- he invited cops and criminals alike to his wedding -- that
his career raises questions about why the department did not find out about him
sooner. [Page A1.]

REFUGEES SEIZE A DETENTION CENTER

Frustration flared into violence at an immigrant detention center in Elizabeth,
N.J., that has been buffeted by charges of mistreating the illegal aliens who
are held there. A ragtag band of refugees took over the building, demolished
much of the interior of the Esmor detention center and barricaded themselves in
for five hours before the center was stormed by law enforcement officers. [A1.]

The Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., stood out as one of the harshest
in the country, some immigration lawyers said. [B5.]

A Sudanese immigrant tells of her ordeal at Esmor detention center. [B5.]

NEW YORK CITY

NEIGHBORLY ACT TURNS TRAGIC

Firefighters and neighbors say Robert Pearson is a hero for holding a bedsheet
over the edge of his 11th-floor balcony so a downstairs neighbor could climb out
of her burning apartment in midtown Manhattan. But Mr. Pearson does not see it
that way. He is overwhelmed, instead, by what he could not do -- that he could
not help another neighbor who lost his grip on the sheet and tumbled 11 stories
into the building's courtyard. The man who fell was listed in very critical
condition at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center with major head injuries
and serious burns. [B3.]

A WEEK OF GAY PRIDE CELEBRATIONS BEGINS

Beginning a week of celebrations that will culminate in a march down Fifth
Avenue, hundreds of gay and lesbian New Yorkers filled Union Square Park for
what was billed as a rally but looked more like an enormous summertime family
picnic. One family stepped on stage to make a point about Father's Day. "Being
heterosexual doesn't make you a good parent," Doug Robinson said. "A good parent
is someone who is willing to go the distance with their child." [B3.]

TEEN-AGER SLAIN IN BARBECUE FIGHT

A Queens teen-ager who struggled through high school and dropped out, only to
rebound and earn his high school equivalency diploma in a ceremony, was rewarded
with a party from his parents. But at the graduation barbecue, he and neighbors
got into a fight that ended in a spray of gunfire that left the teen-ager dead,
the police and witnesses said. The youth, Stephen Pettigrew, 17, was shot in the
head and died on the street in front of his home. Witnesses and the police said
the neighbors and the teen-agers fought after some of the youths broke malt
liquor bottles in the street. [B2.]

FEUD WILL FADE; SCHOOLS' PROBLEM WON'T

Yes, the Mayor and the Schools Chancellor of New York City do not get along,
which the whole world must know by now. But underlying the personal feud that
led to Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines's resignation last week is a more
fundamental problem, and it will not go away when Mr. Cortines does. It's that
the school system is this odd duck -- independent from the Mayor, but reliant on
him for its money. [Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick. B4.]

REGION

CLERICS DECRY YEARBOOK SLUR

It was referred to only as "the incident," but the racial slur discovered in a
high school yearbook found its way into Greenwich, Conn., churches, condemned by
nearly a dozen ministers who urged their congregants to begin a healing process.
"This dastardly deed is the boil of a consciousness that has to be exposed and
cleansed," the Rev. Avery C. Manchester told the congregation at the
nondenominational First Church of Round Hill. [B2.]

Chronicle B10

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Harsh Memories of Detention Center

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 998 words


Even after 12 years as an immigration lawyer in New Jersey, Rosa Soy was stunned
the first time she met a young Somalian refugee in a glass interview room at the
Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.

She had visited many immigration detention centers in the past, including Varick
Street in lower Manhattan and Wackenhut in Springfield Gardens, Queens, both of
which had been criticized by detainees for their harsh conditions.

But as she faced her young Somalian client, she was shocked to see him chained
to a steel table in the room with both his legs shackled.

In the months that followed, she watched as her young client, who came to this
country after losing his family in Somalia, withered from lack of food and
exercise. She said he complained of being cold at night and being constantly
cursed at by the guards.

The lights in his cell were left on all night, he told her, and the only food he
could stomach was the cookies he bought on the black market from other
prisoners.

"Here was a young man whose sister was raped and his parents and brother taken
away and never seen again, and all he could say to me was, 'I don't care -- I
want to go home, I want to go home,' " Ms. Soy said, adding that her client was
granted asylum and released last month.

Immigration detention centers have never been pleasant places -- isolated, often
harsh and always bubbling with tensions born of months of uncertainty, boredom
and dashed hopes of freedom.

According to some lawyers, the Esmor detention center stood out as one of the
harshest in the country.

Complaints about the center prompted the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service to begin an investigation of the center two weeks ago.

Don Mueller, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said a final
report on the investigation has not been released.

Telephone calls to the Esmor detention denter and the company's corporate
headquarters in Melville, L.I., were not returned yesterday.

Some lawyers say that regardless of what the investigation determines, there is
little doubt in their minds that something has been amiss at Esmor since it
opened.

"I have been involved with immigration for a long time and I have never seen
anything like Esmor," Ms. Soy said.

The Esmor detention center sits on a dead-end street among a group of beige
brick warehouses that constantly shake beneath the roar of jets landing at
nearby Newark International Airport.

If not for a small blue-and-white sign directing employees and visitors to the
parking lot off Evans Street, there is nothing from the street to indicate that,
instead of boxes and crates, this warehouse stores human beings.

The center was opened last August to relieve the crush of illegal immigrants who
arrive each day, usually at Newark or Kennedy International Airports.

Bill Carattini, a spokesman for the immigration service's Newark district
office, said illegal immigrants apprehended at the Newark airport would be
detained at Varick Street. But once that center filled up, there was no option
except to transfer the immigrants to other detention centers around the country.

"The facility was sorely needed in this area," Mr. Carattini said. "We've always
had a shortage of space."

The immigration service usually operates its own detention centers, but as a
cheap way of providing additional space, it also rents cells from local jails or
hires private companies to run contract centers.

Many passengers from the Golden Venture, a tramp steamer smuggling a cargo of
Chinese immigrants that ran aground off the coast of Queens two years ago, for
example, have been held for two years in the York County Prison in Pennsylvania.

Esmor is one of several private companies that run immigration detention centers
around the country. The company also operates a 150-bed detention center in
Seattle for the immigration service. Esmor receives from $75 to $100 per person
a night, according to the immigration service.

The people held in Esmor's New Jersey center are all illegal immigrants, mostly
apprehended at the airports.

About four years ago, large numbers of illegal immigrants discovered that
instead of making the long and treacherous journey to America by land or sea,
they could arrive by plane and eventually be released after applying for
political asylum.

There was so little detention space that many illegal immigrants, even those
with weak asylum cases, were routinely released on bond.

To deter more immigrants from coming, the immigration service began detaining
these jet-age migrants until they were either granted asylum or ordered deported
-- a process that could take months and even years.

The strategy has worked. For example, at Kennedy Airport, the number of illegal
immigrants has dropped to 8,800 last year from 14,700 in 1992.

But it has also unleashed a barrage of criticism that detention has become
overly harsh to deter other illegal immigrants.

Ms. Soy said she has heard of two other incidents at the Esmor center since it
opened last year, a hunger strike by immigrants in October protesting conditions
there and a disturbance started a few months ago by several Cuban immigrants
upset over their long detention.

Judy Rabinovitz, an immigration lawyer, said the center has had complaints since
the beginning, largely focusing on the competence of the staff.

"You had attorneys going there to meet with their clients and being kept waiting
for hours," she said. "There were complaints of abuse by guards. The detainees
were shackled whenever they were moved around."

She was told by Esmor that detainees were shackled because the center did not
have enough guards on duty. She said she was later told that the practice had
stopped.

Ms. Rabinovitz went to visit a client two weeks ago and was stunned when she
found herself locked in a secure area. "We were there banging on the door for
about 10 minutes," she said. "It's just an incredible level of incompetence."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Detention Jail Called Worse Than Prison

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 573 words


As she looked back yesterday on her stay at the Esmor immigration detention
center, Suzanne Kideni recalled the day she got a taste of freedom.

It was when she went to prison.

Specifically, it was on the day in early May when she was transferred from Esmor
in Elizabeth, N.J., to the Lehigh Correctional Facility in Pennsylvania to await
a hearing on her petition for political asylum.

"The food was better and there was fresh air and gym facilities," Miss Kideni
said of the Pennsylvania institution. And compared with Esmor, she said, the
prison accommodations were lavish: only two people to a cell, and each cell had
a toilet.

In her seven months at Esmor, she said, she and other detainees endured a
routine of stultifying boredom, bad food, smelly toilets and the humiliation of
having to duck in the shower when the approach of a male guard was announced.

To pass the time, Miss Kideni said, she and other detainees would play chess or
Scrabble or -- best of all -- look out the windows. The windows were too high to
let in much air, she said, but they did offer a reminder of the outside world:
"We could enjoy seeing the planes and the birds."

A view of the outside meant a great deal, Miss Kideni said, because from the
time she arrived at Esmore last Oct. 4 until she left for the Lehigh prison on
May 5, she never went outdoors. Her world was the warehouse-sized detention
center divided into crowded indoor dormitories.

As Miss Kideni, a 24-year-old from the Sudan, told it yesterday while relaxing
in the tree-shaded comfort of her lawyer's backyard in Plainfield, N.J., her
time at Esmor was the continuation of an ordeal that began when she lost her
parents and brother to the internecine political strife of her native country.

Her parents were slain by Sudanese rebels because her father was active in
Government politics, she said. Her brother, Raymond Otim, was kidnapped, never
to be seen again, for the same reason, she said.

Her grandmother, a teacher who had taught her English, obtained a false passport
under which Miss Kideni said she traveled to Nairobi, Brussels, Stockholm and
finally to the United States. Once here, she said, she owned up at once to the
false passport and was sent by immigration authorities to Esmor to await a
hearing on her plea for political asylum.

"I was taken to a dorm," she said of her first hours at Esmor. "It had 28
people. The toilets were near the dining tables. There was no privacy."

Her own clothing was confiscated, she said, and she was issued other garments --
including soiled underwear.

Miss Kideni recalled seeing bugs on the beds and walls. She also recalled a diet
laden with bread, corn chips, potato chips and a minced-meat macaroni for
supper.

The guards, she said, were disrespectful and left the television sets blaring
from 8 A.M. to 10 P.M., "and then they'd switch it off and we could go to bed."

For three weeks, she said, she ate hardly anything. Then, she said, she was put
on medical supervision: "They gave me orange juice and Jell-O."

Happy to leave Esmor for the Lehigh prison, she was overjoyed when she was
released on June 5, after her application for asylum was granted. Now, she lives
with lawyer, Joyce Phipps, and tries not to long too much for her dead parents
and vanished brother and the grandmother who runs a millet shop back home.

"I want to go to college and study nursing," Miss Kideni said, looking ahead.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Suzanne Kideni, at her lawyer's house yesterday in Plainfield,
N.J. She described tough conditions in an immigration detention center. (Lenore
Victoria Davis for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Shut the Detention Center, Local Authorities Urge

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section B;   Page 4;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., June 19


The Union County Prosecutor's office and the Elizabeth Police Department have
called for the closing of the Esmor immigration detention center here, saying
the site is so poorly managed by a company hired by the Federal Government that
it has become a threat to public safety.

The officials described a teeming prison that was ill prepared for an emergency
like the five-hour uprising early Sunday by up to 300 detained immigrants.

"Despite the politically charged atmosphere within the facility," Police
Director Mary F. Rabadeau said, "it appears that Esmor's emergency plan
consisted of dialing 911."

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which oversees the
center, said today that they expected to reopen it in 45 days and that it would
continue under the management of Esmor Correctional Services of Melville, L.I.

But the Union County Prosecutor, Andrew K. Ruotolo Jr., said he would file a
civil suit if necessary to keep that from occurring. "If this facility is
allowed to reopen under these circumstances, another situation with far greater
consequences might well occur," Mr. Ruotolo said. "This is simply not
acceptable."

Twenty immigrants were injured in the clash that ended when 100 local police
officers moved in and regained control. No one was seriously hurt, although the
furniture and windows in the building were badly damaged, the police said.

The 300 immigrants were moved to centers in New York, Pennsylvania Maryland and
elsewhere in New Jersey.

The first assistant prosecutor, Michael Lapolla, said that after arriving at the
site about an hour after the takeover he found no one from Esmor in charge. "It
was complete chaos," Mr. Lapolla said. "They had no emergency plan, no nothing.
They called 911. That was their emergency plan."

Inside, Mr. Lapolla said, no one from the center could provide a layout of the
building, the locations of the telephone switchboard and water-shutoff valve, a
list of detainees or even a set of keys to open the doors.

"Esmor put minimal effort into this place," Mr. Lapolla added. "If privatization
is the future then we're all in for big trouble."

The company, which operates detention centers elsewhere, declined repeated
requests for interviews.

Even as county officials criticized Esmor, guards at the center, a former
warehouse at 625 Evans Street, also began to voice complaints publicly. In
interviews yesterday, some said that they had received scant training for
emergencies.

"We were just left there," a guard, Christopher Stratford, 30, of Union, said.
"That situation was never discussed."

Although he had no prior experience in corrections or security, Mr. Stratford
said, he was put on the $8.60-an-hour job without even the one week of training
that some other guards had received.

Mr. Stratford was one of the guards who was overpowered by the detainees,
largely illegal aliens taken into custody at airports in the New York
metropolitan region.

Shortly after the uprising began, he said, a blanket was thrown over his head.
He said he was tackled to the ground and beaten, though not badly. He was able
to escape, he added.

Another guard, Garson Jean-Marie, 26, of Roselle, said the center was
consistently understaffed, including on the morning of the uprising. By Mr.
Jean-Marie's account, the guards repeatedly warned the company about the
staffing and safety problems, but were ignored.

Describing the early morning incident, Mr. Jean-Marie said he hid in the ceiling
area for part of the time.

Since the center opened in August, detainees and their lawyers have complained
of abusive guards, substandard food and other problems, including the shackling
of detainees as they met their lawyers.

Vicente Medina, a professor of philosophy at Seton Hall University who said he
often visited a Cuban friend at the center, described a site that was run like a
military camp.

"They were uptight, really," Professor Medina said. " 'You do this, you do
that.' We were viewed like enemies."

Yvonne Hanson of Selinsgrove, Pa., said she befriended a 21-year-old Romanian
sailor who illegally entered the country 15 months ago as a stowaway. She said
the detention center was unsettling to many immigrants who had come to the
United States with the expectation of freedom, but found themselves detained.

Referring to her friend, Nelu Ivan, Ms. Hanson said: "He never dreamed he would
be in prison. He just felt terrible."

Representative Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, who had already asked
the immigration service to investigate the prison, said the Esmor center ranked
among the worst immigration detention centers in the nation.

The immigration agency runs nine centers with its own staffs. To save money, it
has hired several companies to build and run other centers. The companies
receive $75 to $100 a day for each detainee.

The district immigration director in Newark, Warren A. Lewis, said that he
learned of some detainees' complaints from newspaper articles three months ago
and that he had moved to correct them by adding an immigration official to help
oversee the center. Mr. Lewis said he had also ordered Esmor to stop shackling
the detainees and leaving on the lights at night, which many detainees said kept
them awake.

"It's possible things may have slipped between the cracks," Mr. Lewis
acknowledged. "We're in investigation mode now."

In the center, workers began cleaning up the mess from the short siege. Chess
pieces, combs, toothbrushes and pieces of paper, some with evidence that
detainees might need in their asylum cases, were strewn across the floors. Most
of the damage, which immigration officials estimated at $100,000, was to
furniture, glass and bathroom fixtures.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A corridor in the Esmor immigration detention center in
Elizabeth after the uprising on Sunday. (Julio A. Ibarra Jr. for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Operator of Immigration Jails Has a History of Troubles

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words


James F. Slattery started small, managing a hotel on the edge of Kennedy
International Airport. He kept the Riviera hotel filled through a contract with
the Federal Government to absorb the overflow from immigration jails, which
convinced him that the future of the lodging industry lay not with tourists but
with inmates.

In six years, Mr. Slattery and other partners built the fifth largest prison
business in the country, as Federal and local governments turned increasingly to
private companies to handle the exploding inmate population. As the company
hired former high-ranking immigration officials for their expertise, it expanded
and now runs 10 halfway houses, boot camps and detention centers from Seattle to
Brooklyn. Esmor Correctional Services, a publicly traded company based in
Melville, L.I., projects earnings of more than $36 million this year.

Esmor's newest jail, an immigration detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.,
exploded in violence on Sunday after a rocky first year filled with allegations
that immigrants were mistreated. Local officials were so distressed with the
company's handling of the uprising, which left the jail in shambles, that they
vowed yesterday to keep the detention center from reopening. [Page B4.]

The Union County Prosecutor, Andrew K. Ruotolo Jr., mocked Esmor as
"privatization at its worst." Despite repeated phone calls and a visit by a
reporter to its headquarters yesterday, Esmor officials declined to comment.

The company's problems in Elizabeth, where their center has been under
investigation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, echo the troubles
that have dogged its rapid expansion around the country.

They reflect what can occur when a small company is able to grow quickly in an
expanding field with limited oversight, particularly a field that used to be the
exclusive province of the Government.

In California, Esmor's first contract with the Federal Government, a $12.2
million deal to build an immigration jail on an Indian reservation, fell through
after Esmor failed to persuade the Indians to allow it. In Seattle, after Esmor
opened its immigration detention center, immigrants barricaded themselves in
their rooms to protest conditions.

In Texas, a drill instructor at an Esmor boot camp was indicted on misdemeanor
charges after female inmates complained of sexual abuse and harassment. In
Broward County, Fla., Esmor forfeited its state contract to open a work release
center after they failed to win over any community in the county.

And yesterday, a Federal grand jury in Brooklyn indicted two Esmor security
guards on charges of bribery and conspiring to smuggle aliens into the United
States. Prosecutors said the guards, Carolin Rodriguez and Andre Thornton,
solicited a bribe from an undercover agent posing as a Japanese immigrant at
Kennedy Airport, and were arrested in February as they waited for their cash in
a van marked Esmor Security.

Yet, despite such problems, the company has received generally favorable ratings
from state and Federal agencies. Raymond F. Reed, a stock analyst with Janney
Montgomery Scott, said the company has never had a contract withdrawn for poor
performance by a government agency. He said Esmor is one of the most successful
and fastest growing in its industry, which includes about 20 companies. The
private companies run prisons at lower cost.

Esmor is one of several companies that have profited from the increased number
of illegal immigrants being detained, earning $75 to $100 a day per inmate, said
Peter A. Schey, an immigration lawyer in California. Mr. Schey has filed a
class-action suit against the I.N.S., challenging conditions at all of its
detention centers, those run by the Government and those privately run.
Conditions are almost uniformly bad, he said.

Mr. Schey, who said he received a letter in April from 54 detainees at the
Elizabeth center asking for help, said that Esmor's new jail there had been "an
explosion waiting to happen."

Questions were raised about Esmor shortly after the I.N.S. awarded the company
the contract to operate the Elizabeth center. Its bid for a five-year contract
came in at $54 million, $20 million lower than the bid by its competitor, the
Wackenhut Corrections Corporation of Coral Gables, Fla.

Wackenhut filed a formal protest against Esmor's bid, claiming it was
unrealistically low and that the I.N.S. had overrated the company's ability to
run the detention center. But the company withdrew its complaint several months
later, according to the Federal General Accounting Office.

Several of the other complaints Esmor has faced have been about problems at its
centers or the performance of its personnel. Others have been community
opposition to Esmor operations.

Esmor had community relations problems in New York and Florida in the last year.
In Manhattan, the company created a controversy last year when seeking approval
to expand the Federal halfway house it operates at Le Marquis Hotel on East 31st
Street, where Leona Helmsley and Ivan F. Boesky stayed after their release from
prison. Half of the building's apartments are rented as private residences and
the other half house ex-offenders.

Mr. Slattery, the Esmor president, appeared at a community meeting with a
petition supporting the expansion that he said was signed by about 40 private
residents of Le Marquis. But the residents denied signing the petition. The
signatures were apparently taken from other lists, including one residents had
signed confirming that they had received holiday baskets that were passed out at
the building, said Joan Piker, a member of Community Board 5.

Ms. Piker said Mr. Slattery denied preparing the petition.

In Broward County, Fla., when Esmor failed to win the community over, the county
sheriff's office withdrew the contract.

"Esmor did a very poor job presenting the proposal to these communities," said
Ott Cefkin, director of public information for the sheriff's office.


The present problems belie Esmor's early ambitions.

Mr. Slattery, a graduate of St. John's University, worked his way up through the
hotel business in the 1970's, beginning as an administrative assistant at the
New York Sheraton.

In 1987 he and a partner, Morris Horn, a second generation hotelier, founded
Esmor. Another of the founders was Aaron Speisman, who is now the company's
executive vice president. Mr. Horn, the former chairman, died last year.

One of the first executives to join the fledgling company was Richard T. Staley,
a former immigration official who also once worked for a giant of the
corrections industry, Corrections Corporation of America. Another was James C.
Poland, formerly an official of the Texas state prison system.

With this combination and corrections expertise, Esmor grew rapidly. Last year,
Mr. Slattery, the former hotel assistant manager, was paid $280,000 in salary,
bonuses and other compensation. And from 1993 to 1994 alone, Esmor's revenue
increased a striking 72 percent, to $74.2 million.

As Esmor's president, Mr. Slattery set the overall tone and direction of the
company. Beginning in 1982, he entered a partnership that owns 10 hotels in the
New York area as well as a construction company and a national real etstate
development corporation.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Esmor's headquarters in Melville, L.I. (Vic DeLucia/The New York
Times) (pg. B4)

Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Public Corrections, Private Profits"

Esmore Correctional Services, which operates the detention center in Elizabeth,
N.J., has benefitted from state and Federal mandates to reduce prison
overcrowding. In 1994 it added nearly 600 beds; its current total is about 1,900
beds.

EMPLOYEES: 322
1995 FIRST QUARTER REVENUE: $8.1 million; up 70 percent from first quarter 1994
1995 FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS: $465,000; up 41 percent from first quarter 1994

LOCATION: 625 Evans St., Elizabeth, N.J.
PROGRAM: Elizabeth Processing Center
ESTABLISHED: July 1994
SIZE: 300 beds
TYPE: Secure holding cetner for illegal aliens (Federal)

LOCATION: Myrtle Avenue, Brooklyn
PROGRAM: Brooklyn Community Correction Center
ESTABLISHED: June 1989
SIZE: 140 beds
TYPE: Halfway house and substance abuse program (State and Federal)

PROGRAM: N.Y. Community Corrections Program*
ESTABLISHED: March 1990
SIZE: 150 beds
TYPE: Halfway house, job acquisition, substance abuse and retention training
(State)

LOCATION: 12 E. 31st St., Manhattan
PROGRAM: LeMarquis Correctional Center
ESTABLISHED: Women's center, March 1990. Men's center, Nov. 1991
SIZE: 219 beds
TYPE: Halfway house (State and Federal)

PROGRAM: N.Y. Community Correctional Program*

LOCATION: Seattle
PROGRAM: Seattle Processing Center
ESTABLISHED: July 1989
SIZE: 150 beds
TYPE: Secure holding center for illegal aliens (Federal)

LOCATION: Houston
PROGRAM: South Texas Intermediate Sanction
ESTABLISHED: July 1989
SIZE: 400 beds
TYPE: Secure facility for parole violators (State)

LOCATION: Tarrant County, Tex.
PROGRAM: Community Correctional Facility
ESTABLISHED: February 1992
SIZE: 320 beds
TYPE: Boot camp and substance abuse program (County)

LOCATION: Ft. Worth
PROGRAM: Ft. Worth Community Corrections
ESTABLISHED: May 1994
SIZE: 200 beds
TYPE: Halfway house (State)

LOCATION: Travis County, Tex.
PROGRAM: DWI substance abuse treatment facility
ESTABLISHED: September 1994
SIZE: 76 beds
TYPE: DWI center (County)

LOCATION: Hemphill, Tex.
PROGRAM: Hemphill Co. Juvenile Facility
ESTABLISHED: April 1995
SIZE: 60 beds
TYPE: Boot camp and detention center (County)

*State program runs in conjunction with the Federal programs.

(Sources: Bloomberg Business News, Equitable Securities Corp., Janney Montgomery
Scott) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. INQUIRY FINDS DETENTION CENTER WAS POORLY RUN

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1412 words


An investigation by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has
found that a privately run immigration prison in New Jersey, the scene of an
uprising last month, was run like a secretive fief in which poorly trained and
abusive guards preyed on immigrants, with little control from their supervisors.

After releasing the report yesterday, the immigration service said it would not
renew its contract with the company to run the center in Elizabeth, and does not
plan to reopen an immigration jail in the area. . After the June 18 violence,
the center's 315 immigrants were transferred to other detention centers and
county jails.

The report, completed after a two-month investigation, outlined a culture of
abuse that had quickly developed at the detention center, run by Esmor
Correctional Services of Melville, L.I., after it opened late last year.
Investigators said they had found ample evidence that underpaid and poorly
trained guards had beaten detainees, singling out the midnight shift as
particularly abusive.

According to the report, thievery by guards had reached a point at which many
detainees being deported to their homelands refused to board planes because
their belongings had not been returned to them.

Concluding that "no real control was exercised over Esmor guards by their
mid-level supervisors," investigators said the guards had routinely participated
in acts meant to degrade and harass, such as locking detainees in isolation and
repeatedly waking them in the middle of the night. In one incident,
investigators said, men's underwear with question marks drawn on the crotches
was given to female detainees to wear.

Underlying many of the findings in the report was a sense that the detention
center had become a closed and private world. Investigators noted that its
administrator, Willard Stovall, routinely referred to the center as "my house,"
which they interpreted to mean that he felt the immigration service should not
meddle in his operation.

Lawyers, immigrant advocates and government officials hailed the report as
confirmation of their longstanding complaints not only about the Esmor center,
but also about other immigration detention centers across the country. They
praised the report, saying it was unusually forthright and self-critical.

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of the immigration service, said yesterday:
"Our findings have eroded our confidence in Esmor's ability to operate the
Elizabeth detention facility. We are therefore prepared to let our contract with
Esmor for the Elizabeth detention facility lapse."

At the same time, she was candid in acknowledging her agency's role in the
problems, saying, "We know we were very much a part of the failure here."

The immigration service has referred some more serious allegations of physical
abuse to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for investigation of possible civil
rights violations.

After the uprising last month, Esmor's president, James F. Slattery, said that
he thought the violence had grown out of the frustration of immigrants who had
been detained a long time after entering the United States illegally.

But after reading parts of the report yesterday, he conceded there appeared to
be a serious breakdown in supervision and management at the detention center. He
said several guards and supervisors had already been dismissed.

"Clearly, there were significant problems," he said. "I am surprised and
outraged and disappointed."

The Union County Prosecutor, Andrew K. Ruotolo Jr., who had threatened to file a
lawsuit to keep the Esmor center from reopening, said he was pleased with the
immigration service's report.

"The allegations of abuse by Esmor guards as result of lack of training and lack
of guidance are consistent with this office's own investigation," he said. "The
I.N.S. is now abandoning their contract. That was a bold decision and one that
is the right decision."

And Judy Rabinovitz, staff counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union's
immigrant rights project, said: "We commend the I.N.S. for doing what appears to
be an honest investigation. It indicts Esmor, but it also indicts the I.N.S. In
many I.N.S. facilities you can find the same things."

The investigation by the immigration service was started two months ago at the
prompting of Representative Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, who had
received many complaints from lawyers and the relatives of detainees about
substandard conditions and harsh treatment at the Esmor site.

The investigation had already begun when the detention center erupted in
violence in the early morning of June 18. A group of detainees seized control of
the building, and in a brief rampage destroyed furniture, broke windows and
ripped up plumbing.

Police quelled the disturbance after a five-hour standoff. There were no escapes
or serious injuries during the uprising.

The immigration service investigators said that interviews with detainees showed
that the uprising was begun as a cover for an escape attempt.

But Ms. Meissner said that harsh conditions had also played a role. "You have to
believe that the initial disturbance was a catalyst that unleashed all the
frustrations," she said.

In the report released yesterday, investigators laid much of the blame on
Esmor's hiring of marginally qualified guards and giving them virtually no
training. Most guards were paid about $8 an hour.

The lack of training became evident during the uprising, when most fled the
facility at the first sign of trouble, adopting an "every-person-for-himself
mentality," according to the report.

The investigators also found there was a shortage of immigration judges, which
led to longer stays and more frustration for detainees. They also found that the
immigration service had failed to monitor the situation adequately and correct
problems quickly.

But they noted that "because of a longstanding Esmor practice of keeping
information from the I.N.S., the service had little knowledge of specific
problems or concerns of detainees in the custody of Esmor."

Mr. Slattery said it was not a corporate policy to withhold information from the
immigration service. He said he believed the problems at Esmor center were
isolated, stemming from bad management at just that site. For example, he said,
Esmor has run an immigration detention center in Seattle for six years with no
problems.

Ms. Meissner said she also thought that the problems at Esmor were an exception.

"It does raise for us the broader issue of whether we're doing everything we can
do in privatization," she said. But she added, "We will continue to use private
facilities."

Detention in Disarray

An Immigration and Naturalization Service report found a variety of problems,
including some that were its fault, at a detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.,
where immigrants staged a violent uprising June 18. The center was run by a
private company, Esmor Correctional Services.

 What Esmor did wrong:

-- Mid-level supervisors exercised no real control over guards, who were
implicated in physically abusing detainees and stealing from them. . Female
detainees said they had been given male underwear with large question marks
printed e in the area of the crotch. Guards frequently awakened detainees in the
middle of the night, often several times a night, on the pretext of conducting
security checks.

-- The company repeatedly made policy changes without notifying the immigration
service, as required. Some of these changes made it difficult for detainees and
their lawyers to communicate. Esmor also commonly failed to provide, and in some
cases deliberately withheld from the immigration service, important information.

-- Esmor did not have enough employees and tried to cope by assigning large
amounts of overtime. It did not pay enough to attract well-qualified applicants.

-- Guards were poorly trained or totally unaware of what to do in an emergency
like that on June 18.

What the government did wrong:

-- Communication between the immigration service and Esmor was inadequate, and
the immigration service did not provide close oversight of the multimillion
contract, in part because of personnel turnover in its Newark district office.

-- The I.N.S. did not take steps to insure an efficient hearing process for
detainees. Frustration over the hearing process and time of detention were cited
as key reasons for the June 18 disturbance.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An excerpt from the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service report on the Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.,
summarizes instances of abuse. The center was the scene of an uprising last
month. A control room in the private immigration prison in Elizabeth, N.J., was
damaged in a riot last month. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 19, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Jail Business, Nashville Company Leads Crowded Field

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section B;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 420 words


In 1983, two former West Point roommates, one a lawyer, the other a business
consultant, cooked up what was then a rather unusual idea: private prisons.

They joined with a friend who had been a prison official in Arkansas and
Virginia, forming a Nashville company that offered governments a way to house
prisoners more cheaply.

The idea has sprouted into a rapidly growing industry, and today the Corrections
Corporation of America is recognized as the leader in what is now a crowded,
competitive field.

With contracts to run 45 prisons or detention centers in 11 states, it houses
more than 20,000 inmates, nearly half of the 50,000 inmates held nationwide in
privately operated prisons, according to company literature. From 1991 to 1994,
the company's revenues grew to $120.7 million from $67.8 million.

Now the company is on the brink of a new contract. The company is in the final
stages of negotiations to operate the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
detention center in Elizabeth, N.J. The site was closed shortly after a
disturbance by detainees there last June. It was then being run by Esmor, a
private corrections company in New York whose operation was harshly criticized
by a subsequent government report.

The Corrections Corporation of America, known by its initials C.C.A., owns and
operates two I.N.S. detention centers in Texas. Over all, it gets favorable
reviews from correction officials, but it has had some problems.

In a period of several weeks late last year, there was a major disturbance at a
prison housing Federal inmates in western Tennessee run by the company, an
escape by nine inmates from a company-run juvenile detention center in
Nashville, and an escape by an adult inmate from the Metro Detention Facility in
Nashville, also run by the company.

Susan Hart, a company spokeswoman, said that the incidents "were not related"
and that they are "not an indication of systemwide contracts." Ms. Hart said
that the company had only recently assumed control of the juvenile jail when the
escapes occurred and that major changes in management were made in response to
the escapes.

Despite those incidents, even opponents of for-profit prisons say the company
has a good reputation.

"We don't think that the business of locking people up should be done for
profit," said Jenni Gainsborough, a spokeswoman for the National Prison Project
of the American Civil Liberties Union. "But as far as we know, the C.C.A. is
doing at least as good a job as anyone else."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Immigrant Jail to Reopen

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday that it
would reopen its detention center in Elizabeth, which closed a year ago after
inmates rioted. A spokesman for the agency, Tony Papazzo, said the Corrections
Corporation of America, a private company based in Nashville, would reopen the
center in September. The jail's previous operator, the Esmor Correctional
Services Corporation of Melville, L.I., was faulted by the I.N.S. for inhumane
conditions that led to the riot.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 19, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Suspect in Golden Venture Case Was Leading a Life of Luxury

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 41;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1312 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Nov. 18


In the 29 months since the rusting freighter Golden Venture ran aground off New
York with its cargo of illegal Chinese immigrants, Lee Peng Fei, believed to be
the operation's mastermind, has apparently continued to reap and enjoy the vast
profits of the human smuggling trade, investigators said today.

He had been living in a stylish condominium apartment on the outskirts of
Bangkok near the airport, and lately had been driving an $89,000, forest-green
Mercedes-Benz, the fancy E-220 Cabriolet model, which he was polishing in the
steamy tropical sun on Thursday when the Royal Thai Police, acting on a tip from
American authorities, closed in and seized him without a struggle.

Inside the condominium apartment, investigators said they found a wealth of
incriminating evidence, including Chinese and other passports that appeared to
confirm that Mr. Lee had traveled to Singapore, Hong Kong, his native Taiwan and
other Asian locales and to the United States in his continuing smuggling work.

"He still appears to be heavily involved," Randall E. Grimes, a Thailand-based
officer of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, said of the
shadowy, 43-year-old suspect, who uses a variety of aliases including Charlie,
Char Lee, and Ma Lee.

Mr. Lee is charged with arranging the Golden Venture operation and with homicide
in the deaths of some of the 10 passengers who perished in the waters off
Rockaway Beach on June 6, 1993, as they leaped into the pounding surf. He was
the biggest catch thus far in the case, and his arrest left American officials
elated.

"We were beginning to think he had just disappeared into thin air," said Mr.
Grimes, who led the American inquiry here. "We've been searching for him for a
long time. This is the culmination of a lot of effort and strong cooperation
between the I.N.S. in New York and Bangkok and the Thai police."

While prosecutors in New York said they expected Mr. Lee to be extradited to the
United States promptly, American officials here questioned that prospect. They
noted that 10 major suspects in American drug cases arrested in Thailand a year
ago have yet to be extradited.

The problem, these officials said, appeared to be strong opposition among Thai
military authorities to sending Thai nationals abroad for prosecution,
especially where questions of jurisdiction arise.

While Mr. Lee was born in Taiwan, has a wife in New York City and was in
possession of several passports, it was unclear if he held a valid Thai
passport, which might complicate the extradition process. If he does not hold
such a passport, he may be extradited quickly.

The arrest of Mr. Lee ended a two-and-a-half-year manhunt for the prime suspect
-- but perhaps not the ultimate suspect -- in the case of the Golden Venture,
which ran aground in the darkness with nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants who
paid, or promised to pay, up to $30,000 each for passage halfway around the
world in an unsafe, dirty ship overseen by brutal thugs.

Mr. Lee was charged in a 10-count indictment returned by a Federal grand jury in
Brooklyn in August 1994 and unsealed yesterday. The murder and smuggling charges
carry penalties of up to 85 years in prison and a fine of $2.5 million.

Over the last two years, 21 other defendants -- members of the ship's crew and
others with roles in the operation -- have been convicted on smuggling and other
charges and sentenced to terms of up to 10 years.

But testimony by defendants who have cooperated with prosecutors suggests that
while Mr. Lee may have been the operational mastermind of the Golden Venture,
his role was that of a smuggling contractor for investors who took money from
immigrants and hired him to transport them. Officials say those investors, whose
identities are often hidden from people who work for them like Mr. Lee, may yet
be caught.

The Golden Venture case uncovered not only a tale of cruelty and squalid
conditions for the immigrants, but also helped expose the vast and lucrative
business of human smuggling between Asia and the United States.

American law-enforcement officials say that criminal gangs smuggle tens of
thousands of Asian laborers, many of them from China's coastal Fujian Province,
to work in restaurants, garment factories and other businesses for little more
than slave wages.

The smuggling operations are run by loose networks of businessmen who rely on
associates on both sides of the Pacific to help recruit, transport and collect
fees up to $30,000 from immigrants who often must work for years to pay their
debts. Mr. Lee, officials say, was a smuggling contractor who worked for such
businessmen and subcontracted much of the actual work to others.

Testimony in several trials of figures involved in the Golden Venture detailed
Mr. Lee's role as a central one dating back to the summer of 1992, when he was
involved in smuggling more than 200 illegal Chinese immigrants. Though bound for
the United States, their ship, Najd II, became unseaworthy and put in at
Mombasa, Kenya, where they were stranded for months.

Mr. Lee, meantime, organized the purchase of the Golden Venture in Singapore in
January 1993, and leased space to other smugglers -- commonly known as
"snakeheads" -- for customers. The ship picked up 90 Chinese nationals off
Thailand, traveled to Mombasa to take on 200 of the stranded immigrants, and
headed for the United States.

Conditions on board were wretched. The passengers were crammed into a
40-foot-by-20-foot hold and had a single ladder to the deck. There were no life
boats or life jackets; privacy and sanitation were almost nonexistent. Water was
severely rationed.

Smaller boats were to have met the ship at a rendezvous point in the Atlantic
and the passengers were to have been taken to shore, trial testimony indicated.
But the boats failed to arrive, and the Indonesian captain, Amir H. Lumban
Tobing, resolved to put in at the island of Madeira, off Spain, for supplies.

A confederate of Mr. Lee's on board, Kin Sin Lee, objected to the idea, and he
and 12 passengers staged a mutiny on May 17. The captain was handcuffed and
taken below with the crew.

The ship's first officer, named Lwin, accepted Mr. Kin's offer to assume
command. Mr. Kin, who knew Mr. Lee only as "Charlie," contacted his boss by
radio and was told the rendezvous boats were not coming, and to sail into New
York Harbor.

But First Officer Lwin objected, and the snakeheads on board eventually resolved
to run the ship aground off Rockaway Beach, with the vague notion of having
passengers who could swim jump into the surf and make it to shore on their own,
with others to be picked up later by boats.

Mr. Lee apparently approved the scheme by radio. He was on Rockaway Beach on
June 4, checking out the tides for the freighter's arrival two days later. But
things did not go as planned.

In the moonlight before dawn on June 6, Mr. Kin ordered the First Officer to run
the ship in, and he did so. But six-foot seas were pounding the coast, and as
the ship struck a sand bar and heeled over, panic swept the terrified refugees.
In the pandemonium, they rushed up out of holds and hatches, climbed the rails,
leaped into the water and tried to swim or wade to shore.

Witnesses told of terrible cries in the surf, of people bowled over, dragged
under or swept toward rockbound jetties. At least five drowned. Others suffered
heart attacks or died of hypothermia. Many more, clad only in rags or underwear
and clutching plastic bags of belongings, dragged themselves out of thundering,
53-degree seas, shivering , and crawled up on the beach, collapsing and purple
with exposure.

The exhausted survivors huddled on the beach as the lights of New York City
twinkled hopelessly in the distance. Patrol officers encountered the
astonishing, forlorn crowd, and soon the sirens began to wail.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 24, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

64 Are Indicted as Gangsters In Chinatown

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 962 words


Taking aim at the network of alien smugglers who have brought hundreds of
illegal Chinese immigrants to New York in recent years -- and who often use
kidnapping, torture and extortion to bolster profits -- Federal prosecutors said
yesterday that they had smashed a violent organized-crime gang that had
terrorized Chinatown for years.

In a series of arrests this week, the authorities said they had captured 35
reputed members of the gang, known as the Fukienese Flying Dragons, including
its top commanders in America. But the officials acknowledged that 25 other
suspects had escaped the dragnet and that the gang's two indicted bosses had
fled to China.

Of the 64 men indicted altogether, prosecutors accused about half of involvement
in smuggling immigrants. Gang members also committed robberies and ran extortion
schemes and protection rackets, and sometimes resorted to murder to enforce
their grip, according to prosecutors.

Eight racketeering indictments unsealed yesterday in Federal District Court in
Manhattan charged that since 1992, the gang had smuggled more than 350 people
into the country from China at a price of about $30,000 a person. More than 150
of the aliens, officials said, were held for ransom and tortured until their
relatives or friends in the United States and China paid the full amount.

Federal officials said the sweeping indictments had crushed the last remaining
powerful Chinese organized-crime gang in the region. But an expert on Chinese
gangs in America, Ko-lin Chin, said he doubted that the latest crackdown would
prevent new gangs from emerging quickly.

"It's too optimistic to say this is the end of organized crime in Chinatown,"
said Mr. Chin, an assistant professor of criminology at Rutgers University in
Newark and the author of two books on Chinese gangs. "There is a strong demand
for gang services -- like protecting illegal gambling places, massage parlors,
collecting loans, settling disputes among individuals and fraternal
organizations and smuggling immigrants."

Announcing the latest indictments, Mary Jo White, the United States Attorney for
the Southern District of the state, said the Fukienese Flying Dragons preyed
mainly on immigrants and merchants from the Fukien Province in China who now
live in Chinatown, Brooklyn, Queens and in New Jersey.

Two accused gang members were charged with kidnapping a young woman at
knifepoint from a street in Flushing, Queens, in December 1994, raping her and
holding her captive until her relatives paid a $38,000 ransom. In battles for
control of extortion and other protection rackets in Chinatown, the Fukienese
gangsters were said in the indictments to have murdered two members of the rival
Fuk Ching and Ghost Shadows gangs.

The gang members also were charged with committing nine robberies and extortions
of four businesses and restaurants in the city, New Jersey and in Albany that
generated about $200,000.

Ms. White, speaking at a news conference with about 50 Federal and state
law-enforcement officials whose agencies participated in the year-long
investigation, said that more arrests were imminent. "We believe," she added,
"that we will break the back of the Fukienese Flying Dragons and are on the
verge of finally freeing Chinatown from the grip of the violence and lawlessness
that has plagued it for decades."

She declined to give details of how the gang was infiltrated or how evidence was
obtained in the tightly knit group. But Ms. White noted that residents and
merchants were becoming increasingly cooperative in reporting criminal
activities and testifying against suspected gang members.

Ms. White said that the Fukienese gang brought in 200 immigrants in a boat that
arrived off the coast of New Jersey in 1993. More than 100 were immediately
taken hostage by the gang and kept in apartments in Chinatown and Brooklyn until
ransoms of at least $30,000 for each person were paid, she said.

In 1992, Ms. White said, the gang had tried to slip 100 immigrants into the
country from a ship, but the vessel was intercepted by Federal agents off the
coast of Hawaii. The gang posted bail for about 50 of the illegal immigrants and
then held them hostage in the city for ransoms, Ms. White said.

Chauncey G. Parker, the lead Federal prosecutor in the Fukienese gang case, said
that the top leaders of the gang, Lee Shou Pao and Chen Guo Ren, were named in
the indictments, but both are believed to have returned last year to China. They
cannot be forcibly returned to face charges here because the United States does
not have an extradition treaty with China, Mr. Parker said.

Mr. Chin of Rutgers University, who is doing a study on illegal immigration,
said Chinese gang smugglers had apparently stopped using ships as a major method
of entry. He said that many Chinese immigrants were entering illegally through
Mexico or flying into the United States after obtaining fraudulent visas.

But he said that despite the indictments, the gang problems in Chinatown were
likely to continue. Since the mid-1980's, Mr. Chin noted, Federal and state
prosecutors have convicted more than 100 Chinese gangsters with pronouncements
that the authorities had dismantled the notorious Ghost Shadows, Fuk Ching, Tung
On, Hakka and the original Flying Dragons groups. "It does not matter how many
gangs you wipe out," he added in an interview. "Sooner or later new ones will
spring up to fill the vacuum."

Man Bun Lee, a former president of the Chinatown Consolidated Benevolent
Association, the neighborhood's largest civic organization, said the Fukienese
gang was viewed by many community leaders as the fourth largest criminal gang to
spring up in the last decade. "It could be the last one," he said in an
interview. "Who knows?"

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Shou Pao (pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 4, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Thai Workers Are Set Free In California

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1053 words

DATELINE: EL MONTE, Calif., Aug. 3


Inside a squalid garment factory ringed with barbed wire and spiked fences,
nearly 70 foreign workers from Thailand lived and worked, sometimes for years,
in what Federal agents described today as involuntary servitude.

Before the workers were freed in a pre-dawn raid by immigration officials on
Wednesday, they had lived a life in which they were locked up and guarded each
night and threatened with harm or death if they tried to escape. Federal
officials said that the workers' children were often held hostage to insure that
the parents would continue stitching together American brand-name clothes.
Sometimes, the officials said, the workers were little more than children
themselves.

The workers were burdened with inflated debts they could never repay, mostly for
their transportation to this country, the officials said. The laborers were
often bused from the airport directly to the compound and, upon arrival,
stripped of their possessions. For about $1.60 an hour, from daybreak to
midnight, the workers toiled within the crowded compound, the officials said.

Late this afternoon eight people were accused in a Federal indictment of abusing
workers they had lured to the United States from Thailand. The eight people
indicted were: Sunee Manasulangkoon, Tavee Uvawas, Sunton Rawungchaisung, Rampa
Suthaprasit, Suporn Verayutnilai, Seree Granjapiree, Hong Wangdee and Thanes
Panthong.

In an affidavit to the grand jury, Philip L. Bonner, an investigator for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that one of the people detained at
the compound, Bubpha Rhangmak, told him that about a year ago two people who
tried to escape were severely beaten and then sent back to Thailand. He said
another detainee told him that the operators of the compound routinely abused
the workers and told them that if they escaped he would "go to their hometowns
in Thailand to burn their houses down."

Mr. Bonner said another woman being held, Laong Kitcharoen, told investigators
that she was told that it would take about three years to work off the $4,800,
at a rate of about $300 a month, that she owed for being brought to the United
States.

Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's National
Immigrants Rights Project, said: "This is as bad as any incident that I have
heard of, especially in terms of the amount of time the immigrants were locked
up."

He added: "This should make people realize how immigrants are exploited. But I'm
afraid that this kind of thing is going to grow given the increasing sense of
vulnerability of immigrants."

Under Federal law, involuntary servitude occurs when a worker is compelled, by
whatever means, to work at a job he or she does not want. If the worker is
forced to work off a debt to his employer, the offense becomes peonage. The size
of the debt does not matter, and it also makes no difference whether the worker
initially agreed to take the job, or whether the worker was paid.

At a news conference today, Victoria Bradshaw, the California State Labor
Commissioner who supervised the search, said garments found at the site included
labels from retailers like Macy's, Hecht's and Filene's. There was no evidence
that these retailers knew that their garments were sewn by workers at this
compound or that they were aware of the conditions at the site. And none of the
retailers have been charged.

Ms. Bradshaw said investigators learned about conditions at the compound about
six weeks ago after some of the detainees escaped. The immigration service has
been tracking the ring since April 1992, she said.

James Hahn, a lawyer in the City Attorney's office in Los Angeles, called the
detention of the workers "outrageous" conduct, adding that "our intention is to
get convictions. We expect to get six months per incident, and when you add up
64 incidents, you could easily add that up to 30 years."

State and Federal labor officials say that because of dramatic changes in the
apparel industry, which in Los Angeles has shifted from the large factories that
once replaced sweatshops to the small shops themselves, workplace abuses are
increasingly common. A study by California labor officials last year, based on
random inspections of 69 garment manufacturers and contractors, found that all
but two firms were breaking either Federal or state laws, or both. Of the firms
surveyed, 50 percent violated minimum-wage rules and 68 percent violated
overtime requirements.

Today, several people in the neighborhood surrounding the factory said they had
no idea the compound was filled with workers being held against their will.

"I thought nothing of it," said Blanca Garcia, 26, who lives around the corner
from the complex. "We would walk by and the people inside would smile. Four or
five of them would be singing. They didn't look mad at all."

Ms. Garcia said that occasionally she heard the whirring of sewing machines in
the complex's garage and saw people working there, but she assumed they were
taking garments home to be finished at night.

Next door to the compound, at Rolling Homes Manor, a mobile home park, Chuck
Lieder, the manager, said that the people were quiet, and that he did not
suspect a thing.

"I figured slavery went out years ago," Mr. Lieder said.

In retrospect, he said, a lot of the goings-on now make sense. He now suspects
that the men seated at all hours under an umbrella in the driveway of the
compound were actually guards who would not allow anyone to approach the wall
and escape.

"They wouldn't let anybody get close enough to the wall to talk to them."

Along the front of the compound here in El Monte, a suburb about 12 miles east
of downtown Los Angeles, is a five-foot high gate; windows along the rear of the
unit are covered with thick iron bars. Elsewhere, windows on the second floor
are blocked by plywood sheets nailed from the inside. The entire complex is
surrounded by rolls of barbed wire or a six-foot high brick wall topped by
metal-spikes.

Joe Bautistia, 61, who said he frequently visited his daughter's home across the
street from the compound, said he never thought of the security surrounding the
building as unusual.

"It never really dawned on me," Mr. Bautistia said. "I thought that the barbed
wire was a precaution against crime in the area."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nearly 70 Thai garment workers in El Monte, Calif., were
released from what agents called virtual slavery. (Associated Press) (pg. A1);
Immigrants from Thailand were held against their will, often for years, inside
this El Monte, Calif., garment factory, Federal authorities said. They worked
from daybreak until midnight for about $1.60 an hour. (Barrett Stinson for The
New York Times) (pg. A20)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A New Wave of Immigrants On Farming's Lowest Rung

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

DATELINE: MADERA, Calif., Aug. 19


It is still and silent and unbearably hot here in the heart of raisin country.
Migrant farm workers who have gathered from around the state and from Mexico sit
motionless in the shade as the hard yellow grapes, in thousands of acres of
vineyards, grow sweeter and heavier on the vine, almost ready for the clamor of
the harvest.

The grape harvest is an autumn ritual as old as California, but there is a
change. Most of the migrant workers here in Madera do not speak Spanish. They
are Mixtec Indians from the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, who, along with an
influx of indigenous groups from Central and South America, are changing the
face of America's farm labor force.

From the strawberry fields of San Diego County to the apple orchards of Oregon
to the tomato farms of Florida to the fields of grapes and garlic here in
central California, Mixtec and Zapotec Indians have joined a dozen Mayan tribes
from Guatemala as the menials in the agricultural work force.

No accurate counts of this shifting migratory work force exist, but estimates of
Mixtec Indians, the largest indigenous group in California, range upward of
50,000, a little more than 6 percent, of the state's mostly Spanish-speaking
Mexican farm labor force of 800,000. Among the most recent arrivals from across
the Mexican border, the proportion appears to be much higher. A survey of 241
migrant farm workers interviewed at 19 labor camps in north San Diego County,
conducted by a local health center two years ago, found that 40 percent spoke
indigenous Indian languages rather than Spanish.

In a startling snapshot of some of the newest elements in America's ethnic mix,
the survey by the Vista Community Clinic found speakers of 12 Indian languages
including Cakchiquel, Chatmo, Kanjobal, Nahuatl, Otomi, Tlapaneco and Trique as
well as Mixteco and Zapoteco.

These groups are the latest in a long history of waves of immigrants who have
entered the American work force as agricultural workers in California. They
plant and harvest in fields that were worked a century ago by Chinese and
Japanese immigrants, and more recently by Filipinos and Mexicans as well as by
Depression migrants from Oklahoma and Texas.

As each group has moved up into better paying jobs and established positions in
their communities, it has made room at the bottom in a shifting hierarchy of the
dispossessed. As Mexican workers now begin to settle and find work in
landscaping, construction and the service industries, the cycle is continuing.

And as the Mixtec Indians themselves begin to cluster in large enough numbers to
assert their rights, they, too, are creating an even lower niche for small
groups of Mayan Indians who are willing to work for subsistence wages and to
sleep in cars or holes in the ground.

The proliferation of Indian languages was observed by the community clinic in an
area where the Hispanic population, including indigenous groups, grew by nearly
200 percent during the 1980's, to 25 percent of the population of the town of
Vista.

That local growth spurt reflects a broad shift in the state's farm labor force,
which a recent survey by Philip Martin, a professor of agricultural economics at
the University of California at Davis, found was 82 percent Mexican-born. Mr.
Martin said Indian workers tend to be among the most migratory, and so their
proportion of the work force is highest at harvest time.

"Before, I used to just have Mexicans here," said Daniel Nazaroff, who owns 130
acres of vineyards near Madera and employs about 50 people at harvest time.
"Then, slowly, it changed and now just about all of them are from Oaxaca
(pronounced wa-HA-ka). You hear them talking and you realize, that's not Mexican
they're speaking."

In Florida, the nation's second- largest agricultural state after California,
the increasing number of indigenous workers includes an especially large
contingent of Guatemalan Mayan groups, particularly Kanjobal, said Tirso Moreno,
the general coordinator of the Farmworkers Association of Florida.

Many work in the tomato fields around Indiantown and Immokalee, Mr. Moreno said,
in clusters that have grown rapidly since a surge of government-sponsored
violence against Indians in Guatemala in 1987 and 1988.

Experts on California's migrant labor force say the harsh economy of Mexico and
its neighbors to the south is driving the poorest villagers north in search of
work.

"We are reaching deeper and deeper into Central and South America to find people
willing to do the work that people who are born here don't want to do," said Don
Villarejo, a professor at the California Institute for Rural Studies in Davis.

"Raisin grape harvesting is probably one of the worst jobs you would ever want
to do," Mr. Villarejo said. "It's a job where you need a very large number of
people for a very short period of time, and most employers I have spoken to
prefer the Mixtecs. They work very, very hard; they don't complain, and they, so
to speak, understand the rules of the game."

That game can often mean exploitation. At peak times, the Mixtec workers say,
they are in the fields from dawn to dusk and their take-home pay can amount to
as little as $3 an hour.

Agustin Ramirez, 40, is one of the earliest members of the Mixtec migration,
traveling here seasonally and making the "West Coast circuit" through
California, Oregon and Washington for more than 10 years. Mr. Ramirez had just
arrived here this weekend at a dusty camp in Madera from Oregon, where he and a
dozen family members of working age had been employed in the blueberry and
strawberry fields.

"We are waiting for the grapes," he said as his children, who rarely stay in one
place long enough to go to school, played nearby in the shade. "We are not sure
if we will be hired here, and if we are not, we will keep on moving."

Mr. Ramirez is a legal immigrant, one of a million farm workers who obtained
amnesty under a 1986 law, which granted amnesty to longtime undocumented
workers. About 25 percent of California's migrant work force is in the country
illegally, according to Mr. Martin's figures. But the proportion of undocumented
workers among the recent arrivals, including the Mixtecs, is higher than that.

One week ago, several workers here said, agents of the Border Patrol raided the
camp at 1 A.M. and removed 46 or 47 people who did not have documentation --
more than two-thirds of the people here.

Mr. Villarejo, of the Institute for Rural Studies, said that in interviews,
migrant Mixtec workers have identified more than 200 home villages in Oaxaca and
100 clusters of workers here in California. By all accounts, their ties to their
homes remain strong, and in interviews here, most workers said they intended
eventually to return to Oaxaca stay. But the wave of migration is so recent that
that prediction remains largely untested.

Throughout Oaxaca, farm work in the United States has become a primary industry,
supporting entire villages and paying for schools, roads and piped water.

Filemon Lopez, 39, a Mixtec community organizer who has worked in the fields
since he was a boy, said that about half the population of 35,000 in his native
area of San Juan Mixtepec was now in the United States. Mr. Lopez said his home
village of Rio Timbre was bereft of men, much like a wartime village when all
the men go off to fight. "If they are young and strong they are here," he said.
"Only the elderly stay behind."

The travels of the people from San Juan Mixtepec, as described by Mr. Lopez,
offer a sketch of the Mixtec diaspora in the United States, with their largest
concentrations here in Madera and in Homestead, Fla.

In Florida, Mr. Lopez said, most migrants work in tomato fields and citrus
orchards. In North Carolina, they work in tobacco and sweet potato fields and in
toy factories. In West Virginia, they are in chicken processing plants and
washing dishes in restaurants. They are restaurant workers in New York as well.
In Maine, Mixtec migrants are on poultry farms, in Idaho in potato storage
plants; in Arizona, they work in nurseries and on dairy farms; in Michigan, on
beet farms.

Along the West Coast corridor they travel from the strawberry and flower and
garlic and raisin grape fields of California to the apple and cherry orchards,
nurseries and canneries of Oregon to the cherries and pears and apple orchards
of Washington State, and back again, following the seasons.

In recent years, as with mestizo Mexican migrants before them, the Mixtecs have
worked out migratory patterns and support systems that provide avenues to
housing and jobs for newcomers.

Mr. Lopez and others have also begun to organize to protect their rights from
the mostly Mexican-American supervisors, who, they say, often exploit them by
paying them too little and by deducting portions of their pay, unasked, for
transportation, lodging and food.

The concentration of Mixtec workers has grown so large here in Madera -- perhaps
5,000 people -- that a local school recently hired a bilingual aide to help
communicate with migrant children and their parents.

But in an indication of the new migrants' distance from mainstream American
culture, the bilingual aide speaks only Mixtec and Spanish. He is taking English
lessons, Mr. Lopez said.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agustin Ramirez, a Mixtec Indian, has been working a "West Coast
circuit" of farms in Washington, Oregon and California for 10 years. His family,
including his daughters Irene, 3, and Catalina, 4, travels with him. (Thor Swift
for The New York Times)(pg. b13)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

'New Media' Experts Debate Proposals to Reduce Immigration

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B;  Page 4;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 565 words


A Congressional proposal for strict new limits on immigration, which critics say
would undermine the ability of high technology companies to recruit foreign
workers, may not create severe barriers to a growing new entertainment industry
in New York City, economists and business executives said yesterday.

The "new media" industry has in recent years grown out of the dense
concentration of entertainment companies operating out of Manhattan lofts and
inexpensive offices. Hundreds of start-up companies have sprung up to find new
markets for software, interactive video programs and other high technology
products in publishing, television and advertising.

Unlike larger, more mature computer companies, executives say these new media
companies haven't recruited many high technology professionals from abroad.

"These companies are so culturally based, I don't think new immigration rules
will make a difference," said Gail Kleinberg-Koch, president of C A/S Comsearch,
a Manhattan company that recruits workers for new media companies.

Because companies in the field concentrate on entertainment, she said their
workers must combine technical expertise with an intimate knowledge of American
popular culture -- from Wheel of Fortune to professional wrestling -- that few
immigrants can offer.

But her view was not shared uniformly.

"That sounds ethnocentric to me," said Daniel Stechow, 32, the founder and
president of Brainstorm Interactive, a Manhattan company that makes interactive
video products.  "What is American culture if not derivative of other cultures?"

Although Mr. Stechow's products, including a video of the Grateful Dead, are now
marketed only to United States companies, he said two of his technical
executives are immigrants, a computer artist from Japan and a programmer from
India. He said he hoped to sponsor both for American citizenship, enabling them
to become permanent employees.

But that might run headlong into immigration bills in Congress. Among other
changes, they would cut the annual number of immigrants to 535,000 from 800,000
a year, and the annual number who could obtain citizenship for professional
reasons to 75,000 from 140,000.

The Congressional proposal may be welcomed by many people in the New York region
who have been laid off from large technology companies, including I.B.M. in
Westchester County, Grumman on Long Island and Electric Boat in Connecticut.

"There are several categories of high-tech jobs where foreign recruitment would
only add to a surplus of workers in the region," said Emmanuel Tobier, a
professor of economics and urban planning at New York University and an expert
on immigration.

But some new media companies were critical of the Congressional proposals.

"In my case, these rules would mean one less entrepreneur," said Yee Ping Wu,
40, a classical pianist and computer expert who formed Music Pen, a new media
company in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, in 1988. The company makes
CD-ROM's and multimedia programs. It employs 600 people.

Ms. Wu immigrated to New York in the 1970's and stayed on, she said, as an
illegal alien until she obtained citizenship under the amnesty program of the
late 1980's.

"What makes New York interesting is its cultural diversity," she said. If the
rules now proposed in Congress had been enacted a decade ago, she added, "I'd be
in trouble."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Engineers Needn't Fear Worker Influx

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words


To the Editor:

Michael S. Teitelbaum (Op-Ed, March 19) contributes to the witch-hunt call to
curtail the limited legal immigration of skilled foreign workers who fill
technical positions.

To be eligible for employment in the United States, a skilled foreign worker and
the prospective employer-sponsor must submit applications and support documents
to the Department of Labor and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
have safeguards that must be met before a foreign worker may secure nonimmigrant
status.

An employer must pay the foreign worker a designated "prevailing wage" for the
position as determined by the Labor Department. That wage is generally higher
than the free-market rate for the position.

In addition, the sponsor company must prove that there are no qualified United
States candidates for the job, advertise it in a widely circulated newspaper and
post it internally so that employees may also apply. If a United States
candidate meets the minimum requirements, he or she is considered acceptable by
the Labor Department and the application for the foreign worker is rejected,
precluding the company from proceeding to filing an application with the I.N.S.

DIANE M. PORGES
New York, March 20, 1996

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers Aren't Stealing Jobs

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 157 words


To the Editor:

Roy Beck's claim that immigrants have been used to depress wages in fields like
computer engineering is surprising (Op-Ed, April 30). I work in a Silicon Valley
semiconductor company, and many of my engineering co-workers are immigrants. I
wouldn't describe our wages as "depressed." In 14 years, my salary has grown 9
percent annually. Last I checked, this was significantly ahead of inflation.

The plant where I work also has a large number of immigrant line workers, yet
hourly wages are higher than those of the mostly native-born operators outside
California. Maybe Minnesota, for example, could use more immigrants, because
their effect in California has been to drive wages up.

Immigrants at my company aren't "taking jobs away from Americans." Far from it.
They are filling jobs that would otherwise go unfilled, and working hard once
they get them.

MARC JACOBS
San Mateo, Calif., April 30, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

4 Draw Prison Terms in Sweatshop Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 7


Four people were sentenced to prison terms on Monday for running a sweatshop
where dozens of immigrant workers were held in slavelike conditions.

Judge Audrey Collins of Federal District Court sentenced Suni Manasurangkun, 66,
who was identified as the ringleader, to seven years in prison and her son,
Surachai Manasurangkun, to six years.

Sunthon Rawangchaison, who worked as a guard, was sentenced to six years. Rampha
Sattasprasit, who helped operate the shop, was sentenced to four years. Suni
Manasurangkun and her son, along with two other sons who were sentenced last
month, must pay $4.5 million to some 70 immigrant employees.

The other sons, Wirachai and Phanasak Manasurangkun, were sentenced last month
to six years each.

Another defendant, Seri Kanchakphairi, a guard, is to be sentenced a week from
Monday.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

More Misery for Vietnamese Detainees

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words


Only a few weeks ago, it looked as if the sad saga of the tens of thousands of
Vietnamese stuck in squalid detention camps across Southeast Asia was finally
heading toward a tolerable conclusion. Those who did not qualify as political
refugees were headed back, under U.N. monitoring, to a Vietnam that was, if no
paradise, at least less impoverished and repressive than the one they fled.

Then House Republicans attached an amendment to the foreign aid bill that calls
for reconsidering the asylum claims of those already found ineligible and
cutting off funding to monitor and assist returned refugees in Vietnam. This
clumsy political gesture touched off riots in the detention camps against any
further repatriations and halted the return flow.

Reinterviewing may sound like a generous offer, and many who voted for the
provision sincerely wanted to help the Vietnamese in detention camps. But the
more likely result is further suffering.

The amendment, which the Senate has not acted on and which President Clinton
opposes, may never become law. And it is not at all clear whether Congress can
compel the executive branch to grant political asylum to people who do not
qualify.

The story of the Vietnamese boat people began nearly 20 years ago, in the years
following Hanoi's triumph over South Vietnam. Millions of Vietnamese set sail in
small boats fleeing ethnic and political persecution and economic misery. Many
died at sea or fell victim to local pirates.

Those who made it to nearby shores were received with hostility and herded into
makeshift camps to await possible acceptance elsewhere. Eventually, more than a
million were admitted to the United States and tens of thousands were accepted
by other countries.

Some 40,000 remain in Southeast Asian camps, more than half in Hong Kong. All
have been formally found ineligible for asylum under international law, which
requires well-founded fear of persecution. Procedural questions have been raised
about a small number of screenings, and these might usefully be reviewed. But
the House's call for a wholesale reopening will only hold out false hopes and
prevent agreement to voluntary return. Meanwhile, cutting off monitoring and
assistance funds can only hurt those who have already returned.

The Senate, if it truly cares about the fate of these Vietnamese, should avoid
repeating the House's mistake.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 537 words



HISTORY OF ILLS AT IMMIGRATION JAILS

James F. Slattery started small, managing a hotel on the edge of Kennedy
Airport. He kept the Riviera hotel filled through a contract with the Government
to absorb the overflow from immigration jails, which convinced him that the
future of the lodging industry lay not with tourists but with inmates. In six
years, Mr. Slattery and his partners built the fifth largest prison business in
the country. [Page A1.]

The Union County Prosecutor's office and the Elizabeth Police Department have
called for the closing of the Esmor detention center. [B4.]

NEW YORK CITY

BIAS DEBATE DIVIDES A SCHOOL

The teachers and students of Norman Thomas High School in Manhattan are spending
the end of the school year divided, wrestling with the troubling issues of
anti-Semitism and racism and what to do about both. At an emotional meeting,
most of the high school's 130 teachers voted to ask Schools Chancellor Ramon C.
Cortines to bar from graduation ceremonies six seniors who wrote or knew of an
anti-Semitic note given to a teacher. [B3.]

SUSPENSION OF GOTTI LAWYER IS UPHELD

A Federal appeals court chastised Bruce Cutler, John Gotti's lawyer, for defying
a judge's order to curb his fist-waving remarks to the press on behalf of his
client, and it affirmed his sentence of three months of house arrest and
suspension from practice in some Federal courts for six months. [B3.]

Mayor Giuliani presses his quest for veto power in the choice of a schools
chancellor. [B2.]

A fifth New York City police officer has been linked to a drunken rampage
through several hotels in Washington, the police said. [B3.]

In two accidents one hour apart, a 12-year-old youth and an 84-year-old man were
struck and killed in Brooklyn by cars whose drivers did not stop, the police
said. [B3.]

REGION

COMPROMISE ON BUDGET

State legislative leaders in New Jersey released a compromise version of Gov.
Christine Todd Whitman's budget for the coming fiscal year that preserves the
Governor's 15 percent income tax cut for 1996 and eliminates several increases
in taxes and fees. [B5.]

Governor Whitman's choice of Assembly Speaker Chuck Haytaian to lead the state
Republican Party delivers for his patron in his first appearance as
chairman-designate. [B5.]

WHERE PIT BULLS ARE TREATED AS PETS

It is shaping up to be another pit bull summer. The dogs are arriving at the
Elmsford Animal Shelter in Westchester County at a steady pace, about one a day.
The pit bull fad seemed to reach its peak in the 1980's. But people who work in
animal shelters will tell you it has gotten worse. Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves.
[B5.]

JUDGE RULES FOR DEAF PRISON INMATES

Ruling that New York State had violated the constitutional rights of deaf prison
inmates, a Federal judge in Manhattan ordered the state to provide deaf
prisoners with sign-language interpreters, devices for communicating by
telephone and closed-caption televisions. [B2.]

POLICE OFFICER CLEARED IN KILLING AT MALL

A Suffolk County grand jury has refused to indict a police officer who fatally
shot a 21-year-old college student at a Long Island mall. [B4.]

Chronicle B2

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Disappearing Newsstands" shows freestanding outdoor
newsstands in New York City from 1950 to 1995. (Source: Newsstand Operators
Association)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Despite Setbacks, a Boom In Private Prison Business

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr.

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 558 words


As America's prison population doubled in the past decade, the private,
for-profit prison business has exploded along with it, managing to grow despite
a series of setbacks, most recently the uprising at the Esmor immigration
detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.

More than 20 private companies now operate prisons around the United States,
housing more than 50,000 inmates. Some states say the private companies have
provided better services at a lower cost than prisons administered by states'
correction departments. As one entrepreneur said: "It is the only real estate
investment where you're guaranteed 100 percent occupancy, at least."

However, questions and criticism continue to plague the growing
$250-million-a-year industry. Critics say some companies with limited experience
have entered the business, concentrating more on cutting costs and raising
profits than the welfare and rehabilitation of inmates.

"Ideally, prisons should be trying to put themselves out of business by doing
everything in their power to reduce the recidivism rate," said Jenni
Gainsborough, spokeswoman for the National Prison Project of the American Civil
Liberties Union. "But the very function of a for-profit prison company is to
keep people locked up, as long as possible, because the companies are paid a
certain amount per prisoner, per day."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service recently canceled its contract with
the Esmor Correctional Services Corporation after the uprising at its detention
center in Elizabeth, N.J., in June. An investigation by immigration officials
concluded that Esmor, trying to cut costs, had failed to train guards, some of
whom abused detainees by beating them or putting them in leg irons.

Esmor, based in Melville, L.I., has struggled to overcome other setbacks. In
June, a Federal grand jury in Brooklyn indicted two Esmor guards on charges of
bribery and conspiring to smuggle undocumented immigrants into the United
States.

"You have to realize that this is a new industry, and some people have gotten
into it for the wrong reasons," said J. Michael Quinlan, a former director of
the Federal Bureau of Prisons and now director of strategic planning for the
Corrections Corporation of America of Nashville. "The government agencies
cannot, by contracting out, just wash their hands of the facility."

The number of inmates in privately managed or owned prisons is expected to reach
65,000 by the end of the year, up from only 1,345 in 1985, with a projected
annual growth of 35 percent, said Charles W. Thomas, a criminologist and
director of the Private Prisons Project at the University of Florida.

Still, less than 2 percent of the nation's inmates are housed in privately run
facilities, and only 17 states allow private prisons. Among them are Texas,
Florida and, most recently, Pennsylvania.

Fueling the boom of private prisons is the public demand for more prison beds,
which has placed growing demands on state budgets. Prison costs are among the
fastest growing budgetary item for many government agencies, as the number of
inmates held by Federal, state and local governments has tripled since 1975.
Prison privatization appears to be a low-cost solution.

But, Mr. Quinlan said, some government agencies have turned to private prisons
simply as a way "to do something cheap."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 11, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

200 Vietnamese Refugees Flee Detention Camp in Hong Kong

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 4;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, May 10


About 200 Vietnamese boat people, facing a forced return home, fled a detention
center in Hong Kong today after battering down the gates.

In the chaos of the uprising, other people in the detention camp set fire to
barracks and the administration center and briefly held 15 camp officers
hostage. The escapees, who included women and children, fled into the
surrounding hills and towns in predawn darkness.

Firefighters battled blazes in the camp for most of the day, and guards and
policemen in riot gear lobbed hundreds of tear-gas shells in an effort to retake
control. By afternoon, a semblance of order had been restored and the hostages
had been rescued from the camp, called Whitehead, where 8,600 Vietnamese were
being held.

[But the violence flared again on Saturday, Reuters reported, as police officers
tried to move 350 refugees from the Whitehead camp to another at High Island.]

More than 18,000 Vietnamese refugees, some of whom have been here for more than
eight years, are being held in what amount to prison camps in Hong Kong, waiting
to be returned to Vietnam. They are among 35,000 boat people who remain in
Southeast Asia among the 800,000 who have fled to these countries from Vietnam,
usually in small boats, since the fall of Saigon to the Communists in 1975.

Under an effort that began in 1989 to weed out economic migrants from political
refugees, virtually all of the camp residents have been interviewed by the
office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and have been
declared ineligible for asylum in the United States or elsewhere because they
would not be expected to face political persecution upon returning home.

With the host countries anxious to close the camps, the United Nations agreed in
March to end financing for them by June 30.

Over the years, Hong Kong has tried to persuade refugees to return to Vietnam.
The Government says periodic efforts in the United States Congress to reopen the
issue of asylum for Vietnamese in the camps have hampered that effort. The
government of Hong Kong, a British crown colony, has said that it hopes to send
the Vietnamese home before Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997.
China has insisted the Vietnamese be returned.

Recently, Vietnam agreed to cooperate with Hong Kong in speeding up the forced
repatriation. But the Government's efforts were stymied last month when a high
court ruled that some refugees were illegally detained. The Government quickly
moved to close the loophole.

Chief Secretary Anson Chan, the highest ranking civil servant in the territory,
described the violence as "deplorable" but said it would not change Government
plans. "We remain as determined as ever to repatriate all Vietnamese migrants,"
she said. "This incident has not lessened our resolve."

As the day wore on, squads of police fanned out across the New Territories, Hong
Kong's piece of the Chinese mainland, erecting road blocks, searching housing
developments and combing the hills around the camp looking for the escapees.

Local television showed plainclothes police capturing young Vietnamese men as
they ran through the grounds of an apartment complex in Shatin, one of Hong
Kong's many residential towns. Roadblocks and car searches created traffic jams.

Although the police estimated that 200 Vietnamese may have managed to escape,
the torching of the camp's administration building made it difficult to
determine the precise number. Sixteen other buildings were destroyed by fire and
more than 40 cars were burned.

"We don't know exactly how many have escaped," said Toby Emmet, a senior police
officer.

Meanwhile, in clouds of tear gas, the police and guards battled Vietnamese at
the camp. Wielding clubs and makeshift spears, the Vietnamese fought squads of
officers wearing helmets and protective vests and carrying plastic shields.
Inmates clambered onto the roof of the camp's residential barracks.

Balls of fire boiled from camp buildings as helicopters wheeled overhead
dropping water from huge tanks. About 22 police, firefighters and camp officers
were injured, although none seriously, the police said. No information was
provided on any Vietnamese injuries.

By late afternoon, the police said, 61 Vietnamese had been recaptured. They said
that some of the camp's residents were being moved to other detention centers
because the barracks had burned.

"This is certainly something much more ferocious than anything we've seen
before," said Selina Chow, a member of Hong Kong's legislature, in an interview
with a local radio station.

A spokesman for China's de facto embassy here, Zhang Junsheng, attributed the
breakout and upheaval to British mismanagement.

"I hope in the brief 400 or more days left, the British Government can act
responsibly," Mr. Zhang said on local television. "This has created great
pressure economically and spiritually since" the Vietnamese "keep on making
trouble."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 28, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Congressional Roundup;
Immigration Curbs Voted

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES,    By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;   Page 10;   Column 4;   National Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27


Turning aside pleas that it would be helping to break up families, the House
Judiciary Committee today approved a measure severely restricting the ability of
grown children of American citizens to immigrate to the United States.

The 17-to-12 vote was largely along party lines; all those voting in favor were
Republicans.

Under the provision, grown children of American citizens or legal permanent
residents would have to be from 21 to 25 years of age to obtain a visa. In
addition, the measure would require that the applicants never have been married,
have no children and be financially dependent on their parents.

Under current immigration law, there are no restrictions on grown children of
American citizens and legal permanent residents who are seeking to enter the
United States, although the number of these people allowed to enter the country
each year is limited to 23,400. There is now a backlog of 69,540 people in this
category awaiting visas.

Proponents of the restrictions say the measure is needed to help end "chain
migration," in which the immigration of one person leads to the sponsorship of
spouses, parents, adult married children and in-laws.

"What we're doing is emphasizing the reuniting of the nuclear family -- husbands
and wives and minor children," said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas
Republican. "To the extent that we permit other categories to immigrate, such as
adult sons and daughters, we squeeze out nuclear-family members."

But critics of the measure called it heartless and said it would prevent grown
children who are divorced or widowed from joining their parents in the United
States. They also said that under Internal Revenue Service rules, it is
virtually impossible for most foreign citizens living abroad to be listed as a
dependent on an American citizen's tax return.

According to the I.R.S., a person can be claimed as a dependent only if he or
she is already an American citizen, a legal resident here or a resident of
Canada or Mexico.   STEVEN A. HOLMES

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A VISIT FROM THE POPE: NEW COMMUNITIES;
With Every Wave of Newcomers, a Church More Diverse

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1237 words


When Pope John Paul II arrives for his latest American visit, he will find a
church in the middle of historic demographic change.

The American Catholic Church has absorbed floods of immigrants -- Irish,
Italians, Mexicans and Eastern Europeans of many nationalities. But never before
have the newly arriving been so diverse: from Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin
America.

In the New York Archdiocese, Mass can heard in 38 languages; the two most
recently created parishes are Our Lady of Shkodra, serving Albanians in
Hartsdale, N.Y., and St. John Nam, serving Koreans in the Bronx. In the Newark
Archdiocese, while visiting parishes in Elizabeth, N.J., one recent Sunday,
Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick said he "began the day in Portuguese" and then
heard Masses in Slovak and Polish; on another day, the languages might have been
Vietnamese and French Creole.

But the Pope will also find that immigrants and immigration have become a
sharply divisive issue, putting his bishops increasingly at odds with the
nation's political leaders, and with much of the public, both Catholics and
non-Catholics.

This past spring, Archbishop McCarrick twice criticized Clinton Administration
officials for plans to return refugees to Cuba and Haiti from the American naval
base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

And last fall, Roger Cardinal Mahony, Archbishop of Los Angeles, went up against
Gov. Pete Wilson of California, denouncing as a "social sin" a ballot measure
Mr. Wilson supported that would deny medical and educational services to illegal
aliens. In the end, voters passed the measure.

In metropolitan New York, where the Pope will spend most of his visit, 42
percent of Catholic residents say that either they or one or both of their
parents were born outside the United States, according to The New York Times/CBS
News Poll. By contrast, only 27 percent of Catholics outside the metropolitan
area say that they or a parent were born outside this country.

Nonetheless, a majority of the American public -- and a majority of Catholics,
both inside and outside the New York metropolitan area -- favors a position
closer to Congress's than to the bishops, according to the New York Times/CBS
News poll. The poll, a nationwide telephone survey of 1,536 adults, found that
only 30 percent of Americans want immigration kept at its present level, while
54 percent want it reduced. Among the 423 Catholics included in the poll, the
results are statistically indistinguishable from the country as a whole.

The poll, taken between Sept. 18 to 22, has a margin of sampling error of plus
or minus 3 percentage points. It was conducted in English and Spanish, and may
have excluded people who do not speak those languages.

In opposing rising anti-immigrant sentiments, the bishops are being "very
countercultural," said John Swenson, director of the Office of Migration and
Refugee Services for the United States Catholic Conference, which represents the
bishops' social policy concerns. During the summer, Mr. Swenson said, he
testified before a Congressional subcommittee on immigration that the bishops
strongly opposed a proposal to cut back the number of legal immigrants allowed
into the United States.

Archbishop McCarrick has formed a committee on migration that has made its
feelings clear. It chose Independence Day to issue a pastoral letter, "One
Family Under God," which declared that Catholic social teaching demanded that
immigrants be treated with hospitality, not hostility. Scripture is full of
stories of migrants seeking help and refuge, the committee said, citing the
flight of Mary and Joseph, with the infant Jesus, to Egypt.

"We wanted to issue it on July 4," said Archbishop McCarrick, one of the
document's authors and also chairman of the bishops' migration committee,
"because we're concerned that the nation may be moving away from what made it
very much the beacon."

Archbishop McCarrick said church officials have briefed the Vatican on the
immigration controversy, and also provided information about the ethnic makeup
of the dioceses the Pontiff will visit. "I know the Holy Father is aware of the
xenophobia that not only affects our country, but affects the whole Western
world," the Archbishop said.

The Pope's own feelings on the issue are no mystery. Less than a month ago, he
released a statement in Rome asking understanding of the circumstances in which
many illegal immigrants find themselves. To developed nations vexed by the
problem of porous borders, he urged international cooperation to foster
political stability and economic development, so that people will not be forced
to flee civil strife or economic distress.

And speaking directly to Catholics, the Pope counseled compassion. "Today the
illegal migrant comes before us like that 'stranger' in whom Jesus asks to be
recognized," the pontiff wrote, citing Matthew 25:35. "To welcome him and to
show him solidarity is a duty of hospitality and fidelity to Christian identity
itself."

It is a message echoed by officials who keep track of immigrant groups in the
church at the United States. Catholic Conference's offices in Washington. "We
don't want to ignore national borders, or disrespect them," said Sister Suzanne
Hall, director of the Office of Pastoral Care of Migrants and Refugees. "But the
primary consideration is that we are sisters and brothers."

Looking over a list of Asian Catholics, Sister Suzanne estimated that the church
in this country is spiritual home to 1.3 million Filipinos, 200,000 Vietnamese,
80,000 Koreans, perhaps as many as 70,000 Chinese and smaller numbers of
Cambodians, Laotians and Hmong. Many of the larger groups arrived with their own
priests and nuns, and some have ordained priests from within their communities
here.

More recent Catholic immigrants come from Eritrea and Ethiopia in East Africa,
and Nigeria, Ghana and Liberia in West Africa, Sister Suzanne said.

And just in the last year, she added, her office has made contact with new
communities of Mayan Indians from Guatemala, who have recently settled in
Florida and Arizona. They speak their own languages, rather than Spanish,
meaning that priests who know Quiche and Mam must be brought up on visits from
Central America to serve their spiritual needs. "We have Masses for them when we
can," she said.

Yet such immigrant groups are small when compared with those Catholics who have
arrived from Spanish-speaking nations of Latin America. The latter are well
known to Ron Cruz, executive director of the Catholic Conference's Secretariat
of Hispanic Affairs. He estimated they number 22 million, slightly more than a
third of the American church's total population. About one-fourth were born
outside the United States.

Hispanic Catholics defy the geographical stereotypes of men and women who settle
within a few hundred miles of the Mexican border or in the neighborhoods of a
few of the nation's biggest cities, he said.

"They're virtually all over the country," Mr. Cruz said. "I just came from
Portland, Ore., where they have an incredible Hispanic population."

And two years ago, at a workshop for Hispanic Catholics he arranged in Newark,
Mr. Cruz said he was "amazed at the number of doctors," men who had immigrated
in hope of finding medical work in America.

"It's a whole gamut," he added. "Yes, you have lots of poor, but you also have
increasing numbers of professionals."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Unlikely Allies Battle Congress Over Anti-Immigration Plans

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1414 words


As Congress today considers some of the most severe anti-immigration measures
since the 1920's, it is facing resistance from a surprising alliance of
high-technology manufacturers, religious leaders, conservative think tanks,
civil liberties organizations and tiny, grass-roots immigrant groups.

From Microsoft, which is fighting limitations on visas for foreign computer
scientists, to the Roman Catholic Church, which is battling for the rights of
political refugees, the coalition is giving some heft to the loosely organized
opposition by immigrants, who belatedly realized that the mood of the country
had turned against them.

"There's a wide array of groups that think the legal immigration system is not
broken and doesn't need radical changes," said Ira Rubinstein, a senior lawyer
for Microsoft.

It is a loose alliance, and each group has its own concerns with the Omnibus
Immigration Bill, which is to be taken up by the House Judiciary Committee
today, as well as with similar proposals in the Senate. In New York City, Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani has sided with the proposal's opponents and against many
Republican leaders nationally.

The diversity of the opposition reflects the broad sweep of the various
Congressional proposals, which began as an attack on illegal immigration and
were broadened to restrict legal immigration as well.

Manufacturers, insistent that they need foreigners with special skills to remain
competitive, oppose attempts to limit visas used by United States companies to
hire foreign engineers, computer programmers and scientists. Ethnic groups in
cities across the country denounce a proposal that would cut the annual level of
legal immigration by 30 percent and restrict their rights to bring their foreign
relatives here. Church organizations and immigration lawyers oppose pending cuts
in the number of refugees and the rights of people seeking political asylum.

And a proposed national computer system to enable employers to check the legal
status of prospective workers has drawn opposition both from civil liberties
groups, who fear it would lead to discrimination, and from anti-regulation
libertarians and business groups, who see it as an expensive and invasive growth
of government.

"Most of these groups have never worked together before," said Rick Swartz, a
lawyer who started the National Immigration Forum and is instrumental in the
current coalition. "Some of them may have found this difficult to imagine a year
ago."

These groups do not speak with a single voice, nor do they have a single agenda.
But the cumulative effect of their activities is expanding what was a one-sided
debate about how immigrants are draining the American economy to include at
least some emphasis on the role of immigrants in helping the country stay
competitive in the global economy and in restoring forgotten inner-city
neighborhoods.

While it is unclear whether they are having any impact beyond that, the
opponents of the new restrictions seem to have pushed the Judiciary Committee to
consider splitting the omnibus bill into two, one focusing on illegal
immigration and the other on legal.

Representatives have been lobbied from all sides. Both the Massachusetts
Immigration and Refugee Advocacy Coalition and Reebok International, the shoe
company, have lobbied Representative Barney Frank, a Democrat of Massachusetts
who serves on the Judiciary Committee. The National Association of
Manufacturers, Intel and the Cato Institute, a conservative study group in
Washington, have lobbied Representative Lamar Smith, a Republican of Texas whose
legislation contains the strong restrictions.

The most interesting union is between traditionally liberal immigration groups
and pro-growth, free-trade conservative organizations, which defend immigration
as a matter of principle and espouse the virtues of most immigrants. They have
always agreed on the benefits of immigration, but rarely allied themselves
publicly.

Steve Moore, an economist with the Cato Institute, called the restrictive
proposals "anti-business, anti-family, anti-freedom."

And Luis A. Miranda Jr., the president of the Hispanic Federation of New York,
said, "Unless we begin to educate the general public that immigrants don't make
the cities and country worse, people see lack of employment, lack of opportunity
and think we should close the door."

In June, President Clinton endorsed a recommendation of the Federal Commission
on Immigration Reform to cut legal immigration by one-third. Dick Day, the chief
counsel to the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said the alliance
fighting the proposals was "Washington groups and on the other side are the
American people" who have asked for "some breathing space" from immigration. The
subcommittee is led by Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Republican of Wyoming who is a
chief proponent of the restrictive measures.

Representative Smith has said that opponents have overstated his bill's effect
on both family members and skilled workers and that he was responding to a
national consensus that legal immigration should be reformed.

John L. Martin, the research director of the Center for Immigration Studies,
which supports the restrictive measures, said the opponents were "the very
liberal element that is in favor of diversity in the country, business interests
that benefit from a free flow of labor and people who simply don't like big
government." He said the lobbying had led some members of Congress "to water
down some of the proposals."

Opposition to the proposals has just recently been organized, two years after
the anti-immigration movement began gathering steam behind California's
Proposition 187, which bars illegal immigrants from public education and other
benefits. California voters approved it overwhelmingly in November 1994.

"I think we are at the beginning of a pretty ferocious debate about the role of
immigrants: Do we still want to be a nation of immigrants or do we want to throw
up the walls and say 'No More'?" asked Frank Sharry, the executive director of
the National Immigration Forum.

Pope John Paul II, during his United States visit last week, warned of the
threats to the country's tradition of welcoming immigrants, a theme already
sounded by the National Council of Catholic Bishops.

The anti-immigrant sentiment has created a sense of siege among immigrants,
unifying ethnic groups that often exist in parallel worlds and stirring
political activity in organizations initially established to serve the more
basic housing and economic needs of immigrants.

"If you're a new immigrant, you're trying to hold down three or four jobs and
get your kids in school," said Marjie McHugh, executive director of the New York
Immigration Coalition. "There has not been time for political organizing. But
because of what's been going on nationally in terms of the debate, it's speeding
up that process."

The strength of the activism by immigrants and business leaders was demonstrated
last month when, on one day, about 300 immigrants went to Washington to lobby
members of Congress against restricting the immigration of family members. The
next day, representatives of 65 companies organized by the National Association
of Manufacturers and the American Immigration Lawyers Association showed up to
make similar arguments against imposing restrictions on visas for skilled and
professional workers.

Mr. Rubinstein, of Microsoft, disputed the contention that foreign workers were
taking corporate jobs from Americans. He said that 25 percent of the job
openings his company had last year -- about 1,000 positions -- remained vacant
because qualified people could not be found, either here or abroad.

Last month, the National Immigration Forum held a series of news conferences in
major cities to release a study titled "Together In Our Differences," profiling
immigrant enterprises working to rebuild poor city neighborhoods.

The strong presence of business has added a new dimension to the issue, said
Austin T. Fragomen, a New York lawyer who represents such companies as I.B.M.,
Procter & Gamble and Walt Disney. All three are concerned about how the
proposals would restrict their freedom to hire foreign workers for jobs in the
United States.

"When Congressmen think of immigration, they typically think of the
Polish-American Alliance coming to beat up on them," Mr. Fragomen said. "They
never had any idea business was interested in immigration."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 15, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
The Answer Is Either 'Si' or 'No Way'

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words


NO single issue is more emblematic of America's ambivalence toward immigrants
than bilingual education. And now nagging questions have recast and magnified
the issue, which has even become a subject of Presidential politics.

If the debate is familiar, the context is new. Bilingual education has become a
target of anti-immigration groups and others eager to have English declared the
nation's official language. Like affirmative action, bilingual education has
been derided by the descendants of immigrants as an entitlement, a form of
preferential treatment that, because it costs more in the short term, is bought
at the expense of other school services.

Finally, it is regarded by some critics as another example of self-perpetuating
bureaucratic bloat. The Federal Government now spends an estimated $250 million
a year on bilingual education in public schools. where a shorage of money has
made those programs, even if they are considered desirable in principle, harder
and harder to justify in practice.

The Push Is On

That is clearly the case in New York City, where the incoming schools
chancellor, Rudolph F. Crew, pledged last week to make bilingual education a way
station rather than a terminus. As it is now, some students spend up to six
years virtually isolated from English-speaking classes. That system has prompted
lawsuits from parents who complain that, among other things, children with
Spanish surnames who happen to test poorly are automatically relegated to
bilingual classes regardless of how well they speak English.

"I think that there is a need for bilingual education, but I think the need
should be as a means to an end, not an end in itself," Dr. Crew said.

Now, he said, teachers and administrators often keep students in bilingual
programs longer than necessary. "They don't want to let them go into the rest of
the school community for fear they will meet sudden failure," he said. "I think
you are going to have to really get people to see the whole system works in
service to these kids."

Budgetary pressures provide a whole new dimension to a debate that, until
recently, was largely centered around two questions:

Is it better to immerse students in English, even if at first they may not
understand the instruction, or to teach them English over several years while
educating them in other subjects in their native language?

And even if bilingual programs are better, why should the 1 in 20 public school
students in the nation who can't speak English be taught in their own language
today when the immigrant children who entered school speaking only Italian or
Russian or Yiddish or German or Greek or Finnish a century ago managed to get
along just fine?

Today, those questions seem to have been overtaken by concerns about whether
bilingual programs yield the returns that would justify their cost. A backlash
against entitlements and preferential programs has been aggravated as art,
music, sports and other school activities have been decimated.

At the same time, enrollment in many districts is increasing -- in New York
City, at the rate of 20,000 students a year, many of them immigrants. And that
puts even more pressure on school spending. Out of a total budget of $8 billion,
the Board of Education spends $300 million a year on bilingual programs.

At the beginning of this century, when foreign-born people constituted nearly
twice the proportion of the population that they do today, immigrants'
assimilation by learning English was taken for granted. But for those who could
not learn the language, there were plenty of factory jobs available to dropouts.
Today, even the most menial service jobs demand some ability to speak and read
English (which may explain why, by some reports, more of today's immigrants earn
less for longer periods than their counterparts did a century ago).

Still, bilingual education has received decidedly mixed reviews since it was
first upheld by the United States Supreme Court in 1973 -- in a case involving
Chinese children in San Francisco.

Some educators say the best bilingual programs speed immigrants into all-English
classes at their normal grade level after two or three years. But some parents
complain that students are left to languish in bilingual programs well beyond
the three to five years in which they are expected -- or required -- to move
into the academic mainstream.

All sides in the debate agree that bilingual education has fallen woefully short
of its promise. Supporters say it never has been given a chance. They say that
bilingual programs have too often been underfinanced, grudgingly put in place by
school systems that never devised challenging curriculums, and taught by
teachers who were not well trained in bilingual education.

Now, some colleges are preparing bilingual teachers better. Also, many states
are letting school systems certify educated immigrant parents as teachers after
short training sessions. Many cities, including San Francisco and, more
recently, New York, have established "newcomer schools," where the entire
student body is foreign-born and the courses are taught by teachers fluent in an
array of languages. (In New York, students also learn in Spanish, Chinese,
Russian, Korean, Polish and French, to name a few.)

Next, College

Some bilingual programs do seem to work. Fully half of the 7,100 students in the
Calexico Unified School District, in California near the Arizona state line and
the Mexican border, are enrolled in bilingual classes. Most of the students are
poor. But the district graduates nearly 90 percent of its high school students
and sends nearly as many to four-year colleges. Calexico's curriculums for
Spanish-speaking students and for English speakers are the same. The Spanish
speakers move first into "sheltered English" classes conducted in both languages
and then, typically within three to four years, transfer to all-English classes
where they manage to perform at the same grade level as their English-speaking
classmates.

"It can be done," says Emily J. Palacio, Calexico's assistant superintendent of
instructional services. "But many school districts have viewed bilingual
education as a compliance program and not an education program."

Still, at a time when school budgets are tight and when many Americans see
immigrants as competition for employment rather than as potential assets in an
increasingly global economy, the debate over bilingual education is not just
academic.

"Do immigrants deserve special services? Yes," says Sanford J. Ungar, an
American University professor and author of "Fresh Blood: The New American
Immigrant."

"Will they get them? No. Not in this political climate."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 4, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

A Call to Cut Immigration

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 10;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3


The number of non-refugee immigrants allowed in the United States would fall at
least 20 percent under a bill introduced today by Senator Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming.

Mr. Simpson said he was concerned that too many immigrants were competing for
jobs. He said it was time "to make certain we are assimilating well the
extraordinary level of immigration." Last year, there were 804,416 legal
immigrants, including refugees and asylum seekers.

A similar bill awaiting a vote on the House floor would cut the annual total to
595,000 by 2001.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 14, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE EFFECTS;
Bracing for Furloughs and Locked Offices

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr.

SECTION: Section B;   Page 10;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 972 words


With the failure of attempts by President Clinton and Republican Congressional
leaders to reach an 11th-hour compromise over a temporary spending bill, there
will be no ferry service to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island today. Both
American landmarks will be closed.

The State Department will issue no new passports. The Social Security
Administration will shut down more than 100 area offices. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service will turn away hundreds of immigrants without
appointments.

Even the Internal Revenue Service will halt all its business -- including
audits.

"As far as the public is concerned, we will be shut down nationwide," said Bob
Kobel, spokesman for the I.R.S. in the New York metropolitan area. "No walk-in
service, no phone service and no audits."

Mr. Kobel added that the I.R.S. closure "just puts off the inevitable" for some
taxpayers. "We won't go away," he said. "We'll just be on hold for a while."

In New York City and nationwide, a Government work stoppage willmean at least
one unpaid day off for more than 800,000 Federal employees in an array of
acronymic Federal agencies -- the I.N.S., the I.R.S. and F.E.M.A. to name just a
few. And many of the services those workers provide will also be momentarily
discontinued, until the President and Congress can reach a compromise.

Only the Federal employees deemed "essential" to public health and welfare will
stay on the job today. Among them are air traffic controllers, members of the
military, agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and judges and
corrections officers at Federal courthouses and prisons.

Mail will be delivered. The quasi-independent United States Postal Service does
not depend on annual appropriations.

Top officials at all Federal agencies met yesterday and held conference calls to
decide which of their employees are "essential" and "non-essential." It turns
out most employees of Federal agencies were deemed "non-essential." Officially,
those workers will be sent home today on a "furlough."

All Federal employees were asked to come to work this morning, at their usual
times. If a deal was not worked out after a previously approved stopgap spending
plan expired at midnight, however, all Federal agencies planned on sending most
workers home this morning, shortly after they report to work.

Translated, millions of people nationwide will feel the impact of a Government
shutdown. Many services will just stop and some services will continue with
skeleton staffs in many Federal offices.

For instance, the I.N.S. will provide service to immigrants with appointments
today, said spokesman Chip Bogdanski. "We are customer-oriented," Mr. Bogdanski
said. There is another reason: The I.N.S. workers who interview immigrants with
appointments, district adjudication officers, are paid by a user fee account
that is not affected by the budget.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency will send home 80 percent of its 2,500
employees. The only FEMA employees to say on the job today are the ones assigned
to ongoing emergencies, like the hurricane recovery effort on the Virgin
Islands.

Although the Social Security Administration will close its offices, Social
Security checks will not stop and some "emergency services" will continue. Most
of the 5,711 employees in the New York metropolitan area will be sent home
today. A handful of people will staff each office, even though they will be
closed. "If people come in to protect a filing date or they will lose benefits,
we will do that, but that's about it," Ms. Zanca said.

All Federal courthouses will remain open today. Chief Judge Thomas P. Griesa
signed an order yesterday declaring all employees of the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York "essential employees," insuring
"normal operations of the Court" today.

However, it was uncertain late yesterday whether the 200 assistants in the
United States Attorney's office will continue working. If the prosecutors are
sent home, all criminal trials could be put on hold.

"I simply don't know," said Marvin Smilon, a spokesman for the United States
Attorney's office. "The possibility is there could be a partial shutdown."

In New York, the National Parks Service planned to close the Statue of Liberty,
Ellis Island, Gateway National Recreation Area and several historic sites last
night, including General Grant's Tomb in Morningside Heights, Federal Hall on
Wall Street and Castle Clinton in Battery Park.

In 1990, a Government budget shutdown caused the Statue of Liberty and Ellis
Island to close for one day. Both landmarks draw more than four million visitors
a year.

At Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado, one of the most heavily visited
parks in the country, rangers will patrol the campgrounds this morning to evict
campers in the event of a shutdown. "Once all the campers have left, we will
close the gates and go down to a skeleton staff of about a dozen from 130," said
Doug Caldwell, public information specialist for Rocky Mountain National Park.

The United States Mint in Denver will partly shut down if Federal legislators
cannot resolve the budget debate. In fact, daily tours of the mint will also
continue since the employees are paid through a public trust, not government
funds.

At the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, a
spokesman said officials still are not clear about which activities will be
considered "essential."

A spokesman for the centers, Bob Howard, said about 70 to 80 percent of the
centers' work force would be furloughed.

"The people who will not be furloughed are people who are security people,
researchers conducting scientific studies that would be compromised or are time
sensitive, and the people who take care of our laboratory animals," Mr. Howard
said.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: People waited at the Washington Passport Agency yesterday for a
commodity that may soon be hard to find; a partial shutdown of the Government
would mean that passports would generally not be issued. (David Scull/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 17, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Some Are Less Equal

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 31;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


This nation of immigrants has traditionally drawn almost no distinction, except
in the right to vote, between the rights and duties of citizens and of lawful
immigrants. The constitutional guarantees of due process and equal protection of
the law go not just to citizens but to "any person." When we had conscription,
immigrants were drafted.

That tradition will change radically if the Republican majority in Congress has
its way. For the first time, those who come to this country to seek safety or a
better life will have to become citizens -- a step that in our history has
always been voluntary -- or be denied rights that others have.

A sweeping welfare bill drafted by Republican members of a Senate-House
conference committee would make immigrants who have not become citizens
ineligible for numerous benefits.

* Non-citizens would mostly be denied food stamps, however long they had lived
in this country and however desperate they are.

(The Republican welfare legislation would end the universal national food stamp
and school lunch programs by letting states opt out and substitute other food
assistance. But any other plan a state adopted would also be unavailable to
non-citizens.)

* The Federal program of Supplemental Security Income for the poor elderly and
disabled would be closed to most non-citizens. S.S.I. payments go only to
extremely vulnerable people, without resources or the ability to provide them.

* States would be entitled to bar non-citizens from Medicaid and from the new
welfare programs they are to substitute for the abolished Federal guarantee of
minimal cash aid to poor children.

The reach of this legislation -- its determination to punish non-citizens -- is
shown by one detail. The welfare bill passed by the House had an exception
allowing legal immigrants to receive assistance if they were so disabled that
they could not become naturalized, for example if they had developed Alzheimer's
Disease. The conferees removed that exception.

The targeting of legal immigrants must reflect a growing political concern about
illegal immigration. But even Gov. Pete Wilson of California, who won
re-election last year with a campaign of promises to fight illegal immigrants,
made no proposals to punish those here lawfully.

Will President Clinton oppose the denial of benefits to legal immigrants? The
answer is not clear, because Mr. Clinton himself opened the way to
distinguishing them from citizens. His welfare reform proposal called for making
the sponsors of immigrants support them before they can get welfare or food
stamps.

The same doubts about the President apply to another piece of legislation
touching on the rights of immigrants. That is the Counter-Terrorism Bill,
proposed by Mr. Clinton and passed by both houses in different forms. It is
likely to come out of a conference committee next month.

The counterterrorism legislation would let the President designate foreign
groups as "terrorist." Contributing to such a group, even for peaceful
humanitarian activities, would then be a crime -- and grounds for deportation of
a lawful immigrant. And the bill would let the Immigration Service rely on
secret evidence in deportation proceedings.

Last week the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in a
long-pending case against a group of Palestinian immigrants in Los Angeles, held
that immigrants, like citizens, have a right to free speech under the First
Amendment -- and so cannot be targeted for contributing to suspect organizations
for non-terrorist purposes. Immigrants are also entitled to due process of law,
the court said, and cannot be tried on secret evidence.

The court decision showed the fundamental constitutional flaws of the
counterterrorism legislation. Senator Bob Dole, among others, has already shown
concern about political overreaching in the bill. He and the many House
Republicans devoted to free speech should put it aside.

It is time for the President and Congress to return to the constitutional
tradition: equal treatment of immigrants in a nation of immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Movement on Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section B;  Page 17;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration voted 5 to 2
yesterday to send to the full Judiciary Committee a measure to cut sharply the
number of legal immigrants into the United States. Senator Alan K. Simpson, the
Wyoming Republican who wrote the bill, listened to the debate. (David Scull for
The New York Times)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 3, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigrant Mood Moves Asians to Organize

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 2;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1460 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Marty Shih is the kind of person who has earned Asian-Americans the widespread
characterization as the model minority.

Born in Taiwan, he arrived in the United States in 1978 with $500 to his name
and began selling flowers on downtown streets here. Eighteen years later,
through grit, hard work and ingenuity, he has built his company, the Asian
Business Connection, into a telemarketing giant that in 1994 sold $40 million in
products to Asian-Americans.

But Mr. Shih's rag-to-riches story took an unusual path last month when he
established the Asian American Association to, among other things, campaign
against legislation that would drastically reduce the levels of legal
immigration, an issue that has galvanized Asian-Americans as no other has in
recent times.

The not-for-profit association's executive director, Qingsong Zhang, a Chinese
immigrant, said: "We became concerned about what was going on in Washington,
D.C. We all believe that if these bills become law, there will be a negative
impact on the Asian community."

The establishment of the association is an example of the growing political
activity on the part of Asian-Americans in response to anti-immigrant sentiment.

As an issue, immigration strikes particular chords among Asian-Americans, and
proposals to scale it back produce particular anxieties. Though people of Asian
descent are only 3.7 percent of the American population, Asians made up 36.6
percent of immigrants to the United States in 1994, the latest year for which
complete data are available.

But the concerns of many Asian-Americans go beyond numbers. When they describe
the fears provoked by these new immigration bills, Asian-Americans sound like
other ethnic groups. They want relatives to join them from overseas. They want
their culture replenished with new arrivals.

But they also have special memories and fears: the United States Government
interned many people of Japanese descent in camps during World War II, and
Asians are the only ethnic group this century to have been specifically barred
by law from entry or naturalization.

"Immigration is not usually seen in the context of civil rights or as a race
issue for other groups," said Karen N. Narasaki, executive director of the
National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium. "For Asian-Americans, because
of their history, it's a cornerstone of what civil rights means to the
community. We remember the simple issue of our race being thought not good
enough even to be allowed into the country, much less equal with other people."

Since midsummer, Asian-Americans have staged demonstrations in New York, San
Francisco and here, initiated voter-registration and citizenship drives, taken
out full-page advertisements in The Washington Post urging the defeat of the
immigration bills and sought to tie campaign contributions from Asians to
politicians who oppose curbs on legal immigration. Groups have also met with top
lawmakers and undertaken a letter-writing campaign to urge Congress to defeat
the immigration proposals.

"We felt that the immigration issue was a kind of indication of the weakness of
Asia-American political participation," said Shahid Siddiqi, a Pakistani
immigrant who is president of the newly formed Asian American Republican Club
National Committee. "The immigration issue and the reason why Congress is
dealing with it without taking into account our feelings and our needs shows
that the basic problem is a lack of political empowerment."

Asian-American advocates say the increased level of grass roots activity
represents a political awakening for people who often have roots in societies
with little tradition of political participation.

"This is a very new concept for most Asians who are immigrants," said Daphne
Kwok, executive director of the Organization of Chinese Americans, a
Washington-based lobbying organization. "In their home countries, political
participation was not done or was looked on with skepticism and sometimes fear."

What has most energized Asian-Americans are bills pending in the House and the
Senate that would slash legal immigration, mainly by eliminating some categories
that determine if a person is eligible to come to the United States.

Asian-Americans are particularly concerned about provisions in both bills that
would scrap the category that sets quotas of about 23,400 married children and
65,000 brothers and sisters of American citizens of all heritages who may enter
the country each year as permanent residents. The bills would also turn away
people who have already applied and have been awaiting entry, in some cases for
nearly 20 years.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says more than 70 percent of the
260,414 married children awaiting entry and the nearly 1.6 million siblings are
Asian.

"This issue affects the very core of our community," said Wesley Ru, a prominent
political fund-raiser in Los Angeles who is principal owner of a company that
makes trophies and plastic credit and debit cards.

But the growing political activity among Asian-Americans reflects more than a
knee-jerk response to a growing anti-immigrant mood. Several experts say the
expanding political consciousness is a byproduct of demographic shifts in the
Asian-American immigrant population.

More recent immigrants tend to have higher levels of skills and education.
Indeed, according to the Census Bureau, nearly 46 percent of recent immigrants
from the Philippines have college degrees, as do 42 percent of immigrants from
China, 36.1 percent from Korea and 65.6 percent from India. By contrast, 14.7
percent of native-born Americans have college degrees.

Advocates say the educational and professional credentials of recent Asian
immigrants give them the skills and financial resources to organize themselves
politically and the temperament to stand up for themselves in the political
world.

"Thirty years ago, the Asian community was so small and so segregated," Mr.
Zhang said. "It was focused on making money just to support their families. For
Chinese it was just restaurants or small business. So they didn't have much time
to think about the whole society, the whole picture."

But today, he said, immigrants from Asia arrive with more education and money.
"They find themselves more adaptable to the society," he said.

Mr. Zhang himself is an example of this new kind of immigrant. In 1989, while
earning a doctorate in history at the University of Virginia, Mr. Zhang became
involved in demonstrations supporting his fellow Chinese students in Beijing's
Tiananmen Square.

After the Chinese Government's crackdown on the democracy movement, Mr. Zhang
and many other Chinese students studying in the United States worried that they
would face reprisals if they returned home after their student visas expired.

As a result, 60,000 Chinese students and members of their families organized
themselves into the Independent Federation of Chinese Students and Scholars.
Using a home page on the Internet to spread information, like which lawmaker's
office to flood with telephone calls and when, the students successfully lobbied
Congress to pass a law in 1992 granting them and family members here permanent
residency status.

At the time of passage, Mr. Zhang was the group's executive director. Following
his graduation, Mr. Zhang was hired by Mr. Shih's company.

After a short stint in Mr. Shih's office in Bethesda, Md., Mr. Zhang was
transferred in November to corporate headquarters in El Monte, Calif., where he
set up and runs the Asian American Association, which says it already has
330,000 members.

Besides pursuing its political agenda, the association, modeled after the
American Association of Retired Persons, also provides members with discounts on
insurance, English lessons, car rentals, automobile club membership and toys,
books, computer software in Mandarin, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese and Tagalog
to help their children maintain their cultural links.

In February, the association will mail out material on the immigration bills
prepared by the National Immigration Forum, a strongly pro-immigration group.
Printed in five Asian languages, the mailings will urge recipients to contact
their Congressional representatives using the group's talking points. The
recipients will also be encouraged to send a picture of a sibling or other
relative who will be barred from immigrating if the bill is approved.

Even beyond immigration, Mr. Shih is hoping to make sure Asian-Americans' voices
are heard in politics. "I believe that we should keep the American dream alive,"
he said. "I hope to use the association to influence the immigration debate. But
I really think there are 100 things we can do. This is just one thing."


LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "This issue affects the very core of our community," said Wesley
Ru, of proposals that would sharply curb the number of relatives of United
States citizens allowed to enter the country as permanent residents. (Luis Sinco
for The New York Times) (pg. 11)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 15, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

30 Days or Else

BYLINE: By Douglas Shenson;    Douglas Shenson, a physician, directs the Human
Rights Clinic at Montefiore Medical Center and the North Central Bronx Hospital.

SECTION: Section A;   Page 27;   Column 1;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words


It sounds so reasonable. Applicants for political asylum must file a claim
within 30 days of entering this country. But it isn't. A lot of people could be
tortured or killed.

Soon, the House is to debate an immigration bill and the Senate Judiciary
Committee is to vote on a separate one, each having provisions that would bar
political asylum to applicants who don't meet this deadline. Proponents argue
that the bills would stop widespread abuse of the immigration system. Opponents
fear they would put up an insurmountable barrier to the most deserving.

People who seek safe haven and assert that they have been tortured are sometimes
referred to a physician for evaluation. At my clinic, where the waiting list is
more than six weeks long, patients tell us their stories and uncover their
scars, burns and disfigured limbs. We treat them and assess whether the markings
are consistent with the mistreatment they describe.

When political refugees arrive in this country, they search for shelter, food,
friends or relatives. There are new surroundings to master, a new language to
learn, children needing care. It is a time to live by one's wits, since holding
a job is illegal and public support is unavailable. It is not a time to tackle
the eight pages of instructions (in English) in Immigration and Naturalization
Service Form 1-589.

Applicants for asylum are expected to assemble affidavits from witnesses and
experts and to provide a long personal statement. Legal help is essential to
prove that they have a "well-founded fear of persecution." Finding affordable or
pro bono legal counsel is difficult and time consuming. Lawyers need many weeks
of research to gather the supporting material; applications, with accompanying
documents, are commonly several hundred pages long.

Nobody doubts that large-scale abuses of the immigration system were common. But
last year the I.N.S. changed its regulations to curb fraud, and the number of
asylum seekers dropped by more than half. There is no compelling reason for
Congress to undermine this small program. Less than 1 percent of those who
immigrate each year come through the asylum program.

Without a chance to be treated and heard, many of my potential patients will be
hustled back to their torturers, maybe for the last time.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 6, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration History

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words


To the Editor:

A Feb. 26 front-page article on proposed change of the immigration system
distorts the historical context.

The statement that my bill, H. R. 2202, represents the first cuts in legal
immigration since the 1920's ignores that every immigration bill passed by
Congress since has raised legal immigration levels.

With the exception of the years after the one-time amnesty for illegal aliens in
1986, H. R. 2202 would allow the highest levels of legal immigration in the last
70 years, averaging 700,000 legal immigrants a year through 2001. And it would
give immigrants with skills and education and close family members highest
priority.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Chairman, Subcommittee
on Immigration and Claims
Washington, Feb. 27, 1996

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 20, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

THE FINE PRINT: A close look at the immigration bill.;
Change at the Border Could Pinch the Arts

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section D;  Page 23;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19


By nearly all accounts, Karen Zacarias, a 26-year-old playwright from Mexico,
seems destined for success.

Since writing her first prize-winning dramatic comedy five years ago as a
student at Stanford University, Ms. Zacarias has won national acclaim for plays
produced in theaters from Iowa to Massachusetts.

Hoping to continue her career in the United States, Ms. Zacarias recently
applied to become a permanent legal resident. In a supporting letter to Federal
immigration officials, Derek Walcott, the Nobel Prize-winning poet, said Ms.
Zacarias, a former pupil, had "an exceptional ability that will add to the
cultural life of this nation."

Despite all this, Ms. Zacarias may be forced to leave this country in June when
her student visa expires.

A little-noticed provision tucked into the sweeping immigration bill that the
House began debating today would alter existing law to make it more difficult,
if not impossible for Ms. Zacarias and scores of other talented young writers,
sculptors, singers, dancers and artists from immigrating to the United States
under special residency visas.

Many arts and cultural organizations fear that the provision, if adopted, could
block future Stravinskys and Balanchines from developing their talents here.

"Obviously, it's a very short-sighted and narrow interpretation of what is
important in the world of art," said Gerald Freedman, dean of the drama school
at the North Carolina School of the Arts and a former artistic director of the
New York Shakespeare Festival.

Marc Scorca, chief executive for Opera America, a trade organization for opera
companies, said: "We're talking about a handful of people, but in the opera
world they are key to a $500 million industry."

Since 1990 the United States has allowed a small but important infusion of
foreign scientists, artists and entrepreneurs to become permanent legal
residents if they demonstrate through prizes and expert recommendations an
"exceptional ability." These immigrants need an employer sponsor or a waiver to
the Labor Department requirement that they not displace an American worker.

Last year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service granted legal residency to
6,800 foreigners of exceptional ability or with advanced professional degrees.
The agency does not break out the categories, but immigration lawyers estimate
that this includes scores of artists.

Under current law, people in the arts are generally exempted from the rule about
having a job offer and the Labor Department requirement if they can demonstrate
that their work is in the "national interest."

The proposed legislative change would deny immigrants with exceptional ability
the right to apply for the waiver on cultural grounds.

"They'd be welcome to come as long as they could show they're not taking a job
from an American citizen," the main author of the House immigration bill,
Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, said of the artists and
dancers.

But unlike scientists sponsored by the National Institutes of Health or
engineers hired by Microsoft, artists and dancers are likely to be
self-employed.

"There are not playwright institutes that hire playwrights," said Ms. Zacarias,
who attended high school in Atlanta, where her father was a public-health
specialist. "I don't have a Pulitzer under my belt. I'd just like the chance to
prove myself."

Since the 1990 law has been in effect only five years, few young artists have
risen to national fame. But the legislation's beneficiaries include a range of
up-and-coming artistic talent.

Take Shanjie (Carl) Deng, a 33-year-old Chinese poet and expert on Chinese
culture who was granted legal residency last December. Three years ago, Mr. Deng
followed his wife to Louisville, Ky., where she was completing graduate school.
Mr. Deng became affiliated with Crane House, a Chinese cultural association in
Louisville that promotes awareness of Chinese culture in public schools in a
program serving more than 15,000 students.

"Children here are not exposed to a lot of different cultures, so this was a
cultural awakening," said Judy Thomas, one of the school organizers of a
three-week course that Mr. Deng taught at an elementary school.

Zoe Heller, 30, a British journalist who has written for The New Yorker and
Vanity Fair, is seeking permanent legal residency here so she does not have to
rely on the sponsorship of any one publication. "I want to work for American
publications, but not have that feeling they can throw you out at any time," Ms.
Heller said.

Sara Iturbe of Argentina was granted legal residency two years ago largely
because she restores old paintings, an unusual skill in the United States. Ms.
Iturbe worked for four years at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in Manhattan, but
she said those kinds of jobs are scarce.

"Besides the limited staffs in museums, there are no sponsors for this kind of
work," Ms. Iturbe said. "I work on my own for private collectors and commercial
galleries."

Denying artists the waivers to the Labor Department requirement will only hurt
American interests, said Tania Alvarez, an immigration lawyer in San Francisco
for a Cuban author of children's books who is seeking permanent legal residency.

"We're going to miss out on some exceptional people," Ms. Alvarez said.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A provision of the immigration bill would remove exemptions for
artists. Karen Zacarias, a 26-year-old Mexican playwright, could be forced to
leave the United States in June when her student visa expires. (Stephen
Crowley/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 17, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Dole Pulls Bill On Immigration Over Side Issues

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16


Senator Bob Dole suddenly pulled the immigration bill from the Senate floor
today, angered by Democratic attempts to force votes on amendments dealing with
the minimum wage and Social Security, two issues that would put the presumptive
Republican Presidential nominee and his party on the spot politically.

Democrats offered to limit debate on their amendments to an hour each, or less.
Nevertheless, Mr. Dole, the majority leader, accused Democrats of holding the
immigration bill "hostage" and of trying to frustrate Republican efforts to pass
any legislation. "We have the majority," he insisted.

Mr. Dole appeared flummoxed by how to deal with the issue of raising the minimum
wage from $4.25 to $5.15, a central Democratic campaign issue. The idea is
supported by 84 percent of the American public, according to the latest New York
TimesCBS News Poll. But it draws intense opposition from business and House
Republican leaders.

But while he juggled competing political considerations, the Democrats were
enjoying his difficulties and the opportunity to stick Mr. Dole with the
disadvantages of running the Senate while running for President.

So far the minimum wage proposal is supported by only a few Senate Republicans,
but they and the Democrats can combine to pass it if it ever comes up for a
vote.

Thirteen House Republicans are expected to announce Wednesday that they have
broken ranks on the issue, too. House leaders, who spurned a Democratic demand
for a vote today, are understood to be uncertain about whether they would win if
they had to allow one.

Over the weekend, Mr. Dole said he had not thought about what should be done on
the minimum wage, and today he avoided questions on the subject by walking
briskly past reporters whom he usually chats with on Tuesdays after the regular
Republican caucus lunch.

Then his anger bubbled over after Democrats rejected his request that any
amendments to the immigration bill be relevant to immigration. Unlike the House,
the Senate permits amendments that are not germane to the bill on the floor, and
members of the majority and the minority often use such amendments as a way to
extract proposals that are trapped in committee.

Mr. Dole complained that the immigration bill, which would strengthen
enforcement efforts against illegal immigrants and deny some benefits to lawful
immigrants, "is going to be held hostage to Social Security amendments, minimum
wage amendments," adding: "They can think of five or six others. Then they have
the gall to stand up and say, we want to move ahead on illegal immigration. We
know what's happening."

He told the Senate, "I know some would like to frustrate any efforts on this
side of the aisle, but we do have a majority."

"We will try to do our best to move legislation the American people have an
interest in," he continued. "Illegal immigration, wherever you go, illegal
immigration is a big, big issue. If we are going to be frustrated by an effort
on the other side to hold the bill hostage, that's up to them. They can make it
happen, and they can explain it to the voters in November."

Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, shot back: "We didn't pull the bill.
We could be taking up amendments right now. We have already agreed to short time
agreements."

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who is leading the minimum
wage effort, said, "We have been unable to get consideration of that measure now
for over a year." He warned, "This issue is not going to go away."

Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the floor manager of the immigration bill,
said he did not think the bill was dead. "They will get back to immigration when
it gets to the end of the week," he said. "It's called how you really
legislate."

But he indicated that he was not sure how this would come to pass.

The immigration bill, on which Mr. Simpson and Mr. Kennedy have worked closely,
would also make it easier to deport aliens and curtail the process of seeking
political asylum.

The Social Security issue is an effort by Democrats to pass a non-binding
statement that the Senate does not believe that changing receipts and outlays
for Social Security should be considered to be a legitimate part of any
constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. Mr. Dole intends to bring
up that constitutional amendment, which the Senate defeated last year, again in
May, but under a parliamentary situation in which the Democrats could not offer
the Social Security proposal.

But plainly the minimum wage is the most difficult issue, and it became even
tougher this afternoon when 13 House Republicans announced that they supported
increasing the minimum wage to $5.25, raising the Democrats a dime.

The 13 Republicans are Representatives Nancy L. Johnson and Christopher Shays of
Connecticut, Bill Martini of New Jersey, Sherwood Boehlert, Benjamin A. Gilman,
Amo Houghton, Rick A. Lazio, Jack Quinn and James T. Walsh of New York, Phil
English of Pennsylvania, Jim Leach of Iowa, Peter G. Torkildsen of Massachusetts
and Steve Horn of California.

Mr. Martini, who announced the proposed legislation, said: "It is time to give
hard-working men and women a raise. They deserve a fair return on a hard day's
labor. That is why I have called upon the House leadership to bring this
important bill up for a vote."

By themselves, the 13 Republicans would not be enough to get a bill passed, even
if the 196 Democrats and one independent voted for it. But they would make it
close. There are 236 Republicans in the House and two vacancies.

And Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, said
today that the important thing was to get the issue before the House for a vote.
"I think when we have that chance," he said, "we will pass it" because other
Republicans would be reluctant to vote against an increase.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though the immigration bill has been pulled from the floor,
Senator Alan K. Simpson, its floor manager, said he did not think it was dead.
(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 18); Senator Bob Dole withdrew the
immigration bill yesterday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION REVIEW;
An Immigration Debate's Real Issue

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section C;  Page 20;  Column 1;  Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 828 words


The title of tomorrow night's "Firing Line" debate, "Resolved: All Immigration
Should Be Drastically Reduced," is not inaccurate, but it cushions a pricklier
opinion. Let's call it: "Resolved: The Sort of People Now Entering the Country
Are Changing the Character of the United States for the Worse."

The fount of disagreement is a new book, "Alien Nation: Common Sense About
America's Immigration Disaster," whose author, Peter Brimelow, is present to
argue the affirmative, along with Daniel Stein of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), an anti-immigration lobbying group; Arianna
Stassinopoulos Huffington, widely credited with being the brains behind her
husband Michael's losing race for the Senate seat from California last year,
and, you guessed it, William F. Buckley Jr. All express concern mixed with
indignation at the ostensible threat to American ways.

Mr. Brimelow argues that "Race is destiny in American politics"; hence an
infusion of people from Latin America and Asia bodes a dire transformation of
the body politic. Ms. Huffington, like Mr. Brimelow an immigrant from Europe,
directs her attack mainly at welfare and at multiculturalist endeavors, notably
bilingual education, which she says are working against good old-fashioned
assimilation.

The opponents remind a sympathetic audience at Bard College that other groups of
newcomers (including those from Mrs. Huffington's native Greece) ran into
similar opposition in other periods. On this soapbox are Ira Glasser, the
executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union; Edward I. Koch, who
does not fail to remind us that his parents arrived in America in the early
1900's and had three children, one of whom "became the Mayor of the City of New
York"; Frank Sharry of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration lobby,
and Leon Botstein, the president of Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y.
They have never met a legal immigrant they didn't like.

The subject is smack on the news. Congress is about to grapple with a plan put
forward just the other day by a Federal advisory commission that would reduce
legal immigration gradually by one-third. The "Firing Line" anti-immigrationists
would go further; they call for "a pause" of indefinite duration in all
immigration to give the nation an opportunity to absorb those who are already
here.

Along with the usual sniping and ducking, tomorrow night's contestants find a
few points of agreement. Nobody utters a good word for illegal immigrants, and
only Mrs. Huffington makes much of the argument that immigrants hurt the
economy, which even her allies grant does not reflect the opinions of most
economists. Fortunately, when her information is shaky, Mrs. Huffington can make
use of the debating ploys she honed at Cambridge University.

Where the sides split cleanly is over whether the United States can stand to
continue taking in as many immigrants as it is now doing (nearly one million a
year). "We don't need any immigration, so we shouldn't have it," Mr. Stein
declares. His adversaries imply not too delicately that the current opposition
is not so much to immigrants in general as to certain sorts of immigrants in
particular. The testiest exchanges are incited by charges, most forcefully from
Mr. Glasser, that what really bothers the antis is the makeup and possibly the
complexion of the new immigrants, few of them European whites.

The two hours are not steadily engrossing. Here are excerpts from a short
exchange between Mr. Brimelow and Mr. Glasser: "It's not true." "It is true."
"It isn't true." "It is true." "No, it is not true."

Michael Kinsley, the witty moderator, departs from his assumed objectivity at
the end to chide the anti-immigrationists for supporting their case with polls
that show that most Americans want restrictions on immigration. (Mr. Stein
betrays an inclination to deport "the ivory tower, inside-the-beltway eggheads,"
who he charges ignore the concerns of ordinary folks about jobs and schools.)

Mr. Kinsley points out that the premise of "Firing Line" is that even majorities
may benefit from persuasive argument. The less diplomatic Mr. Glasser reminds
his opponents of a time when polls showed overwhelming support for school
segregation.

You might wish for clearer exposition from both sides on who is paying the costs
of immigration and who is reaping the benefits and fewer homilies on the nature
of Americanism. Still, it's a peppy two hours that offers both the text and the
subtext of a nasty argument that may be about to get nastier.

FIRING LINE
Resolved: All Immigration Should Be Drastically Reduced

PBS, tomorrow night
(Channel 13, New York, at 9)

A National Review production; Warren Steibel, producer and director; Michael
Kinsley, moderator.

WITH: William F. Buckley Jr., Peter Brimelow, Daniel Stein, Arianna
Stassinopoulos Huffington, Edward I. Koch, Leon Botstein, Frank Sharry and Ira
Glasser.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: DOWNTOWN BROOKLYN;
The Huddled Masses Yearn to Breathe Free of Bureaucracy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 7;  Column 4;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 378 words


Navigating the byways of government bureaucracy is seldom easy.  For new
immigrants, who may have difficulty with the language, get lost in a labyrinth
of voice mail or fear challenges to their residency status, it can be downright
daunting.

So, to reach newcomers from the Caribbean, community and government
organizations got together last weekend in Crown Heights, one of the city's
largest Caribbean neighborhoods, to bring government to the people. The result
was Caribbean American Information Day at Medgar Evers College.

"Caribbean people are not accustomed to the sort of bureaucracy we have here,"
said Jean P. Alexander, the executive director of the Caribbean American Center
of New York, one of the groups that helped organize the event. "It is a maze."

While there were workshops on buying a home and starting a business, and
seminars to discuss crime, health and fraud, the most popular workshops were on
immigration.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service gave out 500 citizenship
applications. Tessil Hobson, who moved to Crown Heights five years ago from St.
Kitts, picked one up.

"It's important, because you can vote," said Ms. Hobson, who is studying to
become a teacher.

The information day gave people a chance to get their questions answered without
voice mail or trips to city agencies and the usually concomitant long lines. It
can take several attempts, for example, to get through to the "Ask Immigration"
telephone line, a voice-mail system on which there are 58 message selections and
the wrong push of a button can lead to disconnection.

The day at Medgar Evers College was not just for new immigrants. Leslie Clarke,
a 59-year-old architect who came to Brooklyn in 1960 from Kingston, Jamaica,
went to find out about city services.

"That the police are around, at an affair like this, shows that there is some
interest," Mr. Clarke said. "It tells you that they are trying to work with the
community, and that's a good sign. We welcome that."

And Enos Stewart, 49, who moved to Brooklyn from St. Vincent 12 years ago,
picked up scholarship information for his daughter, fliers about home safety and
brochures about health and pregnancy.

"It's very useful to have everything in one place," he said.   M.C.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Jailers Come Under Scrutiny

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 81 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


In six years, James F. Slattery built Esmor Correctional Services into the
nation's fifth largest prison business as Federal and local governments turned
increasingly to privatization. But after an uprising Sunday of the 300
immigrants detained at the company's Elizabeth center, Esmor has come under
intense scrutiny. The Union County Prosecutor, Andrew K. Ruotolo Jr., mocked
Esmor as "privatization at its worst" and has vowed to block any effort to
reopen the center. [Page A1.]

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Arianna, Go Home!

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;   Page 15;   Column 5;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words


Arianna Stassinopoulos Huffington, if that's how you feel, go home! Love us or
leave us!

And take some other immigrants with you -- the kind that, like you, talk about
how America should be worried about allowing more immigrants in. For instance,
that British-born fellow, I forget his name, who is running around promoting his
book about how he fears that in America his little son, the one he tells us has
blue eyes and blond hair, will have to grow up among too many dark folk.

Arianna, for somebody like me, an immigrant himself, and still remembering what
I was taught in civics classes about how America was built by people from all
over the world, it is hard to be mean to another American just because she or he
is an immigrant too. But that is exactly why I'm picking on you.

I danced at your wedding to a young man from an oil family. Ever since, I have
watched with great interest what you were doing in America -- how you helped
make him almost senator from California, how some people believe that one day he
will run again and this time you will make sure there would be no almosts, how
you moved from writing books about art to books about the inner self, I believe,
how you are now very close to Newt himself, and how you would get a big job if a
Republican is elected President next year.

I did not agree with everything you were saying. But that did not diminish my
admiration for your get-up-and-go. And I kept thinking: Only in America -- only
in America could a girl born in Greece, an immigrant first to Britain, then to
the U.S., a double immigrant you might say, become a nationally known political
and literary figure a relatively few years after getting her visa. What a
terrific example of the importance of immigration and immigrants.

Now here you are helping the anti-immigrant line. You heard me --
anti-immigrant. The people who promote that line professionally and whose side
you take on TV never say they are anti-immigrant, of course not. They just say
America should not let any more into the country for 10 or 20 years or at least
cut way back -- a third, a half, whatever.

But you are not a political naive. Eliminating or drastically reducing
immigration will not just deprive the U.S. of talented people by the millions,
and hurt the economy by eliminating the jobs they create. It will also help
anti-black, anti-brown, anti-yellow and general anti-foreign nastiness, of which
we have good and plenty already.

And please listen to this: If opposition to immigration grows, some day being a
former Greek will not be a political asset at all. After all, Greece is in
Southern Europe, not what you might call Nordic or Anglo.

Surely you understand you would never have been able to enter America as an
immigrant if some of your friends had their way about immigration before you got
off the plane. So what are you saying? Pull up the gangplank, Jack, I'm aboard?
That is not very good for a healthy inner spirit.

There may be other Greek-Americans who say after me lock the doors, but I have
not met any. Greeks not only brought endeavor and brains to this country but
they brought kinsmen who did the same.

Talk to Nicholas Gage, who wrote that classic book "Eleni," about hunting for
the Greek Communist killers of his mother. His father brought him to America --
and about 100 others from their village. Among them, over the last three
decades, they have created about 5,000 jobs.

Arianna, must you pick as your role models the narrowest-minded conservatives?
Why not listen to Jack Kemp, Bill Bennett, Rudy Giuliani, Dick Armey, the House
majority leader, and other conservatives who understand the importance of
immigrants to America?

Now I have cooled down a bit. So, if you talk and listen to people like that I
will rescind my expulsion order against you.

Just a few words, no more needed, about that British-born immigrant -- Peter
Brimelow is his name, I remember now. His book is much too farbissen, my
mother's Yiddish word for embittered, to be of value. Save time and money by
reading instead Ira Glasser's seven-paragraph letter in The Times of June 16
about his racism -- a masterpiece of intellectual demolition.

That British immigrant really must go home. Mercy extends just so far.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

How French Right Broke From Margins

SECTION: Section A;   Page 14;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 234 words


To the Editor:

Dreux, the subject of "Rightists Play Immigrant Card in French Town" (news
article, June 16) has had a special role in the development of the National
Front in France.

As you state, the National Front candidate for mayor of Dreux, Marie-France
Stirbois, who lost to a conservative in the final round of elections on June 18,
became her party's candidate after her husband was killed in an automobile
accident in 1988.

The husband, Jean-Pierre Stirbois, along with his wife had worked long and hard
to create a National Front following in Dreux.

In 1983 their party garnered 16.7 percent of the vote, its strongest showing
until then in an election since its creation in 1972.

The National Front's electoral success in that first round led to a coalition
with the Gaullists and Giscardians. They defeated the Socialists and took
control of the Dreux municipal council.

For the first time France had a municipal council with the National Front
represented.

These events were a major part of the National Front's "breakthrough" from the
political margins to a position of influence. Mr. Stirbois detailed the Dreux
campaign in a 1988 book, "The Future Belongs to Us." Had Mr. Stirbois lived he
might have become Jean-Marie Le Pen's successor as leader of the National Front.


BERTRAM M. GORDON
Professor of History
Mills College
Oakland, Calif., June 19, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Rush to Repatriate Vietnam Refugees

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 332 words


To the Editor:

"More Misery for Vietnamese Detainees" (editorial, June 19) correctly states
that what we ought to look for is a "tolerable conclusion" to the painful story
of the Vietnamese refugees.

As a former Foreign Service officer who served in Vietnam during the war and in
Southeast Asia during the years of the boat people's exodus, I understand why it
is that you, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the host
nations, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Department of State
all want to take the most direct route toward getting rid of the problem and
send all the refugees back to Vietnam, by force if necessary.

But as anyone familiar with how the U.N. High Commissioner has conducted the
screening in the camps over the last six years will tell you, there is a
fundamental flaw in that approach.

Here I am not referring to the hostility of the host nations toward the boat
people, to the low-level corruption found in camp administration or even to the
increasingly hard-hearted attitude of United States Government officials
responsible for refugee matters, but to the dubious quality of the screening
interviews in the camps, on which the U.N. officials based their ruling on the
future of individual asylum-seekers.

Long ago fairness and objectivity were replaced by sloppiness and
superficiality, and the screening process degenerated.

The result is that among the refugees there are probably several thousand whose
claims for asylum are legitimate. These include not only many Vietnamese who are
active anti-Communists but a large number who worked for the United States in
Vietnam, either for the military or the sizable civilian component, and who
would be at risk if they returned to Vietnam.

Thus it might be bureaucratically convenient simply to send all remaining
refugees back to Vietnam, but it would be unfair to a large number of them. They
deserve a hearing.

JAMES H. MCNAUGHTON
Bethesda, Md., June 19, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 85 words


A brief front-page summary on Wednesday for an article about the uprising at an
immigration detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., misstated some elements of
discussions between immigration officials and James F. Slattery, chairman of the
company that ran the center. While Mr. Slattery said he had discussed tensions
at the center with the officials, he did not characterize those discussions as a
warning. And Mr. Slattery did not say the officials had asked him not to speak
publicly about the incident.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration and Bad Social Policies Don't Mix;
A White Ethnic Core

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 6;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 345 words


To the Editor:

Ira Glasser, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, in a
personal attack on me (letter, June 16) seconded by A. M. Rosenthal (column,
June 20), purports to prove his charge of racism through selected quotations
from my book "Alien Nation: Common Sense about America's Immigration Disaster."

Cardinal Richelieu claimed that he could find something to hang the most honest
man in six lines written by him.

But despite the best efforts of Mr. Glasser, the 16 quotations he has carefully
winnowed and arranged have this unfortunate characteristic:

They are all entirely true.

For example, it is a fact that the American nation has always had a specific,
white, ethnic core.

It is a fact that the 1965 immigration law dramatically skewed immigration
toward the third world.

It is a fact that public policy is now making the United States a multiracial
society.

It is a fact that there is no precedent for a sovereign country undergoing such
a rapid and radical transformation of its ethnic character.

And it is a fact that race is destiny in American politics, in the entirely
empirical sense that here, unlike Europe, political allegiances are generally
determined by ethnicity, not class.

Mr. Glasser and Mr. Rosenthal make no attempt to deny these facts. They simply
decree that any mention of them is anathema.

This is an extraordinary attitude to truth, which must be rejected by anyone
concerned with honest public debate.

It is also a fact that my little son, Alexander, has blue eyes and blond hair.

I mention this only once ina book of 275 pages, but both Mr. Glasser and Mr.
Rosenthal are sufficiently outraged to highlight it in, respectively, a letter
of 425 words and a column that is shorter than it seems.

The passion he has innocently provoked is an example of the blind hysteria that
for 30 years has made impossible the rational discussion of America's
out-of-control immigration policy.

PETER BRIMELOW
New York, June 21, 1995

The writer is a senior editor at Forbes magazine.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration and Bad Social Policies Don't Mix

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 278 words


To the Editor:

Re "Arianna, Go Home!" (column, June 20): A. M. Rosenthal distorts my views on
immigration as expressed over a two-hour "Firing Line" debate. The most
important debate on "Firing Line" was not between the two sides but within the
two sides. I vigorously disagreed with Peter Brimelow over his preoccupation
with the ethnic origins of those immigrating to our shores. And Mr. Rosenthal
knows that.

As I said both on television and in print, "I couldn't care less what Americans
will look like in the year 2050; but I care very much what they will be like. My
concern, in fact, has less to do with those immigrating here than with the
America they are immigrating to."

Instead of being an opportunity society where hard work, enterprise and
commitment are rewarded with success, or at least a decent living, America has
become an entitlement society, fostering a culture of rights, subsidies and
dependence that has infected millions of new immigrants, just as it has trapped
millions of native-born Americans in an ever-growing underclass. The problem is
not immigration itself but the combustible combination of high levels of
immigration and the bankrupt social policies of the last 30 years.

What I have argued for is what the report by the bipartisan Commission on
Immigration Reform has recommended. Headed by former Congresswoman Barbara
Jordan, the commission has proposed a reduction in the annual number of legal
immigrants to 550,000. I cannot go home because I already am home. America is no
less my home than Mr. Rosenthal's.

ARIANNA HUFFINGTON
Senior Fellow, Progress
and Freedom Foundation
Washington, June 20, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 28, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Israel's Russians Seek To Build a Nation

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 164 words


To the Editor:

As a close friend of the former Soviet dissident Natan Sharansky, I was glad to
read "Israel's Russians Organize to Win Respect" (front page, June 20). Mr.
Sharansky's intention in forming a political movement is not merely to pose as a
threat to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin as one who is able to "bring down his
Government."

Rather, Mr. Sharansky's main objective is to build up Israel as a whole; hence
the name of his movement, Yisrael ba-Aliya -- meaning both "Israel for
Immigration" and "Israel Moving Upward."

This new movement is not meant to further "ghettoize" the Russian immigrants.
Improving the standards of one group translates into an improvement for the
society.

Mr. Sharansky is pushing for better aid for immigrants (from Russia, the United
States or anywhere else) to ease their integration into Israeli society,
accelerating and strengthening the development of the country.

(Rabbi) HASKEL LOOKSTEIN
New York, June 21, 1995

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 30, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

TV WEEKEND;
5 Issues Guaranteed To Upset Someone

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section D;     Page 18;     Column 4;     Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 477 words


"America, 200 Years and Counting" is the overblown title of a modest hourlong
report on five issues that are agitating the nation: welfare, immigration,
affirmative action, guns and, for part of the country, land use.

It takes us first to New Hampshire, a state with neither an income tax nor a
sales tax, where the needy are cared for by a combination of local property
taxes and volunteers. These days the pressures on communities are increasing.
The segment on immigration offers a quick but pointed history of what it calls
America's love-hate relationship with immigrants: welcoming them in prosperous
times when labor is needed, cracking down when things get tough. As the
anti-immigration movement in California demonstrates, the nation is in a tough
phase.

The tensions over affirmative action are seen in Seattle, where black
firefighters tell how hard it was to get jobs in the city's Fire Department
before the coming of Federal programs, and a white man complains of being denied
an appointment to the police academy despite good scores. As for guns, you can
hear youths in Washington, D.C., describe how easily they can be obtained on the
streets.

A much fresher report comes from Idaho, where Federal officials are doing battle
over land use with ranchers, loggers and other Western businesses. It ends on an
optimistic note that commercial interests and ecological interests can be
reconciled. In sum, an on-and-off hour, but who's counting?

'Investigative Reports'
'The Plague Monkeys'
A&E
Tonight at 9 P.M.

The recent outbreak of Ebola virus in Zaire was not its first appearance. As
"The Plague Monkeys" relates, it showed up with deadly consequences in Germany
in 1967 and in Zaire in 1976. It also broke out in the United States in 1989,
but fortunately for humans, the only victims were monkeys in the Government's
Primate Quarantine Unit in Reston, Va.

Tonight's graphic report, presided over by Bill Kurtis, brings in scientists,
hospital workers and survivors to tell what it is like to be in the middle of a
plague, as well as how it is spread and how it can be contained. One strain of
the virus, which brings a painful death within a week, might be carried through
the air. The facts are serious enough for the producers to spare us the creepy
camera effects.

In Zaire the 1976 plague was stopped by burning the huts occupied by people who
had been infected. In Reston, hundreds of monkeys were killed in a chilling
process shown tonight. But the origins of the virus remain mysterious, and the
possibility of a recurrence is much on the minds of the plague fighters.

AMERICA
200 Years and Counting PBS, tonight
(Channel 13, New York, at 10)

Produced by Polly Wells, Andy Soth and WETA; Dave Iverson, host; Mr. Iverson and
Jeff Milstein, executive producers; Consuelo Gonzalez, creative director.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 4, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Dead-End Jobs? Not for These Three

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 45;   Column 2;   Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1798 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 3


Mark Ishaya was a toddler in Baghdad when his father died and his mother
abandoned the family. He was a child laborer in a Lebanese oil filter factory
when Palestine Liberation Organization guerrillas massacred co-workers as he hid
in a cabinet.

Zdenka Bulic was 21 when she emigrated from Bosnia nine years ago, frustrated at
the career roadblocks she faced as a Croat. David Nunez left his home in Mexico
at the age of 16 in search of higher wages.

All three have ended up in management jobs at the McDonald's restaurant on
Peterson Avenue on Chicago's north side, overseeing the 50 other immigrants on a
staff of 55.

Their achievement testifies to the energy and talent of immigrants who use
"burger flipping" jobs that most Americans deride as dead ends to lift
themselves to modest prosperity and many of the trappings of middle-class
American life.

Their success also reflects the effectiveness of systems that McDonald's and
other fast-food chains have been forced to develop to integrate into their work
forces vast numbers of low-skill workers, whether they be immigrants or American
citizens.

More than 1 out of every 8 Americans now working -- at least 20 million people
-- have worked in a McDonald's since Ray Kroc opened his first McDonald's
hamburger stand 40 years ago in the Chicago suburb of Des Plaines.

Behind that number is a corporate strategy of using armies of part-time workers.
In addition, hourly pay for McDonald's crew members is typically only a bit
higher than the $4.25 minimum wage and fringe benefits are meager. Employees
leave so frequently that this year McDonald's and its franchisees, which employ
more than 500,000 workers in the United States and Canada, will have to hire
well over that number of new employees to stay fully staffed.

But there is an upside to this upheaval. The leading fast-food chains have been
forced to concentrate more than other businesses on designing their jobs and
training programs with an eye toward quickly adapting large numbers of raw
recruits from diverse backgrounds, including those with little or no experience
speaking English. And turnover, plus the industry's relentless expansion, gives
quick learners a rapid shot at management.

Training programs at Peterson Avenue start with McDonald's-supplied videotapes,
in either English or Spanish, ranging from general topics like methods of
dealing with customer complaints to the specifics of operating different kinds
equipment. Written manuals repeat much of the information. In addition,
experienced employees designated as crew trainers work shoulder-to-shoulder with
new hires.

The management track starts with introductory weeklong operations and management
courses for assistant managers taught at regional training centers. Those
promoted to second assistant become eligible for the Intermediate Operations
Course, focusing on recruitment and retention of workers and advanced
decision-making problems, and an equipment-maintenance and technology course.

First assistant managers, who have already received up to 2,000 hours of
training, become eligible to attend the two-week Advanced Operations Course at
Hamburger University, the company's national training center in Oak Brook, Ill.
Managers also take review courses and specialized offerings, such as courses on
career development for women, blacks and Hispanics.

Nowhere has the McDonald's system worked better for immigrants than at the
Peterson Avenue restaurant, one of six franchises owned by a retired contractor,
Ralph Wright, and his wife, Marilyn, an immigrant from Croatia. Native-born
Americans rarely make up more than a handful of the employees there. And these
days it's Mr. Ishaya, Ms. Bulic and Mr. Nunez who are among the role models.

Mark Ishaya

Mark Ishaya's psychological ties to his perilous childhood remain strong. He
dreams of returning to Baghdad some day to visit the grave of his father, who
died when he was 2 years old. The memories are vivid of the flight with his
grandparents and sister by car, camel and foot to Lebanon when he was 6 and from
Lebanon to Greece nearly three years later when Palestinian and Syrian attacks
engulfed their Christian community.

By the time Mr. Ishaya took the suggestion of some friends and applied to work
with them at a McDonald's, the habit of hard work to help support one's family
was already engrained. Then 15, he lied about his age to obtain more hours.

"I was made manager of a McDonald's within months of graduating from high
school," Mr. Ishaya said. "There I was, an 18-year-old, running a $1 million
operation."

Mr. Ishaya, now 31, was transferred to the McDonald's on Peterson Avenue within
two years. He soon fashioned the branch into a frequent winner of performance
awards from both the company and neighborhood trade groups. In 1993 he was
promoted to a job supervising the restaurant on Peterson Avenue and two others,
with a salary he describes as "about $45,000." The fringe benefits include
health care and a leased 1995 Ford Explorer.

One of the first lessons McDonald's taught Mr. Ishaya was that he was not as shy
as he once thought. "After you deal with thousands of people of every race
day-in, day-out, your personality changes," he said.

Mr. Ishaya said McDonald's had taught him enough about machinery and building
systems to do most of the work refurbishing a two-apartment building he bought
and then sold. He also picked up the basics of American financial controls,
inventory management and marketing strategies. Above all, he learned a respect
for employees and customers that he said was foreign to the Middle East.

Asked to explain, he cited a case in which a manager under him covered up the
fact that a batch of Chicken McNuggets had been sitting too long, setting back
the timer to make it look as if they were fresher than they were. Mr. Ishaya
briskly ordered new McNuggets and removed the old ones. Then he took the manager
aside, told him to taste the old McNuggets, and inquired whether he would be
happy to pay for them if he were a customer. The typical restaurant in his
homeland, Mr. Ishaya said, would have neither rigid quality controls nor a
policy of teaching wayward employees instead of just berating them.

"I'm not gifted," Mr. Ishaya said. "But McDonald's put me through a lot of
classes and I really practiced what I learned. I believe I could do anything
now."

Zdenka Bulic

Bosnia had not yet plunged into civil war when Zdenka Bulic, now 30, came to
Chicago to attend a relative's wedding, live with her cousin, Judy, for a year
and perhaps go to school. Her parents both worked at an airplane factory and her
family enjoyed a middle-class life. But it was already apparent that she would
never be given a shot in Muslim-dominated Mostar at teaching math and science,
her dream job.

In retrospect, it is no surprise that Judy promptly took her to work at
McDonald's: Judy's sister is Marilyn Wright. Ms. Bulic was initially assigned to
grillwork and began picking up Spanish from fellow crew members before she
learned any English. Like everyone else in the Wrights' stores, she goes by her
first name (pronounced iz-den-ka). It is so frequently mispronounced that she
wants to change it to Pam when she applies for American citizenship next year.

"That's what some of my regular customers decided to call me when I first
started serving," she laughed.

As Mr. Ishaya's successor as store manager at Peterson Avenue, Ms. Bulic arrives
at 4 A.M. every fourth day to meet the McDonald's delivery truck and by 5 A.M.
the rest of the time. She sometimes leaves as early as 3 P.M., but often gets
caught up chatting with employees or customers.

"The concept of 100 percent customer satisfaction was new to me," said Ms.
Bulic, who had worked briefly in a restaurant in Mostar before coming to the
United States. "At home, we never even say 'please' or 'thank you' to
customers."

The other eye-opener, she said, was the emphasis on teamwork. "The system is so
organized and responsibilities are so broken out that it makes the role of
teamwork clear," she said. "I had no clue about how much goes into it when I
started."

Ms. Bulic, who now earns about $35,000 annually, has piled up such all-American
assets as a Chevy Beretta and a small two-bedroom home in Elk Grove, Ill. Her
main hobby is tending the house's huge garden, which includes plants contributed
by some of her customers.

She recently completed the company's advanced course on store operation at
Hamburger University. She is studying computers but her career dream these days
is to graduate from the Wrights' chain into a job as a McDonald's field
consultant advising other restaurant managers.

David Nunez

David Nunez, now 32, never had trouble finding work in his native Michoacan, a
state just west of Mexico City. By the time he was 17, he had been laboring for
more than a decade making construction materials or clothing to help his parents
and six siblings make ends meet.

"I wanted something better," he said, recounting in halting English how he left
in 1979 to join two older brothers who preceded him to Chicago.

On the recommendation of a friend, he left his first job here as a busboy at an
upscale restaurant to clean tables and mop floors at McDonald's. Willingness to
work rather than raw ambition has lifted him to his current job as first
assistant manager at Peterson Avenue under Ms. Bulic.

It took two years before Mr. Nunez made the move from cleaning into the kitchen,
and even then it came only after prodding from Mr. Wright to try it. He quit in
1982 when his closest friend left Chicago for a job in Texas tending vegetables
and flowers and urged him to come along. A year later, he drifted back to
Mexico, and in 1985 he got married.

Returning to Chicago with his new wife, Maria, he called Marilyn Wright and was
offered a kitchen job. That lasted two more years but his wife, who was
homesick, returned to Mexico with their infant daughter, and after four months
he followed her. He came back to Chicago for good in 1988, this time getting a
machine maintenance job with the Wrights and an eventual promotion into customer
service.

"The first time they asked me to consider going into management, I said no
because it's too much responsibility," Mr. Nunez said. But in 1990, when he was
asked again and, assured there would be others double checking everything and
backing him up, he agreed. The extra money helped reunite him with his wife and
three children.

Mr. Nunez earns about $25,000. He frets about weaknesses in his English and
people-management skills but has begun to entertain the notion that he could
someday run Peterson Avenue. "I would never have gotten this far outside the
McDonald's system," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top are Mark Ishaya, Zdenka Bulic and David
Nunez, McDonald's employees in Chicago. Mr. Ishaya, from Iraq, oversees three
restaurants. Ms. Bulic, from Bosnia, is a restaurant manager. Mr. Nunez, from
Mexico, is first assistant manager, reporting to Ms. Bulic. (Steve Kagan for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 5, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Looking at Skin Color, Rather Than Pedigree

SECTION: Section A;   Page 20;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 290 words


To the Editor:

Peter Brimelow ("A White Ethnic Core," letter, June 27) cavalierly waves off
suggestions that "Alien Nation," his book, and his anti-immigrant ideas are
racist. He accuses Ira Glasser, executive director of the American Civil
Liberties Union (letter, June 16), and A. M. Rosenthal (column, June 20) of
attacking his ideas with his own words.

I have suffered the Brimelow wrath for the crime of speaking out for equal
justice and equality for all. Mr. Brimelow, however, looks only to the brown hue
of my skin, and not my century-old American pedigree.

He quotes in "Alien Nation" from my published work and dismisses my actual
experiences and the factual scenario of a 1965 America that murdered black
children because they were black, killed black males because they were black and
kept me and fellow United States marines from voting in Texas and other Southern
states.

He declares that I have a "profound alienation from America." I don't. I just
believe that all men are created equal.

On page 120, Mr. Brimelow writes: "In order to prevent it from discriminating
against minorities, the historic American majority must be destroyed." He
attributes this attitude to me, of all people, just because I pointed out that
the good old days had plenty of bad old days.

Mr. Brimelow declares: "Raoul Lowery Contreras, the El Hispano columnist I
quoted on page 106 attacking George Will, Tom Metzgar and myself, is part Anglo.
Intermarriage cannot guarantee social harmony."

I am not part Anglo. My Irish surname is from a stepfather. My real name is
Contreras, and it was handed down to me by Spanish Conquistadors.

RAOUL LOWERY CONTRERAS
San Diego, June 29, 1995
The writer is a radio talk-show host.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 10, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

2 Dominican Team Members May Be Applying for Asylum

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, July 9


Two members of the Special Olympics team from the Dominican Republic have
slipped away from their escorts and may be planning to apply for political
asylum to remain in the United States permanently.

David Phelps, a Special Olympics spokesman, said that Juan Carlos Bal Buena, a
20-year-old basketball player from Santo Domingo, was believed to be with
relatives in New York today, after apparently receiving help from friends or
family to leave the games about 1 P.M. Friday. Mr. Bal Buena, who is described
as moderately mentally retarded, was not reported missing until Saturday by
members of his delegation.

Raul Heredia, another member of the 18-person Dominican delegation, disappeared
earlier in the week, and Mr. Phelps said that it was learned on Saturday that
Mr. Heredia, a carpenter, was staying with friends in Lowell, Mass.

"Both matters are immigration related," Mr. Phelps said, noting that both men
were in the United States on visas and may apply for asylum or try to stay
illegally when they expire. The athletes appear to have made the decision on
their own and are competent to make such judgments, Mr. Phelps said.

Cesar Mella, president of the Dominican Republic Special Olympics, declined to
discuss the departure of the two athletes, though he noted that many Dominicans
immigrate to the United States. About 700,000 Dominicans have come to the United
States over the last 35 years, Mr. Mella said.

If the other Dominican athletes were disturbed by their teammates' actions, it
was not obvious this afternoon at the closing ceremonies. They danced on their
seats in the Yale Bowl, waved their country's flag and twirled the gold medals
they won in basketball and other sports. The athletes were instructed not to
talk to reporters about their teammates.

The disappearance of Mr. Bal Buena set off a brief scare that he was the second
athlete to have fallen in harm's way. On Thursday, Ramesh Mali, an athlete from
Nepal, apparently drowned in Long Island Sound, though his body has not been
recovered. State police continued to search the waters for his body today.

The disappearance of the Dominicans and the apparent drowning of Mr. Mali has
raised questions about whether the athletes have been supervised adequately. Mr.
Phelps said that there is one supervisor for every three athletes, and he noted
that the policy would be reviewed after the games.

But a number of coaches remarked today that it was to be expected that any
international sporting event with more than 7,000 participants was going to have
accidents and requests for asylum. "Political asylum happens every day," Judi M.
McKinnon, the coach of the Australian team, said. "It's surprising we didn't see
more of it."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Dutch Settlers Start Boom in Texas Dairy Farms

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 20;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1629 words

DATELINE: STEPHENVILLE, Tex.


It is near midnight on Friday at the Cutting Horse saloon, and only nine
boisterous young men remain. They are drinking Coors Light and speaking Dutch.

Martin Van Beek, a thatch-haired blond, jumps from the table and, seizing the
Country and Western duo's microphone, belts out a bawdy, foot-stomping Dutch
ballad about life after work on a dairy farm.

Every Friday after the weekly cow market closes, these men, all in their 20's
and 30's, blow off steam at the Cutting Horse. The rest of the time they feed
and milk cows.

More than three centuries after the Dutch settled the city that became New York,
and a century after the peak of European immigration, scores of these men have
fled the crowded green pastures of the Netherlands for the oak-dappled ranges of
north central Texas and a land that for them can still open doors to riches and
opportunity. Content to leave oil and cattle to Texans, the Dutch have
reinvented the Lone Star state's dairy industry.

Since the late 1970's, Dutch immigrant dairymen -- along with second-generation
Dutch-American dairymen whose parents settled in California and Washington state
-- have been moving into a 100-square-mile area around Stephenville, little more
than an hour's drive southwest of Fort Worth. In combination with a few large
dairy farmers from the West Coast, they have made this area the state's leading
milk-producing region.

Other Dutch immigrants have settled east of Dallas around Sulphur Springs. No
other areas in the state produce much milk.

The Dutch own fewer dairy farms than longtime Texans own, but they own most of
the newest, most efficient and biggest farms. Some have herds of more than 1,000
cows, 10 and 20 times more than the typical dairy farm of the Midwest and
Northeast. They have brought Texas from next to nowhere in milk production to
sixth in the nation, after California, Wisconsin, New York, Pennsylvania and
Minnesota. They also win disproportionately high numbers of industry awards for
dairy farm management.

"It ain't a walk in the park," said Mr. Van Beek, who is 30 and single and
started his business here six years ago. With no established credit, it can be
hard to borrow from American banks to expand, he said, and hard to meet the
state's environmental regulations prohibiting the runoff of animal wastes into
the Bosque (pronounced BAHS-kee) River. "But if you work hard and have luck, you
can get something accomplished," he said.

Sherry Webb, editor and publisher of Texas Dairy Review, a monthly newspaper
published in Stephenville, said, "Martin's a perfect example of the Dutch here.
He loves America. He will never move back. He keeps asking, 'Do I sound Texan
yet?' "

Mr. Van Beek has yet to master the inflections of Texas English, but he is
fluent in milking profits from cows even as the economics of milk production
have chopped the number of the nation's dairy farms from 282,000 in 1984 to
150,000 last year.

The influx of Dutch dairy farmers has stirred some uneasiness here. A persistent
rumor has it that the Government of the Netherlands subsidizes them with
low-interest loans -- an assertion that the dairymen and the Netherlands embassy
in Washington flatly deny. Merchants call them tightwads who invest freely in
milking and processing gear but little in homes and good living. One young
Dutchman lived in his milking parlor until health inspectors forced him to buy a
trailer home.

They are also blamed for attracting state and Federal regulators. Small farmers
used to get away with letting their waste pollute groundwaters and the Bosque
River. But the volumes of waste soared with the arrival of the bigger Dutch and
West Coast operations, so all farmers had to start hiring lawyers, putting up
with regular inspections and investing in lagoons and other devices to protect
the river and the water table.

For the most part, however, the Dutch are accepted. Bob Traweek, a longtime
Texas dairy farmer in his sixties, who also raises peanuts and cattle, said,
"They're willing to sacrifice and do things our older folks are not willing to
do."

No one keeps track of just how many Dutch dairymen have settled in Texas. Arnold
Parzer, agricultural counselor at the Netherlands embassy, estimates that over
the last 15 years, 100 first-generation dairy farmers have moved into the state,
nearly all here and in Sulphur Springs. The Stephenville-area telephone book now
lists almost a column of names like De Vries, De Wit, De Jong, Houtsma, Talsma,
Vander Lann, Van Leeuwen, Vander Linden, Vander Meer and Viss.

Few are Miss Liberty's impoverished huddled masses yearning for freedom. They
grew up on farms on the lowlands of the Netherlands and yearned to follow their
fathers into the business. But chronic surpluses of milk in Europe have led to
quotas to reduce production, stifling initiative and opportunity. The cost of
land is forbidding, too. Mr. Parzer said a hectare in the Netherlands -- 2.4
acres -- costs $80,000.

Usually in the Netherlands, the management of most farms is passed on from
parents to just one offspring. So younger children who want to stay in the
business sell their interest to the managing sibling and bail out for Texas.
Compared with the Netherlands, getting started here strikes the Dutch as
laughably cheap.

A real estate agent in Stephenville, Ron Koonsman, has listed a 430-acre farm
for $748,000, including the land, sheds and dairy equipment -- but not the
house. That comes to $1,411 an acre. In the Netherlands that much land, though
more fertile, would cost $14.3 million.

Mr. Van Beek was 19 and in college when his father died and an older brother
took over the family's farm. "It's just not enough to support two families," he
said. So he sold out, and at 22, a year after college, he went off on his own.

For two years he worked at farms in Alberta, Canada, then moved to Stephenville
where he leased a farm, left it and leased another. A year and a half ago, he
bought an abandoned turkey farm. Today he owns 225 acres, leases 220 more, and
has a herd of 600 Holsteins -- six times the size of his brother's herd.
Immigration laws are not much of an obstacle, since the laws allow for visas for
jobs like these and provide for the admission of foreigners who invest in a
business and hire American workers.

The Dutch immigrants seem to acclimate easily to the local culture, donning
boots and cowboy hats, buying second-hand pickups, drinking American beer and
insisting that their children speak English at home. Still, some work in wooden
shoes, and the single men -- the majority of the newcomers -- tend to marry the
second-generation daughters of Dutch dairymen.

In Stephenville, nearly 40 families -- half first-generation Dutch, half second
and third -- belong to a 10-year-old outpost of the Christian Reformed Church, a
conservative cousin of the Dutch Reformed Church. Their 29-year-old pastor, the
Rev. Elliot Vander Lugt, is an American of Dutch descent. Three years ago the
church opened the Stephenville Christian School, and Rev. Vander Lugt says 40 of
its 100 students come from Dutch families. The language of both the school and
the church is English.

For years, the influx of both Dutch and West Coast American dairymen stirred
little concern here. Texas produced less milk than the state consumed, so there
was business enough for all. But production now exceeds consumption, here and
nationwide, and that holds prices down. For a decade, the price farmers have
gotten for their milk has been stuck at around $1.10 to $1.20 a gallon.

Meanwhile the costs of farming keep rising, and old, less efficient farms,
unable to keep costs below their revenues, have had to close or sell out.
Corporate dairy farms have more than made up for the production of the 3,800
family farms that closed from 1984 to 1994, leaving only 4,200 in Texas. The
population of dairy cows surged 26 percent in the decade, and milk production
grew 68 percent.

George De Vries, 40, a second-generation Dutch-American dairyman, was one of the
first here, and his is now the second-biggest farm around Stephenville after the
single corporate farm in the area. He moved from Washington state in 1978 at 17,
leaving behind his parents and 10 brothers and sisters. All five brothers have
gone into dairy farming, including one who followed Mr. De Vries to
Stephenville.

The De Vries dairy is an immense, pristine establishment. Inside the farm gate
stand structures of concrete and steel, with none of the litter or abandoned
machinery seen on many farms.

"We're milking 1,200 cows," said Mr. De Vries, wearing starched and ironed, pale
blue coveralls. Off in one corner, a giant composting machinery turns mountains
of manure into bedding for cows that sleep and eat nearby in open-walled sheds.
"It's just unused feed," he explains. "You can feed it to heifers," or
adolescent cows. The cows, each with a plastic identification number riveted to
each ear, roam between the shed and an adjacent grassless lot. They are set out
to pasture only during the two months of the year when they are dry of milk.

Most dairy farmers milk twice a day. But the enriched rations the Dutch serve
their the cows, laced with molasses to whet lethargic appetites in the
90-plus-degree Texas heat, produce prodigious volumes of milk and immense
pressure on udders. So three times a day, Mr. De Vries guides his herd into his
glistening steel and battleship gray milking parlors, where each typically
yields close to three gallons of milk a day.

"They're all good dairymen," said Harold Parks, a third-generation Texas
dairyman, whose own business, with 450 cows on 300 acres, is still holding its
own. "They come from good dairies over there. They're just here to make a
living."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: George De Vries, a Dutch-American farmer, migrated to
Stephenville, Tex., to begin dairy farming when he was 17. Today, at 40, he owns
the area's second largest dairy farm.; Martin Van Beek, 30, a native of the
Netherlands, started his farming business six years ago. (Photographs by Rodger
Mallison for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 16, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

PLAYING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD: EAST HARLEM;
Immigrants' Friend: The Settlement House

SECTION: Section 13;   Page 16;   Column 4;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 248 words


SETTLEMENT houses started as a new concept in charity in turn-of-the century
London. The wealthy would settle in poor neighborhoods to better understand the
community's problems.

"It was seen as a bridge between the upper and lower classes," said Michael
Everett, the assistant director of development at the Union Settlement
Association, the East Harlem institution, which was founded in 1895 by members
of the Union Theological Seminary.

Since then, the settlement house has been the first stop for many immigrants
looking for help in establishing a new life. It currently offers programs such
as adult literacy classes, AIDS services, child care and after-school youth
programs.

The Museum of the City of New York is paying tribute to the Union Settlement
Association on its 100th anniversary with an exhibition of photographs and
documents from the archives of the settlement house. The display traces East
Harlem's ethnic mix of Irish, Italians, Germans, Russians and Polish Jews at the
turn of the century to today's population of Dominicans, Mexicans, Puerto
Ricans, Pakistanis and blacks.

"Union Settlement Association: 100 Years of Leadership in East Harlem"; The
Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103d Street; Museum hours:
Wednesday through Saturday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., Sunday, 1 P.M. to 5 P.M.;
suggested contribution, $5 for adults, $3 for seniors, students and children, $8
for families; through Nov. 5; (212) 534-1672, extension 206.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 17, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Distant but Loyal: Little Sicily in Queens;
Immigrants Congregate in Astoria But Leave Their Hearts in Castrofilippo

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1567 words


The giant onion of Castrofilippo went unnoticed in Rome and Naples, and barely
got a mention in the towns near the tiny Sicilian village where it was grown.
But it was news this summer in Astoria, Queens.

"Six pounds," marveled Salvatore Marino, an Astoria resident for 26 years. "That
is a big, big onion."

When Castrofilippo's Mayor, Giuseppe Castiglione, has an announcement about
weddings or onions, say, he often faxes or phones it to Astoria, where, chances
are, interest will be just as high as at home. Over the last half-century or
more, about as many people have left the village and moved to Queens as live
there now.

"Each one in Castrofilippo," the Mayor said in a telephone interview, "he has at
least one relative or friend or cousin in Queens."

Last year, the Mayor traveled from the vineyards, olive groves and peach arbors
of Castrofilippo -- population 3,700, including "the chickens and a few horses,"
he said -- to visit the Castrofilippo diaspora, sprinkled between Rikers Island
and the Queensboro Bridge. Since about 1950, Mr. Castiglione said, about 4,000
people have emigrated, most of them to the United States, a fraction of the more
than 600,000 Italians who came to this country in that time. The Castrofilippo
immigrants centered themselves in Queens.

Grandparents, uncles, aunts, cousins still live within blocks of one another in
Astoria, although some have ventured out to Whitestone, Ozone Park or even
beyond. About half the men work or used to work filling potholes and putting
down asphalt, a craft they say they have developed into an art form. And on
summer weekends, many Castrofilippo families head upstate for barbecues at their
summer houses in and around New Paltz, N.Y.

Italians have long immigrated to New York City from towns like Castrofilippo,
Orsogna and Castellammare del Golfo, setting up clubs for their particular
villages or regions so they could continue to celebrate their local feasts and
help one another find jobs. The way they clung to the rituals of their hometowns
helped shape the character not only of the Italian communities but also of the
boroughs where they settled.

In recent years, though, many of these tightly knit communities have become
"watered down," more generically Italian-American, said Joseph V. Scelsa,
director of the John D. Calandra Italian-American Institute at the City
University of New York. The immigrants already here have aged, and legal
immigration from Italy has slowed to a trickle; only about 400 Italians legally
settled in New York City last year, compared with 150,000 a year in the first
decade of the century.

Now even the people from Castrofilippo fear that their traditional ties are
unraveling.

"Unless some more people come over, it will fade," said Vincenzo Acquista. He is
the president of the Fraternal Society of Castrofilippo Social Club, a large
room below a second-floor hair salon on Ditmars Boulevard off Steinway Street.
Every night it is filled with several dozen men from the 180 families who are
active members.

"The young people come only for the fiestas," Mr. Acquista said. "There's not
much for them to do here."

Second- and third-generation Italian-Americans are not so dependent on their
countrymen. They are joining groups like the National Italian-American
Foundation, where the emphasis is on Italy as a country rather than on one
little town.

"The old-timers, they're more interested in themselves, getting together and
talking about the old tales and the villages, hearing the old stories over and
over and over," said Jack Como, chairman of the board of Americans of Italian
Heritage, a group of about 800 second- and third-generation Italian-American
families in northeast Queens. "Eventually, all these small clubs go down the
drain."

"Solo Soci" ("Members Only"), reads the sign at the Castrofilippo Social Club.
On a recent evening, the room was full of men with leathery faces, puffing on
cigarettes, jabbering in Sicilian, playing a card game called briscola, drinking
espresso and nibbling Italian cookies.

Giuseppe Mule, 51, was shooting pool in the corner, near the stone altar where
the six-foot wooden statue of Castrofilippo's patron saint, Antonio Abate, has
perched since it was custom-made and imported from Italy 25 years ago.

Salvatore Sferrazza, a wizened 72-year-old, was recalling the day in 1929 or
1930 when a bell that was being fixed atop one of the village's five churches
fell and landed on the foot of one Giuseppe Astuto. "In three, four days, he
started to walk like nothing happened," said Mr. Sferrazza. "It was a miracle of
the saint."

Calogero Messina, a 53-year-old asphalt worker, whose first images of the United
States came from John Wayne movies dubbed in Italian and shown on the screen in
the nearest big town, reminded everyone of famous children of Castrofilippese.
There is the Ben Gazzara, the actor, he said, and Richard Castellano, who plays
Clemenza, a mafioso, in "The Godfather." The men like to recall his infamous
line: "Leave the gun. Take the cannoli."

"For us, this is like the piazza," said Mr. Mule, a tanned man with curly white
hair who came here in 1966 with, as his own personal legend goes, a bag of
sausage in his hands. "If someone says, 'Listen, I need some help,' you help
them -- to fix a roof, to fix a fence, a brick walk, a cement walk. You talk."

The community was so tight that most of the immigrant men from Castrofilippo
made sure they married women from Castrofilippo. "If they couldn't find someone
here in America, they would go back to Castrofilippo, get married and then come
back over here," Mr. Mule said.

Nobody knows who first got the men from Castrofilippo into the asphalt business,
but the affinity goes back a long time, probably to the 1930's or 40's, they
said. Mr. Marino said his grandfather was on the construction crew on the
Queensboro Bridge in 1909 but returned to Castrofilippo because the work was too
dangerous. The first Castrofilippese came to Astoria in 1883, according to the
club, but no one recalls what he did for a living.

Mr. Messina and others said the men took to asphalt work because the motions of
raking and leveling were like the work they did in the vineyards back home.
After a while, each new immigrant had a friend or a cousin here who could get
him into the trade.

"Anybody from Castrofilippo goes to asphalt," Mr. Messina said. "We like the
job, number one. It is no easy job, but it's a good job, good money. And we are
like artists with the asphalt."

Mr. Marino, a former club president, was preparing for the annual feast.
Already, a stretch of five blocks in Astoria had been decked with red, green and
white streamers. Back home, the feast of the patron saint is Jan. 17, but it is
too cold in Astoria then, so the event is held in late June, culminating with a
parade in which the saint is papered with $5, $10 and $20 bills offered up as a
collection for the club.

Astoria's community routinely sends money back home, said Mayor Castiglione,
making the remaining townspeople considerably better off than they were before
people started emigrating. The club also paid for an orphanage, Boccone Del
Povero, or the Mouth of the Poor, which still exists after 35 years. If the
Astoria club dissolves, the members have agreed to give all proceeds to the
orphanage.

For all their nostalgia, the old-timers do not want to go back to live. They
remember how the village in the valley stifled their ambitions. "There were five
people in a bed," Mr. Mule said. "We had food, but that's all we had. Only a few
people went from the town to sell garlic and fruit, and came back. They all
lived and died in the small town."

Now, many of their children and grandchildren find the club as claustrophobic as
the village seemed then.

The hope for the club's future rests with people like Dino Sferrazza, 23, whose
parents both emigrated from Castrofilippo. Mr. Sferrazza, who teaches history at
Benjamin N. Cardozo High School in Bayside, said he liked the "concrete things"
about the culture: the traditional tomato sauce recipe with salt and a piece of
basil, the wine the families make in their basements and garages, the small
statuette in every house depicting the baby Jesus in white robes with red velvet
trim. Every year, he said, the club families pool their resources to bring in
Castrofilippo table grapes and olives stuffed in Mason jars.

But spending time at the club "gets tougher and tougher because other things
become more important," Mr. Sferrazza said. He has suggested that the club
broaden its activities with lectures by prominent Italian-Americans and trips to
Great Adventure and Atlantic City.

Mr. Marino and other regulars say they are considering the idea. They are also
thinking of having a ladies' night once a week and maybe trying to revive the
defunct soccer team. Boccie at the corner lot appeals only to the older men. In
the meantime, Mr. Marino has been distributing copies of "Castrofilippo: A
4,000-Year History," a 172-page paperback featuring geological drawings and the
village's Madonna sculptures.

And Mayor Castiglione said he was hoping to get money from the Sicilian
government to take several Astoria families back for a visit.

"We know the new generations have become Americans," Mr. Castiglione said. "But
we want the kids there to understand and to think back to the town."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Lisa Mule, queen of a feast at St. Francis Church, with a
statue of St. Antonio Abate, Castrofilippo's patron.; Maintaining ties with the
old country: a snapshot of Antoinatta Ciccotto of Astoria and her children on a
visit to Castrofilippo, Sicily, her hometown. Far right, a member of a social
club playing briscola, a card game. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. B1);
Jack Scrima handing out loaves of bread blessed at the annual feast day of St.
Francis of Assisi Church. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Inquiry Faults Detention Center

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 48 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


An investigation by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has
found that a privately run immigration prison in Elizabeth, the scene of an
uprising last month, was operated like a secretive fief where poorly trained and
abusive guards preyed on immigrants. Page 1.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Exit Laughing;
Russian Jews Bearing Jokes Keep Emigres in Stitches

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1489 words


Yanislav Levinzon, his round eyes beaming panic, is playing a little old Russian
immigrant grandfather racked by helpless anxiety. He is about to take his
American citizenship test, but can't for the life of him remember which ocean
lies off the West Coast. Come on, his children prompt him, you remember! We swam
there last year in California!

"Ah!" His face lights up. "The Jacuzzi!"

The audience roars every time, whether in a Brighton Beach nightclub, a Queens
elementary school or a synagogue auditorium in Hartford. Babushkas turned
pastel-clad matrons and apparatchiks turned suburban businessmen, they laugh at
themselves, just as they always have. Only now, their comics, refugees like
them, have turned from satirizing Soviet life with jokes about lines and
informers to poking fun at their immigrant culture, with quips about
personal-injury claims and welfare.

A new wave of the poignant, powerful humor that helped Russian Jews survive
czarism, Communism and anti-Semitism has made the crossing to America, battered
but as indomitable as ever. And just as the Black Sea city Odessa is the age-old
capital of Russian Jewish humor, Little Odessa -- Brighton Beach, Brooklyn --
has become the center of Russian humor in emigration.

"When a Jew comes to a new place, he plants a tree, he builds a house and he
develops his jokes," said Semyon Livshin, editor of a new Russian-language humor
magazine, Okay!, that is sold at Brighton Beach newsstands and by subscription
across the United States. "Humor is one of our best defense mechanisms against
what Americans call culture shock.

"In emigration, people become lonely," Mr. Livshin continued, "and humor is a
bridge from our past life to our present and future."

Under Communism, the Soviet Union developed possibly the richest treasury of
underground humor in the world, whole oral volumes of jokes playing off Leonid
Brezhnev's senility, Lenin's lisping cliches and the eternal Russian
anti-Semitism. Soviet comics perfected the art of the judicious pause, a silence
that shouted all that the censors would not allow.

Then the surreal Soviet system collapsed, and with it the foundation of all
those jokes. About the same time, hundreds of thousands of Jews, among them some
of the funniest of Russia's funny people, emigrated to Israel and America. The
jokes dwindled. The comrades-in-arms who had brainstormed punch lines together
on the premier Russian TV humor show, "The Club of the Merry and the Clever,"
were torn apart, some leaving for Israel, some for the United States, some
staying in Odessa and Moscow.

But all that comic energy was still there. And gradually, it is recombining into
something new -- an international mix still so hilarious to Russians that at Mr.
Levinzon's performance last week at the National Restaurant on Brighton Beach
Avenue, the sound technician was laughing so hard he made the one actress,
Alyona Rybchevsky, crack up on stage, she said.

The performers were part of a new Russian-language troupe, the First
International Theater of Skits, whose current tour of seven American cities is
showing just what that potent, infinitely ironic Russian humor can do when
applied to American life.

The oddities of American insurance, for example. In one skit, Mr. Levinzon plays
a Russian immigrant, Semyon Adolfovich, who is walking down a Manhattan street
when he notices a sign hanging above him by just one nail.

"The sweet word 'insurance' flashed into his head," Mr. Levinzon declaimed with
glee. ("Insurance" is one of those words Russian immigrants do not translate
from English, although there is a perfectly good Russian word; its essence is
too American. Others include welfare, apartment, meeting, appointment and
garbage.)

Within minutes, Mr. Levinzon continued, "Half of Brighton had gathered beneath
the sign," hoping to break just enough of a limb to get a nice payment.

"This isn't Russia," the savvy Semyon explained to the bunch. "Remember Anna
Karenina? Here, if the train even touched her, her son would be set for life,
and her husband, and she'd even have enough left over to throw Vronsky a cent or
two!"

Strategizing onward, Semyon tells one old man that the best idea is to pretend
to have lost interest in sex because of the trauma of the falling sign; that
ought to be good for $100,000 or so.

"You mean I can't sleep with my wife?" the old man asks.

"You can, but without great interest."

The old man goggled. "If I'd known about that before, I'd be a billionaire!"

The essence of the troupe's humor, said Yefim Aglitskiy, a legendary champion of
"The Club of the Merry and the Clever" and a physicist now working at the Naval
Laboratory in Washington, "is when the Russian Jewish mentality comes up against
the technology of American living. We're laughing at Americans and at ourselves
both."

If the current humor in translation strikes English-speaking Americans as only
slightly funny, that, as the Russians say, is no accident. Russian-Jewish humor
tends to be gentler and more delicate than its American counterpart, Russian
comedians say. It has the bittersweet bite of the Jewish humor that once powered
the Borshcht Belt, with little of the modern American stand-up comedian's
penchant for raw shock value. The comics still living and performing in the
former Soviet Union have become somewhat cruder, pandering to lowbrow new
millionaires, the skits' authors say, while emigre humor has stayed family
style.

"There's a line you don't cross," said Georgy Golubenko, one of the Theater of
Skits' two writers. And they don't poke fun at the current state of the former
Soviet Union. "That would be like beating a child," Mr. Aglitskiy, one of the
group's producers, said.

For the Russian immigrant audiences who flock to the shows, the Odessa-style
skits bring back times when humor was a method of survival, what Mr. Golubenko
called "medicine against the schizophrenia" of the Soviet regime.

"For us, this is as dear as our memories," said Yakov Lifshits, an architect
from Kiev still glowing after watching a show in Hartford. "Americans have very
thick humor. And they don't understand ours. They don't get the salt in ours."

In three weeks of touring the United States and 14 concerts under the
sponsorship of Balkan Airlines and the Glavs Travel air ticket agency, the
Theater of Skits has sold out virtually every appearance with its show, "The Art
of Living in America."

The troupe is too fledgling to be flush, charging only $10 a ticket and writing
off this tour as an attempt to jump-start its popularity. The shows are held in
halls ranging from Atlantic City night clubs to synagogue auditoriums, generally
for an audience of about 500.

The material is written in Odessa by Mr. Golubenko and his partner, Igor
Kneller. Then the furious faxing begins, to Mr. Levinzon in Haifa and the
producer Ulyana Yusim in Brooklyn. The Golubenko-Kneller team are used to living
by fax; they support themselves writing Russian-language ads aimed at immigrants
here and faxing them to a New York agency that employs several of the old "Merry
and Clever" bunch. Mr. Levinzon, for all his status as a comedy star in Russia
and emigre circles, still makes his main living as a travel agent in Haifa. And
Eduard Kalandarov, the group's pianist and a composer, gives lessons.

The troupe comes together about two weeks before the tour begins to rehearse,
staying at a friend's house in Brooklyn.

"Our circle is spread around the world, but our mentality remains," Mr. Kneller
said. With raves gathered from this tour, the group is considering a few stops
in Canada next.

Mr. Livshin's humor magazine, Okay!, is also doing well, having attracted 27,000
subscribers in the last two years with its friendly mix of old jokes, new jokes,
essays and tales of emigre life. Like the skit-meisters, Okay! is broadly
international, putting out issues from its publishing base in San Diego that
travel as far afield as the pocket of Russians in Australia.

Okay! has thought up an "Academy of Immigrant Sciences," with comical advice on
everything from how to get a driver's license to what to do on vacation, and
runs spoofs of American ads as well, including one by a personal injury lawyer
offering help for those who "suffered traumas while studying the English
language."

One bogus language exercise informs immigrants with weak English that to carry
on a conversation with any American, all they need is three expressions: "Big
deal!" "Oh, really!" and "Wow!"

A sample dialogue follows, in which the uncomprehending immigrant is working as
a dental assistant.

The doctor turns to the assistant.

"Masha, the needle!"

"Wow!"

"Quick, the patient is feeling bad!"

"Oh, really?"

"Quicker, he's about to faint!"

"Big deal!"

"I'll fire you!"

"Wow!"

"I'll sue you!"

"Oh, really?"

And on it goes until the patient collapses and Masha responds, predictably, "Big
deal!"

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: What do you get when you cross Russian Jewish humor with
immigrant life in America? A comedian like Yanislav Levinzon, whose troupe gave
a performance on Tuesday at Public School 175 in Rego Park, Queens. (Edward
Keating/The New York Times); Russian comics had the audience laughing, as usual,
earlier this month at Beth Israel Synagogue in West Hartford, Conn. (Steve
Miller for The New York Times); Three popular Russian immigrant comedians --
from left, Yanislav Levinzon, Edward Kalendar and Igor Kneller -- waiting
backstage before a performance on Tuesday at Public School 175 in Queens.
(Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. 25)

Chart: "Heh, Heh, Heh"

 Q.  Why do so many Russian immigrants to America go bald early?

A.  They've been tearing their hair for not emigrating earlier.

Q.  Why, in America, is two-day-old sour cream considered spoiled, while in
Russia even two-week-old sour cream is still considered good?

A.  What is two weeks for Russia, with its magnificent history of many
centuries?

Q. (To an elderly Jewish immigrant selling sunflower seeds outside Chase
Manhattan Bank)

Granspa, can you lend me a few dollars?

A. Sorry, I have a contract with Chase Manhattan. I don't lend money and they
don's sell sunflower seeds.

(Source: OKAY! magazine)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 581 words



INQUIRY FINDS JAIL WAS POORLY RUN

An investigation by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has
found that a privately run immigration prison in New Jersey, the scene of an
uprising last month, was run like a secretive fief in which poorly trained and
abusive guards preyed on immigrants, with little control from supervisors. [Page
1.]

NEW YORK CITY



AGENCY REVIEWS CITY'S BUDGET

In the first independent look at Mayor Giuliani's new budget, the state agency
that monitors New York City's finances concluded that the Mayor would have to do
still more to keep the budget balanced, raising the specter of deeper cuts in
services. The agency, the Financial Control Board, said in its report that the
Mayor's budget relied too heavily on revenues over which he has no control.
[23.]

REMEMBERING A VICTIM OF THE HEAT

It took only a few hours for Joseph Romeo, the owner of a Staten Island gas
station, to collect enough money from his fellow merchants in Great Kills to
bury George Roselli in style. And so it was that Mr. Roselli, a 65-year-old
handyman who had been homeless for almost 30 years, went to his grave dressed in
a dark pin-striped suit, surrounded by dozens friends in a town that refused to
allow him to remain a quiet footnote to the heat wave of 1995. [23.]

HOMAGE TO AN ARCHITECT OF NEW YORK

As the small bus pulled up to a tollbooth of the Bronx-Whitestone Bridge, Edward
Embury, from Denver, shouted to the driver, "Hey, just tell the guy my
grandfather designed this bridge; maybe he'll give us a discount." Mr. Embury
was telling the truth: his grandfather Aymar Embury 2d had indeed designed it.
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman. [23.]

OFFICER CHARGED IN ATTEMPTED MURDER

A 22-year-old police officer was charged with attempted murder after the police
said she handed her gun to her boyfriend, who then shot his uncle in the heat of
a bitter quarrel in a Brooklyn alley. The officer, Simona Patterson, and her
boyfriend, DeShawn Smart, 24, also face assault and other charges. [22.]

NEW HEARINGS ORDERED IN BOMBING CASE

A Federal appeals court has ordered new hearings in the case of two of the four
men convicted of bombing the World Trade Center to determine issues that were
not dealt with during the men's trial, a lawyer for one of them said. [22.]

REGION

A REPRIEVE FOR AN OLD PARK

For three summers, Lake Compounce in Bristol, Conn., has opened for just a few
days in efforts to save its title as the nation's oldest continually operating
amusement park. Now, thanks in part to $18 million in state bond financing, the
300-acre park not only has reopened for the entire summer, but also may remake
itself into a year-round theme park. [24.]

INMATE FREED, 10 YEARS AFTER CONVICTION

A 37-year-old Newark man who served 10 years of a 50-year term for a rape
conviction was released from prison, three weeks after his conviction was
overturned. The man, Earl Berryman, walked out of New Jersey State Prison after
a Federal appeals court refused to keep him behind bars while the state appeals
the overturning of his conviction. [24.]

INCIDENT AT INDIAN POINT PLANT

The Indian Point nuclear power plant dumped a small amount of radioactive
material into the Hudson River after Consolidated Edison workers left a valve
open, allowing thousands of gallons of clean water to wash over soil that had
been contaminated by previous leaks. [22.]

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pulse: "PULSE: Who Has Tuberculosos" shows number of cases by race and
ethnicity in 1994. (Source: N.Y.C. Department of Health)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 23, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Passions Loosed In Queens For Soccer

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 29;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 979 words


Ivo Perelman left his studio apartment on the Lower East Side, stepped onto an
uptown F train and headed toward the giant television screens of Queens. A jazz
musician and immigrant from Brazil, he wanted to be as close to Latin America as
he could get during the America Cup soccer tournament that ends today. His
destination: Jackson Heights.

In a neighborhood that has become a crossroads of a diverse range of Latin
American social clubs and discotecas -- where Uruguayan bars abut Ecuadoran,
Argentine and Chilean restaurants -- Mr. Perelman settled into a Colombian
restaurant called Chibcha on Roosevelt Avenue. As he watched the United
States-Brazil game on Thursday night, he seemed to inhale the fervor of the
other patrons, fellow Latin American immigrants.

"I came to here to watch the game because there's so much energy permeating,"
said Mr. Perelman, 34, who left Sao Paulo 15 years ago. "Soccer is a way of
asserting your cultural and national identity, especially when you're living in
a foreign country."

Over the last few weeks, thousands of Central and South American immigrants have
ventured to Chibcha, El Inca, Cali Viejo, Cafe Espana and dozens of other
popular Hispanic hangouts in Jackson Heights to watch soccer matches beamed
there from Uruguay. The America Cup tournament has provided them an intense
moment of reconnection to their homeland, a chance to put aside their daily
worries about life in the United States and allow their nationalism to surge
like nostalgia.

Their Old World passions, allegiances and even rivalries resurface, if only
briefly.

"Soccer is a serious outlet for people to reaffirm their cultural identity,"
said Mr. Perelman, a saxophonist who named his latest album "Soccer Land" as a
tribute to Brazil. "I can tell you that it's helped me keep my cultural sanity
while I've lived away from home."

Jackson Heights has long been accustomed to hordes of soccer fans descending on
its commercial streets, neighborly pockets of small shops that resemble sections
of Quito, Buenos Aires or Bogota.

In fact, the commander of the local police precinct, Deputy Inspector Arnold
Dansky, has made it a part of his routine to visit the clubs and bars at the
start of major tournaments, just to remind people to keep a lid on their
emotions. During the America Cup, the immigrants that are usually lumped
together as Hispanic split along national lines, and neighbors briefly remember
their differences and not what links them. Soccer, after all, is a sport that
led two Central American nations -- El Salvador and Honduras -- to an armed
conflict in 1969 known as the Soccer War.

Officers at the 115th Precinct keep a list of the bars and restaurants that
televise soccer matches in the neighborhood, and things do get out of hand at
times. Just a few years ago, more than a thousand revelers flooded a long
stretch of Roosevelt Avenue, stopping traffic for about an hour, after
Colombia's national team won a major game.

"It shows that there's great national pride," Deputy Inspector Dansky said. "I
just wish they'd be a little more quiet about it."

Cesar Romero, whose Jackson Heights restaurant, El Inca, has more than doubled
its business during the Cup tournament, figures the passions that erupt among
his patrons often have nothing to do with soccer itself.

He recalled the time about a year ago when his restaurant televised a game
between Peru and Ecuador, two nations that have had a violent border dispute for
decades. Suddenly, after the game got under way, chairs and bottles began flying
as a group of men from Ecuador unfurled a flag in front of some Peruvians who
stood at the bar.

"They started calling each other names," Mr. Romero, an immigrant from Ecuador,
recalled the other day as he stood in front of the restaurant. "You know, they
don't like each other. I don't think they'll ever be able to get along."

Jaime Manrique, a Colombian-born author whose book "Latin Moon in Manhattan" was
set partly in Jackson Heights, is not the least bit surprised that soccer
arouses such national passions among immigrants from Latin America, even those
who have been living in this country for many years.

"It takes them back to the time before they left their homeland," explained Mr.
Manrique, 47, whose novel chronicles the lives of Colombian immigrants. "It
stirs something very tribal."

Mr. Manrique, who came to the United States 30 years ago, added that he himself
has fallen under a similar spell. "I've been living here a long time," he said.
"But one of the few times I feel nationalistic is when I see the Colombian team
play."

The feeling runs so deep in him that he could not stand to see Colombia's team
lose to the younger squad from the United States during last year's World Cup
soccer games. "I was heartbroken," Mr. Manrique said. "I felt humiliated."

Enrique Medina, a waiter from Argentina who works at Chibcha, sees the matter
differently.

He has been living in this country for so long -- 13 years -- that he's glad to
see the United States soccer team emerge as a world-class contender. "It's a
pleasure to see the Americans enter the soccer community as an equal," he said.
The Americans actually made it to the semifinals of the 12-nation South American
tournament, to which they and Mexico were invited, only to lose on Thursday
night to Brazil, which plays Uruguay in the final today.

Sure, Mr. Medina was a bit disappointed to see Argentina's team bumped by the
United States squad earlier in the tournament. But he figures the loss had as
much to do with a great flaw in the Argentine character as with anything else.

"The Argentineans were arrogant," he said, noting that the Argentine team sent
second-string players onto the field against the team from the United States.
"Argentineans have always been arrogant. We are born that way. Ask anyone."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Colombian soccer fans, despite their team's America Cup loss,
celebrated on Thursday at Roosevelt Avenue and 82d Street in Jackson Heights.
(Steve Berman for The New York Times)

Chart: "JACKSON HEIGHTS: Hispanic Populations" shows amounts of various Hispanic
populations inJackson Heights.

Map of Queens showing location of Jackson Heights.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 23, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Prison Empire: How It Grew -- A special report.;
Parlaying the Detentions Business Into Profit

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN and MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2657 words


In the 1980's, James Slattery and Morris Horn ran one of the most notorious
welfare hotels in New York City, the filthy, crime-ridden and profitable
Brooklyn Arms in Fort Greene. After the city closed the hotel in 1989, Mr.
Slattery and Mr. Horn, with no experience in the prison business, bid to open a
Federal halfway house in Bedford-Stuyvesant.

Residents protested, and Representative Edolphus Towns began an investigation of
the contract. But Mr. Slattery and Mr. Horn hired Mr. Towns's campaign manager,
who lobbied the neighborhood and the politicians for them. The opposition
melted. They got the contract for their new prison company because, just as the
city had been desperate for places to house the homeless, the Federal Bureau of
Prisons badly needed a place for former offenders in New York City.

By cutting costs and making shrewd political moves, the Esmor Correctional
Services Corporation, based in Melville, L.I., grew in six years into one of the
toughest, leanest competitors in the fast-growing private prison industry.
Promising to save governments money, Esmor won contract after contract for
halfway houses, boot camps and immigration detention centers across the country.
Its fortunes soared until last month, when an uprising by detainees seriously
damaged and closed a year-old jail it ran in Elizabeth, N.J., for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

On Friday, immigration officials canceled Esmor's contract after releasing a
scathing report detailing an atmosphere of abuse and penny-pinching in the jail
for illegal immigrants and asylum seekers. Poorly paid, ill-trained guards
physically and verbally abused detainees, shackling them with leg irons,
roughing them up and waking them without reason in the middle of the night.
Women were sometimes denied sanitary napkins. Detainees were restricted to one
pair of clean underwear a week. Esmor employees lied and misled the immigration
service about conditions, the report said.

When immigration officials first awarded Esmor the New Jersey contract in 1993,
there was already a foreshadowing of these problems in the company's two halfway
houses across the Hudson River. But over the years, in awarding Esmor new
contracts, government officials have largely overlooked a record of problems
detailed in Federal inspection reports of its New York City halfway houses:
low-paid, untrained employees; poor building conditions, from vermin and leaky
plumbing to exposed electrical wires and other fire hazards, and inadequate,
barely edible food.

In 1992, when Esmor was bidding to run the Elizabeth jail, the company's
contract to run Le Marquis, its halfway house in Manhattan, was in danger of
being withdrawn by the Bureau of Prisons. The issue, at its core, was money. The
halfway house was woefully understaffed, a Federal report said. Employee
turnover during one year was nearly 100 percent, and Esmor increased salaries
only after Federal officials complained about the turnover, corrections
officials said.

The salaries remain low, said Merle Reams, the Federal official who oversees Le
Marquis. "I still wouldn't work for them," he said.

Staffing was not the only way they cut financial corners. Richard Moore, a
former operations manager for Esmor's two halfway houses in New York, said there
were often only 30 meals to feed 100 inmates, because Esmor did not want to pay
for more. "Whoever got there first got the food," he said.

Apparently to save money, the company used an inexpensive laboratory to perform
drug tests on inmates. In December 1993, the authorities found that the lab was
bungling the tests, and the inmates were facing drastic consequences.
Twelveformer offenders were returned to Federal prison when their test results
gave incorrect positive results, prison officials said. "The lab was cheaper and
local, and they were doing the tests for less money," said Mr. Reams, community
corrections manager for the Federal Bureau of Prisons in New York.

The Inspector General's office of the Justice Department is investigating Le
Marquis, including whether Esmor employees accepted money from inmates at Le
Marquis in Manhattan to replace drug-tainted urine with clean samples so they
could avoid being returned to prison, a Federal investigator said.

Despite the situation in Elizabeth, immigration officials say they are satisfied
with the jail that Esmor runs in Seattle, and local and state officials around
the country say Esmor's detention centers have operated with few major problems.
Mr. Slattery, Esmor's president, said the problems at the New York halfway
houses were old and mostly corrected, and that the true measure of the company's
performance is its many new contracts.

But investigators and former company employees said Esmor's focus on saving
money in Elizabeth led to conditions so intolerable that they almost inevitably
caused an incident.

Carl Frick, a veteran jail warden who was the first administrator of Esmor's
detention center in Elizabeth, said after the uprising that Esmor executives
"don't want to run a jail."

"They want to run a motel as cheaply as possible," he said. "Money, money,
money. That's all that was important to them."

Starting Out
After Hotels, Halfway Houses

The partners were linked by the hotel business. Morris Horn, who died last year,
was the son of a New York City hotel operator. James Slattery, who had worked
for the Sheraton Hotel in Washington, was employed by the elder Horn.

As New York City's homeless population exploded in the 1980's, Mr. Horn, Mr.
Slattery and two other partners entered the residential hotel business. When he
died, Mr. Horn was a part owner or lessee of more than a dozen hotels or
homeless family residences. The Brooklyn Arms, run by Mr. Slattery, was widely
considered among the worst of the homeless hotels.

Steven Banks, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who sued the city over conditions in
the welfare hotels, said the Brooklyn Arms had dark hallways, peeling paint,
rodents and a shortage of beds. He said it "was nothing but a warehouse for
desperate families that allowed the ownership to reap substantial profits by
providing minimal services."

Mr. Slattery said that he had renovated the building, and that many of the
nearly 600 housing code violations found there were the result of tenant
vandalism. "The Brooklyn Arms did its best in a very difficult situation," Mr.
Slattery said.

By the time the city was removing homeless families from the Brooklyn Arms in
1989, the men had turned to the next emerging housing program: prisons.

Federal officials were desperate to find a new halfway house after the only one
in New York City closed when its director was charged with sexually abusing
inmates. At the same time, the newly formed corporation, Esmor, had a building
on Myrtle Street in Brooklyn that needed a purpose.

Esmor won the contract, but faced stiff opposition from residents. The most
prominent opponents were Sonny Carson, a civil rights advocate, and Mr. Towns,
the Brooklyn Representative, who said last week that he had begun investigating
how the Esmor contract was awarded without community approval.

To calm the opposition, Esmor hired William Banks, a veteran social service
director and political operative in Brooklyn who was Mr. Towns's campaign
manager and part-time aide. Mr. Banks said he lobbied hard with Mr. Carson, Mr.
Towns and other leaders, and Mr. Towns said he dropped his opposition after
Esmor formed an advisory committee of residents to monitor the halfway house.

Esmor officials became regular contributors to Mr. Towns's campaigns, giving him
more than $9,000 between 1991 and 1994. Shortly after Mr. Banks was hired by
Esmor, two other aides to Mr. Towns were also hired. Mr. Banks oversaw
operations at the New York halfway houses for several years and now is a
consultant to Esmor.

Mr. Slattery denied that he had hired Mr. Banks for his political ties. But Mr.
Banks said: "The reason I got involved is I had very good relations with most of
the elected officials in Brooklyn -- I ran a lot of campaigns -- and with the
social service community."

Mr. Banks said he works for Esmor because he thinks that former convicts deserve
a second chance.

It also pays well. In 1993, according to documents filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Mr. Banks was paid $222,000 by Esmor. That same year, Mr.
Slattery, the company's president and chief executive, was paid $197,633 in
salary and compensation. Last year Mr. Banks received $238,000.

Mr. Banks said it is little wonder he is so valuable to Esmor. "I was able,
because of my time in the community and reputation, to convince people to open a
facility that wouldn't have opened otherwise," he said. He added that the
halfway house "became the foundation for a lot of what Esmor has done since
then."

Esmor Grows
Problems Occur At Le Marquis

In the last six years, Esmor has ridden an upswing in private prisons,
accumulating 11 contracts in four states to oversee 1,900 inmates. Between 1993
and 1994, company revenues increased 72 percent, to $24.27 million. Since
February 1994, Esmor's stock has been traded publicly, over the counter.

Since its founders' background was in hotels, not prisons, Esmor needed to hire
officials with experience and contacts. Among them are Richard P. Staley,
Esmor's senior vice president and the former acting director of the immigration
service's central office in Washington, and two former immigration service
regional directors. Stuart Gerson, who was the Acting Attorney General under
Presidents Bush and Clinton, is on Esmor's board.

Esmor now operates in the states of New York, Washington, Texas and New Jersey,
and is negotiating to run two prisons in Florida. Its two original New York City
halfway houses have been particularly lucrative, bringing the company more than
$5 million last year.

Until the uprising at the Elizabeth jail, one halfway house, Le Marquis on East
31st Street, had been Esmor's most troubled operation.

Le Marquis opened in 1991, and within the first year almost the entire staff
left. Mr. Reams, the Federal official who monitors the halfway house, said,
"Before we knew it, all but one of the people had left." In April 1992, Federal
inspectors found there were 30 percent fewer employees than called for in the
contract.

Also that year, inspectors visiting Le Marquis found vermin, exposed wiring and
other safety problems. Also, several programs that the Government was paying
for, like substance abuse and vocational training, were being provided part time
or not at all, according to Federal inspection reports.

On April 16, 1992, a Federal inspector found that the cupboard at Le Marquis was
bare. "Residents had no choice but to eat what was available, sliced bread or a
roll with butter," Mr. Reams wrote in a letter to Mr. Slattery. "Staff on duty
at the time were aware that there was no breakfast available for residents but
could give no reason why." Mr. Reams said the food shortage was corrected within
a few hours.

Mr. Reams said that because of repeated problems at Le Marquis in 1992, "they
were pretty much at the line where we were going to default the contract."

One employee who complained to Esmor executives, Federal prison officials and
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents about conditions at the halfway houses in
1992 is suing the company in Federal court, charging that he was severely beaten
by a supervisor in retaliation.

Richard Moore, who was operations manager at the halfway houses, said in an
interview that he was particularly worried about plumbing leaks, vermin and fire
hazards. Mr. Moore said he told his bosses that "if something happens in the
facility one night, if there is a fire or something, I am going to get charged
with criminal negligence."

Disgusted with his bosses' lack of concern, Mr. Moore submitted his resignation
in May 1992. Two days later, while Mr. Moore was training new workers in the
Marquis lobby, he said he heard a supervisor curse at him. Mr. Moore said the
supervisor came from behind and punched him in the side of the head. "The next
thing I know I was on the wall," Mr. More said. "He had hit me in the right side
of my face." He was taken to St. Vincent's Hospital, where he was treated for
several smashed teeth and for neck injuries.

Company officials denied Mr. Moore's claim and said the fight was a result of a
personal quarrel.  They later dismissed the man who hit him at the insistence of
Bureau of Prison inspectors.

Both Mr. Slattery and Federal prison officials say the conditions at the halfway
houses have improved significantly in the last three years. "The management at
the time was not attuned to these issues," Mr. Slattery said, "and I made some
changes and as a result the facility operates in an excellent manner."

Warnings Ignored
Rival's Complaints Seem Prophetic

In 1993, Esmor was awarded a $54 million contract to run the immigration jail in
Elizabeth after bidding $20 million below its competitor. The losing bidder, the
Wackenhut Corrections Corporation, complained that Esmor's proposed pay for
guards was "unrealistically low and untraceable, thereby materially increasing
the risk to the contracting agency of nonperformance."

At the time, immigration officials rejected Wackenhut's warning, but on Friday
when the agency issued its report on the uprising last month in Elizabeth, the
warning seemed to have been prophetic.

"It appears that the level of salary was not realistic and could not, in the
area where Esmor is located, insure the availability of well-qualified
applicants," the report read. "It is evident that many, if not most, of the
guards hired by Esmor did not meet the requirements of the contract or were only
marginally qualified."

The 72-page report showed how Esmor's concern with profit had its most
devastating result in Elizabeth.

Guards harassed and abused detainees to control them. Guards woke inmates in the
middle of the night, shackled them during visits, placed them in punishment
cells for little documented reason and took their personal belongings and did
not return them.

"The evidence suggests that these incidents were part of a systematic
methodology designed by some Esmor guards as a means to control the general
detainee population," investigators wrote.

The jail was so understaffed that guards were forced to work back-to-back
eight-hour shifts. The night of the uprising, 9 of the 13 guards were working a
second consecutive shift, and when the disturbance broke out "employees adopted
an every-person-for-himself mentality and fled the facility."

According to the report, the jail was physically adequate, except for some
problems. "In several dormitories, toilets were visible from some of the tables
provided for detainee meals and recreation," the report read. "Both as a matter
of privacy and of good taste, privacy panels should have been devised to correct
this situation."

Esmor's attempts to cut costs in Elizabeth were evident from its policy of
charging detainees for lost eating utensils, clothing and drinking cups and a
pattern of sending detainees to emergency rooms rather than treating them at the
detention center, according to the report. The immigration service paid for the
hospital visits but not in-house care.

The investigators said that Esmor demonstrated "a continuing cycle of contract
violations, failure to identify and correct problems and a general failure to
follow sound management practices."

Two years ago, when immigration officials reviewed Esmor's proposal for the
Elizabeth contract, they said the company offered "the lower price and higher
technical value." They rejected any warnings about Esmor's past performance.

"We had a committee that did a thorough job," said Amy Otten, a spokeswoman for
the contracting office, "but we cannot see into the future."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "From a Welfare Hotel To an Uprising"

June 1989 -- New York stops sending homeless people to the Brooklyn Arms Hotel
as part of a policy of decreasing reliance on SRO hotels.

Sept. 11, 1989 -- Esmor receives its first prison contract, to run the Brooklyn
Community Corrections Center.

Feb. 1, 1991 -- Esmor receives a Federal Bureau of Prisons contract to open an
84-bed halfway house at LeMarquis Hotel in Manhattan. The facility cannot open
as scheduled after an inspector said it was a safety risk.

Nov. 1, 1991 -- Esmor receives approval to open LeMarquis halfway house from the
Bureau of Prisons.

Feb. 20, 1992 -- The Bureau of Prisons produces a monitoring report on the men's
facility at LeMarquis that lists problems from vermin to electrical code
violations and the contractor's failure to provide required services.

Mar. 4, 1992 -- The Bureau of Prisons orders Esmor to secure its confiedntial
files at LeMarquis after one inmate's files are lost.

April 16, 1992 -- The Bureau of Prisons, following a report that no food was
available for inmates at LeMarquis halfway house, orders the management ot
correct the situation.

April 28, 1992 -- The Bureau of Prisons issues a report on the women's facility
at the LeMarquis. The report details problems similar to the Feb. 29 report
including short staffing, vermin and electrical code violations.

April 28, 1992 -- The Esmor president, James Slattery, writes to the Bureau of
Prisons, informing agents that the problems at LeMarquis facility have been
addressed.

Oct. 2, 1992 -- The Immigration and Naturalization Service requests bids for a
detention facility in the New York-New Jersey area.

Aug. 13, 1993 -- Detention center contract is awarded to Esmor.

Aug. 20, 1993 -- Wackenhut Corrections Corporation files a protest with Federal
contracting officials, arguing that Esmor's bid is unrealistically low.

Oct. 27, 1993 -- After a strongly worded response from the Immigration Service,
Wackenhut withdraws its protest.

Aug. 13, 1994 -- The Elizabeth detention center opens.

May 1, 1995 -- Representative Robert Menendez calls for an investigation of
conditions at the Elizabeth detention center.

June 18, 1995 -- Detainees stage an uprising at the Elizabeth detention center.

(pg. 28)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 5, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Los Angeles Sweatshops Are Thriving, Experts Say

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 4


Almost one-fifth of the garment industry workers in Los Angeles, many of them
foreigners who came to the United States to escape the crushing poverty of their
homelands, are toiling in unregulated, sweatshop conditions, labor officials,
economists and union organizers said today.

Exactly how many find themselves bound to employers who take advantage of their
legal status, naivete and cultural alienation is not known. But experts said
their numbers were flourishing despite a host of regulations on labor, health,
safety and immigration designed to flush them out and shut their employers down.

"I have heard things like this for years," said Mark Rosenbaum, legal director
of the Los Angeles office of the American Civil Liberties Union. "It's one of
these dirty little secrets that everyone knows about."

On Wednesday, state agents raided a makeshift garment factory in El Monte,
Calif., where they found nearly 70 workers from Thailand who lived and worked,
sometimes for years, in conditions the agents described as close to servitude.

Federal immigration officials acknowledged today that they knew of conditions at
the El Monte factory nearly three years ago but that they took no action until
state officials got a similar tip six weeks ago.

"The state solicited our participation to join them when they issued the search
warrant, and we agreed," said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. "But later our people felt that it was inappropriate
to be present for a state warrant. We thought that maybe the case would be
thrown out for a technicality."

Victoria Bradshaw, California's Labor Commissioner, today called the El Monte
situation an aberration. She added, "I don't believe it's widespread."

Indeed, formal complaints about involuntary servitude are relatively rare. Since
1990, the Justice Department has prosecuted 29 people for violations of the
antislavery laws, and 26 were convicted or pleaded guilty. Most of the cases
involved migrant workers in Eastern states, not Asians in California.

Still, while brutal conditions like those found in the El Monte case are
unusual, thousands of other workers often find themselves trapped in bleak,
unregulated workplaces.

Of the estimated 120,000 garment industry workers in the Los Angeles area,
15,000 to 20,000 work in unregulated, sweatshop conditions, said Jack Kyser,
chief economist of the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles.

"A lot of times you get people coming from offshore and setting up these shops,
because it's a very easy industry to get into and you don't need a lot of
capital," Mr. Kyser said. "But in many cases they don't understand all the rules
and regulations they have to comply with and all the forms they have to fill
out.

"They're probably doing business like they did it in the country of their
origin, but in the United States, they're breaking the law."

In a random survey last year of 69 California garment manufacturers and
contractors, the state Labor Department found rampant violations of safety and
labor laws, including cases of employers locking fire exits and children as
young as 13 working nine hours a day.

The survey also showed that 50 percent of employers violated rules requiring
them to pay workers the minimum wage, 68 percent violated overtime requirements,
and 92.8 percent violated various health and safety regulations. Workplace
conditions are likely to be worst in makeshift factories that operate outside
the law.

Joseph Rodriquez, executive director of the Garment Contractors Association,
said: "Something like we saw in El Monte, with the slavery and barbed wire, is
extremely rare. Unfortunately, it is not rare to find illegal contractors who
are not registered with the state."

He added: "The company that isn't registered is probably violating minimum wage
laws or overtime laws. That's what gives our industry a bad name."

At the El Monte factory, workers sewed strips of ready-to-wear garments, some of
which ended up in major stores on the East Coast like Macy's, Hecht's and
Filene's, Ms. Bradshaw said today. Spokesmen for several companies said today
that they had no knowledge that laws were being broken.

Jim Abrams, a spokesman for May Department Stores, owner of both Filene's and
Hecht's, said, "Our purchase orders clearly require vendors to comply with the
Labor Standards Act and all applicable regulations."

He added, "We are in the process of attempting to ascertain if in fact this
incident in El Monte involves merchandise being manufactured for delivery to any
May division and, if so, the vendor involved."

Carol Sanger, a spokeswoman for Federated Department Stores, the owner of
Macy's, said: "The first we heard about it was what we read in the paper this
morning. And we have tried to get in touch with the appropriate authorities in
California to find out what exactly it is that they found, because we have no
knowledge of the operation, no record of ever doing business with any vendor or
subcontractor with any operations in El Monte.

"The situation is appalling and would not be anything we condone."

Chanchanit Mortorell, executive director of the Thai Community Development
Center in Los Angeles and one of the first people to see the El Monte factory
after the raid, said there were numerous violations of health and safety laws at
the site.

"When the authorities asked the workers to open the doors, they couldn't," she
said. "They were locked from the outside. The police had to ax down each door.
Everyone was shocked and terrified."

Another community leader, Nongyao Varanond, president of Thai Inc., a service
program, said that of the shops she had visited, "only a few are like the one in
El Monte." She added, "The others are usually in good condition, but the workers
are paid less than the minimum wage.

"They don't have any place to go," Ms. Varanond said. "Where else can they find
a job here? All of them are illegal."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 6, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

As Divided by Dialect as the Homeland

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 2;  Page 16;  Column 5;  Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1127 words


IN ADDITION TO THE Chinese films at the Asian American International Film
Festival, which ended its Manhattan run last Sunday, New York moviegoers will be
treated to more Chinese films at Festival Hong Kong '95, opening Friday. Between
those events lies a tale of two cultures.

The 10-day Asian film festival showed movies that Western audiences might see in
art houses. It featured Mina Shum's "Double Happiness," a Canadian comedy that
has been hailed as the "heterosexual 'Wedding Banquet.' "

By contrast, the monthlong Hong Kong film festival at Cinema Village in
Manhattan will introduce Western audiences to the Cantonese films that many
Chinese immigrants have already seen on videotape or in Chinese-language movie
theaters. The series will open with "Return of the God of Gamblers," by the Hong
Kong director Wong Jing.

There are a million Chinese immigrants in the United States, most of them in New
York, San Francisco and Los Angeles. A majority speak the southern dialect of
Cantonese, not Mandarin, which is standard in China and Taiwan. It is Cantonese
movies, therefore, that play in Chinese movie theaters. And it is Cantonese
movies, mostly made in Hong Kong, that are available in Chinese video stores in
these cities.

The international success of Mandarin films like "The Wedding Banquet,"
"Farewell My Concubine" and "To Live" has made Chinese movies the most
sought-after foreign films in the world. In fact, "Shanghai Triad," Zhang
Yimou's latest film, will open the New York Film Festival next month. Directors
from China and Taiwan like Chen Kaige, Mr. Zhang and Ang Lee -- who make movies
in Mandarin -- have become the darlings of movie aficionados.

But among the Chinese, Mandarin films are popular primarily among educated,
English-speaking viewers. In New York, those viewers prefer to go to places like
the Angelika Film Center instead of the no-frills Chinese theaters, which
generally snub Mandarin films.

"Americans call them 'foreign movies,' and so do we," said Zhao Zheng Shi,
manager of the Rosemary Theater in Manhattan's Chinatown. "The concepts and the
story line are just too weird and too sophisticated for our viewers."

Cantonese-speaking audiences are generally not willing to hear the Mandarin
dialect and read English and Chinese subtitles. (While Mandarin and Cantonese
are spoken differently, the written language is the same.) In addition, the
managers of Chinese theaters are usually not willing to pay the high fees
demanded by the American distributors.

"We can go bankrupt just paying for one movie," Mr. Zhao said. For a popular
Mandarin film, the price can be hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Instead, Chinese movie theaters favor mass-produced Hong Kong kung fu and action
movies in Cantonese like "Passion 95," a film about street gangs in Hong Kong,
and slapstick comedies from Hong Kong like "The Meaning of Life," about
struggling to have a child, and "Drunken Little Masters," a Chinese version of
"The Little Rascals."

Hong Kong movies have traditionally had a strong following among
Cantonese-speaking Chinese immigrants, most of whom came from Southeast Asia and
China's Guangdong Province (Canton, under the old transliteration system), said
Peter Chow, a New York-based movie distributor and the organizer of the Hong
Kong festival. Recognizing the importance of this audience, Hong Kong
distributors have always offered financial incentives to theater owners.

HONG KONG MOVIES ARE sold in groups of 50 or more. To make it even cheaper,
theaters need only pay a cash deposit of 30 to 40 percent up front. Distributors
can also sell the rights twice, since Hong Kong action films by directors like
John Woo have developed a Western following. The rights may be sold to Chinese
movie theaters at a discount and again to American distributors at full price.
Each film could end up costing the Chinese movie theater as little as $10,000.

Mandarin movies, on the other hand, are usually sold only to American
distributors. And American distributors say they are under such pressure to
break even on each movie that they cannot afford to give Chinese theaters
discounts.

"We have limited copies, and our priority is to where we are going to make the
most money," said Tom Bernard, a president of Sony Pictures Classics, which
released "Raise the Red Lantern" and will release "Shanghai Triad." "We go where
the business is."

This hard line does not go over well with Chinese theater owners. "We don't have
the kind of resources to put up this kind of money," said Mr. Zhao, the manager
of the Chinatown movie theater. "We show two movies for $6. American movie
theaters show one movie for $8."

Money aside, Chinese theater managers say Mandarin movies are a hard sell
because of intellectual, language and cultural barriers. Mr. Chow said that
although Mandarin films fulfill Western fantasies about Chinese culture, the
movies have virtually no attraction to blue-collar Chinese immigrants. While
sophisticated American audiences may be fascinated by the intricacies of the
feudal family featured in "Raise the Red Lantern," one Chinatown moviegoer
ridiculed the story line.

"I spent 20 minutes watching it, but I didn't get it," said Zhang Yan Yi, a
factory worker from Sunset Park, Brooklyn. "The guy has four wives, and I didn't
see him do anything with them. All I see is the servant washing their feet all
the time. What's so great about that?"

Chinese movie theater managers say that mainland films dealing with the
cruelties of the feudal society or the Cultural Revolution are even harder to
market.

"Many people have suffered enough," Mr. Zhao said. "They are trying to forget
what happened to them. They don't want to relive the atrocities again."

The Hong Kong movies, by contrast, have light, urban themes that have high
entertainment value, said Mr. Chow, the producer and distributor. With plots
similar to those of "Die Hard" and "True Lies," they are extremely popular.

"People go to movies to forget," Mr. Chow said. "They want escape. They want
fantasy. Few go to movies so they can suffer."

While most Chinese theater managers yield to the audiences' wishes, Mr. Zhao, a
former movie producer who immigrated from the mainland, is determined to break
down resistance to fine Chinese films. Last January, he organized a weeklong
series of lectures about, and arty Cantonese movies by, the director Wong
Kar-wai, known as the Quentin Tarantino of Hong Kong. The Chinese community's
response was lukewarm, but Mr. Zhao has vowed to do it again.

"It breaks my heart to see the Chinese people not taking any interest in
something we can be proud of," he said. "These films are so beautiful. They're
our contribution to the film world."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cantonese -- "Return of the God of Gamblers"--Hong Kong action
movies are hits with Chinese immigrants. (Peter Chow International); Mandarin --
"Raise the Red Lantern"--Textured stories of feudal China attract educated,
English-speaking viewers. (Orion Classics)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 7, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Fight Residency Rules Blocking Children in L.I. Schools

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1686 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, L.I., Aug. 5


Thirteen years after the Supreme Court ruled that immigrant children are
entitled to a free public education, Daniel Amaya plays on the hard concrete
stoop of a garden apartment, a few skips from a school that will not enroll him.

At age 9, he is far too young to question why a school would bar him from the
third grade or refuse him a desk in the crowded fall class of fourth graders in
the Hempstead public schools. "The school wanted many things that we did not
have," Daniel said in Spanish, his voice high and clear. These "things," are
lease contracts, mortgage statements and notarized letters from absentee
landlords -- documents that are the precious tickets to education in many Long
Island schools and other suburban districts in the country.

Determined to save money or ease overcrowding, school districts are demanding
the documents to winnow out students who actually live in other areas. But
immigrant rights groups contend that the rules are so burdensome that some
districts have locked out poor immigrant families, undocumented or not, more
effectively than an old-fashioned politician barricaded at the schoolhouse
steps.

The districts are not denying schooling outright to children because they are
immigrants. But immigrant groups complain that stringent residency tests often
have the same result because many struggling families who live doubled up with
others cannot obtain the paper work to enroll their children.

"It's rotten," said Roger Rice, co-executive director of Multicultural Education
and Training Advocacy, a Boston-based group that helps immigrant students. "It's
wrong. It's illegal. And you wonder where the heads are of these school people.
Why would school people want to keep kids out of school?

"Five years ago, we didn't hear about this kind of thing," he continued. "The
fact is that this has become a big issue and we've got to deal with it."

So volatile is the debate that when the Hempstead School Board decided last
Thursday night to review its residency tests, the school registration clerk,
Sheriva Scott, angrily protested, refusing the board president's entreaties to
remain silent.

Ms. Scott took the microphone at the public board meeting, warning that the
board's plan to review and possibly revise the rules could intensify school
overcrowding.

"You have got to streamline the people who are coming in, and the only way to do
that is to make sure the registration is tight," she said after the meeting. It
does not trouble her, she added, if some children are denied schooling and a
future.

"What future do the children of Hempstead have if there are 35 to a classroom
and they can't touch computers?" she asked. "This is like being at war and we
know there are victims."

Legal clashes have already occurred in places like Randolph, a Boston-area
suburb, which was sued by lawyers for Multicultural Education and Training
Advocacy. The group complained that the district had improperly asked a young
Haitian student's family to provide a green card, a formal guardianship order
and a rental lease containing the child's name.

The case is pending in Federal court; so far, the courts have not ruled on how
narrowly residency tests may be applied to immigrants. But meanwhile the
organization and others like it are still receiving complaints about unfair
residency requirements from immigrant parents in suburban Texas, Florida, New
Jersey and New York.

The Supreme Court established the right of undocumented immigrant children to a
free public education in a 1982 Texas case, Plyler v. Doe. The Court essentially
concluded that by "denying these children a basic education, we deny them the
ability to live within the structure of our civil institutions." To withhold
schooling, they warned, could perpetuate a "subclass of illiterates."

Last year, officials in Elmont, L.I., circulated registration forms that
included a blank space for green card numbers, a practice that immigrant rights
groups consider a form of intimidation. The North Babylon, L.I., school district
has also asked for deeds and mortgage statements. Hempstead also pushed parents
to produce a mortgage or a rental lease signed with their names.

In this working-class village, the tensions about registration have pitted
homeowners against newcomers from Central America who live "sub-arrendada,"
subletting cheap rooms from friends or relatives without any formal lease.

The growth of the Central American population in Hempstead -- who have nicknamed
their adopted town Little El Salvador -- has strained the resources of the
troubled district. Hempstead is struggling with budget deficits and low state
academic ratings. Since 1984, the number of Hispanic students has doubled to 27
percent while the number of black students has dropped to 72 percent. Despite
the surge in immigrant students, there is not a large number of Hispanic school
employees; only one registration worker speaks Spanish.

August is when mothers and children make their pilgrimages to the Hempstead
schools' stuffy registration office, which is decorated with cheerful drawings
of stick-figure children flying kites and playing in a world of rainbows and
golden suns.

It is not difficult to spot the rejected parents, women with tears in their
eyes, mothers with crestfallen expressions. Their war stories from the
bureaucratic front follow a similar pattern: scornful workers who tossed their
papers back at them; clerks who dismissed their pleas for help with a blunt
response: "It's not my problem."

Education is compulsory in New York for all children between the ages of 6 and
16. And the State Education Department expects schools to set flexible residency
tests to accommodate parents. But districts are left to police themselves unless
someone complains.

"We generally look for a lease in the parents' name," said Richard Jones, a
department spokesman. "But if the parents don't have that, the parents should be
provided opportunities to provide additional evidence like an affidavit, a
driver's license, pay stubs."

District officials estimate that eight families have been affected by the policy
requiring parents to show a rental lease with their name. But one school
employee said the number is greater with as many as 30 families, the majority of
them Hispanic, who have been turned away.

"That was not our intent to deny a child an education," said the school board
president, Robin Brazley, adding, "There are equal numbers of ethnic groups that
are affected by the policy and it was not ever the interest of anybody to
discriminate."

Some social workers did try to intervene with school officials earlier this
summer. Angeles Davila-Paultre, a Nassau County counselor for early childhood
intervention, offered to visit the home of a 3-year-old child from El Salvador
to prove that she lived in the district and was eligible for the district's
special education program.

"The mother has an affidavit from her friend saying that he rents her a room,"
Ms. Davila-Paultre said. "But they would not take that. They just wanted that
lease."

The registration process has often been whimsical, depending on the mood of
school employees. Last week, Maria Antonia Cadenas, a Guatemalan maid, spent
more than four hours shuttling her two children between the registration office
and her nearby apartment in a search for more documents. While she waited to
learn the fate of her 6-year-old son, Bryan, a young African-American woman came
to the office with a similar story.

The woman told school employees that she also has a 6-year-old child but lacked
a lease since she lives with her mother. To prove it, she offered a stack of
mail in her name. Twenty minutes later, she signed a few papers and left,
smiling.

That day, school officials also accepted Ms. Cadenas's son, although she still
lacked a lease and a signed note from her apartment building's owner.

"You know, she's going to sue the district," whispered one of the employees, who
knew that Ms. Cadenas had sought help from the Central American Refugee Center
in Hempstead, which has taken complaints about the residency tests from more
than 10 immigrant families.

But a week later, when Daniel Amaya and his mother arrived for their eighth
visit to the registration office, his application was rejected again. His mother
lacked a lease in her name because she lived with her two sisters, who had
signed for the apartment. The district wanted the building owner's signature.

"I have no idea who the owner is," said Mrs. Amaya, who speaks no English.

Last year, Daniel had stayed home from school for the same reason. He occupied
his lost third grade by trying to learn English from television cartoons.
Sometimes, his aunts tried to test him with exercises in math, his favorite
subject. But the relatives had little time to spare for lessons; they all work
the day shift at a local factory.

"I would like to go to school so I could learn English," Daniel said. "I could
help my mother if I knew English."

On the same day that the Hempstead board announced its plan to review its
registration policy, the registration office rejected the new documents that
Mrs. Amaya offered: Daniel's vaccination form, his dental examination, his
translated birth certificate from El Salvador and a food stamp document that
indicated the family's new address.

The address was probably familiar; the Amayas live across the street from the
School Superintendent's office.

But Daniel did finally get his education Thursday night at the school board
meeting to review the residency tests along with other routine business. The
immigrant women and children who filled one side of the meeting room had no idea
what was being said; no school official tried to speak to them in Spanish. It
didn't matter anyway because most of the women had left by the time the board
reviewed the residency issue well after 11 P.M.

In his front-row seat, in a hard plastic chair, Daniel couldn't understand the
words but heard the tones. "I don't understand anything they're saying," he
said, "but they're really angry at all of us."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Delmy Amaya, an immigrant from El Salvador, tried to register
her 9-year-old son, Daniel, in the Hempstead public schools, but faced
difficulties over proving her residency. Also with her was her 4-year-old
daughter, Claudia. A school employee, left, asked Mrs. Amaya registration
questions. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Couple Held 13 Days In International Ransom Plot

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 721 words


Two Chinese immigrants held captive for 13 days in a Brooklyn basement closet
were freed and their abductors were captured on Monday night, the police said,
after an around-the-clock investigation of an international
kidnapping-for-ransom plot.

Kidnappings of Asians in New York by members of Asian gangs have risen in the
last two years and account for more than half of the 30 kidnappings in the city
this year, Capt. George Duke of the Police Department's major case squad said.
What made this case unusual, the authorities said, was that the immigrants who
were abducted were here legally and the ransom was sought from the victims'
relatives in China.

"The targets of many of these kidnappings are people who are here illegally and
for an obvious reason, they are fearful to make a complaint," Charles J. Hynes,
the Brooklyn District Attorney, said.

The kidnapped man, 24-year-old Shan Hua Chan, 24, and the woman, 33, who has not
been identified because she was reportedly raped repeatedly by her abductors,
were taken at gunpoint during a July 25 robbery of their apartment in Sunset
Park, Brooklyn, Mr. Hynes said.

Both the victims and the men charged with kidnapping them are natives of the
Fujian province in China and ransom demands were delivered to relatives of the
victims living in China, Mr. Hynes said.

The victims were also beaten during their ordeal, which ended with the police
raid about 9 P.M. Monday at the basement apartment of a three-family brick home
at 451 Avenue Y in the Gravesend section of Brooklyn, Mr. Hynes said.

"They were absolutely terrified out of their minds," said a detective who
specializes in crimes involving Asian gangs and took part in the five-minute
raid. "The man was so relieved his legs turned to jelly."

The police refused to give detailed information about the victims to maintain
the woman's anonymity. Both were taken to Coney Island Hospital. "The man was
deprived of food and drink for most of the time he was kidnapped," Mr. Hynes
said.

Four men have been charged with kidnapping, rape and illegal weapons possession
in the incident, Mr. Hynes said, adding that two loaded .380-caliber
semiautomatic pistols were found in the apartment. The most serious charge,
kidnapping, carries a maximum prison sentence of 25 years to life.

Captain Duke said the four defendants live in Manhattan and belong to the Fujian
Flying Dragons, a Chinese gang that is based both in the United States and in
China and has engaged in smuggling l refugees.

The police have not yet established whether the defendants are legal immigrants,
Mr. Hynes said.

Three of the men, Jin X. Lu, 32, of 52 Allen Street, Lo Yeang, 22, of 170
Forsyth Street and Xao He Lu, 19, of 202 Rivington Street were arrested in the
raid on the Gravesend apartment, Mr. Hynes said. Documents found in the
apartment revealed the whereabouts of the fourth defendant, Tong Feng Lu, 37, of
209 Madison Street, and he was taken into custody later Monday night, Mr. Hynes
said.

"Kidnappings used to average about 40 a year," Captain Duke said, adding that
the number rose to 60 last year, involving 88 victims. "Of those 60 kidnappings,
33 were of Asian immigrants in this country. So far this year, we have 16
kidnappings of Asians."

Captain Duke said the police got their first break in the Gravesend case by
intercepting a ransom demand made during a call on a cellular phone to someone
who resides at the Sunset Park apartment with the two victims.

Later, Captain Duke said, a partial license plate number provided by a witness
led detectives to a light blue Ford Taurus that was apparently used in the
kidnapping.

The initial ransom demand was $38,000, but it was later reduced to $28,000 and
$18,000, Mr. Hynes said, adding that the number eight is a lucky number in the
defendants' Fujianese dialect of Chinese.

The District Attorney said the defendants tried to arrange a ransom payment in
China to avoid being arrested during a payoff here, which would surely have been
monitored by the police.

"The families were trying to raise the money," Captain Duke said.

Police robbery squads in Brooklyn and Queens are working to see whether the four
men are involved in other robberies and kidnappings, the captain said.

"We feel that we are uncovering a pattern of similar crimes," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 15, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Warns Big Retailers About Sweatshop Goods

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 14


In a widening investigation of the apparel industry, the Labor Department has
notified more than a dozen of the nation's largest retailers that goods made by
immigrants working in virtual slavery may have ended up in the retailers' stores
around the country, the Labor Secretary said today.

The department is reviewing accusations that the retailers, which include Sears,
Macy's and Neiman Marcus, may have sold items made at a sweatshop in El Monte,
Calif., where nearly 72 illegal immigrants from Thailand worked in prison-like
conditions. The workers were released in a predawn raid by state officials two
weeks ago.

"We traced the invoices and found that the garments are likely to have ended up
in the stores of these major retailers," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said in
a telephone interview today. "Presumably, most consumers would rather not buy
garments produced by slave labor in the United States and retailers would rather
not sell them."

Mr. Reich said the apparel retailers who received the goods had been asked to
attend a meeting in Washington next month to discuss ways to prevent goods made
by slave labor from being sold. He said several retailers had already agreed to
attend.

"It is time for major retailers and brand-name manufacturers to assert some
control and responsibility, and I'm pleased that the initial response has been
very positive," Mr. Reich said.

Among the retailers who have agreed to attend the meeting, he said, are
Federated Department Stores, which includes Macy's West and Rich's; the May
Department Stores Company, which includes Filene's and Hecht's. Other retailers,
like The Limited Inc. and Neiman Marcus, have indicated that they are
considering the idea, the Secretary said.

Mr. Reich's announcement coincided with word that the California Labor
Department had subpoenaed records from 16 Southern California garment makers
that investigators believe have connections with the El Monte operation.

Before the Thai workers were released, they lived a life in which they were
locked up and guarded each night, officials said. They worked up to 22 hours a
day for as little as 50 cents an hour, Mr. Reich said, adding that they were
threatened with rape or death if they tried to escape.

When law-enforcement officials approached the site, they found it ringed with
barbed wire and spiked fences and the doors tightly locked from the outside.

Federal Labor Department officials said that among the companies notified that
they may have received goods from the El Monte operation, were: Foley's Petites,
Macy's West, Meier & Frank, Robinsons-May, Hecht's, Filene's, Kaufmann's, Neiman
Marcus, the Dayton HudsonCorporation, Mervyn's, Broadway Stores Inc., Rich's,
Speciality Retailers Inc., Montgomery Ward & Company, Sears, Fred Meyer, Venture
Stores Inc. and Lerner.

Among the companies that have been subpoenaed by the California Labor Department
are: F40 California Inc., Tomato Inc., L.F. Sportswear, Ms Tops of California,
Balmara Inc., New Boys Inc., Point Zero, Excuses Sportswear, the Paragraff
Clothing Company, Bermo Enterprises, A & M Casuals, Us Boys, BUM International
and Diane Samandi.

The growing investigation into the Thai sweatshop could result in a daunting
amount of litigation, Labor Department officials said today, as the parties
tried to determine who was responsible for conditions at the compound.

On Friday, Montgomery Ward announced that it had sued a Los Angeles garment
manufacturer for supplying goods in violation of the company's policy not to
employ slave, prison or child labor. Montgomery Ward, a Chicago-based retailer
and one of those identified by the Labor Department today as having bought
garments from the sweatshop, said it was removing all merchandise supplied by
the vendor, New Boys Inc., from its stores nationwide.

A lawyer for New Boys, Michael Dave, said in a statement that the company did
not know it had bought garments made under sweatshop conditions.

All 72 of the Thai workers were initially held by Federal immigration officials
as potential witnesses against the eight men accused of running the ring. Six of
the men were charged with harboring illegal immigrants; the other two were
charged with bringing illegal immigrants into the country. All eight were denied
bail and may face additional charges, possibly including Federal slavery
charges.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Schools, Not Rules, for Immigrant Kids

SECTION: Section A;  Page 24;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 314 words


To control overcrowding and cut expenses, school districts often require proof
that students actually reside in the community. For many families, coming up
with proof-of-residency requirements, like rental agreements and utility bills,
is merely an inconvenience. For immigrant families, though, it can be a burden.
Some of these families, doubled up with relatives, do not make payments in their
own names. Others may have fled their native countries for their lives, leaving
documents behind.

Several Long Island school districts are now insisting on strict residency
rules, which critics think discriminate against immigrant children. Districts
surely have the right to determine whether the children they educate live in the
neighborhood. But in their zeal, some districts may be skirting the edges of the
law.

The New York State Education Department takes a flexible view. Its guidelines
suggest that residence could be based on a student's physical presence within
the district. Thus, proof might be established by a simple affidavit, not a
rental agreement. The problem here is arbitrariness; districts pretty much set
their own rules. In Hempstead, for example, Hispanic parents charge that
residency rules are randomly applied, with some district workers accepting one
form of proof that others reject.

Last year the town of Elmont circulated registration forms that, in effect,
requested green-card numbers. That could be subject to legal challenge under a
1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that states may not deny a free public education
to undocumented immigrant children.

Districts certainly have a right to know where students live. But immigrant
children also have a right to be educated. The key here is flexibility; if
districts showed more restraint in requiring proof of residence, then more
immigrant children would be encouraged to attend school.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Manufacturers Fined in Sweatshop Inquiry

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 15


Many of the manufacturers who did business with a Los Angeles sweatshop where
Thai immigrants worked for years in slave-like conditions were themselves
operating illegally, California State labor officials said today.

Virginia Bradshaw, California's Labor Commissioner, announced that her agency
had fined seven manufacturers $35,000 each for failing to register their
operations with the state. She said that at least six more manufacturers who did
business with the El Monte, Calif., sweatshop, SK Fashions, were expected to be
similarly sanctioned.

"Every legitimate garment manufacturer is paying the price for what went on in
the El Monte operation, the bad publicity and unfair competition," Ms. Bradshaw
said.

Among the Southern California companies fined, were: AM Casuals Inc.; Balmara
Inc.; Beniko Inc.; F 40 California Inc.; New Boys Inc.; U.S. Boys Inc.; Voltage
Inc., and Jonquil Inc.

Ms. Bradshaw also said state authorities had subpoenaed records from Mervyn's,
suspecting that the Hayward, Calif., retailer may have obtained goods directly
from the sweatshop, where nearly 72 illegal immigrants from Thailand worked.
The workers were released from the sweatshop in a raid by state officials two
weeks ago.

Sandra Salyer, a spokeswoman for Mervyn's, said the retailer had retained an
outside counsel to investigate whether one of its vendors had had dealings with
SK Fashions.

In a related development, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said today that his
agency is seeking $5 million in back wages from clothing makers linked to the El
Monte operation.

Secretary Reich also said the Department had notified more than a dozen of the
nation's largest retailers -- including Sears, Macy's and Neiman Marcus -- that
goods made by the Thai immigrants may have ended up in their stores.

In a statement today, Neiman Marcus said it has "clearly communicated to all
vendors that it will not do business with any manufacturer that exploits its
workers."

All 72 of the Thai workers, who were released by Federal immigration officials
last week, were expected to be called as witnesses against the eight men accused
of running the ring.

Federal Labor Department officials said that among the other companies notified
that they may have received goods from the El Monte operation were: Foley's
Petites, Meir & Frank, Robinson-May, Hecht's, Filene's, Kaufmann's, the Dayton
Hudson Corporation, Broadway Stores Inc., Rich's Specialty Retailers Inc.,
Montgomery Ward & Company, Fred Meyer, Venture Stores Inc. and Lerner.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thai immigrants, who were freed from prison-like conditions in a
garment shop, prayed at a temple in Los Angeles last Friday. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 20, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

No Cheap Shots at Mexico, Please

BYLINE: By George W. Bush;    George W. Bush is Governor of Texas.

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 13;   Column 2;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.


Remember who your friends are. Always good advice in life. And now, words to
keep in mind as the rhetoric of the 1996 election begins. Mexico currently wears
the bright red bulls-eye in the ongoing political crossfire.

The issues of the 1996 campaign will be emotional. There should be lively debate
and discussion. But discussion about immigration and Mexico can turn ugly and
destructive very quickly, severely damaging a positive and beneficial
relationship. So when it comes to the debates over trade, immigration and other
border concerns, the candidates must not try to build themselves up by tearing
our friends down.

I have a unique interest in the subject of United States-Mexico relations. My
state shares a 1,248-mile border with Mexico. The cultural, historical and
economic ties between Texas and Mexico run deep. Texas is a richer place because
of this relationship.

Thanks in great part to the North American Free Trade Agreement, more than $20
billion worth of goods enter Mexico through Texas. The Texas economy directly
benefits from Mexican trade. Trade means jobs. Trade means wealth to our state.

But Texas is not the only beneficiary of the economic benefits of the trade
agreement. Other governors know the growing importance of trade between their
states and Mexico. Across our country, Mexico is proving to be a strong economic
friend.

Our economic bond with Mexico carries with it some very positive long-term
results. An isolated United States will not be able to compete successfully in a
world economy where Europe and Asia are united into common-market partnerships.
The trade agreement wisely affords our country the opportunity to join forces
with Canada and our neighbors to the south -- first Mexico, then Chile, then
other emerging capitalist countries in Latin America. Within a united alliance,
America will be economically stronger. We must not allow isolationist rhetoric
or bad trade policy to alienate our trading partners.

Not only will free trade help us, it provides a much-needed boost for Mexico. As
capitalism takes hold in that country, wages will begin to climb. As wages begin
to climb, Mexico will strengthen its middle class. Then, and only then, will the
problem of illegal immigration subside. Most people who cross the border are
hoping to make a living and provide for their families. The more economic
opportunity and growth inside of Mexico, the less of an incentive to enter our
country illegally.

The United States has immigration laws in place. I strongly support them. Every
nation has a right and responsibility to secure its borders. The Government
simply must do a better job of enforcing ours. All of my fellow border governors
have called for more equipment and more personnel.

We must expand projects such as Operation Hold the Line, a highly successful
program in El Paso, Tex. Under this innovative operation, Border Patrol officers
regularly patrol known crossing points so that illegal immigrants are deterred
or apprehended before they disappear into our communities. Even though it has
been successful, it has not been carried out at other high-traffic corridors
along the border.

Despite the problems faced by the United States and Mexico, solutions will be
forged in the fire of friendship and respect, not in the heated sparks of
emotionally charged words.

Our trade policy, coupled with the way we treat our neighbors, must be viewed as
an integral component of the immigration debate. Growing economies and an
expanding middle class in Mexico create a more attractive market for American
products and services. They also make for more manageable southern borders.

The United States and Mexico are linked through history and geography. The free
trade agreement has linked us through economics, job creation and competition.
If problems arise, they are best solved through friendship, not angry rhetoric.
Friends help each other and bring out the best in one another. Friends can solve
problems together. Indeed, the United States and Mexico remain friends. Now,
more than ever, it is truly time for the candidates to remember who our friends
are.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 22, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Healthy Korean Economy Draws Immigrants Home

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1761 words


Four years ago, Chang Hyeok Soo began making plans to leave Korea and move to
the United States. He wanted to echo the success of his sister and
brother-in-law, who had built a comfortable home in New Jersey and a thriving
trading company in Manhattan.

But Korea's economic explosion made Mr. Chang, 29, change his mind. He took a
trainee job with a Korean oil company and, in only a few years, his salary more
than doubled.

Thirteen time zones away from Seoul, pinched between the handbag racks and
costume jewelry cases in his Washington Heights shop, Suzy's Accessories II, Cha
Soon Giel is closing up and returning to Korea after 23 years in New York. Rent
increases and an ailing mother back home have persuaded him it is time to leave.

"I'm here, the mom-and-pop owner, and I am not sure I can make it much longer,"
said Mr. Cha, 53. "And since my mother country is now changing a lot, I will be
happy to go back and see if there is a good opportunity there."

As Koreans poured into this country over the last two decades, their
entrepreneurial energy transformed whole neighborhoods in New York and other
cities. Now, with the burgeoning economy in Korea providing more opportunities
there, Koreans have fewer reasons to move to the United States. And thousands of
Koreans who raised families and built businesses here are returning to their
homeland, some of them driven away by economic difficulties and others parlaying
success in this country into better jobs in Korea.

Over the last five years, the number of people in South Korea who received
immigration visas to the United States has fallen by more than half, from about
25,500 in 1990 to about 10,800 in 1994, according to the Bureau of Consular
Affairs of the State Department. The flow of people returning to Korea jumped
after the Seoul Olympics in 1988, according to the Korean Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, which reported that in each of the last four years, between 5,000 and
6,500 people have gone back, compared with about 800 in 1980.

In 1987, the peak year for Korean immigration to the United States, one Korean
moved back for roughly every 10 of the more than 30,000 who got visas to move to
the United States. Last year, however, one person returned for about every two
who came, the ministry reported.

Those who are returning say they are motivated by a cultural, social and
economic stew of hopes and dissatisfactions. Some say they have never felt
completely comfortable with the English language and the American culture, which
many see as too unruly and informal. Others have become increasingly concerned
about racial friction, violence and crime. And some want to contribute to the
return of democracy in Seoul, where the military government was toppled in 1987.

But underscoring it all is the economic dynamism of Korea over the last five
years and the recent recession in the United States. Seoul is becoming a major
player in the global trading game. The value of its exports was the 12th largest
in the world last year, according to International Monetary Fund reports.

The country's prosperity, however, has had one drawback for Koreans who want to
return: Some say they can't afford to because apartments are getting so
expensive.

Glass Ceiling For Professionals

Still, many Koreans, especially men who shunted their professional backgrounds
to become merchants here, felt they could never achieve the social status they
once had in Korea. Even some Koreans who have achieved considerable success here
said they felt it would be difficult to rise higher in American companies, while
their knowledge of English and the United States made them highly prized in
Korea.

A gift shop owner from the Chicago suburbs has a contract to open an American
coffee franchise in downtown Seoul. A professor at Cornell University Medical
Center became chairman of the life sciences department at a Korean university,
and staffed his entire department with Korean-American professors.

A second-generation Korean-American said he would probably move to Korea after
graduation from law school because "a Harvard law degree goes much further in
Korea than it does in America."

Even Mr. Chang's father-in-law, Suk K. Lee, who was chairman of the
Korean-American Chamber of Commerce in New York, returned to Korea a few years
ago to start a cable television company with other "Korean-New Yorkers."

And the governors of two of Korea's nine provinces were, until recently,
American citizens: an economics professor from Rutgers University and a
businessman who spent 20 years selling handbags and wigs in Manhattan. The
businessman, Kim Hyuk Kyu, is already bringing a touch of New York to South
Kyongsang Province. One of his first steps will be to paint all the taxicabs
yellow.

"The reason people move is what's going on at home," said Philip Kasinitz, a
sociology professor at Hunter College. "What's going on at home is the Korean
economy is so strong that it's attracting the people who both have made it here
and those who can't make it."

It is not clear how many Korean small businesses in New York are failing. Some
merchants close one store and later open another. But these days, Korean dry
cleaners, groceries and other small businesses are bumping up against a market
they helped saturate, Dr. Kasinitz said.

"Pick stores in any neighborhood and ask them how business is," said Sung Soo
Kim, the president of the Korean American Small Business Service Center of New
York, in Flushing, Queens. "Half of them will say it's break-even or getting
worse."

Stephen Lynton, a research associate with the Columbia University Center for
Korean Research, said Korean businesses "fail all the time because Koreans tend
to migrate toward high-risk businesses. Some people just give up and go home."

Some of those who give up feel great embarrassment. Mr. Cha said one friend who
is moving back because his Washington Heights store is in trouble "is ashamed to
admit that he was not accepted here."

But as many or more of those who are returning to Korea are not abandoning
failure, but building on their successes in this country.

Comfort of Home Is Part of the Draw

Until last year, Jhinu Christopher Jung was a lawyer in midtown Manhattan,
working mostly for Korean-American clients. He was putting together a new law
firm with about 10 other lawyers.

"All of a sudden I realized that I really didn't want to do that," Mr. Jung, 40,
said in a telephone interview from Seoul, where he is setting up an
international consulting firm. "In New York, I was becoming a sort of community
lawyer -- divorces, minor criminal matters, small business claims. But I wanted
to do more international work and I felt I was sort of trapped. I felt that in
the long run, if I were in Korea, I would be much better positioned than if I
was in New York."

There was another reason, too.

"I'm perfectly comfortable in New York," said Mr. Jung, who came to the United
States when he was 14 and speaks excellent English. "But in some ways I felt
culturally, linguistically and traditionally that I was much more Korean than I
ever realized before."

Some of those who return to Korea say they always dreamed of retiring to their
homeland after they raised children and educated them in American schools. And
some are fulfilling Korean traditions of filial responsibility, taking care of
elderly parents back home.

Others said that the Los Angeles riots and robberies of Korean stores in New
York have made them more aware of racial conflicts and what they see as a lack
of police responsiveness.

"After the L.A. riots, we have to live in a sort of racial tension, you know,"
said Mr. Cha. "In Korea, we are homogeneous, only one race. We never had
experience living with others."

Korean Work Ethic Left Mark on City

The wave of Korean immigration in the 1970's and 1980's transformed cities like
New York as few other recent immigrant groups have. Koreans, many of them highly
educated professionals in their own country, seemed to patent a brand of hard
work and enterprise that turned blocks in Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant,
Brooklyn, and whole neighborhoods like Flushing, into bustling quarters of
commerce.

Korean immigrants virtually invented the nail salon and reinvented the corner
grocery -- adding salad bars, deli counters, and bunches upon bunches of colored
carnations and gladioluses.

"The Korean population has had a very substantial impact, a disproportionate
impact because of its rate of self-employment," said Mitchell L. Moss, director
of the Taub Urban Research Institute of New York University. "They succeeded
beyond all standards and expectations, very rapidly."

Other immigrant groups have left the United States when changes in their native
countries made it possible or advantageous to return, Dr. Moss and other
sociologists said. They predicted that the Korean impact on New York will not
really diminish, but over the years is likely to change.

Members of other immigrant groups will probably take over some Korean stores.
The children of Korean immigrants, many of them well educated, are likely to
move into professional fields like law, technology and international trade. And
Koreans will increasingly leave the cities.

"They're already moving out to the suburbs when they can," said Dr. Lynton. "It
used to be that Koreans were very focused in urban population areas. Now,
they're everywhere, even the smallest towns."

In some families, men have returned to Korea while their wives stay here until
the children complete school.

Moon In Soon, who is leaving Northbrook, Ill., to set up a Gloria Jean's Gourmet
Coffee franchise in Seoul, said that like many other reverse immigrants she is
keeping her American citizenship.

"Since I have lived here more than 20 years, I am not purely Korean anymore,"
Mrs. Moon said. "I've adopted a lot of American ways of thinking. And Korea is a
real male-dominated society."

Some repatriates have had trouble adjusting. But things are getting easier. "The
international community in Korea is getting rather large," said Dr. Lynton, "so
that people who move back do not feel as alienated as they did before."

Others are facing unexpected challenges.

Mr. Kim, for example, the governor of South Kyongsang Province, said taxi
drivers are vigorously opposed to his efforts to transplant a bit of the flavor
of midtown Manhattan.

"They do not like the brightness of the color yellow," Mr. Kim said. "They are
saying it is not very healthy, that it hurts the vision."


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cha Soon Giel is closing up shop and moving back to Korea after
23 years in New York. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) (pg. A1); In Seoul,
South Korea, lawyer Jhinu Christopher Jung strolls through Toksu Palace in the
rain. He formerly practiced in midtown Manhattan. (pg. B4)

Graph: "ADDING IT UP: Korean Immigration, or the Lack of It"

The number of Koreans in New York City more than tripled from 1980 to 1990, but
since then Korean immigration has fallen steadily. Graphs track number of
immigration visas issued to people in Korea and number of Koreans who immigrated
to New York City, during the years running from 1990 through 1994. (Sources:
Bureau of Consular Affairs, the State Department; New York City Department of
City Planning) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico: Who Was Right?

BYLINE: By Patrick J. Buchanan;   Patrick J. Buchanan is a candidate for the
Republican Presidential nomination.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 27;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: McLEAN, Va.


During debate on the North America Free Trade Agreement, its celebrants promised
three things: Our trade surplus with Mexico would grow; scores of thousands of
new jobs would be created in the United States; illegal immigration would ease.

Five former Presidents urged its passage, as did the Heritage Foundation, the
Brookings Institution, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, the United
States Chamber of Commerce, the Council on Foreign Relations and the Trilateral
Commission.

Ross Perot, Ralph Nader and I were derided as the "Halloween Coalition." When
objections were raised to the American partnership with the corruption-riddled
Government of Carlos Salinas de Gortari, Henry Kissinger rose to its defense.
"I know no government anywhere that is more competent," he said.

Well, the early returns are in, and, as Lord Melbourne observed, "Nothing that
the wise men promised has happened, and everything the damned fools said would
happen has come to pass!"

One year after Nafta, Mexico devalued the peso, wiping out billions in United
States investments. Our trade surplus has vanished. A $17 billion deficit is
expected in 1995. Translation: 340,000 lost American jobs. Our winter tomato
industry is in ruins. Illegal immigration is rising. Mexico has become the port
of entry for America's cocaine.

And, oh yes, Mr. Salinas was asked to leave the country, and is now under
investigation for the cover-up of an assassination, while Mr. Clinton and the
Nafta Republicans put us on the hook for $50 billion in loans to Mexico City.

Newly installed President Ernesto Zedillo said he needed the cash to pay off
bonds held by Citibank and Goldman Sachs, lest the New World Order come crashing
down around the ears of its panicked acolytes. We shall never see the money
again; our grandchildren will pay it off.

Comes now a report from the International Monetary Fund that we were had. The
Mexican crisis was overblown. Mexicans themselves had panicked and pulled down
the peso. The world financial system was never in danger.

As with Vietnam, where the Best and Brightest who marched us in went on to new
careers while the families of the 58,000 dead grieved, so it is with Nafta. For
America's elite there is never accountability.  That is for the rest of us.

But there are winners in the trade agreement scam. American companies are
closing factories here, and from Monterrey to Mexico City, a new Detroit is
rising. Nafta made Mexico an "enterprise zone" of 90 million people where the
minimum wage is 58 cents an hour, American health and safety standards do not
exist, and men will fight one another to live in shacks outside a plant gate to
work 10 hours a day for a fraction of the wage Americans get.

In 1924, the party of Coolidge defended a 40 percent tariff by declaring as its
purpose: "To support the high American economic level of life for the average
family and to prevent a lowering to the level of economic life prevailing in
other lands." From Lincoln on, that was party dogma.

Of another tariff, Daniel Webster wrote, "I am looking not for a law such as
will benefit capitalists -- they can take care of themselves -- but for a law
that shall induce capitalists to invest their capital in such a manner as to
occupy and employ American labor." We, too, seek such laws.

Between the declining real wages of American workers, down 20 percent in 20
years, and treaties like Nafta, the correlation is absolute. Yet those who call
for restoring a trade policy that puts America first are answered with the
epithets of our elites: "Isolationists!" "Protectionists!" "Nativists!"

Toward Mexico's hard-working people, robbed repeatedly by their own governments,
we offer friendship. Toward the one-party kleptocracy that has misruled Mexico
for 60 years, whose proudest boast is that in 1938 it stole American oil wells,
our policy should be cool correctness.

Nafta should be canceled. A contract negotiated in deceit is no contract at all.
And as Mexico defends her southern border, we should defend ours -- with a
security fence. As Ronald Reagan said, "A country that cannot defend its borders
isn't really a country anymore."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Green Cards to Cost $70

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 103 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Aug. 24


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will be able to require immigrants
who hold residence permits, or green cards, to renew them and pay a $70 fee,
under a settlement in Federal court.

The settlement in the class-action lawsuit was approved this week by Judge
Edward J. Garcia of Federal District Court.

Renewals cannot start until March 20, 1996, under terms of the agreement, which
also requires that processing fees be waived for applicants who cannot afford
them. And it says that the immigration service cannot make elderly and disabled
people appear in person when renewing their green cards.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

An Insult to Miss Liberty

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 406 words


Pete Wilson is entitled to announce that he is running for President as many
times as he likes. But it takes real brazenness to exploit a symbol like the
Statue of Liberty to try to restart a sputtering campaign that has enshrined
anti-immigration sentiment in its platform.

The Statue of Liberty belongs to the nation, not simply New York City, of
course. But New Yorkers take particular pride that it is their city that served
as the entry point for the great waves of immigration that, in their day, were
as reviled as the new immigrants of today. Mr. Wilson's message of fear while
announcing his candidacy once again in lower Manhattan yesterday was so
tone-deaf that it seemed almost calculated, as if he were saying he had no
chance to win the votes of New Yorkers so it didn't matter if he cynically
abused one of their most beloved icons.

Mr. Wilson, the Governor of California, draws a distinction between legal and
illegal immigrants, arguing that to give out Federal benefits to people who
entered the country illegally would be "like giving free room service to someone
who breaks into a hotel." With the statue as his backdrop, he also said that
what it meant was that "there is a right way to come to America and a wrong
way."

Surely there is also a right way and a wrong way to campaign for President, the
right way reflecting a decent respect for history and local sensitivities. New
York is within its rights to deport illegal aliens in its prison system, as Gov.
George Pataki has announced it would do. But as Mayor Rudolph Giuliani pointed
out recently, denying benefits to illegal immigrants would drive their children
out of the schools and their sick away from public hospitals, increasing social
and health burdens for states and cities in the long run.

Mr. Wilson was not the only Republican candidate who has ran afoul of symbolism
in the last week. As part of his shift to the right, Senator Bob Dole returned
$1,000 that his campaign appears to have actually solicited from a group called
the Log Cabin Republicans. Taking their name from the symbolism of Abraham
Lincoln, this group stands for civil rights for homosexuals. Earlier in the
season, the Republican front-runner had been happy to have their money. Then
came his lackluster showing in an Iowa straw poll, and new fears of being seen
as overly sensible. It is early, but this has not been a good campaign for
symbols of tolerance.


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Surprising Rise In Immigration Stirs Up Debate

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1237 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29


The Census Bureau's report this week that the percentage of the country's
population that is foreign born is at its highest level since World War II and
is accelerating at a record pace has taken demographers aback and is fueling an
already intense debate over immigration in American life.

The surprising figures result in part from a declining birth rate among
native-born Americans, but more from increased immigration. The proportion of
Americans who were born elsewhere rose to 8.7 percent last year, or 22.6 million
people, according to the Census Bureau. The bureau estimated that about four
million of the immigrants were in the United States illegally.

The proportion of immigrants is the highest since 1940, when it was 8.8 percent,
although it remains far short of the modern historic high of 14.7 percent in
1910. Since 1970, the percentage has doubled. From 1990 to 1994, 4.5 million
immigrants came to the United States, nearly as many as landed during the entire
decade of the 1970's.

Though it is written in the flat prose of Government demographic reports, the
study, "The Foreign Born Population: 1994" is sure to add to the debate over
immigration, which has already emerged as a hot issue in the Presidential race.
The issue is particularly incendiary in populous states like California and New
York, the two whose populations contain the highest proportion of foreign-born
residents. According to the report, nearly 25 percent of California's population
and 16 percent of New York's were born outside the United States.

In New Jersey, 13.5 percent of residents were born outside the United States.
The report did not provide figures for Connecticut.

Although the United States is a nation that has been largely built by successive
waves of immigration, the rising number of immigrants has been the subject of an
increasingly bitter debate in recent years. Proposed laws, and ballot
initiatives like Proposition 187 in California, have sought to limit the influx
of immigrants or to cut them off from a variety of Government benefits.

But despite the widespread attention given to the subject, demographers
interviewed today said they were surprised by the large number of recent
immigrants, both legal and illegal, turned up in the bureau's study.

"It's a very high percentage," said Jeffrey Passel, director of the Program for
Research on Immigration Policy at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research
organization in Washington. He found especially striking the fact that about one
in five arrived in the last five years. "That's much higher than numbers we've
had historically, going back 20, 30, 40, 100 years," he said.

Even before the latest census report, which noted a quickening pace of
immigration, the Urban Institute projected that if current trends continued, the
proportion of foreign-born residents would gradually reach 13 percent or 14
percent within the next 50 years.

The bureau's findings are based on a nationwide survey of 60,000 households that
asked individuals where they were born. As such, the estimate includes legal
immigrants, refugees, illegal aliens, as well as students and tourists whose
visas have expired.

"Legal and illegal immigrants, refugees, tourists and student visa overstays, we
don't ask," said Kristin Hansen, a demographer with the bureau who compiled the
study. "It's just anybody who was in our sample who said they were foreign born.
I'm sure that those numbers contain some illegals. How many, I have no idea."

The bureau did not survey residents in dormitory settings, like farm labor
camps, military barracks, colleges or prisons. As a result, some experts say the
bureau may be underestimating the actual number of foreign-born residents.

Historians, economists, social scientists and advocates for tightened controls
on immigration say the rising proportion of foreign-born residents could have
striking effects on the country's economic, social and political environment.

"It bodes an accelerating public debate about the role of immigration at this
point in our history," said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, a group pressing for a moratorium on immigration.

Past waves of immigration helped fuel the ranks of xenophobic, and sometimes
violent, groups like the Know-Nothings in the 19th century and the Ku Klux Klan
in the 1920's. While, in comparison to the activities of those groups, there has
been little organized violence against immigrants, the issue of whether to
curtail immigration is certain to be a major issue in the coming Presidential
campaign and in Congress.

Bills have already been introduced to deny public assistance to legal immigrants
or to make their sponsors financially responsible for them, to streamline
deportation of undocumented workers, to crack down on alien smuggling, to end
the automatic granting of asylum to Cuban refugees and to beef up the Border
Patrol.

Two candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination, Gov. Pete Wilson of
California and Patrick J. Buchanan, the columnist, were strong supporters of a
successful ballot initiative last year that denied Government assistance to
illegal immigrants. Both have made stemming immigration a central focus of their
campaigns.

According to the report, the vast majority of foreign-born residents are from
Mexico, followed by the Philippines, Cuba, El Salvador, Canada, Germany and
China.

Experts say the surge in the number of foreign born people mainly stemmed from
the 1965 Immigration Act, which replaced a policy based on quotas for various
countries with one that allowed relatives of recent immigrants easier entry into
the country. As a result, immigration increased to about 600,000 a year during
the 1970's and 1980's.

A new law enacted in 1990 which maintained the policy of family reunification
and also gave immigrants with more education and skills a higher priority
further increased the numbers to about 800,000 a year.

In addition, a 1986 law provided amnesty to illegal immigrants, allowing them to
qualify for citizenship.

The Census Bureau study provides some ammunition to both sides of the
immigration debate. It indicates that 20.9 percent of recent immigrants over the
age of 25 have bachelor's degrees, compared with 14.7 percent of native-born
Americans. Paradoxically, 36 percent of recent immigrants over 25 years old did
not finish high school, compared with 17 percent of those born in the United
States.

The report also noted that 5.7 percent of recent immigrants have received public
assistance, most notably Aid to Families With Dependent Children. That compares
with 2.9 percent of native-born Americans, a fact certain to be seized upon by
those seeking to curtail immigration.

"These figures clearly show we cannot continue what we have been doing
indefinitely," Mr. Stein said. "The question is will we have good, solid
sensible reforms now, or radical and extreme proposals down the line."

But Mr. Passel argued that studies conducted by the Urban Institute indicated
that the bulk of foreign-born residents receiving public assistance were
refugees who had fled political turmoil and arrived in the United States with
very little means of support. If refugees are removed from the equation, Mr.
Passel said, the percentage of foreign born people receiving public assistance
is comparable with native-born Americans.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Rising Number Of Immigrants" shows percentage of
the U.S. population that is foreign born from 1900 to 1994. (Source: Census
Bureau)(pg. A15)



                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Fourth Highest in Foreign-Born

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 103 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


New Jersey trails only California, New York and Florida in the percentage of
foreign-born residents living in the state, the United States Census Bureau
reported yesterday. The bureau said that for the first time the total number of
immigrants exceeded one million, representing 13.5 percent of the state's
population. For New Jersey, the percentage of foreign-born residents was the
highest since World War II, The Associated Press reported yesterday. But census
figures dating back to 1900 show that the state has consistently had an
immigrant population 5 to 10 percentage points larger than the nation's average.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Aug.27-Sept.2: The Golden Door;
A Census Surprise: A Lot of Americans Turn Out to Be Immigrants

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 209 words


They may not all be tired. Or poor. But, as the Census Bureau indicated last
week, they keep coming.

In a report that stunned some demographers, the bureau said that foreign-born
residents -- immigrants, refugees and undocumented aliens -- made up 8.8 per
cent of the population, a post-World War II record. Researchers said the
increase is explained partly by declining birth rates among native-born
Americans, and mainly by increased immigration.

Demographers say that the proportion of foreign born is nowhere near the 14.7
per cent figure reached in 1910. Still, it is double what it was in 1970 and has
accelerated in the last four years.

The Census Bureau report comes as immigration -- legal and illegal -- is
becoming a central political issue. Candidates for the Republican Presidential
nomination like Gov. Pete Wilson of California and Pat Buchanan have made
curbing it a pivotal part of their campaigns and a number of proposals in
Congress are aimed at halting the flow from abroad.

Said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, an anti-immigration group: "This bodes an accelerating public debate
about the role of immigration at this point in our history."   STEVEN A. HOLMES

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN BRIEF;
Immigrants in New Jersey: An Update

SECTION: Section 13NJ;  Page 6;  Column 1;  New Jersey Weekly Desk

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "RACE" -- shows a chart describing percent of New Jersey
foreign-born residents. "SEX" -- shows a chart describing percent of New Jersey
foreign-born who are naturalized. "PUBLIC ASSISTANCE" -- shows charts comparing
percent of New Jesey Foreign-born and U.S. born receiving public assistance.
"EDUCATION" -- shows bar charts describing percent of New Jersey Foreign-born
and U.S. born 25 or older who have a high school diploma and a bachelor's,
graduate or professional degree.

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Unions Open Drive to Recruit Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 938 words


With a nod to the past and an eye to the future, leaders of labor unions in New
York announced an organizing effort among the thousands of new immigrants now
working for low wages and no benefits in supermarkets, factories and stores
throughout the city.

"This will be an effort that has not been seen in this city since the 1960's,
when the taxi drivers and public employees pushed for collective bargaining,"
said Brian McLaughlin, an Assemblyman from Queens who is also the president of
the New York City Central Labor Council, an umbrella group of union locals
chartered by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. The council donated $250,000 to begin the
campaign, which will first focus on a score of stores in upper Manhattan where
it says Hispanic immigrants are paid $250 for 72-hour weeks.

"All you have to do is look around New York City and see the diversity of our
work force and see the future of the New York City labor movement," he said. "We
want to create the same opportunities for today's immigrant and minority
laborers that the movement provided to immigrants and minorities 100 years ago."

The drive, which was announced at a breakfast before the city's Labor Day
Parade, will provide for some 100 workers to be trained as organizers through
the Harry Van Arsdale Jr. Center for Labor Studies at the State University of
New York's Empire State College. The first group of people to be trained will
work with the United Food and Commercial Workers Union in reaching out to
employees of supermarkets and other food stores.

The drive comes at a time when organized labor's primary focus has been
defending the rights and benefits of current members, rather than attracting new
members. At the same time, thousands of immigrants -- legal and illegal -- have
flooded the city, often working in businesses that skirt or flout labor laws.

Mark Perrone, a regional vice president for the food workers' union, said the
organizing efforts had already resulted in one large store's increasing wages
and benefits for some 250 workers. He said that many of the 3,000 other workers
in the stores that are the focus of the campaign were paid in cash, with no
taxes or social security withheld from their pay.

Labor Secretary Robert Reich told the audience at the breakfast that the Clinton
Administration was intent on protecting workers and also supported an increase
in the minimum wage to $5.15 an hour from $4.25.

"Before I started fighting for the rights of labor, I used to be 6 foot 5,"
joked the diminutive Mr. Reich, whose head barely peeked above the podium. "This
administration is going to continue to fight for working people until I
completely vanish."

Some of that humor in the face of a tough fight, along with a vision of the
multiethnic movement union officials have advocated, was evident along the Fifth
Avenue parade route, as thousands of marchers clutching banners and balloons
strode cheerfully under sunny skies. Huge trucks crept up the avenue blasting
their horns to cheers from small but enthusiastic groups of onlookers. Dancing
dragons heralded a contingent of Asian garment workers, while a salsa band
rocked the crowd a few blocks away.

Christina Molina, a retired teacher from the Bronx, jumped up and down, clapping
and waving to the floats that drifted past to the tune of "We Shall Not Be
Moved."

"We wouldn't be able to be out here if it wasn't for all the benefits," she
said. "We're just sorry that the labor force is like it is. Employees are easily
replaced now. There's no loyalty. The loyalty we grew up with."

Inez Layne, a unionized garment worker, said she was pleased with the reaction
from passers-by.

"We want to show them power in this city," she said. "We need to keep everything
in America like it used to be."

As is his habit, John Cardinal O'Connor stood outside St. Patrick's Cathedral,
beaming and waving to the marchers. He said it was important that people be
reminded of the union's role as intermediary.

"Is the corporate structure the important thing or is it the right to
negotiate?" he said. "I suggest we have informal, amiable meetings between
business leaders and union leaders to see if we can come to an understanding of
the importance of both."

In keeping with the spirit of the day, a few hundred garment workers split off
from the parade to protest outside a Gap store on Lexington Avenue. They accused
the clothing retailer of doing business with latin American contractors who
employ children. A statement issued by the company said it had failed to
substantiate those allegations, although union officials remained skeptical.

"In the global economy and global village, these companies have a responsibility
to have a certain basic standard against child labor," said Jay Mazur, the
president of UNITE, the garment workers' union. "Children belong in schools."

Along the parade route, David Eisenstadt helped serenade a police officer to the
strains of the reggae song "One Love." A drummer who belongs to Local 802 of the
American Federation of Musicians, Mr. Eisenstadt smiled when asked if he felt
uncomfortable marching through the heart of a neighborhood that was home to
countless corporate bosses.

"I think more of them are becoming interested in what happens to the working
person," he said. " You need two people to make a living."

Larry Siegel, a banjo player who led the band, launched into "Don't Worry, Be
Happy," insisting that he was there to celebrate, not complain.

"We're trying to preserve a living wage and the spirit of the union and not to
be taken advantage of," he said. "That's the best we can do in 1995."


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unions in New York City are in a drive to organize among new
immigrants. Ralph Rodriguez, who watched the Labor Day Parade on Fifth Avenue
yesterday, belongs to the restaurant and hotel workers' union. (Andrew
Lichtenstein for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

PRESIDENT REBUTS SOME G.O.P. THEMES ON ECONOMIC WOES

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: MONTEREY, Calif., Sept. 4


Directly challenging some of the Presidential campaign themes of California's
Republican Governor, President Clinton today told a cheering crowd here that
immigration, affirmative action and welfare were not responsible for the
economic distress of the middle class.

In a day that strongly resembled a Labor Day campaign kickoff, in a state
crucial to his re-election hopes, Mr. Clinton said the answers to stagnant wages
lay instead with a higher minimum wage and more education and training programs
for workers, two initiatives the White House has advocated against Republican
opposition. And he reminded his listeners to remember their roots.

"We should never, ever permit ourselves to get into a position where we forget
that almost everybody here came from somewhere else and that America is a set of
ideas and values and convictions that makes us strong," the President said to
cries of support from more than 10,000 people.

Mr. Clinton came to California, a state that has lagged much of the nation in
economic recovery, to dedicate a new state university at Monterey Bay. The
university is at the former site of Fort Ord, an Army post that was closed in
1994.

The President did not mention the state's Governor, Pete Wilson, by name. But he
stepped squarely onto the turf of Mr. Wilson, who has based much of his campaign
for the 1996 Republican Presidential nomination on a crackdown on illegal
immigration and an end to racial preference programs, as well as budget cutting
and tough laws against career criminals.

Mr. Clinton noted that despite a thriving economy the median wage had dropped by
1 percent over the past 30 months. "In the next year or so, all of you are going
to have to decide what you think the answer to this wage problem is," he said.
"There are people who will tell you that the answer, the real reason middle
class wages are stagnant, is that welfare people are taking all your money away
or that we have too many immigrants, or that affirmative action is destroying
opportunities for the middle class."

Mr. Clinton conceded that the country had too many illegal immigrants, that an
overhaul of welfare was needed and that some affirmative action programs had to
be changed. But, he said, "that's not the real reason for the middle class
economic anxieties."

In a jab at Mr. Wilson, he said: "We've done what we could to close the borders
and send people back. But you know what? This is a nation of immigrants. Most of
us do not have ancestors who were born here."

Freshly sunburned and appearing rested after three weeks of vacation, Mr.
Clinton also looked toward the confrontation looming with the
Republican-dominated Congress over the budget. Advocating his own plan to
balance the budget over 10 years, he said, "The decisions made in the next 60 to
90 days will determine what kind of country we're going to be in the 21st
century."

Mr. Clinton carried California in 1992 with 46 percent of the vote, and he has
marked its significance to his re-election chances by returning here 19 times
since he became President. Yet another visit is planned in two weeks for
fund-raising events in Los Angeles and San Francisco.

Mr. Clinton spoke of a Japanese-American veteran with whom he had played golf in
Hawaii, where he had gone over the weekend to commemorate the 50th anniversary
of the end of World War II. The man, the President said, had fought for America
although he had been placed in an internment camp and two of his brothers were
in uniform in Japan. One of the atomic bombs dropped in Japan damaged the man's
former home and his mother and youngest brother subsequently died of radiation
poisoning.

"There's not another country in the world that could tell that story," the
President said. "Why? Because people all over the world wanted to be part of
what is America. And we should never forget that."

On affirmative action, the President said he opposed quotas and reverse
discrimination. "But I am for making a conscious effort to bring the American
people together," he added.

Despite his strong defense of immigrants today, Mr. Clinton has called for a
crackdown on illegal immigration at the border. And he has endorsed a
recommendation of a commission on immigration reform, headed by former
Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas, that legal immigration into the United
States be sharply reduced.

In an interview with The San Jose Mercury News given on his way to California,
he said, "You can make a good case for a modest reduction of the quota on legal
immigration."

Mr. Wilson was out of the state today, in Washington to hold fund-raisers and
make speeches on the topic of welfare. The state's Democratic Lieutenant
Governor, Gray Davis, attended the Monterey dedication as acting governor.

Asked later why the President had not criticized Mr. Wilson by name, the White
House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said, "It's still 1995." But the day had
1996 written all over it.

Mr. Clinton's decision to visit Monterey Bay, for example, highlighted the
Federal Government's role in helping to convert some of California's many
shuttered military bases to profitable new uses. When Fort Ord was shut in
September 1994, nearly 17,000 jobs were lost, creating a local unemployment rate
of 20 percent. The new college is part of a government-private sector plan to
build back the local economy.

Later in the day, at a more partisan Labor Day picnic in Alameda County, the
President announced the award of a $3.4 million Federal grant to a consortium
seeking to build electric cars at the former Alameda Naval Air Station on San
Francisco Bay.

And in Monterey he sought, candidate-style, to cast himself as a political
outsider allied with the common folk rather than the occupant for nearly three
years of the most powerful post in the nation.

"You couldn't run a family, a business, a university, a church, a civic
organization; you couldn't run anything in this country the way people try to
run politics in Washington, where talking is more important than doing," he
said, drawing laughter and applause.

On Tuesday, the President plans to teach a history class at the Abraham Lincoln
Middle School in Selma, Calif., before flying back to Washington.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Agency Is Faulted for Fraud in Disability Payments to Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D;  Page 9;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4


The Social Security Administration is not doing enough to catch the middlemen
who are defrauding a Federal disability program by coaching immigrants to feign
mental illness and providing false medical histories, Congressional
investigators and a Senator say.

The General Accounting Office says fraudulent schemes by middlemen, who help
non-English-speaking immigrants gain disability benefits from Supplemental
Security Income, the Government's largest cash welfare program for the poor, are
draining millions of dollars.

The findings by the accounting office, the investigative arm of Congress, were
made public on Sunday by Senator William S. Cohen, the Maine Republican who
heads the Senate Special Committee on Aging, which oversees the
supplemental-income program.

Senator Cohen said the increase in the number of immigrants applying for
disability benefits had created an atmosphere ripe for fraud.

"Translators have become wise to how easy it is to defraud the system and are
actively seeking out immigrants as clients," he said, adding that the Social
Security Administration, which oversees the $22-billion-a-year
supplemental-income program, "is simply not doing enough to weed out these
crooks, and it is costing the taxpayers millions of dollars every year."

Responding to the findings, the Commissioner of Social Security, Shirley S.
Chater, said the agency was working to identify recipients who got on the
supplemental-income rolls fraudulently and was hiring more bilingual staff
members.

The number of legal immigrants collecting disability has increased nearly
sixfold over the past decade, to 267,000 in 1993 from 45,000 in 1983. By
comparison, the number of American citizens on the rolls grew less than twofold
in the same period, to 4.2 million from 2.3 million.

To be considered eligible for supplemental-income disability benefits, a person
must be poor and unable to work because of a physical or mental impairment
expected to last at least a year.

Non-English-speaking applicants for disability benefits are allowed to provide
their own interpreters for interviews if the Social Security agency does not
have a translator available, the accounting office said.

According to the accounting office, some of the immigrants' translators have
coached them to claim forms of mental impairment like depression. The middlemen
are then paid a fee; in one case, the middleman received $2,000 to $3,000 per
applicant.

The actual number of immigrants who gain disability benefits using these
middlemen is unknown, the accounting office said.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New Country, New School -- Immigrant Student's First Day;
Experiment In Teaching Immigrants Gets Rolling

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words


Smiling shyly in the lacy pink dress she had brought with her from Bangladesh,
Tania Islam turned tentatively to a classmate and quietly spoke the first words
she had learned on her very first day of school in America.

"Hello, my name is Tania," she said yesterday as she shook hands with the girl,
following the instructions that a teacher had delivered in Bengali.

Earlier, in the auditorium, Tania, 15, and most of the other children at the new
school for immigrants in Long Island City, Queens, were too bashful to switch
from their native Portuguese, Korean or Hungarian to try singing the words to
"This Land Is Your Land," which the teachers had written on posters and handed
out on sheets of paper.

Danna Zhang, a 15-year-old from China, whispered in Chinese: "Is that the
national song?"

As high school students across New York City started their first day of classes
yesterday, immigrant teen-agers newly arrived from Venezuela, Pakistan, Myanmar,
Ukraine and dozens of other countries began an education experiment that school
officials hope will become a model for teaching the city's growing immigrant
population.

Called the Newcomers School: An Academy for New Americans, it is an attempt to
teach new immigrants in their native languages, as well as in English, and to
help them and their families adjust to living in the United States. The students
will find teachers fluent in at least 18 languages; their parents will find a
kind of multipurpose orientation program, including English classes, job
counseling, health care advice and information on becoming citizens.

At a time when the national hospitality toward immigrants has soured, New York
City, from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to the Board of Education, is going out of
its way to make immigrants, legal and illegal, feel welcome. While local
governments across the country, including in Long Island, are rigidly
interpreting residency laws so as to exclude new immigrants from public schools,
New York City has decided it is a wise investment not only to include immigrants
but to cater to them.

With immigrants making up a third of the 153,000 new students in the city's
schools last year, officials have calculated that spending about $400,000 to
start a school that aims to integrate them and their families into city life is
a wise investment.

"The Newcomers School is another example of New York being a lot more courageous
than other parts of the country in remaining level-headed in the dialogue about
immigrants," said Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration
Coalition, a group of immigrant advocates. "The city is recognizing that they
are a huge and important constituency that pays taxes for quality services and
should receive those services."

Set up in an aging but stately school building, the Newcomers School is, quite
intentionally, a work in progress.

Only about 80 students had managed to complete the paperwork they needed to
attend class yesterday, but dozens more crowded into the office or milled about
the hallways, asking in Haitian Creole about medical exams or in Hindi about
academic records.

Officials expect the school's ranks to swell quickly. Any student who has been
in this country less than a year and whose English skills are limited can
enroll. The school has a capacity of 1,000 students, and the principal, Lourdes
Burrows, said she expects to have about 700 enrolled before the end of the first
semester.

"People don't come to this country on September 6, they come all year round,"
said Renee Weisbaum, executive assistant for pupil personnel services for Queens
high schools. "With this school, you can come right from the airport."

Some students will stay in the Newcomers School until they graduate. Others,
especially those who enter the school as 9th graders, will move on to regular
high schools in a year or two.

"People will be looking at this school as a goldfish bowl to see how well we do
with immigrant kids," said Steven Feldman, vice president of a nonprofit
organization called Federation Employment and Guidance Services, which will
provide counseling to students and parents at the school.

Yesterday morning, in classrooms and out, students clustered with their parents,
younger brothers and sisters, cousins or friends, all escorts through the
first-day confusion and the tangled cacophony of languages.

Orlian Alvarez, 15, whose family came from Cuba as political refugees two months
ago, gawked at the brightly painted hallways, the large library and the
gymnasium, all things he had never before seen in school.

And Dorian Qiftja, 14, waited patiently in front of the school librarian, Nelida
Rodriguez.

"Does anyone speak Albanian," called Ms. Rodriguez, trying to help Dorian become
a student on his 10th day in America.

"That we don't have," said Svetlana Livdan, a teacher who speaks Russian,
Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Byelorussian and Hungarian. "Yet."

Everywhere there were signs posted in every language imaginable -- signs for the
bathroom, the principal's office, the library. There were also posters that were
conspicuously absent: Ms. Burrows had taken down the signs that said "No
Beepers," "No Weapons" and "Cutting Office."

"I wanted all the 'No's' out of the place," said Ms. Burrows, who moved here
from Cuba more than 30 years ago. "We expect them to behave."

The first classes will be what Ms. Burrows called a "survival course," -- how to
use a pay phone, take the subway, ask directions to the restroom.

The Newcomers School's first students were recruited from two extremely
overcrowded Queens high schools, William Cullen Bryant in Long Island City and
Newtown in Elmhurst.

Margaret Harrington, Superintendent of Queens high schools, said the two schools
had 70 percent more students than they were supposed to, and over half of the
students were taking bilingual or English-as-a-second-language courses, she
said.

In June, teachers identified about 50 students who spoke little English and had
been in this country less than a year. Toward the end of the summer, officials
advertised the school in foreign language newspapers and on Russian-speaking
television. They recruited at Korean and Spanish-language churches in Queens.

And beginning last week, students who went to enroll at the two high schools in
Districts 24 and 30 were met by "recruiters" from the Newcomers School.

The Newcomers School is not without its critics, people who fear the school
might be too isolating for immigrants, essentially segregating them. Even people
like Ms. McHugh, who welcome the idea of the school, have concerns.

Ms. McHugh, whose coalition met with Newcomers School officials two months ago,
said she was worried that the school might become a "dumping ground" for
immigrants, holding them to lower educational standards than those in mainstream
high schools.

Yesterday, though, the atmosphere at the Newcomers School was hopeful
excitement.

"I want to learn the way American people speak English," said Tania in Bengali.
"I am happy there are other students here like me. Everybody here is new to
America."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tania Islam, 15, left, of Bangladesh, gets acquainted with Xu
Xiao Fan, 15, of China, at Newcomers School, which will teach immigrant
teen-agers in their native languages as well as in English. At left, a sign
indicates the principal's office. (pg. B1); At the Newcomers School, in Long
Island City, Queens, most students could only listen yesterday as teachers and
other workers sang the national anthem. They were all beginning an education
experiment that officials hope will become a model for teaching the city's
growing immigrant population. (pg. B4) (Jose Lopez/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Brooklyn Killing Is Linked To a Kidnapping in Seattle

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section B;   Page 3;   Column 5;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 784 words


The murder of a Chinese immigrant in Brooklyn on Saturday has been linked to a
spree of kidnapping and torture that includes the abduction of three Chinese
teen-agers in Seattle last month and the wounding of another immigrant in
Brooklyn last week, the F.B.I said yesterday.

Suspects in New York and Seattle used the same telephone debit card over a
one-week period to call China in an attempt to extort money from the victims'
relatives, Federal Bureau of Investigation officials said.

Through the use of telephone records, the F.B.I. and other law enforcement
agencies were able to piece together a rough outline of the crimes that resulted
in the arrest on Saturday of two Chinese men in Seattle and one in New York.

The Seattle suspects were identified in court documents filed in United State
District Court in Seattle as Huey Lin, 24, and Zhen Xing Chen, whose age is
unknown. Both men, who lived in the Seattle area, have been charged with
conspiracy and extortion.

The New York suspect, identified as Xu Xiao Ying, 23, of Ridgewood, Queens, is
charged with kidnapping, attempted murder and assault, according to court papers
filed in Brooklyn Criminal Court.

The police say he was involved in the kidnapping of a Chinese immigrant who was
held for seven days, shot in the head, then dumped near the Grand Central
Parkway on Friday. That victim, whom the authorities have not identified,
remains in critical condition.

Details of the cases and the investigation remained sketchy yesterday. Despite
the common link of the telephone debit card, the F.B.I. said the precise
connection between the Seattle suspects and the kidnappings in New York was
uncertain.

Similar cases of kidnapping and extortion have been connected to the Fuk Ching,
or Fujian Youth, a Chinese gang heavily involved in illegal immigrant smuggling.
But investigators said they did not know whether the recent kidnappings in
Seattle and New York were orchestrated by the Fuk Ching or another criminal
organization.

"The tie exists through the telephone debit card," said one F.B.I. agent in
Seattle, speaking on condition of anonymity. "But beyond that, we don't know."

The link of the telephone debit card surfaced during the investigation into the
kidnapping of the three teen-agers in Seattle, who disappeared from their foster
homes in late August.

The teen-agers, 14, 15 and 16, had entered the United States together illegally
and, because they were juveniles, were placed in foster homes while their
immigration cases were being adjudicated.

In the next few days, at least a dozen phone calls were made to the teen-agers'
families in China, demanding a $40,000 ransom for each. One of the teen-agers'
families paid $11,600 to an agent of the kidnappers in China.

One theory being investigated is that the victims in Seattle were kidnapped by
the same people who lured them to America in the first place, offering them a
chance to learn English for a sizable fee, F.B.I. agents in Seattle said.

Once here, some of the teen-agers are abducted by the ring, held against their
will and ransomed until their families pay up, agents said. It appears some of
the victims are later recruited to work in the very organization that once held
them captive, investigators said.

The teen-agers were rescued after the F.B.I. in New York determined through
telephone records that at least two of the calls were made from a mobile
telephone that belonged to Mr. Lin.

F.B.I. agents placed Mr. Lin's home under surveillance and on Saturday, spotted
his Toyota Celica leaving the residence and arrested Mr. Lin.

In a raid on the house, F.B.I. agents freed the three teen-agers and arrested
Mr. Chen. One of the teen-agers said she had been raped by her captors,
officials said.

The same day that the teen-agers were rescued, firefighters in Brooklyn
responded to a call of smoke in a basement apartment at 1616 East Second Street.
They stumbled on the body of 35-year-old Chinese woman, identified as Liging
Chen, whose head had been smashed with a television set.

The woman's hands and feet had been bound with telephone wire and her head
covered with a plastic bag. One finger had been cut off.

Firefighters found another woman in the basement. She also had been kidnapped
and bound, but was not seriously injured.

In court documents, F.B.I. agents asserted that the kidnapping of the two women
in Brooklyn was related to abduction of the immigrant who was left injured near
the Grand Central Parkway.

While held captive, the victim was forced to call relatives in China and ask
them to pay a $40,000 ransom. The F.B.I. said the same telephone debit card was
used to pay for those phone calls.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 10, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Foreign Affairs;
My Fellow Immigrants

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 17;   Column 2;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Last week Senator Bob Dole told an American Legion convention that "ethnic
separatism" was threatening American unity, and he called for making English our
official language. These are valid issues. Unfortunately, Senator Dole has
suddenly raised them not to unite the country but to divide it -- to play on the
patriotism of the American Legion and the fear of new immigrants. But give Mr.
Dole credit. If he was looking for a hot-button issue to revive his campaign, he
found it.

I discovered this for myself two years ago when I was asked to give a speech to
a teachers' convention in Miami on what I had learned about multiculturalism
from living in Beirut. I explained that watching Lebanon, a multiethnic society,
unravel had instilled in me two very strong beliefs: one was the importance of
the American public school system. In Lebanon, Christians, Sunnis and Shiites
tended to go to their own schools, and it made their society that much easier to
fracture when the strains came. It is the public school system in America that
helps insure that out of many we remain one.

The other point was that in Lebanon education was in French, English or Arabic.
There was no common language. I think that in America English should be the
primary language and that students should only be taught in other languages as a
bridge to English education. Permanent multilingual education is a road to ruin.
We have enough trouble communicating in English.

What was striking was how many teachers said to me afterward that they felt the
same way but that it was not "politically correct" for them to say so at their
schools because multicultural extremists, pushing diversity as an end in itself,
were the dominant trend.

This is sad. And what it produces are equally pernicious counter-reactions, like
the Dole speech, which tries to use English as a club, or a code word, for
stamping out diversity in education altogether.

The objective we should be working for is community. But how? Well, unless we
give people of diverse ethnic backgrounds a sense of belonging, unless we give
them a sense that their identity and heritage are valued threads in the tapestry
of American society, real community is impossible. That is why it is important
to bridge people into the community, if necessary with languages other than
English, and to encourage people of different backgrounds to express their
cultural identities as a way of enriching the community as a whole.

But we should oppose a notion of diversity that becomes an end in itself, a
diversity that becomes a substitute for neighborhood and community, where
Hispanics, blacks, Asians and Jews have their corners, separate but equal.
Diversity without a spirit of community leads to tribalism. Community without a
spirit of diversity leads to alienation for all minorities.

The goal should be a tension between the two. You won't feel the tension if you
just live in your separate corner or walled community. And you won't feel the
tension if the majority so overwhelms the minority that it is smothered into
silence. You will only feel the tension when groups are rubbing against each
other, trying to express their unique ethnic or linguistic identities, and at
the same time trying to keep those identities enough in check to maintain the
common bonds of community. That is the hard work of nation-building.

Unfortunately, that was not the hard work Senator Dole was engaged in. The
giveaway was where he made his speech. It wasn't at Ellis Island. It wasn't at a
language school where English was being taught to new immigrants. It wasn't
somewhere where the tension between diversity and community was openly at play,
and the Senator could talk about the right mix between the two.

No, it was at an American Legion convention, where Mr. Dole crudely assumed that
people didn't want to feel the tension at all, and that was what he was selling
them. He was selling community on the cheap -- community without tension,
community that is built from us against them and not us with them.

If Mr. Dole really wanted to wrestle with this issue, and not just exploit it,
he would have begun his speech to the American Legion the same way F.D.R. once
began a speech on this subject to the Daughters of the American Revolution: "My
fellow immigrants . . ."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 10, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

New Type of Kidnapping Strikes Fear Into Chinese Immigrants

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 45;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1109 words


On the surface, the kidnapping and murder of Gao Liqin, the Chinese immigrant
whose mutilated body was found in a basement apartment in Brooklyn on Sept. 2,
had all the markings of an abduction by smugglers.

Ms. Gao had come to this country from Fujian Province, a prime smuggling area,
and, like thousands before her, had assumed a crushing $30,000 debt to pay for
her trip. Kidnapping is a common fate for those unable to pay off their debt to
the smugglers.

But according to Ms. Gao's friends, she had long ago paid off her debt.

"She didn't owe them one dime," said a friend who refused to be identified
because of fear of retaliation from gang members.

Experts in Chinese smuggling say the kidnapping of Ms. Gao may be the latest in
what has become a new type of crime afflicting Chinese immigrants. Unlike past
kidnappings, which often revolved around contract disputes with smugglers, the
newer kidnappings are committed to extort money from victims whether they have
paid off their debt to smugglers or not.

"The gangs have figured out that if someone paid $30,000 to come to this
country, they'll probably pay another $10,000 to stay alive," said one police
officer familiar with Asian gang activity. "Over the last year, we have seen a
change. We are very much aware of what is taking place."

In many cases, the kidnappers want to deal not with the struggling immigrants in
the United States, but with victims' relatives in China, who can pool resources
and may have received money sent back home.

In many cases, the victims appear to have been randomly picked off the street
because they look like illegal Fujianese immigrants. The perpetrators, according
to some experts in Chinese smuggling, are a rising group of criminals, known in
Chinese as dashou, or enforcers.

"Basically, the enforcers are just squeezing more money out of people and
terrorizing the community," said Peter Kwong, a professor of Asian-American
Studies at Hunter College who has studied Chinese smuggling. "There is an
increasing number of criminals who are beginning to understand just how
vulnerable these immigrants are."

According to friends, Ms. Gao had come to the United States a year ago with her
husband, part of the tide of illegal immigration from coastal Fujian Province.

She worked in a garment factory in Queens and disappeared on Aug. 26 as she left
work for home. Within days her family in China was called by the kidnappers, who
demanded $30,000 to $40,000 in ransom.

Her family desperately tried to raise the money, but on Sept. 2, Ms. Gao's body
was found by firefighters who were responding to a report of smoke in a basement
apartment at 1616 East Second Street in Borough Park, Brooklyn.

Ms. Gao, 40, who had previously been misidentified by the police as Liging
Cheng, had been bound with telephone wire and strangled, and her skull was
crushed with a television set. One finger had been cut off.

Many of the details of Ms. Gao's kidnapping are still unknown, and investigators
have refused to comment on a motive behind her abduction.

But her case has been linked through a telephone debit card to two other
kidnappings: one in Seattle of three Chinese teen-agers, and another in Brooklyn
last month.

In the Seattle case, a friend of one of the victims said that the teen-ager also
had paid off his debt to the smugglers. Investigators in Seattle have refused to
comment.

New York authorities have also refused to discuss the motive behind the
kidnapping of another Chinese immigrant who was held for seven days, then shot
in the head and dumped near the Grand Central Parkway in Queens on Sept. 1. That
victim, whom the authorities have not identified, remains in critical condition.

Ko-lin Chin, a professor of criminal justice at Rutgers University, who has
conducted extensive research into Chinese smuggling, said new extortion
kidnappings are part of an evolving progression of crime that started with the
increase in illegal immigration from China during the last decade.

In the early days of Chinese smuggling in the mid-80's, smugglers usually
released their clients on arrival in the United States, confident they could
track them down if they failed to pay off their debt. The immigrants had
typically made a $3,000 down payment for their passage to the United States, and
their families in China would pay an additional $27,000 after the journey was
over.

But as larger numbers of Chinese began arriving by ship in the early 1990's, the
difficulty of keeping track of so many immigrants led the smugglers to hold
their clients hostage in safe houses until relatives paid off the balance. They
employed enforcers to watch over their hostages.

This early form of holding clients hostage later spread to the streets as more
illegal immigrants were being arrested by immigration agents. Once in detention,
some immigrants refused to pay for their passage. Some, on their release from
detention, also tried to avoid paying the smugglers at all.

The smugglers began kidnapping clients off the street to force them to pay their
debts.

Professor Chin, who has conducted a study of 300 Chinese illegal immigrants who
entered the country from 1987 to 1994, said the enforcers soon realized that
they too could kidnap immigrants on their own.

They have been emboldened, he said, by the relative ease of abducting illegal
immigrants off the street and by the low risk, since many immigrants are afraid
to report crimes.

Professor Chin said the enforcer kidnappings have brought a new level of
violence to an already brutal world.

In the past, he said, smugglers would rarely kill their victim, because they
could collect the ransom only if their hostage remained alive. But he said the
enforcers, now acting on their own, have little incentive to follow those rules.

"In the past, the enforcers had to answer to the smugglers," he said. "They
couldn't kill someone or they would be in big trouble. But in these new
kidnappings, they answer to no one. If the family can't come up with enough
money, they either release them or kill them."

The random nature of the kidnappings and their penchant for torture has
terrorized Chinese, both legal and illegal.

"They are running amok," said Professor Kwong at Hunter College.  "This has
become a very, very serious situation."

No one is certain how widespread the enforcer kidnappings have become, but the
police officer familiar with Asian gangs said that probably only a small
percentage are reported to the police because of the victims' fear of
retaliation.

"There's a lot more that's going unreported," the officer said. "Most people
just pay."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gao Liqin

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 10, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRANTS IN, NATIVE WHITES OUT

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 14;   Column 4;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 35 words


Whites would not flee these high-immigration areas if there were perks for not
doing so. If you stay, you're held responsible for all sorts of problems and get
little in return.

RICHARD BENNETT
Yonkers

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 10, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRANTS IN, NATIVE WHITES OUT

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 14;   Column 3;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 143 words


During criminology's infancy, a sociologist who discovered that most prisoners
had brown eyes brayed: "Eureka! The gene for brown-eyedness causes criminality!"

Similar sociological shenanigans appeared in "Immigrants In, Natives Whites
Out." Noting the arrival of many immigrants and the departure of native whites
in states like California, the authors bellowed, "Cause and effect!"

But wishing doesn't make it so. How about some good old-fashioned supporting
evidence? (Sorry, but quoting one lone frustrated white person to validate an
entire demographic theory doesn't do it.) And what about alternative
explanations for white-flight behavior? (Ever hear of California's shrinking
defense industry?)

The author's substandard research excels at only one thing: scapegoating
immigrants.

FRANK SHARRY
National Immigration Forum
Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Sex Slavery, Thailand to New York;
Thousands of Indentured Asian Prostitutes May Be in U.S.

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1770 words


She was halfheartedly helping out in her parents' grocery store in Bangkok,
daydreaming of an office job that would let her wear pretty clothes, when evil
entered her life in the form of a man who made her an irresistible offer: He
would arrange her passage to the United States and a job as a bar hostess, he
said, and it wouldn't cost her a cent, because her future employer would pay his
commission.

Within days, the 23-year-old Thai woman, who asked that she be identified only
by her nickname, Na, was in New York.

In New York, and caught in a nightmare of sexual slavery, an ordeal so hideous
that even months later, as she described it in the downtown Manhattan office of
the immigration agents who helped save her, her head drooped in shame, and she
doodled unconsciously right on the Government tabletop.

Almost as soon as Na arrived last September, she was informed of the real,
Faustian terms of her passage to New York. To pay off the people who had bought
her ticket and arranged her visa, she was expected to have sex with more than
300 men. She would be held captive behind the locked doors of a Chinatown
brothel where, she later learned, the Thai women were known by numbers instead
of names, bars covered the windows and buzzer-operated gates controlled the
doors. She would not be allowed to leave the building until she had worked off
her debt.

"I could not respond, but I wept," Na recalled through an interpreter. "I
thought: 'I can't do anything. I am there; I can't do anything. I'm in their
hands.' "

The United States is not the usual destination for international traffickers in
human flesh, who mostly feed on the thriving sex industries in Thailand, the
Philippines, Japan and India. But experts say the scale of the operation that
used Na -- a brothel at 208 Bowery housing more than 30 smuggled Thai women --
indicates that thousands of Asians could be engaged in forced prostitution in
America.

Some of the women, including several at the brothel where Na was held, know they
will be expected to work off their passage as prostitutes. But few suspect the
horror of captivity that awaits them. Brothels like the one at 208 Bowery, which
the police closed down in November, have surfaced in recent months in Los
Angeles, Seattle and San Diego. Rarely, however, have the workings of an
American den of forced prostitution been broken open as throughly as they have
in Na's case. The details were exposed in the records of one trial completed in
June and more trials now under way.

"This is a classic case," said Kathleen Barry, a professor at Pennsylvania State
University, founder of a group called the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women
and author of "Prostitution of Sexuality" (1995, New York University Press),
which includes a broad study of the international trade in prostitutes.

"Everything that goes on in the sex industry appears in this case," she said:
"From the specific exploitation of an individual woman when the customer buys
her, to the systematic slavery of selling her and other women through fraudulent
schemes, to the disparity between the economic conditions in Thailand and in
this country."

At the United Nations Conference on Women in Beijing last week, Dr. Barry's
allies called for a worldwide network to combat prostitution, in part by coming
down harder on customers and pimps.

Officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service and the
New York police say they share the women's concern about forced prostitution.
"It's almost in the nature of what we have seen in alien smuggling, because of
the high cost for people coming in," said Daniel Molerio, the immigration
agency's assistant district director for investigations, who supervised the raid
on the 208 Bowery brothel. "You are going to find many cases of people held
against their will."

Like recent kidnapping and murder cases attributed to Asian gangs, including the
death of a Chinese woman in Brooklyn two weeks ago, forced prostitution
typically nvolves Asian organized crime and smuggling rings, said Russ Bergeron,
a senior spokesman for the immigration agency. "We have seen major criminal
organizations utilizing hundreds of women in this type of enterprise," he said.

In a recent case involving an interstate chain of massage parlors staffed by
Asian woman forced into sex, Mr. Bergeron said: "The network was very
sophisticated. These women were provided with false documents, false I.D.'s, and
they were even rotated from city to city periodically in order to defeat law
enforcement efforts."

Coerced prostitution of foreign women is especially difficult to combat,
officials said, because of its usual secrecy and the profit that drives it. And
even once detected, it can be hard to prove because the prostitutes often fear
revenge and deportation.

"You can't force them out of the business," said Lieut. Peter Martin of the New
York Police Department's Vice Squad, which helped with the 208 Bowery case.
"Unless we have even a mere suspicion that they're held against their wishes, we
can't take any action."

In Na's case, the harbingers of freedom were city inspectors who, knowing that
the upper stories of 208 Bowery were used as a brothel but finding it hard to
keep it closed down, went looking last year for housing code violations that
could close it another way.

Checking the premises on Oct. 11, 1994, they encountered 2 women -- among 31
present -- who made clear in broken English that they wanted to leave. That
brought a visit from the police and interest from immigration officials, but the
other women followed their bosses' orders to stay put and keep quiet.

On Nov. 8, a prostitute who had managed to escape phoned and told the captives
they could appeal for help by calling 911.

In the police raid that followed, they arrested the madam, Siew Geok Adkins,
better known as Lilly Chan or Jenny, along with the bouncer and several others.
Six more women turned themselves over to authorities; the rest were let free --
two of them only to turn up weeks later in a similar situation in Seattle.

Immigration agents in on the raid said they found rows of cubicles and whole
cases of condoms.

Since then, the case has brought together more than a dozen defendants, from
brokers in women to their buyers, and slowly unfolded the ugly inner workings of
a modern international slave trade.

Joseph Morales, the bouncer who stood guard at the door, has been convicted of
kidnapping and civil rights violations, and faces sentencing on Oct. 30. He
could receive 10 years in prison.

Many women held at 208 Bowery first claimed they had been lured to the United
States with promises of restaurant jobs. Then several changed their stories,
admitting they had known they would be working as prostitutes, but had thought
they would be free to come and go. Authorities said they still had some doubt
about Na's story, but she maintained she would never have willingly become a
prostitute.

Ms. Adkins (Lilly Chan), who turned state's witness at Mr. Morales's trial this
spring, described the cold-blooded details of overseeing a stable of sexual
slaves.

Beginning in 1993, when her regular supply of Korean, Taiwanese and Hong Kong
prostitutes began to dry up, Ms. Adkins started to accept indentured women from
Thailand, she said, and her suppliers told her not to let them outside because
they might run away.

From early 1994 until the brothel was closed down, she obtained about 50 Thai
women that way, she testified. After one escaped by jumping out a second-story
window, she installed iron bars, she said. Three buzzer-operated gates
controlled the doors, and the women were herded into a secret basement during
several police raids.

"What does it take for a woman to jump out a second-story window?" Assistant
Attorney Tai Park, who helped in the Federal prosecution of Mr. Morales,
wondered, openly appalled. "What does it take for an illegal alien who can't
speak English to say to some white stranger, 'Can I go out with you?'

"What does it take, if not absolute horror at the restraint you have been
confined to day after day?"

Customers paid a $30 admission fee and $100 for about an hour with a prostitute,
Ms. Adkins said. The only money the women kept came from customers' tips. Some
of the Thai women were so inexperienced that clients complained.

The women generally worked from 11 A.M. to 4 A.M. every day, she said, and had
sex on average with two men a night.

Along with marketing women who "belonged" to other bosses, Ms. Adkins said she
bought six or seven women outright. They cost $6,000 to $15,000, she said,
calling the business very profitable. One woman whom she bought for $9,000 had
to pay her back in 270 "quotas" -- 270 men for $27,000. Other women had to repay
their smugglers by having sex with 380 to 500 men, she said. All were charged
$300 a week for room and board, payable through sex with three more men.

The women kept track of how many men they had slept with in little booklets, Ms.
Adkins said; she kept a master ledger as well.

But all that counting may have been pointless, Dr. Barry believes. In most cases
of forced prostitution, she said, talk of debt is only a ruse, and the captors
"have no intention of setting the girls free until they're no longer usable."

"If they get AIDS they'll be set free, or if they grow haggard," Dr. Barry said.

The Thai man who enticed Na to America, Jawarit Sillaphanond, testified as part
of his plea bargain that he had put seven women in the brothel, lying to some
that they would work in restaurants and to others that they would be prostitutes
but free ones, able to choose their men and come and go. Once they were under
his control, he threatened to hunt them down and hurt them if they escaped, he
said. The Thai women were all on tourist visas, obtained by forging letters from
companies saying they were employees.

Witnesses said Chinese and Vietnamese gangsters were also involved in the
brothel, collecting protection money and hunting down escaped prostitutes.

Happily, Na's tale ends well. After the immigration agency got working papers
for her and she found a job at a Thai restaurant, a patron fell in love with her
and married her, she said. She plans to stay in America.

But still, when she thinks back on her time in the brothel, the lilting
syllables of her Thai speech fill with unaccustomed rage.

"Every time I talk about it, I'm angry that it happened to me," she said. "They
bought something, and they wanted to use it to the full extent, and they didn't
think that those people in there are human beings."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Na, a 23-year-old Thai woman, tells of being forced into
prostitution in Chinatown. She spoke through an interpreter at Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

At Funeral for Immigrant, Anger and Sorrow

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section B;   Page 6;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 524 words


As the church choir sang softly for her soul to rise safely to heaven, Gao Liqin
lay in a simple blue wooden coffin in her finest attire: a white ruffled shirt
and a frayed chocolate-colored wool coat.

Clutching a picture of his dead wife and weeping, D. M. Zhang, an immigrant from
Fujian, China, sobbed uncontrollably yesterday at the Ng Fook Funeral Home in
Chinatown. In broken sentences and disjointed words, he asked aloud in Chinese:
what had unleashed the wrath of fury of his wife's captors that they would kill
her in such a brutal way?

On Sept. 2, seven days after Ms. Gao's abduction, her captors, enraged that her
family in Fujian had come up with only $5,000 of the $38,800 they had demanded,
gang-raped her and cut off her finger, the police said. They then tried to kill
her by suffocating her with a plastic bag over her head and smashing her skull
with a television set, investigators said. When she would not die, her captors
strangled her with a telephone cord and set the house on fire, the police said.

Ms. Gao, who was abducted on her way home from a Queens sewing factory by four
youths on the evening of Aug. 26, is one of the 11 hostages the kidnappers are
holding, the police said. So far, only two victims -- a man who had been shot in
the neck and a woman who was beaten and gang-raped -- are free, and only one of
the suspects, Xu Xing Ying, has been arrested.

The cases are only the latest in the surging wave of crime against Fujianese
immigrants, many of whom came to America illegally, paying up to $30,000 for
passage. Unable to be absorbed by the insular Chinese community and find jobs,
some have turned to crime.

Kidnapping has become the crime of choice because the punishment is
significantly less than for drug trafficking. To make it harder for American law
enforcement officials to trace the money, kidnappers demand the ransom be paid
in China.

Chinese immigrants, angered by this latest wave of terror, met with police
officials last week to demand more police attention to the kidnapping problem.

To care for her husband, who had become ill after coming to the United States,
Ms. Gao had left behind their children, a girl, 13, and a boy, 6, and embarked
on her own journey here last year, paying $37,000 for falsified travel
documents. After her arrival, she worked in a Queens garment factory, earning
$1,500 a month, said her husband, Mr. Zhang.

To save money, the couple rented part of a one-bedroom apartment in Corona and
spent virtually no money other than for basic clothes and food, Mr. Zhang said.
Each month, they sent home $2,000 to pay off the exorbitant smuggling fees.

Before receiving word of his wife's death, Mr. Zhang had anxiously waited by the
phone for news from China. He felt a sense of relief when told by his
brother-in-law in Fujian that he and relatives had paid $5,000 in ransom for his
wife's release.

"I thought the money would spare her life," he said.

Mr. Zhang said he knew something went wrong when the kidnappers did not release
his wife after the partial payment. "Instead, they demanded more money," he
said. "I knew she was dead."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: D. M. Zhang, with flowers, is helped by a funeral home employee
after a Chinatown service yesterday for his wife, Gao Liqin. She was abducted
and then killed when her family could not fully meet the ransom demands. (Steven
Wong/Sing Tao News)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Bank-Poor Communities Are Forced to Improvise

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY and JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 4;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1676 words


In six years, Silfrido Frias and Edwin B. Canaan have gone from running a
one-room paralegal service in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan to
establishing Sherman Plaza, a diverse enterprise with 2,000 square feet of new
office space that offers paralegal services, real estate brokering,
international calling booths, beeper sales and computer training.

The two men are lawyers trained in the Dominican Republic who have pursued their
piece of the American dream without a bank loan. Lacking credit history, they
cobbled together capital from relatives, credit cards and an informal revolving
loan fund financed by other immigrants. Finally, they said, they borrowed
$10,000 from a loan shark at interest of 6 percent a week.

"It was a nightmare," Mr. Frias said. "We couldn't find people with much money.
People don't have enough money to do more than help themselves."

Their story is not unusual in poor and working-class neighborhoods in New York
City and nationwide, where the consolidation of the banking industry has hit
hard. As bank branches have closed steadily over the last decade, residents
complain that banking services like loans and checking accounts have become more
difficult to find, harder to qualify for and more expensive.

Within weeks, the announcement of a new round of branch closings is expected as
Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan Bank prepare to merge operations, forming the
nation's largest bank. The further erosion of traditional banking services in
poor neighborhoods, some financial experts and local business leaders say, is
likely to drive more people into a parallel universe of low-level finance.

It is a mixed world of loan sharks, check-cashing establishments and pawn shops,
as well as communal, nonprofit organizations like lending circles and
neighborhood credit unions.

"People have found all sorts of ways to make do under oppressive economic
conditions," said Sarah Ludwig, director of the Neighborhood Economic
Development Advocacy Project in New York.

The most promising development is the growth in the number of credit unions
owned by depositors that offer checking and, in many cases, loans up to $10,000.
But with more banks closing, and not enough legitimate nonprofit credit unions
to fill the void, Ms. Ludwig said, "I can imagine a proliferation of loan sharks
and the more shadowy forms of community-based credit."

Such figures are no longer limited to stereotypical mobsters with baseball bats.
Earlier this year, prosecutors in Brooklyn broke up a loan-sharking ring that
included employees of the city's Human Resources Administration.

As people in poor and working-class neighborhoods have searched for credit, many
immigrants have relied on mechanisms they employed in their native countries. In
the Caribbean neighborhoods of Brooklyn, for example, or among Mexican
immigrants in the Bronx, one of the more popular substitutes for traditional
savings accounts are informal networks of 10 or more people who each deposit the
same amount of money every week.

Each week in rotation, a different member of the group receives the collected
savings. These arrangements encourage members who might not put aside money on
their own to save and provide cash for mortgage payments or rent, school tuition
or cars. The use of such lending circles has extended to groups of immigrant
entrepreneurs who use them as revolving loan funds, even to buy real estate.

"It's a way of saving your money, and a way of pulling together people," said
Nuria Williams, a nurse's aid from Costa Rica who lives in Bushwick, Brooklyn.
Her group ranges from nurses to welfare recipients. "It's a layaway plan, one
that allows you to accomplish something. These are responsible people. People
don't always trust banks."

In some cases, the financial needs in these neighborhoods, acute but extremely
modest, could not be met by even the best-intentioned bank. And so alternative
solutions have taken the form of establishments like Accion Inc. in
Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Modeled on a formula for small-business financing long
used in Latin America, Accion makes loans as small as $500 to taxi drivers and
others who run home-based enterprises, like cooks, seamstresses and hair
stylists. Accion officials say their default rate is under 2 percent.

"There is an enormous amount going on at the street level -- some of it legal,
some of it not," said Mark Pinsky, the director of the National Association of
Community Development Loan Funds, a nonprofit group that coordinates loans for
neighborhood organizations. "And there are new ones being invented every day."

Some responses to the need for financing, such as loan-sharking, are, of course,
illegal; others, like community credit unions, are insured by the Federal
Government. And in the middle are the lending circles, which are unregulated
agreements among friends or business associates.

In Washington Heights, the partners in Sherman Plaza employed a variety of ad
hoc strategies to build their business. They contributed $100 to a revolving
loan fund that paid them $1,000 every 10 weeks. They used credit cards and money
from the loan shark to buy dry wall, ceiling tiles and carpeting to renovate
their new office space.

Their financing methods meant they assumed a far greater risk than foreclosure.
If they don't repay their loan shark, "he'll have to kill us," Mr. Frias said
with a forced chuckle.

In their neighborhood, there are more than twice the number of check-cashing
stores as bank branches, and as many as half the residents do not have checking
accounts. A study last year by the Public Advocate's office said Washington
Heights had one bank branch for every 22,000 people, one-third the level in
Manhattan's wealthiest neighborhoods.

The Public Advocate's office also found that the number of New York City bank
branches had declined by 81, or 7.5 percent, from 1978 to 1992. By far the
sharpest losses were in the Bronx and Brooklyn. Since 1978, 50 branches have
closed in those boroughs, several of which vanished after the merger involving
Chemical and Manufacturer's Hanover.

On Cortelyou Road in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, where the closing of a
Chemical branch enraged merchants along the commercial strip, Charlemagne
Theagene showed up one morning last week with checks in hand. He walked into the
storefront at 1600 Cortelyou Road, paused before the rows of washing machines
and dryers, walked back into the sunlight and stared at the sign above the
doorway that read: Mr. Wash Laundromat.

"Where did the bank go?" Mr. Theagene asked.

Officials with Chemical Bank maintained last week that the closings they plan to
announce this month would be decided so that they did not unfairly hit the
remaining branches in poor neighborhoods. Carol Parry, managing director of
Chemical, said the bank had reinvested more than $1.4 billion into poor city
neighborhoods over the last five years, adding that Chemical intended to
aggressively serve impoverished neighborhoods.

"There is a natural fear, and until we make our announcement of our plans,
people are going to fear the worst," Ms. Parry said. "But that's not the way
this is going to shake out. Serving low-income neighborhoods is a challenge for
the entire banking industry. We will do it indirectly, or we will find a way to
do it directly that makes financial sense for the bank."

Others are far less confident. They note that Congress is considering
legislation that would dilute the Community Reinvestment Act, the Federal law
intended to insure that banks channel money back into poor communities. And they
point out that banks, while helping finance some of the neighborhood loan funds
that have grown up in low-income neighborhoods, have also financed many of the
check-cashing outlets that have become the banks of the poor.

"The potential impact goes beyond disinvestment in poor neighborhoods," said
Clara Miller, an official with the Non-Profit Facilities Fund, which makes loans
to day-care centers and other social services agencies. "Oh, the banks may
spread some money around, but there is no assurance that it will be thoughtfully
spent. There is going to be a need to rebuild the financial system to again give
people a sense of ownership and capital."

One way the financial system is being revived in poorer neighborhoods is through
community-based credit unions. The Central Brooklyn Federal Credit Union --
based in a closed Chemical Bank branch -- opened in Bedford-Stuyvesant,
Brooklyn, two and a half years ago and now boasts assets of nearly $5 million.
Another credit union, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, operates in another
closed bank building -- the last branch in the neighborhood.

In Washington Heights, Luis De Los Santos sees the lines of customers snaking
into the street at the bank branches on 181st Street as a sign of the desperate
need for more banks. A former Arthur Andersen & Company information specialist
with a degree from Columbia, he is a co-director at Credit Where Credit Is Due
Inc., a group that intends to open a nonprofit credit union in upper Manhattan
by next summer.

He said the goal is not just to provide standard banking services but also to
teach immigrant business owners how to keep records and operate in a way that
could make them attractive candidates for bank loans.

But few believe that even the most stable, successful credit unions can be an
adequate substitute for local banks willing to invest in residents' personal
aspirations and in the rebuilding of depressed neighborhoods.

"We are looking at a quantum leap in the number of the poor and unbanked," said
Cliff Rosenthal, executive director of the National Federation of Community
Development Credit Unions. "There are more examples than one might ever imagine
of people piling their money under mattresses. It's not just a metaphor. It's
reality.

"You have to reinvent the banking system for low-income neighborhoods," he said.
"There has to be a whole new financial structure and delivery system."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edwin B. Canaan, left, and Silfrido Frias financed their
business in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan without bank loans. The
signs advertise real estate and money-wiring services. (Linda Rosier/The New
York Times) (pg. A1); Traditional banks are becoming rarer in poor New York
neighborhoods. A woman walking by a closed Chemical Bank branch on Rockaway
Avenue in Canarsie, Brooklyn, passed a homeless man asleep in a box. (Linda
Rosier/The New York Times) (pg. B6)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

What U.S. Business Wants From Immigration;
A Policy of Compassion

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 491 words


To the Editor:

In "Liberals Duck Immigration Debate" (Op-Ed, Sept. 7), Michael Lind dismisses
the contention that "sinister racist 'scapegoating' " is a motivation behind the
argument that legal immigrants take jobs away from American citizens. Yet he is
quick to assert that "the white and black working poor have been fleeing the
metropolitan areas of California, where the economic competition with Latin
American and Asian newcomers is the most intense."

Mr. Lind's anti-immigration sentiment is commonplace, and his choice of words is
banal compared with other expressions in the media and in Washington. After all,
immigrant-bashing is in style once again.

The history of immigration in the United States is far from wonderful. Bigotry
was the direct cause of the closing of America's doors to legal immigrants in
the 1920's. As more Italians and Jews entered the United States at the turn of
the century, anti-Roman Catholic and anti-Semitic attitudes became more popular
and more frequently expressed on Capitol Hill and on Main Street.

Similarly, the Oriental Exclusion Acts of 1882 and 1902 (not repealed until
1943) were racially inspired. Asians, mostly Chinese nationals, first arrived in
California in 1848. Over the years, as the number of Asians grew, so did
xenophobia. Americans denounced Asians for, among other things, unsanitary and
immoral habits.

During the economic depression of the 1870's, anti-Asian sentiment rose to such
a level that numerous Asians were victims of mob violence. Instead of protecting
hard-working residents who built our national railroads, Congress excluded them.

The eradication of racial and national origin quotas from the laws of
immigration did not occur until 1965. Mr. Lind erroneously claims that our
immigration policy since then is "tailored to the convenience of the American
overclass."

Our immigration policy is tailored to the American family, the American worker,
the American employer and people fleeing from persecution.

The overwhelming majority of permanent visas approved by the Government are
issued to relatives of United States citizens and lawful permanent residents.
That is, family reunification is at the heart of American immigration policy.
Visas are also issued to foreign investors who wish to come to the United States
and infuse their money and energy to build a mighty enterprise.

Other employment-based visas are issued to foreign-national workers but, save
for a few extraordinary cases, only after the Department of Labor certifies that
there is no United States citizen who would perform the required task.

With the labor certification process, current law prevents foreign-alien workers
from taking away jobs from American workers.

The social, political and economic contribution of immigrants to this country is
and always has been tremendous.

E. SIMON RAPHAEL
New York, Sept. 9, 1995

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

What U.S. Business Wants From Immigration

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words


To the Editor:

Re "Liberals Duck Immigration Debate" (Op-Ed, Sept. 7) by Michael Lind: American
manufacturing no longer has an interest in maintaining a mass influx of
unskilled, low-wage immigrants. While a large number of unskilled laborers
helped fuel the Industrial Revolution, the technology-driven plants and offices
of today's competitive global economy require the expertise of skilled workers.

Unskilled foreigners may be displacing some American workers in low-pay service
jobs, but these immigrants enter the country through family-reunification
immigration and illegal means -- not through business-sponsored immigration.

The National Association of Manufacturers is interested in the immigration
issue, but only to maintain the employment-based immigration that provides
American companies with the essential technical expertise in short supply in the
United States. The shortage of available expert workers is a growing concern of
American business.

A survey by Arthur Anderson's Enterprise Group found that a quarter of small
businesses surveyed fear that the lack of qualified workers will hamper their
growth. Indeed, in Ohio, the shortage of qualified workers is already a reality.
The State Bureau of Employment Services was unable to find a single candidate in
the state to fill one manufacturer's tool-and-die opening.

It is important that American industry continue to have access to a limited
number of skilled foreign workers who are in short supply. Only 140,000 highly
skilled immigrants -- less than 1 percent of the American work force -- are
allowed into the United States under law.

They help educate and train native workers, give United States companies a leg
up in the development of cutting-edge technology and expand overseas markets for
American-made products, thereby creating jobs for American citizens. Waves of
unskilled immigrants may be dragging down the pay levels of similarly un-
skilled Americans, but not at industry's behest.

JERRY J. JASINOWSKI
President
National Assn. of Manufacturers
Washington, Sept. 11, 1995

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 14, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton, Wary of Riling China, Sees Dalai Lama Only Briefly

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A;   Page 8;   Column 3;   Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13


Seeking to show his concern for Tibet without igniting new tensions with China,
President Clinton dropped in briefly to see the Dalai Lama today while the
Tibetan spiritual leader was meeting with Vice President Al Gore.

White House officials said Mr. Clinton had this "drop in" meeting with the Dalai
Lama for the third year in a row to avoid an official Oval Office meeting that
would anger Beijing.

China insists that Tibet is part of China and protests any high-level American
meeting with the Dalai Lama as improper interference in its internal affairs.
But many Tibetans assert that China has been illegally occupying the remote
Himalayan land since 1950.

The Dalai Lama, who is on a 10-day trip to the United States, saw Mr. Clinton
for about 10 minutes during a half-hour meeting in Mr. Gore's office in the West
Wing of the White House.

White House officials said Mr. Clinton expressed his concern for preserving
Tibet's religion and culture after the Dalai Lama said he feared that Tibet's
culture faced extinction because of China's efforts to suppress it by imposing
the Chinese language and culture and by encouraging a immigration of Chinese
into Tibet.

One Administration official who attended the meeting said the Dalai Lama told
Mr. Clinton that "to insure the survival of Tibetan spirituality and culture,
the Tibetans will need some level of self-governance." The Dalai Lama has
repeatedly asked the United States to press China to begin a dialogue with him
about granting Tibet more autonomy.

According to American officials, the Tibetan leader asked Mr. Clinton to
increase American aid to hundreds of thousands of Tibetan refugees who have fled
their homeland since 1950. He estimated that about two-thirds of the six million
Tibetans live outside the Tibetan region under Chinese control.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 17, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

...And Queens Immigrants Deserve Warm Acceptance

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 19;  Column 2;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 83 words


To the Editor:

Adding to the appeal of Richard F. Shepard's article ("Memories of My Queens,"
Sept. 3) was his recognition that today's ethnic newcomers to Queens will have
memories far different from his but no less significant. At a time when a
Presidential candidate spouts xenophobia, shamelessly using the Statue of
Liberty as backdrop, Mr. Shepard's warm-hearted acceptance of the recent
immigrants to his beloved borough is a breath of fresh air.

LOU D'ANGELO
Upper East Side

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 19, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Lawsuit Is Filed Accusing State Of Overuse of Bilingual Classes

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 529 words


A Brooklyn parents organization filed suit yesterday against the State
Commissioner of Education, charging that tens of thousands of immigrant children
in New York City had been permitted to "languish" for up to six years in
bilingual classes, learning neither English nor other subjects particularly
well.

The suit, by the Bushwick Parents Organization, which represents 150 Brooklyn
families, faults the State Education Department for routinely granting waivers
that permit school officials to keep children in classes taught in their native
language -- usually Spanish -- beyond the three-year limit allowed by state law.

The suit follows last year's scathing report on bilingual education by the Board
of Education itself. The report concluded that the program was flawed and that
students -- even recent immigrants -- who took most of their classes in English
generally fared better academically than those in bilingual classes. .

In the most common bilingual programs, a student has a session of English
lessons a day and every other subject, from algebra to social studies, in his or
her native language.

"For a lot of kids, bilingual education becomes a prison," said Robert Smith, a
lawyer at the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, which is
representing the parents on a pro bono basis. "They don't learn the English they
need and can't get out."

Many parents and educators have criticized the way in which New York City
students are steered into bilingual classes. From kindergarten on, every student
whose parent has a Hispanic last name or who indicates on a questionnaire that a
foreign language is sometimes spoken at home is required to take an English
language test. A student who scores in the bottom two-fifths is almost always
assigned to a bilingual class.

Each year, the suit said, the New York City Board of Education applies to the
state to retain in the bilingual program any student who continues to score
poorly, even if he or she has exceeded the three-year maximum. About 75 percent
of the students entering the bilingual program in the first, second and third
grades, for example, did not graduate into regular classes within three years,
the suit said. About 150,000 students are assigned to the city's bilingual
classes, according to board figures.

While state education regulations permit the granting of waivers that allow
students to remain in bilingual education for an additional three years, those
waivers can only be distributed on an "individual" basis. But the suit contends
that the state grants the waivers "en masse" to whomever appears on the lists of
test results forwarded by New York City.

A spokesman for the State Department of Education, Christopher Carpenter, said
he had not seen a copy of the suit, filed yesterday in State Supreme Court in
Albany. But he said the department had always followed the law in granting the
waivers.

Mr. Smith, the parents group's lawyer, refused to identify any of the 15 or so
families that had inspired the suit and whose children had been held back in
bilingual programs. But he said most were Hispanic immigrants from Puerto Rico
or Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New York's Bilingual 'Prison'

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 492 words


Instruction in English alone may not be the perfect method of helping immigrant
students into the mainstream. But neither is a system that dragoons children
into bilingual programs that reinforce the students' dependency on their native
language and then makes escape impossible.

The Board of Education made this point last year in a scalding report on
bilingual education in New York. Its broad conclusion was that new immigrants
instructed in English alone performed better than students in bilingual
education programs, where comparatively little English is spoken. In a lawsuit
based mainly on the board's report, a Brooklyn parents group charged this week
that tens of thousands of immigrant children were being warehoused in bilingual
classes well beyond the three years specified in state law, and taught neither
English nor anything else very well.

Over the last decade and half, New York City has developed several programs to
teach every subject in a range of foreign languages. The most common form of
bilingual education involves one English lesson a day, with every other subject
taught in the student's native language. The program presumes that foreign-born
students will fall behind if taught in English alone.

Enrollment in programs for students who have been labeled "limited English
proficient" -- and therefore eligible for Federal funds -- has nearly doubled in
eight years, from 85,000 students in 1986-87 to 154,000 in 1993-94. A bustling
bilingual bureaucracy is now hard at work, often drafting children into the
programs whether or not they need them. Indeed, many of the students assigned to
bilingual studies are born in this country and speak English better than any
other language.

Moreover, once enrolled in a bilingual program, the student is soon trapped in
what lawyers for the Bushwick Parents Organization call a "prison." The students
speak so little English each day that they learn the language too slowly to test
out of the program within the mandated three years.

According to the Board of Education study, 90 percent of the students who enter
bilingual education between sixth and ninth grade fail to move on to regular
classes within the required three years. Among students who enter between first
and third grade, the failure rate is 75 percent.

The Bushwick parents also complain that children are often kept in bilingual
classes despite protests from parents, who want their children mainstreamed.
They also fault the State Department of Education for routinely issuing waivers
that permit children to remain in the classes beyond the three year limit. The
department claims that the waiver process is in keeping with the law and that
the suit "has no merit."

That is too glib an answer for a program that, according to the Board of
Education's own evaluation, is failing. Whatever the merits of bilingual
education, the present approach may be harming more students than it helps.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 24, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
Ellis Island: A Visit Cures U.S. Amnesia

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 43;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 733 words


NO one would mistake Ellis Island for Lourdes, but it's a place of miracle cures
all the same, recommended for certain people suffering from chronic memory
lapses. Like politicians who want to slam the door on immigrants.

On Ellis Island, they can remind themselves that they hardly sprang full-blown
from American soil. As obvious as that point may be, it seems to have eluded
some of them. But they can get a quick refresher course on computer screens at
the old immigration gateway, now an inspired museum.

The computer provides a relatively small sampling of the millions who tramped
through Ellis Island early in the century. But it is more than enough. It turns
up no fewer than 179 Wilsons (as in Pete, the California Governor). Buchanans
and Doles are there aplenty, too. So are Clintons, in case anyone may think that
only future Republicans booked passage to America.

What ambitious sons of those European immigrants have in common, besides wanting
to be elected President next year, is that to one degree or another they talk
about kicking new arrivals off the gangplank.

And that may spell bad news for New York. You don't need a computer, local
experts warn, to figure out that the city could be a big casualty of the attacks
on immigrants represented by various "keep them out" bills flowing through
Washington.

Not that New York is the specific target. But it might as well be. "These
proposals are basically anti-city," says Valerie Oltarsh, the Mayor's director
of immigrant affairs.

Quite simply, this city has been transformed in the last 10 to 15 years by the
East Asians, West Indians and Middle Easterners giving it new snap. Anyone who
has been away for a while cannot get over the mini-Kowloon that Flushing has
become, or Washington Heights infused with Dominican life, or Fordham blocks
settled by Cambodians.

THE sheer numbers can be just as startling. Easily 30 percent of the city is now
foreign-born, demographers say, and that does not include the many here
illegally. Children of foreign-born women account for nearly half the 130,000
births a year. Half!

"The city is being completely reinvented," says Joseph Salvo, chief demographer
in the Department of City Planning. "We'd have only five and a half million
people without the immigrants. If New York is going to survive, the stream has
to continue."

That flow is threatened by restrictions being pushed through Congress or
proposed by Presidential advisers. Even in immigrant-friendly New York,
get-tough calls can be heard -- conspicuously from some state and city lawmakers
in Queens, maybe the most diverse corner of the planet.

In the main, these legislators talk about cracking down only on illegals, but
officials like Ms. Oltarsh worry that this is really "displaced anger" against
newcomers in general. And it is truly misplaced, they say, for many jobs filled
by foreigners would not have existed in the first place were these people not
around.

"Immigrants come to work," says Frank Vardy, another city demographer, who waves
off the notion in some circles that all these foreigners are washing ashore only
to collect welfare. Sure, immigrants have taken jobs from Americans here and
there, he says. But they are small-timers compared with merging American banks
laying off thousands of employees and the corporations shipping out low-paying
jobs to Malaysia.

Still, nativist emotions come as no surprise, given the extraordinary size of
this immigration. The backlash reaches even to Ellis Island.

A middle-aged woman went there with relatives the other day, walking where her
parents had passed in the 1920's, fresh off the boat from Naples. Eventually,
the family made its way to Paramus, N.J., which, she lamented, is becoming
unbearable.

"There are all these Asian stores now -- not one that's American," she said.
"We're really getting too many of them. They're taking work from our men, and I
don't think there's any more space for them."

Ill at ease, she chose to keep her name to herself. Ellis Island knew her well,
though.

Beside her were displays of material from the 1920's: a song called "O! Close
the Gates" and vicious cartoons of Uncle Sam cowering against waves of "riffraff
immigration." Of course, the "riffraff" then included this woman's parents.

"Yeah, that's the way it was," she said, looking at the walls. Then she added,
"That's the way it is."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 28, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;   Page 2;   Column 6;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 95 words


An article on Monday about Congressional efforts to curb immigration referred
incorrectly to the arrival of Lourdes Rivera, whose case was used as an example
of people on waiting lists to become citizens. Ms. Rivera and her two sisters
entered the United States in 1983 and overstayed their tourist visas, becoming
illegal immigrants; they did not enter the country illegally.

Because of an editing error, the article misstated the employment record of Ms.
Rivera's mother. Ms. Rivera said her mother did not work in this country before
gaining legal status.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 30, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Goodbye and Good Grief

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words


It is always reassuring to watch the collapse of a campaign built on a
particularly ugly message. The thought is prompted by the withdrawal of Gov.
Pete Wilson of California from the Presidential race. Many political
professionals and commentators believed Mr. Wilson would become a public
favorite and a force in the campaign. But he spent the past few months steadily
disabusing his fans of any such hopes.

He did it with a distorted message about immigrants and with a late-blooming
hostility to affirmative action. It is possible to argue Mr. Wilson's positions
in a responsible way, but his approach seemed mean and heavy-handed, even to
some influential New Yorkers who originally intended to support him.

His use of the Statue of Liberty as a backdrop for an anti-immigration speech
was openly disrespectful of the city's traditions and ethnic communities. He
ignored statistics and history in building a phony case that affirmative action
had undermined higher education in California.

All this contributed to Mr. Wilson's discovery that he could not attract
supporters or donations or keep the loyalty of his staff. The best we can say is
that at least he had the grace to leave early.

Are you listening, Ross Perot? Just when it seemed mosquito season was passing,
Mr. Perot has come buzzing out of Texas again with the unsurprising announcement
that he has been struck by his quadrennial thirst for attention. As best we can
make out, Mr. Perot has three possibilities to offer those who think he is the
cure for America's problems. He will either run for President as an independent,
not run for President but start a new party using the money of people whose
faith survived his herky-jerky performance in 1992, or start a new party so that
Colin Powell can use it if he will agree to do what Ross Perot tells him.

Bill Bennett, the former Education Secretary and commentator on public morality,
was pretty blunt last week in characterizing Mr. Perot as unbalanced. That may
be a little harsh. But we do think Mr. Powell should remember that a four-star
general with a best-selling book and a standing invitation from millions of
voters really does not need to align himself with a man who seems to have
modeled his public persona on Yosemite Sam.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Brutal End to an Immigrant's Voyage of Hope

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON with JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1822 words

DATELINE: CHANG LE, China


In the middle of the night, a telephone call from New York City woke Gao Linguan
and his wife in their tiny house in an alley of this town in Fujian Province.

An unfamiliar voice told them that their daughter, Gao Liqin, had been kidnapped
from her home in Corona, Queens, and that if the family did not pay $38,800 she
would be killed. The Gaos are still haunted by the memory of their daughter, a
shy, 38-year-old seamstress, crying into the phone for a moment, begging them to
cooperate, before the kidnapper came back on the line.

"Get the money ready in six minutes," he said. Then he hung up.

The Gaos panicked. They still owed moneylenders $30,000 for sending their
daughter to the United States a year ago, and did not see how they could borrow
more. Over several subsequent phone calls, Mr. Gao, a day laborer, pleaded for
the ransom to be reduced as his family wrestled with the chilling realization
that they simply could not raise that kind of money quickly, if at all.

By the end, the authorities said, the kidnappers had raped Ms. Gao, cut off one
of her fingers, hit her over the head with a television set and finally
strangled her with a telephone cord on Sept. 2.

Even though the family says it paid $5,000 three days before her death in an
apartment in Midwood, Brooklyn, the kidnappers killed Ms. Gao, apparently
because they sensed that the police were closing in on them.

Ms. Gao's case riveted law enforcement officials, both for its brutality and its
timing: a new death penalty provision took effect in New York State one day
earlier, and Ms. Gao's captors, if caught, seemed likely to be the first
suspects charged with a capital crime in New York State since 1963.

On Sept. 29, however, it became a Federal case when Government prosecutors
announced that they had obtained indictments of five men accused of kidnapping,
torturing and murdering Ms. Gao and other Chinese immigrants.

For different reasons, the case also riveted many immigrant New Yorkers,
particularly the Chinese who saw in Gao Liqin's odyssey echoes of their own. An
illegal immigrant from Fujian Province, in the southeast of China, she was one
of hundreds of thousands of Chinese who have risked their lives to make the
dangerous voyage to the United States, then slaved at low-paying jobs for years.

Remarkably, the tragedy has not demolished the Gao family's illusions about
America: If they can find the money, family members said, more of them will make
the same journey.

"If you work hard and stay out of trouble, usually you are fine," said Ms. Gao's
brother, pointing to his neighbors whose relatives are sending home thick
packets of cash each month. "We had bad luck."

Nearly everyone in Chang Le, a town of 650,000 just inland from a jagged
coastline, seems to have a relative or acquaintance who has made the journey in
the last five years. Six families live on the tiny alley where Ms. Gao once
shared a two-story house with her parents; her husband, Zhang Daming; their two
children, and a second family. By 1995, each of the families had at least one
immediate relative in the United States.

In the last few years, in fact, most of the illegal Chinese immigration to the
United States has come from just three counties outside Fuzhou, the capital of
Fujian Province, in part because networks of "snakeheads," or smugglers, have
grown there.

Relatives Embrace A Crushing Burden

In the Gao home, a dank concrete-and-wood structure with a single downstairs
room, lighted by a dim fluorescent bulb, the family customarily gathered for
supper around a worn wooden table, sitting on sawhorse-shaped stools as they ate
rice porridge and cooked vegetables or fried fish. In conversations over supper
a few years ago, Ms. Gao's brother said, the family began discussing how to send
one of their own to America.

Ms. Gao's husband went first. When his sister, who was already in New York City,
lent him $29,000 for the six-month passage by boat, the Gao family thought they
had won their toehold in America.

Yet while other families quickly saw money from America, the Gaos received
little. Ms. Gao's husband sent only a few hundred dollars occasionally. What was
worse, the family knew he had a weakness for gambling.

Eventually, the family decided to send Ms. Gao as well. Ms. Gao herself found a
snakehead who promised to get her to New York in a week on a forged passport for
$37,000.

The family borrowed money from 10 different acquaintances, at 2 percent interest
per month. Ms. Gao put down a small deposit and departed in late July 1994.

Ms. Gao flew from Fuzhou to Guangzhou, where she was given a passport whose name
and photo had been substituted with her own, to Hong Kong, and to other cities
her family is not sure of, before arriving in New York on Aug. 1, 1994, her
brother said.

In the year she spent in New York, she worked in one factory after another,
buried under heaps of garments, sewing seven days a week from early in the
morning to late at night, the family said. She suffered intense migraine
headaches. Her only relief came on Mondays, when her husband, who worked as a
dishwasher in a Chinese restaurant in Morristown, N.J., came home and cooked her
a big dinner -- rice porridge, shrimp and stir-fried vegetables.

She called home only three times in the year.

"She never complained about how hard it was," her brother said. "I think she was
afraid we would worry about her. She just said that she didn't really have any
free time. She had a hard time hanging up."

A Family's Sorrow Is Tinged With Fear

On a September afternoon, the family and several neighbors crowded around the
family table to look at photographs Ms. Gao's husband sent of her funeral. Ms.
Gao's mother, Ning Lianji, a tiny, frail woman of 63, looked at a picture of her
daughter lying peacefully in a coffin, and retreated to a small stool against
the wall to cry. On a nearby stool sat Zhang Yan, Ms. Gao's 13-year-old
daughter, wailing softly.

The family -- who refused to be photographed for fear that smugglers could harm
them -- hopes that by telling Ms. Gao's story, perhaps sympathetic compatriots
and others in the United States will take pity on them, and donate money so that
Ms. Gao's children can join their father in the United States.

During a recent visit from a reporter, they asked repeatedly whether the United
States Government would put the children in an American orphanage where they
could be given an education.

Gao Liqin was a simple woman, her family members said, a seamstress who was
always working and always weighed down by the burdens of monotonous life in a
Chinese town.

"She didn't dance," her brother said. "She didn't sing. She was the kind of
person who always stayed home and found housework to do. I don't think she had a
happy day in her life."

As a young child in the early 1960's, when one of history's worst famines
ravaged villages and towns all over China, she was prevented from going to
school regularly.

"She was the quiet one," said Ning said. "She didn't talk to people very easily.
She had very few friends."

Mrs. Ning and her husband, a day laborer who earned a few dollars a month by
hauling lumber in a cart, put their hopes in their younger two children, making
sure they stayed in school, while their eldest daughter became something of a
third parent.

Feng Guiying, a childhood friend of Ms. Gao, said they worked together as
seamstresses for seven years at a small factory that was a 10-minute walk from
their homes.

"We sat next to each other all those years, making about 15 cents a day," Ms.
Feng said. "When it was busy we would work until 9 or 10 at night. Everything
was done by hand. We didn't even have sewing machines. Life seemed very simple
then. Even your worries were simple."

In 1976, Ms. Gao's father fell seriously ill with gallbladder trouble. A
neighbor told Mrs. Ning about the Christian faith, and Mrs. Ning and Gao Liqin
joined a group that met in secret each Sunday to pray to an alien figure they
knew as "Ye-su," or Jesus Christ.

"We were Buddhist and it wasn't working," Mrs. Ning said. "We needed my husband
to get well, and we thought maybe praying to Ye-su would make him better."

Christian worship was still not allowed at that time, and Mrs. Ning said she and
her daughter prayed silently at home every morning and evening. On Sundays, they
gathered secretly with neighbors, switching locations each week.

Years later, when restrictions on Christian worship were relaxed, Ms. Gao often
took a 20-minute walk to the edge of town with her mother and daughter and a few
neighbors, where a gray brick church opened its doors to worshipers each Sunday
morning and Wednesday evening.

Filled with simple wooden pews, and an untuned upright piano in the corner, the
church has a single red fluorescent-lit cross hanging over an altar that on one
Sunday was adorned by two bouquets of yellow roses.

What Becomes Of the Children?

In 1981, Ms. Gao was introduced by a matchmaker to Mr. Zhang, who worked at a
small food processing factory not far from their home. He had a steady job and a
reliable family, her brother said, so Ms. Gao accepted her parents'
encouragement that she marry him. The following year, she bore a daughter.

In 1990, Ms. Gao gave birth to a son. Although her second child violated China's
one-child family planning policy, she was able to have him at a local hospital,
her brother said. The family paid a fine of about $200, and Ms. Gao agreed to be
sterilized.

Many illegal Chinese immigrants in the United States say they fled persecution
for having a second child, but such persecution varies from place to place
within China, and in Ms. Gao's case it did not seem to be a factor.

As they talk about Gao Liqin, her family members and neighbors seem to feel some
guilt as they wonder whether she might have been set free if they had raised the
ransom.

"We never thought they would really kill her," said Ms. Gao's brother, who asked
that his name not be used because, as the main go-between with the kidnappers,
he fears that their local associates could exact revenge.

Gao Yuexian, a neighbor who is a close friend but is not related, said: "We
wanted to borrow the money, we really did. But the kidnappers didn't give very
much explanation. We weren't sure what to do."

Ms. Gao's brother said he had spent much of the last few weeks visiting the 10
people who lent the family $37,000 for Ms. Gao's passage in 1994.

"I told them I'll have a very hard time paying it back now," Mr. Gao said. "They
understand, but all say I still have to pay. Some said they will drop the
interest, but want me to pay back the principle. It's a real headache.

"My main concern is the children," he continued. "Should we put them in an
orphanage? My parents are both retired. Neither of them have pensions. I have a
salary of only $40 a month. How can we live on that?"

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gao Liqin. (pg. A1).

Map shows the location of Chang Le, China. (pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A VISIT FROM THE POPE: THE FAITHFUL;
Vibrant Parishes Find Strength in Diversity

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1681 words


The parish demographics have changed wildly, even weekly, in the nine decades
since German immigrants built St. Aloysius Roman Catholic Church in Queens. Last
Sunday, a young Filipino woman's voice rang out from the Ridgewood church's
choir loft, while down below a Vietnamese grandmother rocked her infant
grandchild. Hispanic and Indian schoolchildren stood together, and older Polish
and Italian men knelt with their thick arms and rosary beads hanging before
them.

"Mass here can feel like Sociology 101," Msgr. Eugene McGovern, the pastor at
St. Aloysius, said.

While St. Aloysius has multilingual priests, there are so many immigrant groups
at the working-class church that it is not possible to create separate masses
for each. The celebration and instruction that takes place at the parish's main
Sunday Mass, then, is done in only one language -- English.

"I often wonder how much they are taking in," Monsignor McGovern said of the
single language for his great variety of parishioners. "My hope is that each
person takes a bit. But there is such diversity that we can't offer that
complete kind of parish life."

It was Pope John Paul II who once said that "culture must become faith, and
faith must become culture," and as he travels through the New York City region
this week, the Pope will see many churches like St. Aloysius that are living
through all the joys and travails of carrying out his dictum. For the Catholic
Church in the city, the latest, spectacularly varied surge of immigrants has at
once reinvigorated and enriched parishes while straining the church and its
resources to their limits.

Immigrants, with each group harboring its own special notions of the spiritual,
political and economic role of the Catholic Church, have turned to parishes
across the city looking for help and healing, security and education. And that
does not even include salvation.

That kind of searching by Catholic immigrants -- a good number of them
undocumented -- has become more urgent in light of what many of them perceive as
a nasty turn in the country's political climate, one they say they think has
turned them into targets.

"In the Catholic Church, there is no need to have a visa or a passport," said
the Rev. Ronald Marino, who runs the Catholic Migration Office in Brooklyn. "You
are not asked where you came from or if you are legal."

Even in New York City, the Diocese of Brooklyn, which includes Queens, stands
out, with the largest immigrant membership among its 1.6 million parishioners.

"In Brooklyn and Queens, we have a microcosm of the whole world and thus a
microcosm of the universal church," Father Marino said. "It goes beyond language
and whether or not you can do Spanish bingo. And so with that kind of pressure,
the challenge to minister is great. We do some things well, and some things need
a lot of work."

The impact of immigrants on the church in the city, and the simultaneous effect
of the church on the immigrants, can be measured in all sorts of ways,
straightforward and subtle. To make the best use of its priests with
foreign-language skills and immigrant backgrounds, the diocese has created 18
separate apostolates in the two boroughs to be spiritual and practical outposts
for specific ethnic groups, from Haitians to Pakistanis. At the Most Precious
Blood Church in Astoria, Queens, the special-language Mass schedule for Sunday
reads: 10:45 Croatian; 12:30 Italian; 5:00 Filipino; 6:30 Brazilian.

In upper Manhattan, more than 20,000 Catholics, almost all of them Hispanic,
fill churches that had been imperiled by the flight of European Catholics from
the city. "Our 10 churches here, without the Dominicans, would be empty," said
Msgr. Joaquin Beaumont, pastor of St. Elizabeth, where 3,700 people turn out for
Sunday Mass. In Flushing, Queens, Korean immigrants raised $5 million to build
their own church, St. Paul Chong Ha Sang. The 4,000 people who attend Mass every
Sunday make up the largest Korean Catholic community outside of Korea.

This Catholic migration in the city at times takes surprising turns. For
instance, St. Frances de Chantal, a traditionally Italian parish that had seen
its numbers dwindle and its school shut, faced possible closing several years
ago as the Borough Park section of Brooklyn became populated almost exclusively
by Orthodox Jews.

But many of the Jews hired Catholic Polish women to be their house cleaners, and
those women began attending Saturday evening Mass at St. Frances. Other Poles
followed. Now, 3,000 Polish immigrants go to Mass every weekend. Last Saturday,
as the moon appeared in the night sky and the Orthodox walked by with their
children, light and music poured out of St. Frances and onto the streets of
Borough Park.

Inside, the air was thick with perfume, and there were two weddings and a pair
of baptisms taking place in addition to Mass. The faces in the pews,
encompassing every generation, were out of some old Solidarity poster. The
collection baskets contained only single bills, but they were filled to the top.

With the Pope's Mass before thousands of the city's immigrants at Aqueduct
Racetrack on Friday, only days away, a group of St. Frances parishioners spoke
of the mixed blessings of the Catholic Church in America. Halina Nowakowicz, 52,
said that "after six days of work, I couldn't imagine not hearing a Polish
homily." Jacek Kaczocha, a 19-year-old theology student, said that "everywhere
you look in New York are people who have abandoned the church," and that he
believed the Catholics back in Poland were "closer to God."

But the power of the weekly experience at St. Frances meant everything to
Kazimierz Nojewodka, 42. "I am only a handyman, and I hear bad words spoken at
me, words that humiliate me," he said. "Here, I get my identity back. I am a
child of God again."

That redemptive sense of identity suffused the basement church at St. Jerome's
on Newkirk Avenue in Brooklyn last Sunday. More than 600 Haitian immigrants had
emerged from subways and car-service vehicles to be a part of the 7:45 A.M.
Creole Mass. There were horns and drums in the church, and the elderly and the
8-year-olds didn't mind kneeling on the hard floor.

The Haitians, who fight the hardships of immigration politics and racial
prejudice, sang strenuously and laughed frequently. The Catholic Church -- a
complicated institution in Haiti that has served both as an ally of
dictatorships and a champion of the poor -- seemed on this Brooklyn morning a
place of unity.

"My faith was strong in Haiti, but it got stronger here," Gertrude Crevecoeur,
an office administrator, said. "Haitian people believe."

Of course, the dynamics and phenomena produced by immigrants and the church in
the city are often complex, the successes shaded. After 26 consecutive years of
declining enrollment at Catholic elementary schools in the Brooklyn and Queens
diocese, there have been three straight years of increases. But in many
instances, only a fraction of the children attending the schools are Catholics.

And in the case of Catholics who have come to the city from India, many of whom
get together for Mass once a month at Holy Family Church in Brooklyn or Our Lady
of the Snows in Floral Park, there has been a more muted sense of vitality and
shared experience. "The numbers are increasing, but I think most are
disappointed," the Rev. Paul Vazhapilly said. "The knowledge of the faith, the
practice of the faith, seems to be less for everybody here."

In certain instances, the experiences for immigrant Catholics in the city have
been rich but isolated from the larger church. For other immigrants, the
experiences have been troubled by the political tensions carried here from their
native countries.

The Koreans in Flushing have set up what amounts to an old-style national parish
-- St. Paul Chong Ha Sang -- serving exclusively immigrants from Korea. Because
traditional church life in Korea was built on the strength and involvement of
lay people, the parishioners in Flushing have managed well despite the shortage
of diocesan priests and the near absence of priests who speak their language.
The parish boasts 27 prayer groups and a credit union with $20 million in
assets.

At the Church of the Transfiguration in Chinatown, recent immigrants from the
Chinese countryside, people who belonged to the "underground" Catholic Church in
China, have brought life and numbers and energy. But they have also found
themselves wary of other parishioners and priests they believe belonged to the
government-sanctioned "patriotic" Catholic Church in China. So great is their
suspicion of native Chinese priests that it is not uncommon for the new
immigrants to go to the Rev. Raymond Nobiletti, the American-born pastor, and
ask him to rehear confessions that have been heard by Chinese priests.

"We run an obstacle course here," said Father Nobiletti, "and every couple of
months I have to get up and remind everyone that this is the United States, and
that we don't discriminate."

Church officials say they believe that the multiple challenges are going to be
more daunting in the future. Immigrants will keep coming, and they will always
be mostly poor.

"We don't pretend to meet all their demands, but we do what we can," said Bishop
Joseph Sullivan, executive vice president of Catholic Charities for Brooklyn and
Queens. "What we must try and do is create a human environment for them to
pursue their destiny."

Many Hispanic Catholics, who have been arriving in New York for decades,
adapting themselves and changing the church in the city as well, think they have
part of the answer to the task ahead.

"The nature of the Catholic parish in America is changing," said Antonio
Stevens-Arroyo, a scholar and the director of the Program for Analysis of
Religion Among Latinos. "The clergy can't run everything. There are not enough
of them. A home-based spiritual life built around the family and a dedication to
the community is the parish of the future. And Puerto Ricans and Dominicans and
others have been doing it for decades."


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Mass here can feel like Sociology 101," Msgr. Eugene McGovern
said of a mix of immigrants filling the pews at St. Aloysius in Queens each
week. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); At Brooklyn's St. Frances de
Chantal, the Rev. Marian Kencik baptized Samantha Gunkowska, whose parents, Jan,
in suit, and Bozena, in stripes, as well as the godmother, Edyta Zareba, are
Polish immigrants. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) (pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Charged In Abduction Case

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B;  Page 4;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 225 words


The police arrested six Chinese immigrants yesterday in the kidnapping of a
Queens businessman for a $100,000 ransom.

The 31-year-old victim, who was held hostage for a week, emerged from the ordeal
unharmed, Officer Debra Kearns, a police spokeswoman, said.

The businessman was kidnapped at gunpoint from his home shortly before midnight
on Sept. 26, Officer Kearns said.

Working with the police, the victim's family arranged to give $100,000 to his
captors in exchange for his release, Officer Kearns said. Detectives captured
the men less than an hour later, recovering the money, she said.

Six suspects, Ou Le Xian, 24; Jin Guo Yan, 27; Yi Song Yang, 29; Man Xing Guo,
20; Guo Fa Liu, 29, and Jie Mei Chen, 17, were arrested on charges of kidnapping
and robbery, the police said.

No other details were immediately available.

The victim's identity was withheld by the police.

The kidnapping was the latest in a string of abductions involving Chinese
immigrants that have drawn the increasing attention of law enforcement officials
in New York City.

On Sept. 29, Federal officials indicted five men in the kidnapping and torture
of a Chinese woman who was strangled after being held for ransom in Brooklyn. In
that case, the suspects are accused of killing the woman, Gao Liqin, after
demanding $38,000 from her family in China.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 5, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE POPE'S VISIT: THE OVERVIEW;
Pope Arrives, Urging America to Live Its Ideals

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1766 words


Pope John Paul II returned to the New York City area after 16 years yesterday on
a mission to strengthen his discordant church in America and press his crusades
to undermine materialism and fortify peace in the post-cold-war world.

He was quickly engulfed in a swirl of secular pageantry, police security and
religious solemnity, and responded with many of the themes he is expected to
reiterate on a five-day visit: urging peace, support for the United Nations,
openness to immigrants and a continuation of American social programs for the
poor.

"It is my prayerful hope that America will persevere in its own best traditions
of openness and opportunity," the Pope declared. [Transcript, page B2.]

On an extraordinary day that began at the papal apartments at St. Peter's
Square, the Pope crossed the Atlantic, touched down on his fifth continent of
the year, met this country's senior political and Catholic leaders, led vespers
at a cathedral in the rundown drug-infested heart of Newark and retired, still
ruggedly smiling, to the Vatican mission to the United Nations in Manhattan.

Ebullient despite an eight-hour flight from Rome and resplendent in robes as
white as a swan's wing, the Pope arrived at midafternoon in a gray drizzle at
Newark International Airport and was greeted by President Clinton and Hillary
Rodham Clinton, the Governors of New York and New Jersey and 800 dignitaries,
political leaders and almost the entire hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church
in this country.

A roar went up from 2,000 parochial-school children behind barricades as the
Pope emerged from the door of a green-and-white Alitalia jetliner at 3:20 P.M.,
waved his blessing to the crowds and to the nation and carefully, but without
help, descended steep steps to a red carpet on the tarmac, where he shook hands
with Mr. and Mrs. Clinton and a receiving line of officials and church leaders.

It was a big day for New Jersey, which has often been in the shadow of major
events in neighboring New York City. While he is the most-traveled Pope in
history -- 68 trips to 112 countries in a 17-year reign -- John Paul had never
been to New Jersey, and its millions of Catholics, its political and religious
leaders and many other residents had been fairly bursting with anticipation.

Beaming, waving, blessing the crowds with the Sign of the Cross, but moving with
the slow step that has become familiar in recent years as age and illness have
overtaken him, the 75-year-old Pope did not bend down and kiss the tarmac, a
formality reserved for his first visits to a country.

But he appeared hearty and was clearly delighted with his reception, which
included renditions of the Vatican and American national anthems by the United
States Military Academy bad, and brief tete-a-tetes with a dozen American
cardinals, including John Cardinal O'Connor of New York, and with the Clintons.

"As you have gathered from the welcome of the children and the not-so-young, all
Americans are very, very happy to see you," the President said in opening
remarks that went beyond a usual welcoming speech to touch on women's rights,
family values and aspirations for peace in the Middle East and Bosnia.

The Pope responded in kind. "It is a great joy for me to return to the United
States, as I had hoped to do last year," he said, referring to the last-minute
cancellation of a similar visit last October. And calling himself "a pilgrim of
peace," he gave a preview of the centerpiece of his journey -- an address today
for the 50th anniversary of the United Nations in New York.

He noted that the world of the 1990's was undergoing profound changes and said:
"Opportunities for justice, reconciliation and development are visible in parts
of the world where they were hardly discernible even a few years ago -- almost
within our reach, it seems, but still so difficult to grasp.

"Ancient rivalries and suspicions still compromise the cause of peace. We must
find ways to set them aside. If we do not, history and the Lord of history will
judge us harshly."

Without naming names, or even mentioning the Republican-dominated Congress, the
Pope also seemed to admonish the supporters of proposed laws to restrict
immigration and dismantle many of the nation's programs for the poor. In doing
so, he appeared to echo many of President Clinton's warnings.

In a nation of immigrants, he said, "it would indeed be sad if the United States
were to turn away" from sharing its blessings with newcomers. And the poor and
disadvantaged also have roles in "a society in which none are so poor that they
have nothing to give and none are so rich that they have nothing to receive."

While his comments reflected the seriousness of a papal journey that will
include Masses for hundreds of thousands at Giants Stadium, Aqueduct Race Track
and the Great Lawn of Central Park, as well as meetings with leaders of other
faiths and a daylong visit to Baltimore, the Pope also swapped quips with the
President about the drizzly day.

"You seem to bring us the rain, but we need the rain and we thank you for it,"
Mr. Clinton said. And the Pontiff, looking out over mushroom clumps of
umbrellas, said: "The Pope is bringing you the rain. A very important event."

Govs. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey and George E. Pataki of New York, who
were not quite lost in the sea of senators, representatives, mayors, cardinals,
bishops and other dignitaries basking in reflections of the Pope's celebrity,
also quipped that the rain was good news for their drought-plagued states.

Off-and-on showers had threatened to subdue the proceedings, like a ghost at a
banquet. But after weeks of intense preparations and publicity for the visit,
the presence of the charismatic leader of the world's 980 million Catholics, a
man regarded by many as a humanitarian spokesman for all peoples, transformed
the gloomy day into a rainbow of extraordinary festivity.

And it found expression in small, touching events, as well as the big public
displays. As he walked along a fence to a waiting limousine, the Pope paused to
greet a nun and some of the children with her, reaching across to touch them and
speaking to them in several of the eight languages in which he is fluent.

"Praised be Jesus Christ," said Sister Miriam Anne Evanoff of St. Peter's School
in Jersey City, who recalled the moment of jubilation -- a customary Polish
prayer greeting -- with glistening eyes.

"Forever, amen," the Pope responded in his native tongue.

Then Myron Maslowyca, 13, tried his family's Ukrainian: "Glory to Jesus Christ."

"Glory, forever," the Pope replied in Ukrainian.

The President came behind and also greeted students. "I told him good luck in
the elections," Anthony Geraci, 13, said. "And he said, 'Thank you, I need it.'
"

Leaving the airport, the Pope and the President sped five miles in separate
limousines into downtown Newark over an eerily empty New Jersey Turnpike and
Interstate 280. The roadblocks were up for about an hour and created six-mile
backups.

The limousines then drove past as many as 15,000 cheering people who had
maintained a vigil, many since dawn, on a rain-swept five-block section of
Clifton Avenue leading to Sacred Heart Cathedral, an island of Gothic elegance
in a city of grinding poverty and dangerous streets.

In a nation where many Catholic Church teachings on abortion, birth control,
homosexuality, the exclusion of women from the priesthood and priestly celibacy
are disputed by many of the 57 million Catholics, it was no mystery that many
who count themselves among the faithful did not turn out yesterday.

And among those who did, Sylvia Esteves, 29, of Nutley, seemed to typify many
who waited in the rain for a glimpse of the Pope. She noted that she admired the
Pope but did not follow his every instruction.

"I've been looking forward to this for a long time," she said under an umbrella
at Clifton and Victoria Avenues. "Not everyone today lives according to his
doctrine, but there are still a lot of good people who'll get a lot out of this
visit."

The neighborhood had undergone a face lift in recent days, with streets cleaned,
buildings repainted and grass planted, and the cathedral was like a fortress
surrounded by hundreds of police officers and Secret Service agents.

The Pope and Mr. Clinton met privately for a half-hour in the residence of
Archbishop Theodore E.McCarrick of Newark, a friend of the Pope who was largely
responsible for his visit to Newark. Seated on maroon velvet chairs, the Pope
and Mr. Clinton reviewed a number of issues, mainly the pursuit of peace in
Bosnia, Northern Ireland, Rwanda and Burundi, but aides said the Pope did not
challenge the President's support for abortion rights as he did in a 1993
meeting in Denver.

Later, the bells of the magnificent hilltop French Gothic cathedral -- with
towers higher than Notre Dame in Paris and an interior as big as Westminster
Abbey in London -- rang out as the Pope waved, smiled and rode through the area
in his glass-topped Popemobile.

The Pope then arrived at the white-canopied entrance of the cathedral, shook
hands and exchanged greetings with scores of the 1,800 invited guests, who
included the comedian Bob Hope and 200 cloistered nuns. Inside, the Pope led the
recitation of vespers, evening prayers interspersed with hymns and music from
the gently rumbling organ.

In an address, the Pope spoke of the stone cathedral as a symbol of the living
church, and added: "You, the people of God in Newark and throughout New Jersey,
are the living stones which make up the Body of Christ in the midst of your city
and state. Wherever you are -- in your families, neighborhoods, places of work
or recreation -- you are called on to build up the church in faith, hope and
love."

He also greeted priests, seminarians, nuns and others in church life and spoke
again of the United Nations and its anniversary, offering a prayer for peace.

"St. Francis of Assisi, whose feast we celebrate today, shines forth as a great
lover and artisan of peace," he said. "Let us invoke his intercession upon the
United Nations' work for justice and peace throughout the world."

After the service, the Pope flew by helicopter to the Wall Street Heliport in
Manhattan and was met by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Senators Alfonse M.
D'Amato and Daniel Patrick Moynihan. An armored limousine flying the papal flag
and escorted by 60 police motorcycles took him up the Franklin D. Roosevelt
Drive to the Vatican's Permanent Observer Mission on East 72d Street, between
Fifth and Madison Avenues.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: 'Thank God for the extraordinary human epic that is the United
States of America.' (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. A1); About 2,000
schoolchildren cheered as the Pope stepped from his plane at Newark
International Airport. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); Spectators waited
for the Pope in a gray drizzle at Sacred Heart Cathedral in Newark. (Chang W.
Lee/The New York Times); Four generations of the Colon family, including Tamika
Colon, 6, stood along the Pope's route to the cathedral. (Fred R. Conrad/The New
York Times); Musicians from St. Francis Xavier Church in Newark raised their
voices in song along the route. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B3)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 5, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE POPE'S VISIT: THE PRESIDENT;
Congenial Meeting After Plea for the Poor and Disadvantaged

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 4


In the heart of a gritty urban archdiocese, President Clinton and Pope John Paul
II held a warm face-to-face meeting today, a short time after the Pope offered a
pointed admonishment against current proposals to restrict immigration and limit
services for the poor -- in terms that closely echoed many of Mr. Clinton's own
recent warnings.

"From its beginning until now, the United States has been a haven for generation
after generation of new arrivals," the Pope said minutes after his own arrival
at a rain-swept Newark International Airport before the two men repaired to a
private meeting and a Vespers service at Sacred Heart Cathedral.

"It would indeed be sad if the United States were to turn away from that
enterprising spirit which has always sought the most practical and responsible
ways of continuing to share with others the blessings God has richly bestowed
here."

With that pointed statement he went on in words that seemed to repeat Mr.
Clinton's own warnings that the nation's social safety net must be protected
while welfare programs are overhauled.

"The same spirit of creative generosity will help you to meet the needs of your
own poor and disadvantaged," the Pope added. "They too have a role to play in
building a society truly worthy of the human person -- a society in which none
are so poor that they have nothing to give and none are so rich that they have
nothing to receive."

Later, seated on maroon velvet chairs in the residence of Archbishop Theodore E.
McCarrick of Newark, the two men spent about half an hour reviewing other
issues, principally the quest for peace in Bosnia and other diplomatic efforts.

In all, it was a welcome communion for Mr. Clinton. Aides say he has shared a
good personal chemistry with the Pontiff -- though the President's support for
abortion rights drew a public rebuke from the Pope after their first meeting in
Denver two years ago. Their divergent positions on such issues remain sharp
points of disagreement.

The Pope's remarks today were, of course, aimed at a nationwide audience, not
just Mr. Clinton, and while their impact on unfolding policy debates would be
impossible to gauge, it is safe to say that Congressional leaders and other
politicians will parse them carefully. In the current welfare debate, the
Catholic bishops have been a leading force in arguing for greater sensitivity to
the needs of children and the poor.

In his own remarks, Mr. Clinton spoke effusively of the Roman Catholic Church's
tradition of social activism and the Pope's support for "family rights," noting
that today was the feast of St. Francis of Assisi, "the champion of the poor,
the defender of the defenseless."

"We know that if we value our families, as we must, public policy must also
support them," Mr. Clinton said. "It must see to it that children live free of
poverty with the opportunity of a good and decent education. If we value our
families, we must let them know the dignity of good work with decent wages. If
we value our families, we must care for them across the generations from the
oldest to the youngest."

The White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said the congenial tone today
reflected the diplomacy both sides had exercised in recent months. At the United
Nations international conference on women in Beijing last month, the
Administration worked with the Vatican to emphasize common concerns like human
rights and access to education, instead of flashpoints like abortion and
contraception.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pope John Paul II was welcomed by President Clinton on arrival
yesterday afternoon at Newark International Airport. (Monica Almeida/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 8, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Republicans Attack Shift In Cuba Policy

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 9;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7


Republican Presidential candidates have attacked President Clinton's new Cuba
policy, accusing the Administration of seeking to extend full diplomatic
relations to Fidel Castro's Communist Government.

On Friday, just hours after Mr. Clinton announced plans to loosen travel
restrictions and take other steps to increase people-to-people contacts with
Cuba, Bob Dole, the Senate Majority Leader and Presidential candidate, said the
new policy "has undermined the supporters of democratic change in Cuba."

Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, another Republican candidate, said Mr. Clinton's
policy was extending the suffering of the Cuban people and "putting out the
welcome mat to Castro instead of tightening the noose around his aging neck."

At issue is not only Cuba policy, but the support and votes of Cuban-Americans.

Even as the two Republican candidates sought to appeal to Cuban-Americans, White
House policy makers predicted that many Cuban immigrants would support the
policy because it would ease the suffering of the Cuban people.

Administration officials said Cuban-Americans would be pleased that the
President's new policy would make it easier for them to visit sick relatives in
Cuba and finance human rights organizations there.

The new policy would also allow Cuban-Americans to send money to relatives who
are suffering from disaster and would permit a greater flow of students,
professors, artists and members of the clergy between the United States and
Cuba.

Senator Bob Graham, a Florida Democrat, said the reception in his state was
mixed.

"There are some who resist any opening, whether it's to the Government or Cuban
people out of fear that it will rebound to Castro's benefit economically or in
political prestige," he said.

"Then there are others who want more visitations and contacts and would have
liked the President to go further. He has struck a good balance."

Representative Robert Menendez, a Democrat from Hudson County, N.J., who faulted
Mr. Clinton's policy as contradictory, nonetheless accused the Republicans of
pandering to Cuban-Americans.

"The Republicans are playing politics with this -- there's no question about
it," Mr. Menendez said. "They certainly know the sentiments of the
Cuban-American community."

Cuban-Americans in Florida represent a vital voting bloc in a state with 25
electoral votes and are an important source of contributions for candidates.

In its defense, the Administration argues that it is carrying out a two-track
approach that Congress called for in the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992:
maintaining the trade embargo while increasing people-to-people contacts, which,
the Administration says, will spur the flow of democratic ideas into Cuba and
lead to the end of Communism.

Richard Nuccio, the President's special adviser on Cuba, said: "The embargo by
itself is not sufficient to help the Cuban people produce change. We have to
take more steps to actively engage them."

Cambio Cubano, a Cuban-American group that favors talks with Cuba, said it
"cautiously welcomed" the policy shift.

But the powerful Cuban-American National Foundation, which has clashed with Mr.
Clinton, gave only a mild rebuke, saying the new policy was "unlikely to have
any significant impact" on the Castro Government.

Many Cuban-Americans sympathized with Mr. Dole's statement that despite the push
in Congress to tighten the embargo, "President Clinton has unilaterally decided
to ease the 30-year-old U.S. embargo."

Mr. Dole and many Republicans assert that the new policy is a step toward
establishing full diplomatic relations with Cuba -- something the Administration
denies. They say that expanding contacts will do more to prop up Mr. Castro by
providing him with hard currency than to undermine him by sowing Western ideas.

Administration policy makers said they had recommended the new policy to the
President because they were frustrated that the embargo had done little to push
Mr. Castro out.

These policy makers said the new policy was inspired by what many Eastern
Europeans leaders said was pivotal in overthrowing Communism: increased contacts
with the West.

The Cuban-American National foundation said that if Mr. Clinton were serious
about hastening Mr. Castro's demise, he would support, rather than oppose, a
bill approved by the House that would seek to squeeze Mr. Castro by punishing
foreign companies that invest in Cuba.  Mr. Dole has pledged to bring the bill
to a vote on the Senate floor soon.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 13, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

New Jersey Daily Briefing;
6 Guards Charged in Beating

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 80 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


Six Union County corrections officers were arrested before dawn yesterday on
charges that they beat and taunted illegal immigrants sent to the jail in June
after a riot at a privately run detention center.

Prosecutors said the six were among two dozen jail guards who harassed the
immigrants for four hours, starting by forming a gantlet to punch and kick them
as they arrived from the now-closed detention center run by the Esmor
Correctional Services Corporation.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 21, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Soccer in the Mah-Jongg Belt;
Brazilian Resort Workers Form an Unlikely Catskill Colony

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 850 words

DATELINE: ELLENVILLE, N.Y.


No one is quite sure how the first Brazilian immigrants found their way to the
Borscht Belt .

But since the mid-1960's, so many former residents of Governador Valadares, a
city in the arid interior of Brazil, have been drawn north by jobs at hotels
here that that they can now field a league of six teams to play their homeland's
national sport, soccer.

Each Sunday throughout the fall, Brazilians gather on a grassy field at the
Fallsview Hotel for soccer games. Their teams represent the players' employers,
Catskills resorts like Fallsview, Nevele, Granit, Concord, Pines, Pine Grove,
Kutsher's and Homowack.

"You see this photo?" Louis Amaral said, holding a picture of the Fallsview
team. "Everyone in this picture grew up on the same street in my town in
Brazil." Mr. Amaral, a waiter for 15 years at the Fallsview, is the organizer
and coach of the hotel's soccer team, which has won the hotel finals for 10
years.

Hotel operators are unable to explain how their resort area became home to 2,000
Brazilians, though it's clear that brothers helped resettle sisters who reached
out to cousins who told their friends -- a chain migration that echoes the
movement to the United States of many others from villages and neighborhoods
around the world.

The city of Governador Valadares, in particular, has sent a steady stream of
emigrants to the United States -- so many that it is known as Brazil's "best
American town."

The emigration began after World War II. During the war, Governador Valadares
provided planeloads of mica for American radios, and the Americans, in turn,
helped it combat malaria and develop a water and sewage system. A relationship
was born.

Iliezer Bittencourth, who arrived in 1970 to work as a busboy at the Homowack,
believes that the flow to the Catskills began with an American woman who worked
at a Manhattan employment agency and frequented a Brazilian restaurant on West
46th Street.

"She would go there to eat and see Brazilians looking for jobs," Mr Bittencourth
said." "And then she would send them to the Nevele. That's how we got started
here."

Some of those who came first provided housing for their relatives, though most
new arrivals choose employee housing at the hotels.

"I lived in the hotel for eight years," Mr. Amaral said. "Most of the people
started out there. Most of them have houses and apartments and trailers now."

Mr. Bittencourth was not destined for the Catskills. He left Brazil with only
the vaguest notion of where he would land.

"I always wanted to come to America," he said. "The Methodist missionaries used
to show me photos and home movies of the United States when I was little."

At age 21, he obtained a visa and bought an airplane ticket. But once at Kennedy
International Airport, speaking no English, it dawned on him that he was in a
strange country with no money and nowhere to go.

"Then I saw an old man following me around at the airport," he said. "I thought
he was going to rob me. Then he signed 'food' and 'sleep,' and pointed to the
word 'work' in a dictionary."

The stranger drove him to a resort hotel in the Catskills, where he got a
dishwashing job and a place to stay. He never saw the man again. Before long,
Mr. Bittencourth had learned a little English and was making plans for his
sister and two brothers in Brazil to follow.

Mr. Bittencourth is now an officer at Eastern Correctional Facility in
Ellenville and two brothers own a photography studio in Middletown, N.Y. Most of
the immigrants, however, still work as waiters, busboys and housekeepers,
including Mr. Bittencourth's wife, Iracilda.

Brazilians were immediately welcomed in the Catskills, not only because they
were hard workers, but also because the resorts were becoming year-round
establishments in need of more than summer help.

In addition to learning to speak English and set hotel tables, Mr. Bittencourth
and other Brazilians also had to become conversant with the laws of kashrut:
setting a table using different dishes and silverware for meat and dairy.

"I learned 'shalom,' the most important word," Mr. Bittencourth said. "I also
learned about 'kaddish,' prayer, and about 'Shabbat,' the Sabbath. And other
words we learned like when someone would ask for 'heise vasser.' It meant hot
water."

At his employees' request, the Fallsview's owner, Charles Slutsky, built a
soccer field on hotel property and has supplied uniforms and sometimes food for
the games.

Mr. Amaral and his American wife, Laura, have tried to keep Brazilian culture
alive. On their son's birthdays there are two parties. One is an American-style
affair with cake, ice cream and children's games. The other is an all-out
celebration for hundreds of Brazilians.

"It's almost like a wedding," he said. "We rent a hall and dress up in
costumes."

In their home they serve Brazilian foods, like barbecued meat, rice and beans.
About 60 Catskill families make a weekly trip to Little Portugal in the
Ironbound District of Newark for Brazilian food, medicine, soft drinks,
magazines, newspapers and videotapes of television shows.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brazilian immigrants working in Catskills hotels have brought
their national pastime with them. The Fallsview Hotel team, in patterned
jerseys, played a team from Boston last week in Ellenville, N.Y. (Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 26); So many Brazilians from the city of
Governador Valadares, below, have been drawn north by jobs at Catskill hotels
that they field a league to play soccer. Louis Amaral, a waiter at the
Fallsview, is the coach of the Fallsview team. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York
Times)

Map of New York showing location of Ellenville. Map of Brazil showing location
of Governador Valadares. (pg. 23)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 25, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Jamaican Way Station in the Bronx;
Community of Striving Immigrants Fosters Middle-Class Values

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1271 words


There is the odd hole-in-the-wall serving up fiery jerk chicken, or a
greengrocer with 10 kinds of exotic yams on his shelves. Cricket matches can be
glimpsed in Van Cortlandt Park on summer afternoons. But it is difficult to
identify overt signs of West Indian culture among the neatly kept, modest brick
houses of Williamsbridge and Wakefield.

Yet these northeastern Bronx neighborhoods are home to one of the largest
concentrations of Jamaicans in the city, with Crown Heights and East Flatbush,
Brooklyn. And they are the literal descendants of the close-knit, sociable and
striving community of Jamaican immigrants in the Bronx that nurtured retired
Gen. Colin L. Powell and launched him on his career.

Forty years after the Powells hit the numbers and left for Queens, the Bronx's
role in the ascent of Jamaican immigrants is strikingly similar to what it was
when the general was a child. For while Brooklyn remains the great magnet for
the bulk of Jamaican immigrants, the Bronx is the more distinct way station on
their road to middle-class solidity.

In Williamsbridge and Wakefield, more than 70 percent of all immigrants are from
the island, more than 14,000 Jamaicans in all, according to an analysis of
census data for The New York Times by Dr. Andrew Beveridge, a sociologist at
Queens College. And Jamaicans there are wealthier, better educated, more likely
to own homes, and have more stable families than those in Brooklyn.

Precisely why this is so is unclear, but several experts pointed to the housing
pattern in the neighborhoods at the northern edge of the city: street after
street of plain but solid single-family brick houses, attractive to strivers
looking to own rather than rent.

"The Bronx plays the same role for Jamaicans as it once did for Jews," said
Philip Kasinitz, an expert on Caribbean immigration at Hunter College. "It's
basically stable, middle-class neighborhoods."

The Bronx Jamaican community today is a recognizable echo of the world fondly
evoked in Mr. Powell's autobiography -- a world of curried goat, calypso music
and strong families. Ethnic pride is distinct but discrete, flourishing in tight
family circles, behind the closed doors of these blocks of well-kept dwellings.

Before Arnold Anderson, a 71-year-old former mathematics teacher, left Jamaica
30 years ago, "we were poor," he said simply. Today, all seven of his children
have college degrees, and all are homeowners. Several sat around their parents'
cluttered living room recently, discussing why they had made good.

Karlene Anderson, 39, an X-ray technician with a degree in sociology from Lehman
College, pointed to her mother, Kathleen, a retired nurse. "Mother was the
doorkeep, the gatekeeper," she said. We weren't free to go out and date other
kids." Her parents made sacrifices.

"Everything we earned went into their education," Mrs. Anderson said.

The children discussed a less palpable reason for their success: their sense of
Jamaicanness.

"You're Jamaican," Karlene Anderson said. "You're not going to take stuff
sitting down.

Her sister, Christine Anderson Lewis, 33, said, "The longer I'm here, the more I
realize how important it is to hang to who I am."

Joyce James, a Jamaican who directs the Susan E. Wagner Child Care Center in the
Bronx, said of the neighborhood: "It's very cohesive. They've been here for a
while. They're not necessarily comfortable flaunting the fact that they're
Jamaicans."

It is a working community: among groups in the Bronx, employment rates are
higher for Jamaicans than for Dominicans, Koreans and white people born in the
United States. Posses, the feared Jamaican drug gangs that made headlines in the
1980's, were a Brooklyn phenomenon.

To be sure, this is a different Bronx than the one of General Powell's youth:
Jamaicans, like others, fled up the borough as the South Bronx crumbled in the
late 1950's, a precipitate exodus during which, General Powell wrote, he
remembers hearing people ask each other, "When you getting out?"

Shifting neighborhoods in the borough was a way of holding on to the
achievements of the two initial waves of migration from Jamaica, in the first
decades of the century, and from the late 1930's to 1965: houses, solid jobs,
mostly in service industries, and strong family ties.

Mr. Kasinitz noted that while, in Mr. Powell's era and before, immigrants from
the island tended not to be from the poorest classes, in the third great wave of
Jamaican migration, which began in 1965 and continues today, "everybody now
leaves Jamaica." And yet today, Jamaicans within the Bronx itself show the same
unmistakable signs of upward mobility as did many in Mr. Powell's youth,
particularly compared to other leading immigrant groups there.

They have lower poverty rates than Asians, Dominicans, and Puerto Ricans in the
borough, far greater concentrations of households in upper-income categories,
and a higher percentage of people reporting a 40- to 45-hour work week than any
other group, including American-born whites, according to an analysis of Bronx
census data by Prof. William Bosworth of Lehman College.

"The Bronx became the first suburb for West Indians," said Karl Rodney,
publisher of The New York Carib News, speaking from personal experience. Mr.
Rodney, himself of Jamaican origin, bought his first house in the United States
in Williamsbridge, before moving to Westchester in 1969, a common migration of
the last several decades.

Mr. Powell wrote in his autobiography of a "degree of clannishness among West
Indians, Jamaicans included." This remains a distinctive feature of the quiet
Jamaican presence in the Bronx today. Typical is the Wembley Athletic Club,
described by many as one of the few expressions of Jamaican associational life
in the borough.

The explanation for this paucity is characteristic: "There is some, but because
they work so hard, they don't want to sacrifice the time to do these things,"
said Jackie Nkrumah, who owns Jackie's West Indian Bakery on East 233d Street,
and works the evening shift herself to ensure the freshness of the coconut
gizzardas, or sweet cakes.

On a Friday night, the Wembley A.C., as members call it, rocks with nothing
louder than a lively game of dominoes.

Many of the members have been in America for decades -- the club president is a
retired I.B.M. account manager, and friends gathered around included a skilled
electrician, an insurance agent, a manager in the city's Health and Hospitals
Corporation, and a retired Transit Authority supervisor. They are thoroughly
integrated into American economic life.

Yet this plain, two-story brick building, tucked away on a quiet corner in
Wakefield, remains their chosen spot: the members are all West Indian, and
mostly Jamaican.

The sense of ethnic identification is strong. Equally strong is the conviction
that ethnicity played a vital role in what the men regarded as lives of
reasonable success. General Powell's upward trajectory is no mystery to them.

"We're all proud of him as Jamaicans," said John Lyn, the president of the
Wembley Club, who came to the Bronx in the days when Mr. Powell's family still
lived on Kelly Street in Mott Haven. "That pride, that unwillingness to back
down, is probably what got him where he is. If his parents were parents like the
ones we had, they would not forgive him if he denied his manhood. In Jamaica, if
you allow yourself to lose your dignity ----"

"You'll be thrashed," cut in Leslie Stephenson, an insurance broker who
immigrated 28 years ago. "We, as best as we could, kept our Jamaican ways," Mr.
Stephenson said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Williamsbridge and Wakefield in the Bronx are home to a
Jamaican immigrant community that nurtured Colin L. Powell. It includes cricket
players at Van Cortlandt Park, and , Jacqueline Nkrumah and son, Don, at their
bakery. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times) (pg. B1); "We're all
proud of him as Jamaicans," John Lyn, the president of Wembley Athletic Club,
said of retired Gen. Colin L. Powell. Mr. Lyn, center, in suit, visited with
members of the club who were playing dominoes. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)
(pg. B2)

Chart: "AROUND THE CITY: Comparing Three Jamaican Neighborhoods" shows the
highest concentrations of foreign-born Jmaicans in 1990. (Source: Dr. Andrew
Beveridge, Queens College, from analysis of 1990 census data)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 27, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Salvador Helps Refugees Filing for Asylum in U.S.

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1548 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, L.I., Oct. 25


Three years after its civil war ended, the Republic of El Salvador has begun
offering a highly unusual service to its refugees here: free help in filing
claims for political asylum based on El Salvador's own history of persecution.

The service is part of a nationwide immigration counseling program that
Salvadoran officials insist is motivated by a desire to help refugees. But
critics say its real goal is to insure that the flow of money home continues --
a system of informal foreign aid nicknamed dolares pobres, or poor dollars.

Salvadoran immigrants, more than a million around the nation who work largely as
maids, landscapers and waiters, last year sent almost $1 billion to relatives in
El Salvador, according to academics and Government officials, a sum that nearly
rivals the nation's export earnings.

With a mandate from El Salvador's President, Armando Calderon Sol, the
Salvadoran Government has added counseling services at its consulates and opened
immigration offices in San Francisco and in an unpretentious Hempstead
storefront squeezed between a camping store and a beauty salon. It has also
hired legal staff, set up a telephone hot line and trained its consular
employees in the intricacies of United States political asylum applications.

Wary immigrant rights groups say the free advice could lead to a surreal scene
-- refugees who have fled persecution turning to the very nation that drove them
north with a decadelong legacy of killing and torture.

The leadership of the Government and the right-wing ruling party, Arena, has
changed since the worst excesses of that period. And Mr. Calderon Sol has tried
to steer a more centrist path for the party, whose founder, Roberto d'Aubuisson,
was widely viewed as the organizer of death squads in the 1980's.

But the President's latest effort to reach out to almost 200,000 political
refugees living in the United States since 1990 has shocked immigration lawyers.

"I think they were off their rockers when they did this," said Patrick Young,
legal director for the Central American Refugee Center in Hempstead, which is
just three blocks from El Salvador's new office. "The last place I'm going to
send an asylum applicant is to the country that they're fleeing from. It's
absolutely outrageous."

Mr. Young and other officials from the center said it appeared that the
Government's office has not been attracting many clients. One employee in the
office said that most visitors were curious and asking questions but that few
were filling out asylum applications.

The planning for the counseling service began last year with a demand from
President Sol to "do something" for Salvadoran immigrants, said El Salvador's
Ambassador to the United States, Ana Cristina Sol, a distant relative of the
President.

She said the President's directive came as anxiety was building among Salvadoran
immigrants in California over a successful state initiative limiting services to
illegal immigrants. In the meantime, she said, the Salvadoran Embassy in
Washington was fielding calls from Salvadorans who complained about the
difficulties of applying for asylum.

In January, she said, the embassy started offering immigration counseling.
Later, it won permission from the United States Government to expand outside the
consulates.

"We're helping them to stay where they want," the Ambassador said, adding that
all Salvadorans were still welcome to return to their homeland. "The problem is
that there is not enough work to give these people. That's the main problem. If
they go to El Salvador they will not be part of the economy."

After 12 years of a civil war that ended in 1992, the Salvadoran immigrants to
the United States have settled largely in metropolitan Los Angeles, Houston and
Washington and on Long Island. Many fled the small country's conflict between
guerrillas and the Government.

Of the more than one million immigrants, about 190,000 are eligible to apply for
asylum under a temporary Federal program, which has a Jan. 31 deadline. Those
who settled in the United States before 1990 are eligible to apply for asylum.

Many of these immigrants subsidize their families in El Salvador with checks
averaging about $150 a month. Their relatives use the money for basic expenses
like rent, school tuition or medical care. Others have invested the money,
expanding small businesses like bodegas or bakeries.

Some studies show that such support makes up as much as 30 percent of family
income in El Salvador, said Roxana Ulloa, a Georgetown University graduate
student whose master's thesis studied a small town in eastern El Salvador that
depended on cash sent through money courier offices.

"This money is the Salvadoran version of the welfare check," said Oscar Chacon,
of Centro Presente, nonprofit group in Cambridge, Mass., that offers asylum
counseling. "Salvadorans in the U.S. are of tremendous strategic importance to
El Salvador. For every Salvadoran in the United States, there is probably a
family in El Salvador getting money. This definitely works as a pressure valve
that releases the steam."

It is these immigrants that El Salvador's Government is trying to reach with
appeals in Spanish newspapers in New York and Los Angeles and advertisements
promoting, "informacion gratis."

The windows of the Government's cramped office in Hempstead are painted with
brightly colored appeals to Salvadorans to take advantage of free immigration
advice. Somehow, immigrants find the office even though it lacks an official
sign and bears the name of a previous tenant, Corfinge, a money courier service.

Last week, Nelson Castillo, 26, a refugee who has already applied for political
asylum in the United States, entered the storefront, formally known as the
Office of Legal Assistance for Salvadorans, out of curiosity. As he gazed at a
portrait of El Salvador's President and a poster of the country's national hymn,
he said his memories of death threats and jail were revived.

"It's not really over," said Mr. Castillo, a Hempstead resident and catering
worker. "You have flashbacks that come back to you when you enter any Government
agency from your country. They did a lot of things that were not good, killing
people without reason."

El Salvador's Ambassador insists that refugees have nothing to fear. She said
that the guerrillas have disbanded and that most of the refugees seeking asylum
fled the country because of a situation that existed up to 15 years ago. "So
there is no conflict with the Government," Ms. Sol said, and "they have realized
that we have no political intention behind all this."

As part of the immigration process, political refugees must fill out one
immigration form detailing examples of persecution or their reasons for fearing
repression.

Ms. Sol said the Government's legal offices would not complete this form
"because we're not qualified to do that." Instead, the Salvadoran Embassy refers
refugees to a Washington-based lawyer hired by the Government who consults by
phone, fills out the form and mails back the entire asylum application to the
local Salvadoran office. Immigrants then sign the documents with a Government
employee as a witness.

"It may be that the Salvadoran Government does not understand the ironies of
what they're doing," said Lucas Guttentag, a lawyer with the American Civil
Liberties Union who filed a successful lawsuit seeking protected refugee status
for Salvadorans. "As a general rule, it is not appropriate for a government to
be involved in representing or advising or getting information from persons who
are fleeing that very government."

Many immigrant groups are already offering political asylum counseling services,
charging about $250 to prepare an asylum application, and embassy officials said
they would also refer refugees to those agencies.

Ms. Sol said El Salvador decided to offer its own immigration counseling because
"a lot of agencies closed their doors because they were having a swarm of people
seeking services."

But even with an application deadline looming, most immigrant organizations that
have historically served Salvadoran refugees contend that they have not been
besieged. In New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts and California, agencies are
actually experiencing a lull in application requests.

In Hempstead, where the local refugee center and El Salvador's new office are a
short walk apart, Mr. Young of the center said requests for political asylum
applications have dropped. The agency, he said, has prepared more than 4,000
such applications, drawing from a growing Salvadoran community that local groups
estimate at about 100,000.

Mr. Young said he was concerned that the Government's efforts, however well
meaning, could damage a refugee's chance of obtaining political asylum. He
advises refugees to say away from the Salvadoran consulates and the new
immigration offices.

"It could potentially compromise their case" with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he said. "How could someone apply at the consulate,
claiming persecution from the country they're fleeing from?"

"I think they're out of their mind," he added. "Go to a private lawyer or
nonprofit agency. Do not go to the Salvadoran consulate. People are absolutely
loony to do this."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Moishes Andrade, left, and Jorge Carillo receive immigration
information from Blanca Sandoval at El Salvador's office in Hempstead, L.I.
(Steve Berman for The New York Times)(pg. B4)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 28, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Brazilian Immigrants Shame the Scapegoaters

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 20;   Column 5;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 186 words


To the Editor:

Your Oct. 21 news article about immigrants from Governador Valadares, Brazil,
working at New York's Catskills resorts resonated deeply with me. My wife and I
were married in Governador Valadares, her hometown, on June 10.

The people I met in Valadares echoed the people in your story: hard working and
proud of their clean, tree-filled city. I have watched many immigrants from
Valadares attending church in the United States, their hands rough from the
labor they stopped only long enough to go to church.

My experience tells me that their thoughts are focused primarily on their work,
their families and their religion, not on finding ways to obtain government
benefits, legally or otherwise. As your article demonstrates, they are doing
work in the Catskills that most United States citizens are not clamoring to do.

They are churchgoing, family-oriented, community-focused, hard-working people.
It is amazing to me that politicians, and Republicans in particular, are trying
to scapegoat immigrants instead of trying to learn from them!

RANDY PAUL
Astoria, Queens, Oct. 23, 1995

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 29, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE;
Czech Center Renews Unity And a Facade

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section 13;   Page 8;   Column 1;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 421 words


When proud immigrants built the Bohemian National Hall in 1896, no one foresaw
the tumultuous century that would follow in their homeland overseas, and in the
hall's internal affairs. The building became a magnet for Czech nationalists
from Bohemia, a medieval kingdom that fell under Hapsburg rule. In the aftermath
of World War I, the Czechs won independence, but Nazi Germany dismembered
Czechoslovakia, which later fell to the Communists.  Democracy was restored in
1989, and in 1992, the nation split into the Czech Republic and Slovakia.

The hall, at 321 E. 73d Street, outlasted all that -- surviving, barely, its own
misfortunes, feuds and scandals. "We almost lost it," said Jan Hird Pokorny, the
president of the Bohemian Benevolent and Literary Association, which owns the
hall.

Now the landmarked five-floor facade is being restored. Supporters have raised
$99,000 of the $5 million needed to renovate the interior, including a
100-foot-long, two-story ballroom. They envision an ethnic restaurant, social
and cultural events, a display on the great Czech composer Antonin Dvorak (who
performed to raise money for the original hall) and businesses.

"In the 80's things looked pretty bleak," said Peter Kutil, a co-chairman of the
fund-raising effort. "The underlying problem was the center was for a community
that was no longer there. We're trying very hard to bring back not only the
building but activity in the Czechoslovak-American community, tied in overseas."

Thousands of Czechs migrated to the Lower East Side in the late 1800's, then
moved to work in Yorkville's cigar factories. Their hall, expanded by an annex
and an adjoining movie theater, drew sports, educational, cultural and social
groups. But then the Czechs dispersed, to Astoria and the suburbs. Ethnic ties
weakened with assimilation and conflicting views of later immigrants. The hall
spiraled into decline. In the 1980's, its movie theater was sold and demolished.
Some association leaders tried to sell the main hall, but others protested,
prompting years of litigation . "That's all in the past," said Mr. Pokorny.
Though the association has fallen to 15 member groups from 95, he says it has a
new spirit of unity and optimism.

There are still critics. John Krondl, the publisher of Czechoslovak News, said
it was "unforgivable" that the association took a year and a half to prepare its
first fund-raising letter, mailed a few days ago. Mr. Kutil said it needed the
time to perfect its appeal.
   BRUCE LAMBERT

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jan Hird Pokorny says feuds are over at the old Bohemian hall.
(Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 29, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS;
Landmarks Proposal Intensifies Debate Over Store Facades

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section 13;   Page 10;   Column 3;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 393 words


A proposal by the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission to set esthetic
guidelines for storefronts in a landmarked district has intensified a debate in
Jackson Heights between residents who say they want to preserve the district's
beauty and immigrant store owners who say it is a racist attempt to drive them
out of business.

Under pressure from a neighborhood group and elected local politicians, the
commission has proposed guidelines that would restrict the color of store
facades to "black, brown (not bronze), dark gray, tan, dark green and dark red."
The proposal would also eliminate signs that hang out over the sidewalk and
require awnings to be straight-sloped, retractable and made of fabric.

Action Jackson, a neighborhood group that represents eight cooperative apartment
buildings in the area, last month named several stores on and around 37th Avenue
that it says are esthetically out of character with the landmarked strip.

But some shopkeepers dismissed the group's action as a thinly veiled attempt to
force them out of the neighborhood. In the last decade, Indian, Pakistani,
Korean and Hispanic immigrant merchants have established businesses on Roosevelt
Avenue and 37th Avenue, often with large signs in their native languages.

"This is purely motivated by prejudice," said John Muqbel, owner of the Amelia
Furniture store on 37th Avenue, which was cited by Action Jackson for its
10-foot-high, 12-foot-wide pink awning. "They have no right to impose this on
me. I don't live in their house."

Supporters of the proposed guidelines denied any racist intent and said the
stores were singled out merely because of their flashy signs. Mary Sarro,
district manager of Community Board 3, called the signs "absolutely atrocious."

"It's very important that it be done," she said of the proposal.

Maureen Sugden, president of the Saybrook co-op and a member of Action Jackson,
agreed. "We're in support of what the Landmarks Commission is trying to do," she
said.

Vicki Match Suna, who represents Queens on the Landmarks Preservation Commision,
disputed the store owners' claims that taking down their flashy awnings would
hurt business. "These rules should not make it any more difficult or expensive
for shop owners but will lend a degree of continuity throughout commercial
district," she said.
   JANE H. LII

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 1, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Salvadoran Refugees Get Help Amid Ironies

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 203 words


To the Editor:

As a member of an organization that has adopted a poor, rural community in a
war-torn department in El Salvador, I was pleased to see "Salvador Helps Own
Refugees Filing for Asylum in U.S." (front page, Oct. 27), on Salvadorans who
sought refuge in the United States from the 12-year civil war in their country.

However, why are the Salvadorans applying for political asylum at this late
date, years after they fled persecution by their Government? The United States
could not give political asylum to Salvadorans during the decade "of killing and
torture" without admitting its complicity. The Salvadorans were given only
temporary legal status so that the United States would not have to expose the
regime it supported as a sponsor of death squads, massacres, assassination,
torture and disappearances. President Clinton has chosen not to renew this
temporary status in the wake of anti-immigrant sentiment.

The irony is even richer. The repressive Salvadoran Government proposes to aid
Salvadoran political refugees in applying for asylum in a country that supported
with billions of dollars their repression by that Government.

PATRICIA ARVIDSON
Morristown, N.J., Oct. 27, 1995

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 5, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

California Immigrants Make Fast Economic Gains, Study Finds

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 40;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4


Against the backdrop of California's immigration debate, a study released on
Friday shows that many foreign-born residents in the southern part of the state
are rapidly acclimating to life here. They are generally learning English and
escaping poverty at a quick pace, according to the report.

In the study, which tracked members of various ethnic groups over time, some of
the most dramatic results were seen among Hispanic immigrants who were between 5
and 14 years old when they arrived in Southern California in the 1970's.
Although only one-third of them could speak English proficiently in 1980, nearly
70 percent could do so 10 years later in 1990.

The study also found that the poverty rate of male Asian immigrants between 25
and 34 years old in the 1970's declined significantly. Whereas 16.8 percent had
incomes below the poverty level in 1980, only 5.6 percent of the same people had
below-poverty incomes in 1990.

"The poor immigrants you see today won't be like that for long," said the author
of the report, Dowell Myers, a demography professor at the University of
Southern California. "Everybody is moving up at different speeds, but faster
than many thought."

The nonpartisan study, paid for by a private foundation, comes at a time when
many Californians are calling for stricter immigration laws and measures that
would require the use of English in state business. Of Southern California's
nearly 17 million residents, about 4.4 million are foreign born.

Mr. Myers culled census data from about 850,000 Southern California residents.
He shows a common thread of increasing economic prosperity among immigrants over
time, at rates that vary with age, sex and ethnicity.

For example, the average incomes of male European and Middle Eastern immigrants
age 25 to 34 grew to $47,700 in 1990 from $23,200 in 1980.  During the same
period, the income of immigrant Asian men in the same age category doubled to
$39,900 from $19,800. However, the earnings of Hispanic men rose only modestly
in this 10-year span, to $18,900 from $14,900.

"There is evidence that Latino-Americans are capturing some of the American
dream," said Abel Valenzuela, a professor of urban planning and Chicano studies
at the University of California at Los Angeles.  "But the debate is whether they
are rising fast enough."

Nearly half of adult Hispanic immigrants have less than a ninth-grade education
when they arrive, Mr. Myers said. The study found that many were not likely to
be promoted at their jobs, and were less likely to learn English. In contrast,
those who come to the United States at a young age go to school, generally learn
English and have a lower poverty rate.

Only 21 percent of Hispanic men who moved to Southern California between the
ages of 25 and 34 became proficient in English after 10 years. By comparison, 53
percent of Asian women and almost 80 percent of European and Middle Eastern men
in the same age range learned English.

The rates of those obtaining citizenship after 10 years also varies: 67 percent
for Asian men, 51 percent for European and Middle Eastern men and 21 percent of
Hispanic men. Mr. Myers said that Mexicans and Canadians had a low rate of
naturalization because of their proximity to their native countries.

Immigrants out-paced native-born residents in the percentage of those who were
self-employed. Mr. Myers called this a "positive" indicator of the region's
economic future.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 7, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Mix and Match, Live and Learn;
School Embraces a Dizzying Blend of Students and Tongues

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1422 words


Orlian Alvarez's face fell when he saw the grade in red marker on his social
studies exam: 8 of a possible 100 points.

On the big map of Latin America, he had confused the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans
and was unable to explain that the cities of Manaus, Brazil, and Iquitos, Peru,
were on harbors.

"It's because we were in another class," Orlian, a 15-year-old Cuban immigrant,
whispered in Spanish to Diana Gualotuna, who sat in front of him and also got an
8. "And we have trouble with the English."

Orlian, a student at the Newcomer School, New York City's new high school for
immigrants in Long Island City, Queens, had spent the first few weeks of the
school year in a social studies class studying Europe. Then, to better match his
grade level, he was moved into a class about Latin America.

It was one of the many shuffles that have marked the first months of the
Newcomer School. At the end of its first quarter, the school is still very much
in flux as it tries to accommodate soaring numbers of students from widely
divergent educational and cultural backgrounds.

The first of its kind in New York City and one of only a few such schools in the
country, the Newcomer School is designed so that its immigrant students can
transfer to regular high schools after a year while others can stay and
graduate. Each day's schedule consists of one or two hours of English
instruction, with classes in math, social studies, biology and one of seven
native languages.

New students have been arriving daily at the Newcomer School, sending its
population to about 358 from 80 the first week. Classes are reconfigured
regularly to fit students' needs. Orlian was also moved recently from a math
class taught in English to one taught in Spanish because teachers realized his
language difficulties were impeding his progress.

"This class is not stable: it's still in progress," said Orlian's social-studies
teacher, Won Sook Lee, who transferred seven of her Chinese students into a
European history class because she thought they would do better with that
class's Chinese teacher. "We have new students coming in every day."

Down the hall in Room 202, Danna Zhang, a Chinese student, carefully echoed her
biology teacher: "There are 7,000 white blood cells in a cubic millimeter of
blood." Danna, 15, who hopes to become a doctor, struggled to understand the
words.

The teacher, Karen Ricciardi, said: ."It's very difficult. There is a Chinese
biology class, and I've been trying to get Danna and another Chinese student
into that class."

While the school's 27 teachers speak a total of 19 foreign languages and
dialects, and the students speak 25, subjects like math, biology and history are
for now taught in only two or three languages. That is not much different from
bilingual programs in regular city high schools, and a significantly narrower
range than the Newcomer School hopes to offer. Many courses are in English
because there are not enough students speaking the same language and at the same
grade level to form a class. Only in the last few days has the school been able
to enter students' schedules into a computer, to make mixing and matching
easier.

Still, teachers who have worked with foreign students in regular public schools
said that the Newcomer School, even in its formative stages, seems better,
especially because it is quick to respond to the difficulties its immigrant
students face.

Hallways and classrooms of the old building pulse with eager electricity, and
the principal, Lourdes Burrows, is confident the bumps will be smoothed out.

"We have no choice but to be flexible," Ms. Burrows said. "Students come in at
different levels, and the testing doesn't always tell you the best place to put
them. We are still experimenting."

Experts on school start-ups say it can take as long as three years for a school
to iron out most of the wrinkles.

"The first year is hard," said Heather Lewis, co-executive director of the
Center for Collaborative Education, a coalition of 38 experimental New York City
public schools. "It's an exciting year, but the public has to understand that
you can't start these schools without some messiness involved. And the Newcomer
School is starting in the worst year in terms of budget cuts."

Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew, who started his job after the Newcomer School
began, considers it "an extremely innovative approach to meeting the needs of
recent immigrant students," said a spokesman, Josh Plaut. "He is intent on
giving the school, which is still in its infancy, the time that it needs to
develop and hopefully to flourish."

With immigrants making up about a third of the students who enter the school
system each year, Ms. Burrows is expecting up to 350 more students by the end of
the semester, enough to create more classes taught in students' native
languages. As the school grows, Ms. Burrows will ask for more teachers from the
money-strapped Board of Education, which has so far spent about $400,000 for
only the most basic of resources for the school. A counseling center for
parents, for instance, still lacks the money to open.

Miguel Pineda, a math teacher who taught Spanish-speaking students for five
years in Far Rockaway High School in Queens, said that although students in the
Newcomer School do not have English-speaking classmates, they seem to be
learning English faster than his students in Far Rockaway did.

"There, the Spanish-speaking kids were afraid of the English-speaking majority,"
Mr. Pineda said. "They saw English used as a tool to humiliate them, to keep
them isolated. When everybody's in the same situation, you're not afraid that a
person will laugh at you or beat you up."

Many students are given ad-hoc help from teachers who speak their languages. Eun
Kyung Kim, a 15-year-old Korean immigrant, can ask Ms. Lee, the social studies
teacher, to explain English words she does not understand.

There are, so far, none of the problems with drugs, weapons or pregnancy that
riddle other city schools. But the new immigrants have other strains.

A brother and sister from Ecuador, in this country illegally, asked Mr. Pineda
if the school could get them visas, something it is not allowed to do.

A scuffle broke out last week when a Hispanic student unwittingly insulted a
Korean student by calling him Chinese.

Last Thursday, parent-teacher night, Roland Horvath, a 15-year-old Hungarian
student, slumped next to his mother as Susan Rui, the teacher in charge of
attendance, reported that Roland had been skipping day after day of school.

"I think he feels he cannot develop what he learned in Hungary because he does
not have the language," Mrs. Rui told Roland's mother. "But you have to make
sure he comes to school."

All day, students stream in and out of the office of the guidance counselor,
Altagracia Taudel. All have been in this country less than a year.

"There's probably a higher incidence of adjustment problems than in regular New
York City high schools," Mrs. Taudel said. "There is homesickness, the
difference in climate, the difference in foods, the subway system, the fact that
they don't go home for lunch."

Orlian, whose family came to New York in July as political refugees, is used to
life in a rural village where rice was rationed, soap was hard to come by and a
boy could expect to grow up to become a farmer. His father, a mechanic, has had
trouble finding permanent work. His mother misses her parents terribly and said
she had found the move "very emotional and traumatic."

Danna, who immigrated to Woodside, Queens, six months ago, is trying to get to
know her father again. She had hardly seen him since he defected to the United
States in 1989, after the Tiananmen Square democracy demonstrations.

"He seems a lot older than before," said Danna, smiling shyly. On Danna's first
report card, handed out last Thursday, she was graded "excellent" in math,
Chinese and English as a second language. But her biology grade was low, with
the comment, "Has difficulty understanding."

Last week, her biology teacher, Ms. Ricciardi, switched half the students in one
class with half in another, putting those with a better grasp of English
together and moving those like Danna to a lower level. Danna was still having
trouble, though.

"I ask them to bring dictionaries," Ms. Ricciardi said. "I try to use simplified
materials and a lot of pictures and diagrams. And I ask kids who know a little
bit of English to help the other ones out. It forces you to be creative."


LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: New Country, New School: Start-up pains

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Newcomer School, a new high school for immigrants in Long
Island City, Queens, is struggling to accommodate a blur of languages and
nationalities. Girls from India and Bangladesh lined up for lunch in the
cafeteria last week. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); Eun Kyung Kim, left, a
Korean immigrant, and Mahbub Morshed, from India, are classmates in Won Sook
Lee's ninth-grade social-studies class. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
(pg. B1); Signs in the cafeteria of the Newcomer School, a Queens-based school
for immigrant children, reflect its multilingual, multicultural focus. (Librado
Romero/The New York Times); At the end of its first quarter, the Newcomer School
is still in flux as it tries to accommodate soaring numbers of students from
widely divergent educational and cultural backgrounds. Danna Zhang, a Chinese
student with an interest in biology, struggled to understand English. (Chester
Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. B3)

Table: "A CLOSER LOOK: Teaching in Many Tongues"

The Newcomer Schol in Queens was started this fall to teach new immigrants in
their native languages, as well as in English. Table lists languages teachers
speak, classes offered in native languages, and number of students by native
languages. (Source: The Newcomer School) (pg. B3)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 9, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Court Panel Says Foreigners Share Rights of Free Speech

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 8


In a case fraught with implications for international relations as well as
constitutional law, a three-judge Federal panel ruled today that foreigners in
this country have the same right to free speech as American citizens.

Civil liberties lawyers called the ruling perhaps the most significant challenge
to date of the 43-year-old McCarran-Walter Immigration Act, which was nurtured
by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and passed at a time of great public concern over
communism. Over the years the law has been used to bar several prominent Marxist
authors and intellectual dissidents from visiting the United States.

"It's a landmark decision," Mark Rosenbaum, legal director of the Los Angeles
office of the American Civil Liberties Union, said of today's ruling by the
panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San
Francisco. "It means that when the Constitution talks about rights for all
people, it means what it says. There's not a visa check on the First Amendment."

David Cole, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center and a lawyer with
the Center for Constitutional Rights, who argued the case on appeal, said: "This
is a great day for all immigrants in this country. The court's decision means
that immigrants can speak and associate as freely as citizens and that they need
not fear deportation for their political views."

A spokesman for the Justice Department said tonight that the department had not
yet been notified of the court's decision and could not comment on it.

Today's ruling arose from the case of seven Palestinians and a Kenyan who were
arrested at gunpoint in 1987 in Southern California and ordered deported by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The defendants, who became known as the
L.A. 8, were originally charged with subversion under a section of the
McCarran-Walter act that prohibits foreigners in the United States from
promoting world communism.

The immigration service based its decision on the grounds that the eight
supported the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a Marxist faction
of the Palestine Liberation Organization that has claimed responsibility for
airline hijackings in the 1970's. All eight are avowed Palestinian nationalists
but deny being members of the Popular Front.

Most of the eight were admitted to the United States on student visas. After
their arrest, they were taken into custody by the immigration service and held
in maximum security for nearly three weeks.

Civil liberties groups protested the arrests and said the Reagan Administration
was using the guise of national security and employing the McCarthy-era law to
deport people with no personal history of violent acts. Among the organizations
defending the eight immigrants' right to free speech were the civil liberties
union and the American Jewish Committee.

In its original complaint, the Government argued that each defendant belonged to
"an organization that causes to be written, circulated, distributed, published
or displayed, written or printed matter advocating or teaching economic,
international and governmental doctrines of world Communism."

The defendants argued that they were being selectively prosecuted. In court
documents, they noted, that the Government did not seek to deport other
similarly situated aliens aligned with organizations that the United States
supported.

The ruling today rejected in the broadest terms the immigration services'
efforts to deport the eight, saying "because we are a nation founded by
immigrants," the First Amendment free speech provisions are "especially relevant
to our attitude toward current immigrants who are a part of our community."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 10, 1995

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about an appeals court ruling on the free speech rights of
foreigners in this country included a Jewish organization incorrectly among
defenders of the rights of eight immigrants who were ordered deported because of
their support for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. A detailed
account of the immigrants' case was published in 1987 in Present Tense magazine,
formerly published by the American Jewish Committee; the committee did not come
to the defense of the eight.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 10, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;   Page 2;   Column 5;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 85 words


An article yesterday about an appeals court ruling on the free speech rights of
foreigners in this country included a Jewish organization incorrectly among
defenders of the rights of eight immigrants who were ordered deported because of
their support for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. A detailed
account of the immigrants' case was published in 1987 in Present Tense magazine,
formerly published by the American Jewish Committee; the committee did not come
to the defense of the eight.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 10, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Death Penalty Weighed in Dragons Case

SECTION: Section B;   Page 4;   Column 3;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 104 words


Federal prosecutors said yesterday that they were considering seeking the death
penalty for at least three of the five men charged with kidnapping and murder
conspiracy in the killing of a Chinese immigrant woman in Brooklyn in September.

The three men, described by the authorities as members of the Fujianese Flying
Dragons, pleaded not guilty yesterday at their arraignment in Federal District
Court.

Valerie Caproni, chief of criminal division of the United States Attorney's
office in Brooklyn, told Judge Edward R. Korman that it would be "prudent" to
appoint a death-penalty lawyer to each of the three.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 14, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Complaint Against Newcomer School

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section B;   Page 4;   Column 4;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 850 words


A civil rights advocate filed a complaint with the United States Department of
Education yesterday, charging that New York City's new high school for
immigrants violates the civil rights of its students by segregating them from
mainstream public schools.

Both advocates for immigrants and education officials called the claim
groundless, saying that the school was designed to do just the opposite: to help
immigrants who do not speak English become integrated into society faster
through a program that caters to their needs.

The complaint was filed by Michael Meyers, executive director of the New York
Civil Rights Coalition, against the Newcomer School: Academy for New Americans,
which opened in September in Long Island City, Queens. No parents or students
joined in the complaint.

The high school, the first of its kind in the state, gives new immigrants
instruction in English and in their native languages. It also provides
counseling and other services to help the students and their families adjust to
life in a new country. After a year at the school, students can transfer into
regular high schools or they can elect to stay longer and graduate there. The
majority of the students are Hispanic.

In his complaint, Mr. Meyers called the idea of the school "educational
apartheid." He stated: "Physical isolation of new immigrants from, and the lack
of social contact with, the larger, predominantly native-born student population
of the New York City school system is likely to instill in the students at the
Newcomer School feelings of inferiority as to their status in the community at
large."

He said the separation would "delay, if not prevent altogether, their
mainstreaming with the native-born population."

But immigrant advocates and school officials defended the Newcomer School, which
has about 350 students and is still crafting its curriculum as it enrolls more
students every day.

"It's like saying you have to be handicapped to use a handicapped bathroom,"
said Muzaffar Chishti, director of the immigration project of the Union of
Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. "This school is actually
intended to reduce the possibility of being an inferior student."

Josh Plaut, a spokesman for the Board of Education, stressed that the school,
which accepts students who speak little English and who have been in the United
States for less than a year, was a "voluntary program" that is "specifically
designed to help them become acclimated and equipped for the city's public high
schools."

Mr. Plaut said: "We've been extremely vigilant about insuring that the rights of
students are fully protected."

Mr. Meyers, who has called himself a "militant integrationist" and who voiced
similar objections in May when the Board of Education approved the school, has
filed discrimination complaints against other schools in the past.

The Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights found no grounds for one of
his complaints, filed in May 1993 against a Brooklyn school, the Middle College
High School at Medgar Evers College in Crown Heights, that intended to emphasize
black culture and history. That school, which opened in the fall of 1993, was
originally called the Ujamaa Institute and intended to attract black teen-agers,
but the school later changed its name and some of the curriculum, and the board
declared the school "open to students of all ethnic and racial backgrounds."

A second complaint, against the Leadership Secondary School in Manhattan, which
emphasizes Hispanic culture and bilingual learning, is being investigated by the
Office of Civil Rights, a spokesman said.

In June, the New York State Department of Education rejected another claim by
Mr. Meyers that Cornell University violated state laws by setting up dormitories
geared to the cultures of black, Hispanic and American Indian students.

Mr. Meyer's coalition, founded in 1986 in response to the Howard Beach murder of
Michael Griffith, has changed from its initial membership of 30 groups to an
organization run mostly by volunteers, Mr. Meyers said. The organization's goal,
he said, is to "advance integration and oppose segregation."

Norman Siegel, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said he
had considered joining Mr. Meyer's complaint against the Newcomer School, but
decided instead to write a letter to the schools chancellor and "get more
facts." Mr. Siegel said he wanted to know about other options the school system
had considered for immigrant students and whether the school planned to keep
students there for the shortest possible time.

One immigrant advocate, Margie McHugh, executive director of The New York
Immigration Coalition, said she understood the "discomfort" of some civil rights
activists "given the checkered history at attempts at separate but equal
education." But, she added, "We segregate people all the time in the interest of
providing better services, and, at least as of right now, there appears to be no
reason to think that the Newcomer School isn't an attempt to do the same thing."



LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 15, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Buenos Aires Journal;
Don't Cry, This Land Is Rich in Kims and Lees

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 4;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES


Thirty years ago, the future seemed bleak for Sang Hyun Kim, a poor farm boy
from South Korea, so he packed his bags and headed for Argentina, in search of
the great American dream.

Today, it seems that Mr. Kim, who once worked on an Argentine peanut farm, has
found that dream. Now 52 and an insurance entrepreneur, he is one of 35,000
South Korean immigrants who make up a prosperous and closely knit population
here that is often the envy of other Argentines.

Since arriving in 1965, Mr. Kim, who speaks Spanish like a native, has brought
nine of his siblings from Korea to Argentina, and all of them now own thriving
businesses.

"In Korea, there were too many people and too few economic opportunities," Mr.
Kim said. "When I arrived in Argentina, I thought it was a paradise, like virgin
territory ripe for the harvesting if you were willing to work hard. And Koreans
work very, very hard."

Indeed, the success of South Koreans in Argentina is particularly evident in the
garment districts of Once and Flores here, where textile and retail businesses
displaying Korean signs are quickly overshadowing establishments started decades
ago by Jewish and Armenian immigrants.

The South Koreans operate more than 1,000 businesses in Argentina, including
textile factories, electronics stores, pharmacies, real estate agencies,
newspapers and a cable television channel, according to statistics provided by
the South Korean Embassy. There are also 300 Korean cultural, athletic and
business associations and 30 Protestant churches with predominantly Korean
congregations.

Several shop owners in the largely Jewish garment district, speaking on
condition of anonymity, complained that the South Koreans were "taking over the
neighborhood."

The shop owners accused the South Koreans of selling merchandise at unfairly low
prices because they reduced their costs by working 12 to 14 hours a day and
hiring cheap labor from Bolivia.

Sociologists here say South Koreans represent the latest wave of skilled
immigrants to come to Argentina since the huge influx of immigrants from Europe
at the turn of the century.

To ease overcrowding in South Korea in the early 1960's, its Government sent
missions to South America to forge immigration policies for its citizens. To
persuade countries to accept South Koreans, the Government allowed its citizens
to take as much as $40,000 with them to South America. The first to immigrate to
South America went to Brazil in 1961. Argentina, Paraguay and Chile received the
next wave four years later.

Many South Koreans chose to go to Argentina because there were fewer other
Asians there, and thus what they saw as greater entrepreneurial opportunities.

From 1965 to 1985, about 6,000 South Koreans came to Argentina, and by 1985 the
number had swelled to 50,000. But in the late 1980's the number of South Koreans
in Argentina declined as many left for North America during the hard economic
times caused by hyperinflation.

The sociologists attribute the success of the South Koreans to their
entrepreneurship, access to shared credit and employment of family and cheap
labor from neighboring countries.

"It is a community on the rise, both socially and economically," said Jorge
Balan, a sociologist for the Center for Studies of State and Society, a think
tank.

"Their great community cohesion and large families make them thrive in an
informal economy. They contribute to the notion that we are still a place where
immigrants want to come."

Still, settling in Argentina, where 90 percent of the population is of European
stock, has not come easy for some South Koreans, who complain that they have
encountered discrimination, which they say is partly owing to their race and
partly to their good fortune here.

"There is discrimination because I am Korean, because I have an Oriental face,"
said Gunbae Kim, who came to Argentina three years ago and now imports
mannequins from Korea.

He said, for example, that a Korean driver might be stopped more often than a
native Argentine would be by a policemen looking for a bribe, even if the driver
had not committed a traffic violation.

Adrianna Kim, 24, who runs a wholesale garment shop, said that after 10 years
here, she feels basically at home.

"There is not so much discrimination in the streets, but there is always
somebody who doesn't treat you well," she said. "At times, I did feel
discrimination when I was at school."

Mr. Balan, the sociologist, said he believed that Koreans are experiencing the
same amount of discrimination that other recent immigrants have felt in
Argentina and in other countries.

"People don't throw tomatoes at them, but Koreans receive the same animosity and
prejudices that the Jews had to go through," he said.

Perhaps some of that animosity toward Koreans stems from the current downturn in
Argentina's economy and record level of unemployment.

"It's nice to have people from abroad but let Argentines get jobs first," said
Victor Angel Orona, a taxi driver.

The image of South Koreans was hurt badly two years ago when local newspapers
published a series of reports accusing several South Korean garment factories of
operating sweat shops in which undocumented Bolivians were forced to work like
"slaves."

Nico Kim, a 25-year-old student, who owns a film developing shop in the upscale
Northside, said Argentines seem to see the Koreans as a monolith.

"Like in every race, there are good and bad Koreans," he said. "As people
generally despise what they do not know, when some Koreans do something bad,
there is a tendency to think that all Koreans are the same."

Now that the South Korean population has attained economic success in Argentina,
its leaders say they are starting to focus their efforts on increasing education
and political power.

Key Sung Cho, South Korean Ambassador to Argentina, said a major goal of South
Koreans here is to send the second and third generations to college and
eventually run a few candidates for public office.

Tony Kuo, who came to Argentina 22 years ago and owns a retailing shop, said
that while his ethnic heritage is important to him and that he sends his
children to a Korean school on the weekends, he is proud to be an Argentine
citizen.

"When I returned to Korea in 1992, I missed Argentina," Mr. Kuo said. "The only
reason I would leave Argentina is if I lose my business."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among the many successful Koreans in Argentina is Gunbae Kim,
who operates a mannequin business. But the life is not perfect. "There is
discrimination because I am Korean, because I have an Oriental face," he said.
Horacio Paone for The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 19, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Three Are Charged in Substitute Driver Scam

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 46;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 404 words


In the village of Schoharie, N.Y. (population 1,045), the arrests of any three
people in one day would be big news. For those three to be Chinese residents of
Manhattan, arrested after traveling 130 miles to take driving tests, was
unprecedented.

The arrests Thursday in Schoharie, 30 miles west of Albany, were the latest
effort to crack down on what appears to be an organized scheme to get driver's
licenses for immigrants by having experienced drivers impersonate them for the
test, said George Filieau, a spokesman for the New York State Department of
Motor Vehicles.

Licenses are valuable as a form of identification that can help lead to jobs or
government assistance, he said. Counterfeit driver's licenses are commonly
bought and sold in New York, and last year a Yonkers employee of the Motor
Vehicles Department was arrested on charges of selling fraudulent driver's
licenses. But having a substitute take the test is a relatively new twist, Mr.
Filieau said.

Last summer, 10 people, including several Asian immigrants, were arrested in New
York City in a similar fraud, Mr. Filieau said. After those arrests were
publicized in Chinese-language newspapers in the city, the Motor Vehicles
Department realized that some city residents might travel to outlying towns to
obtain licenses and sent out an alert, he said.

Under the scheme followed last summer in the city and last week in Schoharie, a
holder of a legitimate learner's permit -- which bears a photo also used on a
license -- would make an appointment for a driving test. A more experienced
driver, with features similar to the applicant's, would show up to do the
driving, Mr. Filieau said.

When a Schoharie County employee noticed that three Chinese people from New York
City were scheduled to take tests in the village, the employee notified the
Motor Vehicles Department's investigative office, Mr. Filieau said.

With officers from the local sheriff's department, Motor Vehicles Department
investigators staked out the site of the driving test and made the arrests, he
said.

Two men, Yan Jing Luo, 32, and Guang Ming Guan, 33, were charged with several
felony counts, including forgery, the Schoharie County Sheriff's Department
said. Both were being held in a local jail yesterday on $7,500 bail each.

A 32-year-old woman, Lang Fen Huang, was charged with several misdemeanors and
released on bail, the Sheriff's Department said.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 22, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

New York's New School for Young Immigrants Doesn't Segregate

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 255 words


To the Editor:

By coincidence, I along with my Subcommittee on Immigration visited the Newcomer
School on the day a complaint was filed that mistakenly charged that the academy
segregated young immigrants (news article, Nov. 14). No compulsory segregation
forces teen-agers into this school. Admission is voluntary, restricted to
adolescents who have lived in the United States less than a year and have little
fluency in English.

Test scores do not mechanically dictate student class assignments. Tests and
personal observation are combined during three days of orientation. The result
is diversity, rather than segregation.

Youngsters from 25 countries attend a school that has the time, indeed the
mission, to help them learn how to live in New York City.

Many students come from rural areas, and are helped by instruction in traffic
rules, using subway maps or currency conversion. A student would be lucky to
find any instruction in these skills at a mainstream high school. The principal
of the school is an immigrant, and empathized easily with the needs of children
adjusting to a strange city.

Her school prevents students with language difficulties from becoming shy,
withdrawn and feeling inferior to the English-speaking majority. I found the
students understand that this school is easing their adjustment to city life.
Unlike segregation, this school will build student confidence and discourage
feelings of inadequacy.

LLOYD HENRY
Brooklyn, Nov. 14, 1995

City Council Member, 45th Dist.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 26, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Agrees To College Aid For Immigrants

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25


Republicans in Congress have abandoned a plan to deny Federal higher education
aid to lawful immigrants, but still want to limit access to the Head Start
program for the youngest legal aliens.

Republican welfare legislation would limit, and in some instances deny, the
right of aliens lawfully in this country to receive most kinds of Federal aid,
including food stamps, Medicaid and short-term child welfare.

But after protests from spokesmen for colleges and universities, who argued that
education was not welfare, a House-Senate conference committee decided last week
to drop the proposed ban on immigrants receiving Pell grants, which provide
scholarship aid to college students and Federal student loans. The conference
members did decide to require that immigrants have a citizen co-sign their
student loans, a regulation not imposed on students who are citizens.

President Clinton's aides have said he will veto the welfare bill because of
other aspects, particularly the reductions in spending for child nutrition and
aid to the disabled and the provisions for maintaining state spending that he
considers weak.

But the issue of education aid will not go away. The measure is also part of the
big budget reconciliation bill. Mr. Clinton has promised to negotiate with
Republican leaders, starting next week, over a long list of issues in that
measure. When they start talking, the Republicans' welfare bill, with its
language on education for legal immigrants, will be the starting point.

Colleges and universities in states with large numbers of immigrants, especially
California, Florida and New York, put pressure on the welfare conferees to drop
the limits that they feared would cost them students.

Representative Clay E. Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, took the leading role in
the House-Senate conference to eliminate the proposed ban on Pell grants for
legal immigrants. He said in a statement this week that he had done so because
education, "unlike welfare, is a part of the American dream." He said,
"Education is a fundamental tool for being successful, and everyone should have
equal access to it."

Jay Hershenson, vice chancellor for university relations at the City University
of New York, where about 40,000 immigrant students receive Pell grants, said
that "we were encouraged" by the change.

But the new requirement for co-signers on loans troubled him. "The bottom line
is, the torch of the Statue of Liberty is still shining," he said, "but it's
beginning to dim because these students will soon find a new barrier to access
that never existed before -- not as high as the other one, but certainly there."
He said 7,000 legal immigrants now received Federal loans.

There was little organized pressure over the issue of Head Start, the preschool
program. The Senate version of the bill had allowed legal immigrant children to
be eligible, while the House version had not. The conferees agreed that these
children could take part in Head Start, but that their access should be
restricted by counting not only their parents' income, but also the income of
whoever had sponsored them as immigrants in determining whether they were poor
enough to be eligible.

Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who has been the most
constant critic of the welfare legislation, said: "We are expected to be so
pleased that legal aliens are no longer to be denied what has always been their
right that we won't notice that the important entitlement of Head Start has been
taken away. The one consistent fact is that everything in this legislation hurts
children."

Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, who had failed to delete the higher
education provisions on the Senate floor, called the conference committee's
actions "progress."

But he said the differentiation between elementary and higher education showed
that "the level of policy analysis is paper-thin." He added, "The real purpose
is how to find a pool of money that can be cut off from current beneficiaries in
order to both balance the budget and finance a big tax break."

The new requirement for co-signers for legal immigrants who take Federal student
loans was criticized by David Finney, vice president for enrollment, services
and planning at New York University. He said, "There are certainly going to be
cases where students are not going to be able to get co-signers."

The bill requires immigrants to get whoever sponsored their entry into the
country to co-sign or guarantee their loans, or they may get any other American
citizen, regardless of creditworthiness, to co-sign.

Terry Hartle, chief lobbyist of the American Council on Education, said the
co-signing requirement could be a "bureaucratic nightmare" and might "have a
chilling effect on enrollment," especially at private colleges and universities
with higher fees.

But he said the Pell grant issue was more important because legal immigrants get
about 10 percent of all those grants and a much smaller percentage of student
loans. In general, he said, "Congress took the long-term view, and reason
prevailed on this particular issue."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Chinatown Alarms May Be Hoax to Get Quick Housing

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1487 words


In the last year, city officials have evacuated almost 200 people from
dungeonlike cellars in Chinatown. In poorly lighted hovels, they found adults
and children living stacked like cordwood in makeshift bunks, sharing hot plates
and dodging rats.

The televised pictures of some of the evacuations -- in which Chinese
immigrants, squinting from the television lights, emerge from darkness clutching
their possessions in plastic bags -- have provided striking images of sordid
living conditions in an underground immigrant existence.

But city housing officials now suspect that some of the emergencies were a hoax,
and that the horrific living conditions were bogus. They say that the immigrants
may not have actually been living where they were found. Rather, the officials
say, the immigrants may have paid people to settle them in the rooms and
basements long enough for an alarm to be pulled or a small fire to be set.

Once they were evacuated by the Fire Department from what looked to be their
illegal, unsafe homes, the immigrants, many from the Fujian Province on the
southern coast of China, jumped to the top of the city's long waiting list for
public housing, the officials said.

Harold M. Shultz, a deputy commissioner for the Department of Housing and
Preservation Development, said yesterday that suspicions were aroused by a
noticeable increase in the number of emergency evacuations from Chinatown, and
by the savvy way the immigrants reacted when the authorities arrived.

"We have seen people vacated from buildings who appeared to have expected the
vacate to occur," Mr. Shultz said. "Many of these people requested specific
placement at hotels and specific placement at Housing Authority projects. This
was extremely unusual. It was occurring on a regular basis."

An investigation is under way by the inspector general of the Housing Authority,
Mr. Shultz said. He added that not all those applying for emergency housing were
under suspicion.

People in Chinatown, including housing advocates, landlords and real estate
agents, said they too thought that a swindle has taken place. For example,
Debbie Leung, a longtime housing advocate in Chinatown who has served as a
translator during some evacuations, said this week that a few of those she
interviewed revealed the ruse.

"They don't live there," Ms. Leung said. "They were just paying for the space."

Mr. Shultz said that officials thought the pattern of hoaxes had ended in June,
when the Housing Authority began to bar illegal immigrants from public housing.
But he said their concerns were resurrected by two later incidents: the
evacuation of more than two dozen people from 47 Market Street in July, and the
evacuation two weeks ago of eight families and 23 single adults from a basement
at 58 Henry Street.

Over the years, Chinatown has been the destination for many illegal immigrants
from China, often smuggled into the country by ruthless gangs charging
exorbitant fees. Those immigrants often live in illegal, squalid conditions
until they earn enough to rent an apartment.  Substandard housing is a chronic
problem.

But city officials have been puzzled over the last year by the increasing number
of illegal dwellings that came to their attention through emergencies.
Evacuations were occurring monthly. Since 1994, for example, five buildings have
been vacated on Eldridge Street alone, earning the street the nickname of
Smuggler's Row.

The evacuation of 15 Eldridge Street early this year provides an example of what
such an emergency can mean to the tenants involved. On Jan. 30, firefighters
responded to a report of smoke coming from the building's basement. There, they
found 13 people living in a 7- by-20-foot cubicle that was zoned for commercial
use. Bunk beds had been constructed, and some people were gathered around a
propane stove.

The owner, Federico Cheaz, was issued a violation order for harboring conditions
that were "eminently perilous to life in case of fire." The 13 people were
referred to the housing department, which temporarily placed them in $16-a-night
hotel rooms, with the cost passed on to the landlord.

During the next few days, caseworkers and translators asked those evacuated if
they wanted public housing. The answer was almost always yes. So far, 5 of the
13 have received public housing, and 5 others have been certified and are at the
top of a waiting list, Carl Pelleck, a Housing Authority spokesman, said.  From
the nine evacuations in Chinatown this year, he said, 36 people or families have
been placed in public housing, and 113 have been certified and are on a waiting
list. The applications of another 35 families are pending, and one family was
rejected.

Mr. Pelleck said that the Housing Authority has a yearslong waiting list for
subsidized public housing units. As a result, he said, the agency has developed
a priority list in which the homeless -- including those who become homeless as
a result of an emergency -- are at the top.

"Homeless people are the top priority on public housing at this time," Mr.
Pelleck said.

The authority had 50 homeless families waiting for housing at the end of last
week.

Ms. Leung, who works for It's Time Inc., a tenant advocacy group, was
interpreter for some of the about 30 people who were evacuated from 51 Canal
Street in June. She said that several people told her that they actually lived
elsewhere, but that they were hoping to secure public housing.

"They heard there's no waiting list if you come through the shelter," Ms. Leung
said. "One, two, three. It happens, too."

Ms. Leung said she was outraged by the practice. She and other advocates also
expressed concern that the sporadic incidents may stigmatize other Chinese
immigrants who try to apply for housing. Most, they say, have no recourse but to
live in squalor, abused by landlords and harassed by smugglers who will resort
to violence to collect debts.

"I know some people paid a few hundred, maybe a thousand, to be in the basement
for a period," Rose Wong, another housing advocate in Chinatown, said Monday.
"But that's not a lot of people. They have to know the connections."

The apparent hoax has spurred other questions that so far have no answer. City
officials do not understand yet who has benefited from the fraud, whether it is
landlords, other tenants or professional smugglers.

"Someone here might be preying on individuals who need a place to live, and may
be putting them in dangerous situations for their own financial gain," Mr.
Shultz, the housing official, said. "We do not have any clues as to what level
of organization there might have been. But in a number of instances, it appeared
to have been organized."

Some in Chinatown said that people learned of the elaborate swindles only after
they had taken place. Dean Lui, a real estate agent representing the owners of
58 Henry Street, said yesterday that a man approached an owner this spring
asking to rent the basement to store dry goods. The two businessmen agreed on a
monthly rental of $700.

But the rent was never paid, in part because the landlords could not find the
man who signed the lease. It was not until a small fire at the building this
month, Mr. Lui said, that the owners learned that three dozen people were living
in the basement.

Mr. Lui said he knew that such scams were being perpetrated in Chinatown, but
maintained that the landlords had no prior knowledge of what was going on in the
basement -- even though one of them, David Chow, lives in the building.

There is yet another layer of nuance and meaning to the evacuations. It
underscores the escalating tension between the Cantonese, who have traditionally
ruled Chinatown, and the newer Fujianese immigrants.

The Cantonese, who see the growing Fujianese presence as a threat to their
authority, blame the Fujianese leaders for abetting the immigrants who are
seeking to jump to the head of the long line for public housing.

"The scam is very sophisticated," said one Cantonese community leader who
insisted on anonymity. "You have to know the laws to get through the loopholes.
The average Fujianese is not this sophisticated. Who is teaching them about
this? If they need public housing, they should wait in line like everybody
else."

But Fujianese community leaders deny any involvement. They say these incidents
show the desperation of immigrants who are under pressure to make enough money
so that they can provide for their families in China and pay smuggling fees that
can be as high as $30,000.

"No Fujianese organization would jeopardize the lives of their members this
way," said K.T. Yang, president of the United Fujian American Association. "This
problem reflects the failure of the American Government to provide for those
living in this country.

"Most of our villagers consider America heaven," Mr. Yang said. "And they're now
forced to live in hell."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chinatown basement bunks were crowded with immigrants -- at
least for a while. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Two weeks
ago, the city evacuated residents from a basement at 58 Henry Street in
Chinatown. Now, officials are investigating whether conditions there and in
other buildings were part of a hoax to gain access to public housing. The woman
in the photo was not identified. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg.
B3)


                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 1, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In a Shift, U.S. Grants Asylum For Mexicans

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1139 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 30


The United States has quietly granted political asylum to at least 55 Mexican
citizens in the last 14 months, a major shift after many years in which
virtually all asylum applications from Mexicans were routinely rejected.

Immigrants-rights advocates hail these grants of asylum, which are made by
individual Federal immigration agents and judges on a case-by-case basis, as a
collective milestone that amounts to formal recognition by the United States
that political repression occurs in Mexico. But the actions have created a
growing diplomatic headache for the Clinton Administration by angering the
Mexican Government and the ruling party that has dominated the country for more
than 60 years.

The asylum approvals come during a time of huge increases in the numbers of such
applications from Mexicans. Applications increased to 9,304 in the 1995 fiscal
year, which ended Sept. 30, from 6,397 in 1993 and from only 122 in 1990. From
1990 through 1993, not a single asylum application was approved; in 1994 five
were approved, and in the most recent fiscal year it was 54.

The cause of the increase is itself the subject of intense debate. Advocates for
those seeking asylum say the increase reflects the Mexican public's growing
opposition to the ruling political party and asylum applicants' fears of
retaliation for their political activities. But Federal immigration officials
say that much of the increase represents fraudulent applications submitted by
Mexicans seeking to take advantage of a loophole in the asylum law that allowed
them to work legally in the United States pending review of an asylum request.

Among those granted asylum are environmentalists and critics of the Government,
including the former Mayor of Ojinaga, Ernesto Poblano, and Ana Maria Guillen,
the former leader of the opposition Democratic Revolutionary Party in Matamoros,
near the United States border.

"I'm happy because we have created an opening for our compatriots," said Ms.
Guillen, whose petition was approved this week by an immigration judge in San
Antonio. "I'm sad because the situation is worse and we don't have the
conditions that will allow us to return."

A portrait of these refugees is difficult to assemble: the Federal Immigration
and Naturalization Service, citing confidentiality laws, declined to release
details of the asylum petitions that have been approved.

In the vast majority of cases, asylum requests from Mexico are still turned
down, a point that both Mexican and State Department officials emphasized in
interviews. And Gustavo Mohar, the minister in charge of immigration affairs at
the Mexican Embassy in Washington, insisted Mexican citizens had no reason to
fear retribution for their political activities.

"We have in Mexico the mechanisms to protect people who feel their life is
threatened," Mr. Mohar said today in a telephone interview. "The Government
position is that there is no action against people. They can speak and say
whatever they will."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has taken pains to portray the surge
in asylum petitions as largely the result of fraudulent claims. But even after
the provision that allowed applicants to begin working legally was rescinded
early this year under a much-heralded reform of asylum procedures, the numbers
of applications increased slightly over the year before.

And advocates for the Mexican petitioners say a growing number of opposition
leaders in Mexico have cited abuse, torture and fear for their lives in their
requests to remain in the United States -- and several have persuaded
immigration judges to approve their requests based on such evidence.

"There is this sort of myth that Mexico is functioning as a full democracy where
people can object without facing reprisals," said Dan Kesselbrenner, director of
the immigration project of the National Lawyers Guild, a resource center for
groups that represent immigrants.

"The willingness of judges to grant asylum relief to people from Mexico reflects
the actual objective conditions in Mexico," he said, "where there is political
repression of people who are active against the Government."

And Maria Jimenez, director of the immigration law-enforcement monitoring
project of the American Friends Service Committee here in Houston, said the
rulings "corroborate what Amnesty International and Americas Watch have
reported, that there's no prosecution of people, the police or army or anyone,
who commits these violations."

Under Federal immigration statutes, asylum is approved if an applicant can
demonstrate "a well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion,
nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group." The
approval can come from officers of the naturalization service or Federal
immigration judges.

In one case last year, in apparently the first specific ruling by immigration
authorities that sexual orientation constituted grounds for persecution, a gay
Mexican man was granted asylum after contending he was harassed, tortured and
raped by Mexican police.

Most of the Mexican cases appear to involve political activism. Carlos Spector
Calderon, an El Paso lawyer, said he had represented or advised five people
granted asylum in the past few years, all of whom held leadership positions in
opposition parties.

Still, some of those granted asylum have apparently not applied on political
grounds. For instance, an official familiar with immigration rulings said today
that among those granted asylum last year were several relatives of a man
accused in the assassination of the Mexican Presidential candidate, Luis Donaldo
Colosio.

The relatives were not themselves involved in political activities and simply
feared retaliation, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. But
a spokesman for the immigration service said the agency could not confirm that
account.

Ms. Guillen said Mexican officials had put out a warrant for her arrest after
she was attacked by police when she tried to enter a building where ballots were
being counted. She fled to San Antonio and at her hearing, presented testimony
from Juan Gutierrez, a colleague who said he had been held by the police, beaten
and threatened with "disappearance." She also presented affidavits from
witnesses who said they had seen other members of the party beaten.

In a ruling on Monday, a Federal immigration judge, Richard F. Brodsky, said Ms.
Guillen was "similarly situated" to members of her party who had been the
subject of persecution, and he approved her request. In doing so, he overruled
an earlier denial of the application by the immigration service.

Asked if she wanted to return to Mexico eventually, she said: "If the conditions
allow, of course. I will return to my country when they get better."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ana Maria Guillen, the former leader of the opposition
Democratic Revolutionary Party in Mexico, was granted political asylum by a
Federal immigration judge, who said she was a target of persecution. (Craig
Stafford for The New York Times)(pg. B14)

Graph: "ALMANAC: Political Asylum" shows Mexicans applying for asylum from 1990
to 1995, Mexicans granted asylum from 1990 1995 and countries with the most
nationals granted asylum from 1990 to 1995. (Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Services)(pg. B14)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 2, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Golden Venture Refugees on Hunger Strike in California to Protest Detention

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 6;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1111 words

DATELINE: BAKERSFIELD, Calif., Nov. 29


At a spartan county jail on the outskirts of this farming community, a group of
22 illegal Chinese immigrants, some of them survivors of the shipwreck of the
Golden Venture off New York, say they have gone on a hunger strike to protest
their detention for more than two years and the Government's plans to deport
them.

The protesting refugees are all women; most of those who did not come to the
United States aboard the Golden Venture, a smuggling vessel that ran aground off
the coast of Queens on June 6, 1993, were arrested in Southern California. All
have been held in various prisons and detention centers awaiting the outcome of
their asylum appeals.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the New York City
Medical Examiner's office, of the Golden Venture's 286 passengers, 10 died after
the grounding and 6 were never captured; 76 have been released and 47 have been
deported to China. The remaining 147 are still behind bars here and at four
other prisons and jails around the country.

The 10 who are here at the Kern County jail in Lerdo say they are entitled to
political asylum because of China's family planning policies of forced abortions
or sterilizations.  But for the most part, their quest for asylum appears
futile, lawyers for the women here say, and their deportations are imminent.

For one thing, current immigration law is weighed against them. A 1989 ruling by
the Board of Immigration Appeals invalidated political asylum claims based
solely on China's family planning practices. Immigration experts say that
refugees must now show they face forced abortions and sterilizations because of
their political opinions, not merely because of their Chinese citizenship. Legal
challenges to that ruling have so far failed.

And after languishing in various detention centers awaiting their appeals, some
of the women here say they have grown desperate. While some want to remain in
the United states, other say they simply want to be released from prison -- even
if they must starve themselves to death to do so.

"I feel terrible now, but I won't stop because I want to be free of the jail,"
said Tin Chin Wang, a 25-year-old apparel maker who was captured shortly after
arriving near San Diego in a ship about two years ago. Inside the jail's
interview room, she looked haggard and disoriented, and she cried at times.
"There is no pain in dying, but it hurts when they keep you in jail," she said.

Another woman, Quing Cai, who was aboard the Golden Venture when it ran aground
off New York, said she was certain she would be killed if she returned to China.
"After all I've gone through here, I have no fear of death," she said through a
translator. She added that prison guards had placed her in solitary confinement
in an effort to force her to eat, a charge that prison officials have denied.

Paula Harris, a lawyer for the Chinese American Foundation, which has
represented the women in appeals proceedings before the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said, "I don't think the public has a clue that these
people are still being detained, or certainly how they're being treated."

"This is a final desperate act to try to get some intervention," said John M.A.
Burgess, a San Francisco lawyer who is also representing the Chinese refugees.
"Many of them face sterilization and imprisonment for two to three years if
they're returned to China."

But Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington,
suggested that the plight of the women might be exaggerated by their advocates.
"As of yesterday," Mr. Bergeron said in a telephone interview, "there were nine
individuals who still claim to be on a hunger strike."

"While they are refusing the meals provided them by the detention facility, we
believe they're eating food which was purchased from the canteen at the
facility," Mr. Bergeron said. "We have had previous instances in other
facilities involving other individuals where hunger strikes were declared after
the stockpiling of food."

He added: "The condition of these individuals are monitored on a daily basis.
Anyone giving indication of a medical problem is given medical attention." Thus
far, Mr. Bergeron said, only one person has been treated outside the prison; she
was hospitalized for three hours, given intravenous fluids and released.

Sgt. Garry Davis, a shift supervisor at the Kern County Sheriff's Department,
which runs the facility, said it was his understanding that the Chinese
detainees began their hunger strike on Nov. 9. He said that nine women were now
refusing to eat and that they had lost an average of 10 pounds. "And at this
point, they continue to not accept the food that is offered to them three times
a day," Sergeant Davis said.

The hunger strike marks a new chapter in the long, grim saga of the Golden
Venture, which arrived off the Queens shore about 2 A.M. on that June day. Some
Golden Venture passengers spent up to three years in transit to the United
States, herded through Southeast Asia and Africa as their smugglers arranged
safe passage. Most had already given the smugglers $5,000 as a down payment for
their trip, with an additional $25,000 due on their arrival in the United
States.

The passengers were crammed into a 40-foot-by-20-foot hold and had a single
ladder to the deck. There were no life boats or life jackets; privacy and
sanitation were almost nonexistent. Water was severely rationed.

When the ship arrived in New York after months at sea, many dived into the
chilly waters in the mistaken belief that as long as they touched American soil,
they would eventually be released. At least five drowned. Others suffered heart
attacks or died of hypothermia. Many more, clad only in rags or underwear and
clutching plastic bags of belongings, dragged themselves out of thundering,
53-degree seas.

The Golden Venture case opened a window on the ugly underworld of smuggling
humans from China to America, helping to expose a vast and highly lucrative
business. Since then, American law-enforcement officials have estimated that
tens of thousands of Asian laborers, many of them from China's coastal Fujian
Province, have been brought to work for little more than slave wages.

Twenty-one defendants, members of the Gold Venture's crew and suspected
organizers of the smuggling operation, were convicted in Federal court in 1994
and 1995. They received sentences ranging from less than a year for crew members
to 10 years for Kin Sin Lee, believed to have been No. 2 in the smuggling ring.
The man who is believed to have masterminded the operation, Lee Peng Fei, was
recently caught in Bangkok.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Illegal Chinese immigrants, some from the Golden Venture
smuggling ship, are on a hunger strike in California. Joseph Poon of the Chinese
American Foundation talked to Quing Cai, left, and Tin Chin Wang. (Kenneth B.
Noble/The New York Times)

Chart: "STATUS REPORT: Where They Are"

The status of the 286 passengers of the Golden Venture, as of Oct. 27, according
to New York officials and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The ship
ran aground off New York on June 6, 1993.

10 Died after grounding

6 Never captured

47 Deported to China

30 Granted asylum

30 Released on bond

16 Released for other reasons

(Sources: New York City Medical Examiner's Office; Immigration and
Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 3, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

The Lives of No. 714

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 1;  Column 1;  New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2262 words

DATELINE: UNION CITY


THERE is nothing imposing or distinguished about the house at 714 11th Street.
Built in 1893, last sold in 1994 for $166,000. Three stories (one to a family),
of a weathered, tan-colored brick that seems to have collected 102 years' worth
of grit. No one has suggested that it be designated a landmark. No one famous
has ever lived there.

But its story is the story of those who have -- of Abel and Maritca Moran,
Honduran immigrants, who bought it last year from Angel and Hilda Acebo, Cuban
immigrants. Of the Sisos, also Cuban, who sold it to the Acebos in 1978, and the
Napolitanos, Italian-American, who lived there for 10 years and sold it to the
Sisos in 1974.

In all, nine families have owned No. 714, going back to the days when 11th
Street was John Street and this part of Union City was called West Hoboken.

For more than a century, Hudson County -- resolutely working-class, inner-ring,
the quintessential urban suburb -- has been a magnet for immigrants and their
sons and daughters.

As Union City became home to new immigrant group after new immigrant group, so
too did this house.

"The newcomers know they can make something of nothing here," said Francisco
Canonico, a Cuban-born real estate broker who, with his wife, Hortensia, has
sold the house three times since 1974. "You've got the same nationalities and
language and people help each other, the same way they used to do it in their
own country."

And as the newcomers settled in, worked hard and eventually made enough money to
afford a house in the leafier suburbs of Essex or Bergen or Monmouth County, so
too did the owners of No. 714.

"With most immigrant groups, the first place they settle on arrival isn't the
place they stay for many generations," said Nicholas Lemann, author of "The
Promised Land: The Great Black Migration and How It Changed America" (Alfred A.
Knopf, 1991). "First, they go to these 'starter' neighborhoods where there's all
one ethnic group, all poor or working poor. Then, there's a mass movement where
they move to an area where there's almost all that ethnic group, and one notch
up economically. Third, they move to a more middle-class place, more likely to
be in the suburbs, and less likely to be mono-ethnic."

The pattern has been repeated over and over in New Jersey, where about a million
residents, one-eighth of the population, are foreign-born. (Only four states --
California, New York, Texas and Florida -- have a higher ratio.) The largest
contingent is in Hudson County, where every third person is foreign-born. And in
Union City, a third of all residents are from Central and South America, double
the number in 1980.

"Immigration usually proceeds on a colony model: once there's a small culture
supporting institutions like churches and businesses, then it becomes a magnet
for new people," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of
Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "You can use that house and
its occupants to look at changing demographics, the changing economy, and the
changing life styles of people, not just in Union City but in the state."

1875: THE IRISH
From Woods to Streets

 Until this century, there was no Union City. First inhabited by the Lenape
Indians, the area was part of a large swath known as the Bergen Woods, which now
encompasses Union City, North Bergen, Hoboken, Weehawken and West New York. In
the early 18th century, French and Dutch traders settled and built houses,
taverns, industry, churches. Irish and German immigrants landed in the mid-19th
century.

The land that is now 11th Street was owned by a wealthy Irishman named James
Kerrigan. In 1875, he divided the land among his five children; his daughter
Catharine T. Perkins got much of what was then called West Hoboken -- including
block 19, bracketed by paper streets called John and Savoye, and by Summit and
Central Avenues.

In 1885 Mrs. Perkins sold lot 12 for $250 to Sarah and Charles A. Yates, a
middle-aged couple. (He was born in Massachusetts; she was Scottish.) And in
1893, the Yateses built 714 John Street, in the Second Renaissance Revival style
that was popular at the end of the century.

Other houses were springing up in the neighborhood too, in a hodgepodge of
utilitarian styles. It was a working-class community (Charles Yates was a
carpenter), heavily German with a sprinkling of Irish and Danish families. The
neighbors were silk weavers and tailors, feather-factory workers and
dressmakers, grocery clerks and book agents.


1910: THE ITALIANS
Trolleys and Stickball

 The Yateses left for Stroudsburg, Pa., in 1910. The sale price is not known;
until the 60's, deeds listed the price as "one dollar and other good and
valuable consideration." What is known is that Emilio and Emma Viotto of West
Hoboken bought the place, their first home in the new world.

The Viottos came to the United States from Italy in 1900, part of the huge
influx of European immigrants drawn by America's industrial revolution. In 1900,
about one-fourth of New Jersey's population was foreign-born, the highest
percentage ever; in West Hoboken, the total population was 15,187, triple that
of 1880.

The Viottos came when they were in their 20's, with their infant daughters Lena
and Pierina. Emilio Viotto was a building contractor and his wife was a
homemaker; Lena became a dressmaker and Pierina a stenographer. To make extra
money, they rented out the second and third floors.

"It was basically the Germans and the Italians in those days," said Doretta
Jungermann, who has lived in Union Hill, now part of Union City, all of her 88
years. "Most of the immigrants were from poor families and didn't have the
education, but they made sure their kids had the education. There were always
little stores, bakeries, individually owned places -- Servo's, a men's shop, and
Heinz, a delicatessen on Bergenline" -- Bergenline Avenue, then as now the main
drag.

In 1921 the Viottos sold the house to the Rosso family, who sold it to their son
Mauro and daughter-in-law, Claudina, in 1935. The Rossos had their own grocery
store. At one point, they rented an apartment to Alice and Kathleen Kelly, two
kindly sisters would pay the neighborhood children 20 cents to carry their
groceries up the stairs.

"Everybody knew everybody on this block," recalled Ed Rumi, who has lived across
the street at No. 715 for most of his 63 years. "Mr. Rosso, he was a very
heavy-set guy with a big belly and a good sense of humor. He had a narrow,
lengthy truck to deliver eggs and cheese. We used to kid him that he would eat
all the cheese and he just laughed. Nice man."

There was much talk in the 1920's of a "Greater Jersey City" conglomeration to
rival New York City, but all that resulted was a modest merger: West Hoboken and
Union Hill joined to become Union City in 1925. (Other possible names included
Hillboken, Narcissus and Hudsona.) East-west streets were renamed to conform
with the numerical grid of Union City; John Street became 11th Street.

Life was good on 11th Street, Mr. Rumi remembers. The street was lined by a
tunnel of poplars, chestnuts, and cottonwoods. Children would shovel the snow
for a nickel. Milk and bread were delivered by horse and wagon; perhaps there'd
be one car driving through every hour, no more. Children played stickball in the
street, with Mr. Rumi's chestnut tree as first base and the sewer plate as
second. Over on Summit Avenue, the trolleys, which cost a nickel, carried people
to North Bergen and Hoboken until 1948. A little farther away, there were enough
burlesque theaters and bars to give the area the nickname Barbary Coast.

It was also a time when immigration slowed to a trickle, said Dr. Hughes of
Rutgers. Many families in Union City stayed longer; the Rossos were at No. 714
for almost 40 years.

Mr. Rosso died in 1958, and the family sold the house the following year. The
new owners were a couple in their 30's from Hoboken, Frank P. and Adeline M.
Rotella. Real-estate agents say they probably paid $20,000 to $25,000.

For many immigrants, moving from Hoboken to Union City -- "up the viaduct" --
signaled the upward mobility of a second- or third-generation immigrant family
just a few steps away from the suburbs. Union City was a thriving manufacturing
center then, with dozens of factories producing textiles, silk, beer, cigars and
pencils.

In 1965, the Rotellas sold the house to Carmine and Maria M. Napolitano of
Jersey City, and moved to Toms River. The Napolitanos were friendly, neighbors
remember. They had relatives who lived upstairs, and they had a summer house in
Belmar. And though not much else could be learned about them, they did leave a
mark on No. 714: a mural on the entryway ceiling with the letter N emblazoned
against a blue shield.

1974: THE CUBANS
Havana to Bergenline

 The mid-70's marked another passage for No. 714. In 1974, the Napolitanos sold
the house for $48,000 to Jose Siso and his mother, Maria Heredero, Cuban
immigrants. The sale was indicative of the changing face of Union City: from
1960 to 1970, the number of people of Italian descent fell to 6,231 from 11,234,
while Cubans -- who weren't even recorded in 1960 -- swelled to 16,538.

"When Castro took over, all the professionals were afraid and many decided to
leave," said Mrs. Heredero, at her simple, spartan studio apartment in West New
York, speaking Spanish as Mrs. Canonico, the real-estate broker, interpreted.

Mr. Siso, now in his mid-60's, had been a lawyer in Havana before landing a job
as a social worker in New York City. They chose No. 714 because of its
convenience -- it's close to Kennedy Boulevard and Interstate 495, and a variety
of services and businesses run by Cubans or Puerto Ricans: the corner bodega,
the paella place up the block. Later, Mr. Siso remarried and moved to Paterson,
then to Florida, while Mrs. Heredero stayed in Hudson County. In 1978, they sold
the house to Angel and Hilda Acebo, both factory workers from Cuba, for $53,500.

The Acebos had come to the United States in 1969, also for political reasons.
Overwhelmed by New York City, they moved to Union City, first to an apartment
house, then, after saving enough money, to 11th Street -- the first place they'd
had a backyard where their children could play. Real estate prices skyrocketed
during the Acebos' tenure; so, too, did taxes, going from $2,800 a year in 1980
to $7,000 in 1992.

The Acebos were part of another change: the swift decline of the once-mighty
Democratic political machine of Hudson County. Anti-Castro Cubans tend to vote
Republican, and in the 1970's and 80's they began making life harder for
Democrats. (So, too, did a series of corruption prosecutions.)

"My parents have always been Republicans because they support their policies,"
said Susana Robison, the Acebos' daughter. "In the next election, they'll
support whoever runs against Clinton."

1994: THE HONDURANS
Harder Times, and Hope

 But as Union City's Cubans began doing better financially, they too began
moving on. Last year the Acebos sold their house to Abel and Maritca Moran for
$166,000 so they could live closer to Susana, who had got married and moved to a
Baltimore suburb.

The Morans bought into a neighborhood that was increasingly filled with recent
immigrants from Central and South America. Upstairs, there are renters from
Puerto Rico and Honduras, who each pay about $600 a month. In the city, the
number of Cubans has dropped below the 15,054 recorded in 1990. Meanwhile, the
number of Central and South American immigrants has doubled, to 18,000 since
1980, coming mainly from the Dominican Republican, Colombia, El Salvador and
Ecuador.

The Morans met here in 1985. They returned to Honduras in 1992 to get married;
now Mr. Moran, 43, is a foreman at a Brooklyn factory, while Mrs. Moran, 31,
works at a direct-mail company in Jersey City. Their daughter, Scarlett, is 16
months old. Like the previous owners, they live in the long, narrow first-floor,
two-bedroom apartment. The white tin ceiling is still there, as is the
Napolitanos' mural, but the rest of the house is distinctly Honduran: black and
pink murals of birds, wood carvings, dolls in native garb.

"I like this place because the brick house construction is good, everything is
convenient, and we have money to help pay the mortgage," said Mr. Moran. "It
feels nice."

How long they stay, of course, remains to be seen. Union City is the state's
most densely populated municipality, with 60,000 residents crammed into 1.27
square miles, an ever-changing tapestry of ethnic groups. As in the rest of the
state, service jobs are supplanting manufacturing jobs. Small stores selling
nickel-and-dime goods have popped up. Along Summit Avenue near 11th Street, only
a few longtime establishments remain: Canonico's real estate, Polay's Lumber and
Hardware, and Eckhart & Bartolomei Inc., an insurance company.

"A lot has changed in Union City, and we have more needy people now," said Ruth
Molenaar, publisher of La Tribuna in Union City, New Jersey's oldest
Spanish-language newspaper. "But I'm optimistic about the future because I trust
the youth and the politicians and the businessmen and businesswomen."

That sunny outlook is not surprising here. "They still go back to Union City
every couple of months and stay with friends," said Mrs. Robison of her parents.
"They always walk by the house because it brought them a lot of luck. They look
at it, they smile, and they say, 'There was a lot of good memories in that
house.' "

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 1995, Sunday

CORRECTION:

An article on Dec. 3 about the changing character of Hoboken misstated a policy
of Our Lady of Grace School. The school says that although it has students of a
number of religious backgrounds, it does not officially celebrate the holidays
of its Hindu students.


GRAPHIC: Photo: STREETSCAPE Built in 1893, the house at 714 11th Street, Union
City, has been owned by nine families -- first Irish and Italian, later Cuban
and Honduran. Below, a family photo. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
(pg. 1); TIME AND AGAIN Maria Heredero, who lived at No. 714 in the 70's, and
Maritca Moran and her daughter, Scarlett, who live there now. (Photographs by
Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times); HUDSON HERALDRY The Napolitano
family painted a coat of arms at the front door. (Norman Y. Lono for The New
York Times) (pg. 12)

Chart: "Snapshots of a Changing City" shows the changes in the composition of
Union City's population since 1950. (Source: Bureau of the Census) (pg. 1)

Map of the future Union City in 1875. (pg. 12)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 3, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NOV. 26-DEC. 2;
More Mexicans Seek Asylum

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 4;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 217 words


Ana Maria Guillen, a former leader of the opposition Democratic Revolutionary
Party in the Mexican border city of Matamoros, says that she and her colleagues
were regularly detained by the police there, beaten and threatened with
"disappearance" for their activities.

Last week she was granted political asylum, the 55th Mexican citizen to receive
asylum in the United States in the past 14 months, after years in which all such
applications were routinely denied.

The recent decisions by immigration officers and judges come amid a surge in
asylum applications from Mexicans, from 122 five years ago to more than 9,300 in
the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. Applicants cite rising political tensions
in Mexico, but U.S. immigration officials say many of the claims appear
fraudulent. In any event, they represent a thorny problem for the Clinton
Administration, which has negotiated the North American Free Trade Agreement and
multi-billion-dollar loan guarantees with ruling party leaders in Mexico.

"We have in Mexico the mechanisms to protect people who feel their life is
threatened," insisted an official at the Mexican Embassy in Washington. "The
Government position is that there is no action against people. They can speak
and say whatever they will."   SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 3, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Two Former Rajineesh Followers Get Five Years for Conspiracy

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 40;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Dec. 2


Two former followers of the Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh were sentenced on Friday to
five years in Federal prison for conspiring to kill a United States Attorney.

Sally-Anne Croft and Susan Hagan, British citizens who were extradited to the
United States for trial, were convicted in July of plotting to kill Charles
Turner, who had led a grand jury investigation that brought charges of
widespread immigration fraud against a commune in Oregon.

Witnesses said Ms. Croft, 45, an accountant known as Ma Prem Savita when she was
the chief financial officer for Mr. Rajneesh, provided money for gun-buying
trips associated with the murder plot, which was never carried out. Ms. Hagan,
48, was also implicated as a top official in the group's hierarchy.

Judge Malcolm Marsh of Federal District Court here said he had tried to strike a
balance in his sentencing, describing the pair as "people of obvious goodwill
who had committed an extremely serious offense against the criminal justice
system."

The women, who have said that they would appeal their convictions, would not be
eligible for parole until they have served one-third of their sentences. They
were ordered to report to Federal prison on Jan. 12.

In a brief statement, Ms. Hagan thanked the judge for allowing them to remain
free on bail since their conviction in July.

"I hope this long, traumatic saga will soon be over," she said.

Ms. Croft offered no statement before her sentencing.

Prosecutor Tim Reardon of the Justice Department had sought a minimum sentence
of seven years for what he called "a deadly serious crime aimed at the heart of
the criminal justice system."

The pair could have received life sentences.

The trial of Ms. Croft and Ms. Hagan featured testimony about elaborate efforts
10 years ago by the group to win political control of the town of Antelope in
central Oregon, where as many as 4,000 of the Mr. Rajneesh's followers gathered
at the Rajneeshpuram commune.

The sect's leader pleaded guilty to arranging marriages of his followers to
allow new spouses to immigrate to the United States. The group's leaders were
also critiicized for inviting lavish gifts to Mr. Rajneesh -- who had a fleet of
91 Rolls-Royce limousines when the group disbanded and he was deported. He died
in India in 1990.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 3, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Its Heart Is Still 7th Avenue;
Garment Union Keeps Piece of Past

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 49;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1609 words


Over the last century, no union has been more closely tied to New York City's
ups and downs than the International Ladies Garment Workers Union.

Since it was founded in 1900, it has stood up for successive waves of immigrants
who took humble apparel industry jobs upon reaching New York's -- and America's
-- shores. First, the union battled for Jewish immigrant workers on the Lower
East Side, then for Italian and Hispanic ones, and most recently for immigrants
from China. The union has endured the worst of New York labor history -- like
the Triangle Shirtwaist fire of 1911, in which 146 workers died. And it also had
its triumphs, like helping catapult Fiorello H. La Guardia to City Hall and
producing a hit Broadway musical, "Pins and Needles," in the 1930's.

But this year, with its membership shrinking as factories leave New York for
sunnier, low-wage climes in the South and in Southeast Asia, the garment
workers' union and its fondly remembered nickname, the I.L.G., have disappeared
into history.

In the union's place has emerged a new organization, formed last summer when the
garment workers merged with their longtime larger rival, the Amalgamated
Clothing and Textile Workers' Union. The new organization, with 300,000 members,
is called Unite -- an acronym even some of its founders admit is corny --
standing for the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees.

It was a marriage of the union that made women's clothes with the union that
made men's clothes -- and textiles, auto parts and other products, too. The goal
was to produce a new union with money, vigor and organizing expertise.

"Historically, these two unions have been in the forefront of some of the most
progressive developments within the labor movement," said Daniel J. Walkowitz, a
labor historian at New York University. "These unions made New York City a model
not just for the whole national labor movement, but for progressive reform in
the New Deal."

Some labor experts predict that the new union, with horizons far beyond the
garment district's Seventh Avenue and a focus on organizing factories in the
South, will never be as politically and psychologically tied to New York as were
the old garment workers. The clothing and textile workers' center of gravity was
outside New York: their members make suits in Chicago, textiles in Texas and
auto parts in Ohio and Illinois. But they were also active in New York, helping
build a housing project for members and forming one of the nation's few
union-owned banks, the Amalgamated.

Jay Mazur, the president of Unite and the head of the garment workers before
that, insists that the new union will be more involved in New York's affairs
than the garment workers were.

In the thick accent of his native Bronx, Mr. Mazur talks as if it would be
downright traitorous for Unite to disengage itself from New York.

"With the merger, we now probably represent 100,000 workers in the New York-New
Jersey area, and about 75,000 retirees, too," said Mr. Mazur, sitting next to a
1936 Roosevelt campaign poster. "From a political point of view, in New York and
New Jersey we'll be much stronger than we were."

To the garment workers' concentration in the metropolitan region, the clothing
and textile workers' union brings a smattering of members upstate: 7,000 in
Rochester, where it represents workers at Hickey-Freeman and Xerox, and hundreds
more in Buffalo, Gloversville, Utica and Syracuse.

Like the garment workers' union, the blunt-speaking Mr. Mazur is a political
animal. Mr. Mazur, who began his union work 45 years ago, at age 18, talks of
how his union helped to enact the first minimum wage law and to elect David N.
Dinkins as Mayor in 1989, although its influence failed Mr. Dinkins in his 1993
re-election campaign. He also talks of how Unite is putting its political
machine into gear to help Bill Clinton and other candidates in New York and
beyond in 1996.

Bruce Raynor, an executive vice president of Unite, added: "We will be the most
important private sector union by far in New York State."

How much clout the new union ultimately has may turn on how successful it is in
stopping the hemorrhaging of its membership. To flex their muscles, union
leaders boasted at their merger convention in July that Unite had 350,000
members. Now officials acknowledge that the number is barely 300,000.

Hammered by imports and the flight of factories overseas, the garment workers'
membership has dropped to 125,000 from 457,000 in 1968. Squeezed by the same
forces, membership in the clothing and textile workers has plunged to 175,000
from 400,000 in 1976.

The merger is intended to be a chemical reaction that produces an explosion in
organizing -- and new membership. The garment workers' union had plenty of
money, buildings and other resources, but was doing little organizing because it
was preoccupied with fighting the exodus of jobs overseas. In contrast, the
Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers were facing hard times financially but
have done more organizing over the last two decades than any other industrial
union.

"I'm convinced we'll organize thousands of new workers," said Mr. Raynor, who
has overseen the organizing campaign in the South. "Will we succeed in getting
enough new members to make up for the thousands of jobs we're losing? That's a
monumental challenge."

Some of this new organizing vigor will go into New York and New Jersey. Since
the union represents warehouse workers at Liz Claiborne and Ralph Lauren, plans
are being drafted to organize the distribution arms of other fashion houses. The
merger has stirred far less interest among the rank and file than among union
leaders, although members say it seems like a good idea.

"I think coming together should make the union stronger, and that's a good
idea," said Agnes Wong, who joined the garment workers 21 years ago as a
seamstress in Chinatown. "I hope it will make it easier for us to get more
benefits."

Mr. Mazur insists that the new union will carry on the garment workers'
tradition of "social unionism."

"This will remain a progressive union with concerns that go beyond the shop
floor and shop door," he said.

Nowhere is that clearer than at a 26-story brick building on Seventh Avenue, at
26th Street, the site of the garment workers' health center. Established in
1914, it was the nation's first union health center. It fills five floors, has a
staff of 200 and handles 175,000 patient visits a year.

On the eighth floor is Unite's immigration project in which union lawyers help
workers with immigration problems. On the fourth floor is Unite's education
program, which holds 10 classes each night, teaching English, Spanish,
citizenship and high-school equivalency.

Although the garment workers' progressive legacy still suffuses the building,
union officials are working floor by floor to remove nearly every mention of the
old union. Sprouting up instead is the Unite logo.

Throughout the garment workers' union, there was regret about scrapping its
cherished name, but union leaders say they must look forward, not backward.

Gus Tyler, an 84-year-old Unite official who began working for the garment
workers in 1934, said: "Many in the I.L.G. were unhappy about the name change.
That's childish. I'm not in the labor movement to be nostalgic. I'm in the labor
movement to achieve certain objectives, and the merger will help achieve those
objectives."

Look for the Union Label, in History

The two unions that merged to form Unite -- the International Ladies Garment
Workers and the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers -- have carved out many
milestones for the labor movement and for New York City.

1900 -- International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union established.

1909 -- About 20,000 New York shirtwaist makers, almost all women, stage a
14-week strike that makes garment workers, and women workers in particular, a
force to contend with.

1911 -- Fire at the Triangle Shirtwaist factory in Greenwich Village kills 146
workers.

1914 -- Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union is founded, with Sidney Hillman as
president.

1914 -- Garment workers set up the nation's first walk-in union health center on
Union Square.

1923 -- Amalgamated Clothing Workers establish Amalgamated Bank of New York.

1926 -- Amalgamated Clothing Workers break ground in the Bronx on their first
cooperative apartment building.

1938 -- Garment workers produce a Broadway hit musical, "Pins 'n Needles."

1939 -- Textile Workers Union of America is established.

1943-44 -- Garment workers become one of first unions to win employer-financed
pension plan and health insurance plan.

1956 -- Clothing workers union and textile workers win campaign for $1 minimum
wage.

1963 -- Textile Workers Union organizes drive against J.P. Stevens, the textile
giant.

1975 -- Popular jingle "Look for the Union Label" is first broadcast.

1976 -- Amalgamated Clothing Workers and Textile Workers Union merge.

1980 -- Union signs first contract with J.P. Stevens.

1982 -- Mass demonstration is held in Chinatown to fight shop owners' efforts to
oust union.

1983 -- United Hatters, Cap and Military Workers' International Union merges
with Amalgamated.

1984 -- Garment Industry Develpment Corporation is set up in New York, a
labor-industry-government partnership to strengthen the garment district.

1990 -- Effort begins to organize Hispanic and Asian immigrants in sweatshops.

June 1995 -- International Garment Workers and Amalgamated Clothing and Textile
Workers merge.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The International Ladies Garment Workers Union fought to abolish
sweatshops like this one. (Lewis W. Hine); "From a political point of view, in
New York and New Jersey we'll be much stronger than we were," said Jay Mazur,
the president of Unite, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile
Employees. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 3, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian Ex-Paramilitary Leader Confirms C.I.A. Relationship

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2


The former leader of Haiti's most feared right-wing paramilitary group has
confirmed that he was a paid agent of the Central Intelligence Agency from 1991
to 1994.

The former paramilitary leader, Emmanuel Constant, now jailed in a Maryland
detention center on immigration charges, said published reports linking him to
the C.I.A. were true. He made his admission in a videotaped interview to be
broadcast on Sunday on the CBS News program "60 Minutes," which provided
transcripts to other news organizations.

"I was meeting with the C.I.A. on a regular basis," said Mr. Constant, whose
group, known as Fraph, is accused of murdering, raping and beating hundreds of
supporters of Haiti's President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. "We had an
understanding. We had an alliance."

Mr. Constant said he was given a code name, "Gamal," a sophisticated
walkie-talkie and $700 a month in cash by the C.I.A.'s station chief in Haiti,
with whom he met regularly, sometimes daily.

The meetings, he said, usually took place during long drives in the station
chief's car. He said he provided derogatory information about Mr. Aristide
sought by the C.I.A., discussed his own aspirations to be Haiti's president --
which, he said, the station chief encouraged -- and gave full accounts of his
political and paramilitary activities.

"They knew exactly what I was doing," said Mr. Constant, who entered the United
States illegally last year and is fighting a Federal court order that he be
deported to Haiti, where he faces criminal charges.

His relationship with the C.I.A., he said, started shortly after a right-wing
military junta overthrew Mr. Aristide in September 1991 and ended shortly before
Mr. Aristide's return to Haiti under the protection of United States troops last
year.

It has already been reported that leaders of the junta were on the C.I.A.'s
payroll from the mid-1980's until at least the early 1990's. It also has been
reported that the agency had set up a Haitian intelligence service whose members
attacked Mr. Aristide's supporters, as did Mr. Constant's paramilitary
organization, the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haiti.

A C.I.A. spokesman, Mark Mansfield, had no comment on the agency's relationship
with Mr. Constant. He said the "C.I.A. had no role in creating, funding or
guiding the Fraph organization" or in supporting "anti-democratic activities" in
Haiti.

The Director of Central Intelligence, John M. Deutch, has ordered a worldwide
evaluation of the C.I.A.'s paid foreign agents. He has said that informants
whose crimes or abuses outweigh the quality of information they provide will be
dropped from the agency's payroll.

The agency has contacts with about 400 foreign military, intelligence and
internal-security services, and typically recruits up-and-coming military
officers as informants, in the hopes that they will rise to power.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emmanuel Constant said the C.I.A. had paid him $700 a month.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 3, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WOODSIDE/LONG ISLAND CITY;
Newcomers' School? Plan Is Proposed

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 12;  Column 6;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 402 words


As any teacher or parent will testify, adolescent angst strikes nearly every
junior high school student, but for immigrant youngsters, the stress is often be
compounded by the inability to speak English and by feeling foreign in a new
home.

Now, some educators in Queens are considering creating a school that would help
the students cope by offering instruction in their native languages and help
them and their families adjust to life here.

Officials of Community School District 30 are drafting a proposal to create a
middle school modeled after the Newcomer School: An Academy for New Americans, a
high school that opened in September in Long Island City. The school, for grades
6 through 8, would be housed in an empty annex building on the grounds of the
Newcomer School.

The school district would have to draft a formal proposal, convene a public
hearing and have the plan approved by the school board and Schools Chancellor
Rudy Crew.

Some civil rights advocates argue that such schools segregate and stigmatize
children who don't speak English, but the embryonic idea is being welcomed by
many educators and immigrants' advocates. Nearly one of 10 immigrants to New
York since 1990 has been between 10 and 14 years old, according to figures
compiled by the city, and some educators argue that programs are needed most for
young adolescents.

"At the middle-school stage, it is even more important than at the high school
level," said Ofelia Garcia, an education professor at City College, "because it
is a critical stage of development in terms of linguistics and cognitive
ability." Besides creating a more comfortable environment, supporters of the
plan said, a new school would ease the space crunch in District 30's middle
schools, which are among the most overcrowded in the city. The district is under
orders from the Board of Education to devise a plan to curb overcrowding at I.S.
145 in Jackson Heights.

A school board member, Donald Stewart, said he is in favor of a newcomer school
in District 30. "It gives them a better feeling of security," he said. "Some of
them have no idea what's going on in a regular class situation."

But a school board member, Irene McLaughlin, was not enthusiastic. "I want to
see children assimilate as quickly as possible," she said. "I'm not sure that
children grouped together with no one speaking English does that."   SOMINI
SENGUPTA

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 4, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

New Effort by U.S. and Vietnam to Return Boat People Home

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3


Seeking to end a long epilogue of the Vietnam War, Washington is working quietly
with Hanoi to create a program that would persuade the remaining 40,000
Vietnamese boat people in Southeast Asian refugee camps to return home.

The initiative is being undertaken by the National Security Council and the
Departments of State and Justice in hopes of avoiding more public debate and
violent protests in the camps by detainees who do not want to return to Vietnam.

The plan comes in response to legislation sponsored by Representative
Christopher H. Smith, a New Jersey Republican, that would bar the United States
from providing about $25 million to the United Nations to help resettle the
Vietnamese. The migrants fled their homeland, many in rickety boats, after the
defeat of South Vietnam in 1975.

In talks that began one month ago in Hanoi, "we laid out an approach to the
Government of Vietnam, and they made clear that they shared our goals and would
try to come up with a workable way to do it," said a Clinton Administration
official working on the plan. A formal response from Hanoi is expected this
month.

Sergio Vieira de Mello, a senior official of the United Nations refugee-relief
agency, called the American initiative "most welcome."

Under the plan, the Vietnamese would be transported to Ho Chi Minh City under
the auspices of the United Nations. There, they would be guaranteed interviews
with United States immigration officials.

Those who qualify as political refugees -- like people who worked for the United
States or its allies during the war, or who were religious leaders, or who were
imprisoned in "re-education camps" after the war -- would be allowed to come to
this country. Others, like North Vietnamese fishermen who fled for economic
reasons after the war, would have no choice but to try to make a new life in
their old country.

Administration officials say as many as several thousand of the Vietnamese in
the camps worked for United States military and intelligence services during the
Vietnam War and have reason to believe that they will be allowed to resettle in
the United States.

Tens of thousands of others may be persuaded to return to Vietnam, if they can
be convinced that they will not be persecuted. The United Nations, which is
responsible for monitoring the treatment of the tens of thousands of Vietnamese
who have been returned home, says it has not documented any cases in which
returning migrants have been treated harshly.

In a statement this year, Representative Smith said he had proposed the
legislation because of concerns that many of the Vietnamese in the camps had
been unfairly denied refugee status, but the United Nations has denied this.

The Vietnamese are the last of the so-called boat people, more than one million
of whom fled their country in crowded vessels after the war's end. Most
resettled outside of Asia, mainly in the United States. Those still in detention
camps in Hong Kong, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines eke out an
unhappy existence.

Their homeland, once a symbol of endless war and impoverished communism, now has
one of the world's fastest-growing economies. And the time has passed when the
United States and other wealthy nations willingly open their arms to immigrants.
Refugee officials say it is unlikely that new migrants will receive the
unconditional and generous welcome once accorded the Indochinese.

Rejected for resettlement after extensive interviews by United Nations refugee
officials, thousands of the boat people in the Hong Kong and Southeast Asian
camps had accepted the inevitable and were returning home voluntarily under
United Nations supervision until this summer.

Then word of the Smith legislation created a stir in the detention camps,
creating new hope among some Vietnamese there that they would not have to go
home. Some renewed violent protests, and others reconsidered their plans to
return voluntarily. Refugee officials worried that it could not only set off
another exodus of boat people but also could create false hopes among the
migrants that they would be allowed to come to the United States.

The House of Representatives passed the legislation, earmarking $30 million to
bring some of the Vietnamese to the United States. But the legislation, part of
a foreign affairs appropriations bill, is now languishing in the Senate.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 9, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Lots of Russian Jews Still Seek to Emigrate

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 185 words


To the Editor:

A Dec. 3 news article paints a rosy picture of the future of Russian Jewry. You
say "Jewish emigration from Russia is dropping sharply" yet cite no statistics.
Almost 70,000 Jews have emigrated to Israel this year, a rate higher than last
year. And the United States has no problem filling the Jewish part of its quota
of 64,000 visas for the former Soviet Union. You say emigration is confined
largely to the elderly, yet Israeli statistics show a normal age distribution of
Russian immigrants coming to Israel.

Your bright depiction of Russia's future would amaze Russian Jews (and Russians
in general) tormented by economic realities, an unraveling political system,
gangster-ridden cities and a war in the Caucasus.

Russian Jewry's rebirth would be welcome. Until then, most Russian Jews would
continue to prefer Israel and the United States for political stability,
security and prosperity; poverty-stricken, historically anti-Semitic Russia has
little to offer by contrast.

JONATHAN R. ADELMAN
Dir., Center for Israeli Studies
University of Denver
Denver, Dec. 5, 1995

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
Victim of a Scam Heaps Guilt on Her Loneliness

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: WEST NEW YORK, N.J.


BANKS were out of the question, an envelope under the mattress too obvious.
Carmen D. kept her savings in a coffee can at the back of the refrigerator,
behind two others.

It took two years of leaning over a sewing machine 8 to 10 hours a day, five to
six days a week -- "a horrible job" -- but she managed to fill the can. At last
count, she had $3,140. This would buy plane tickets for her mother, her
daughter, 10, and her son, 13, to visit from the Dominican Republic for
Christmas. And it would buy presents.

"I'm Santa Claus," she said. She is 34, but the lines on her forehead and the
dark circles under her eyes seem to say she got there the hard way. She reached
in a small, yellowed Frigidaire for a can of El Pico Cafe. "Look," she said,
with a little laugh. Both the can and the laugh were empty.

On a late November day when the sun shone unusually bright, she fell for the
lottery ticket trick. The police say it's a classic street fraud. The elderly,
the urban poor and, especially, non-English-speaking immigrants are the standard
targets. In August and September, the police in Clifton and Paterson reported
nearly a dozen cases in which people were conned out of thousands in lottery
scams. (One woman lost $20,000, the down payment on a house she hoped to buy.)

But like everyone else who is duped, Carmen D. knew nothing about them.

AS she remembers, the woman approached first. She had dyed red hair and a ticket
in her hand. And she was nearly crying. She told Carmen D., who was walking
home, that she had a winning lottery ticket -- for $250,000 -- but that as an
illegal immigrant, she couldn't cash it. She asked Carmen D. if she would cash
it for a cut of the winnings. Carmen D. said sorry, she was in the same
situation. Then the man showed up.

He was younger, well dressed. He said, "What's the problem?" in Spanish with an
American accent. Then he said he would cash the ticket for $3,000 up front. The
woman said she had only $200. Then she asked Carmen D. if she could contribute,
swearing to Mother Mary and Jesus that she would give her a cut of the ticket's
winnings.

The woman walked her home and Carmen D. recalls thinking: This doesn't sound
right. But the woman looked very respectable. "She was older, about 50, and it
was like having your own mother pleading to you."

She took $3,000 out of the coffee can and handed it over. The man and the woman
walked to a stationery store and told Carmen D. to look out while they cashed
the ticket. "I told them I didn't think a little store could cash so much
money," she said. "They said it could cash $10,000 and give vouchers for the
rest," she said.

When they emerged, they gave her a paper bag, saying it was her $10,000 cut, and
told her to wait a few minutes before opening it. It was full of crumpled
newspaper.

"They were very good, very professional," she said.

SINCE then, people have told her this happens often. She never reported it to
the police because of her undocumented status.

"The politicians say the undocumented exploit this country, but this country
exploits us more," she said. "Look at my job and what those people did without
shame."

Not that she feels blameless. "I was so stupid," she said. "A stupid immigrant."

Denis Johnston, executive director of the immigrant rights program of the
American Friends Service Committee, said illegal immigrants are routinely the
targets of such schemes, largely because they are so desperate.

His office helps people who have lost hundreds, sometimes thousands, of dollars
in another lottery scam, in which people promise immigrants winning spots in the
Federal green-card lotteries. Most victims do not report incidents to the
police. When they do, the thieves are seldom caught.

Carmen D. says co-workers who know her lottery story have told her similar ones.
No incident, she said, was reported to the police. (A spokesman for the West New
York Police Department said he had not heard of any lottery fraud incidents
recently.)

The only reason to tell her story now is to help others to avoid her fate, said
Carmen D., who insisted her last name not be printed. "Now I work overtime to
buy stupid little presents," she said. "It's my punishment."

She was too humiliated to tell her children. Her mother told them she had been
robbed. They aren't coming for Christmas, of course. As the day approaches, she
keeps returning to the day she gave her money away. "Isn't it funny," she said,
"that the thieves asked for almost exactly what I had?"

She put the empty can in her refrigerator. It will stay empty, she said, as a
reminder not to be such a stupid immigrant again.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 17, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Displaced Persons

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe;   Alan Wolfe teaches sociology at Boston University. He
is writing a book about middle-class morality.

SECTION: Section 7;  Page 29;  Column 1;  Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words



FRESH BLOOD
The New American Immigrants.
By Sanford J. Ungar.
399 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $25.

AMERICAN DREAMING
Immigrant Life on the Margins.
By Sarah J. Mahler.
Illustrated. 268 pp. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press.
Cloth, $49.50. Paper, $15.95.

SANFORD J. UNGAR and Sarah J. Mahler recount the human tales that are ignored
when Americans, and their politicians, turn their anger against immigrants. If
we appreciated the difficulties recent arrivals face, both authors maintain, we
would be less likely to blame them for problems of our own making.

In "Fresh Blood," Mr. Ungar, the dean of the School of Communications at
American University, talks to immigrants everywhere, but he concentrates on such
relatively unknown groups as the Laotian Hmong in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area;
the Mashadi Jews of Iran, now living in Queens; Washington's Ethiopians and
Eritreans; and "second wave" Poles and Irish migrating to already
well-established ethnic neighborhoods in Chicago and Boston. Through his eyes we
experience the conflicts felt by nearly all immigrants between group loyalty and
the seductions of assimilation, the benefits of having karate lessons or
Alcoholics Anonymous meetings in one's native language, and the tensions within
ethnic categories that most Americans view as homogeneous.

"Fresh Blood" humanizes the people it depicts. Christopher Thao, one of 11
children of illiterate Hmong parents, came alone from Laos to Jasper, Ark., at
the age of 18 and is now a lawyer in a major St. Paul firm. Sophia Kim, who is
married to an Ethiopian, is proud that her children "may be the only
Korean-Ethiopians in the United States." But Mr. Ungar's fine book is not simply
a collection of success stories. He favors expansive welcoming policies but is
unsure whether they demand an appreciation of "adaptation gone awry," or a
recognition that "immigrants help renew, enrich and rediscover the values of
America." As if in acknowledgment of the complexities of the matter, his policy
proposals are modest, his opinions muted.

In this he is worlds apart from Ms. Mahler, an anthropologist at the University
of Vermont who, in "American Dreaming," focuses on illegal immigrants on Long
Island. Her subjects -- poor Salvadorans and primarily middle-class South
Americans from Peru, Chile and Colombia -- have fascinating stories to tell. At
home there was little but horror: a nun speaks of her rape and subsequent
pregnancy, other people of being caught between left-wing guerrillas and
right-wing terrorists, and most tell of a subsistence existence unimaginable to
the majority of Americans. The passage from that world to this one is filled
with anxiety: near-starvation on the journey through Mexico, possible betrayal
from the "coyotes" who act as brokers of human freedom, the uncertainties of the
border crossing itself. Once the immigrants are here, their jobs pay well
compared to those at home, but the cost of living is unexpectedly higher. For
Ms. Mahler, the life of illegals is filled with "deceit, dejection,
marginalization and exploitation."

Ms. Mahler's narrative skills bring these people to life, which makes it a shame
that her didactic intrusions and overweening political opinions squeeze the life
right back out of them. Juanita is overcharged by fellow Hispanics for housing,
but, Ms. Mahler laments, "she never mentions the structural causes of the
crisis." Some people proudly manifest their success by wearing gold chains and
fancy clothing, but, Ms. Mahler editorializes, "more substantial success remains
elusive." The Salvadorans and Ms. Mahler speak different languages: she wants
them to talk about injustice, discrimination and alienation, they want to talk
about their accomplishments, their disdain for African-Americans and their
in-group bickerings. They drive cars; she complains about the costs of
automobile insurance and the design of the Long Island Expressway.

Both authors believe that to like immigration it helps to like immigrants. But
this is just as fallacious as the notion, common on the right, that to dislike
immigration one must dislike immigrants. Most immigrants are just trying to get
by. Personalizing their stories, as important as that may be, runs risks in the
debate over immigration that neither author fully appreciates.

For one thing, the personal experiences of the immigrants themselves are not the
crucial factor in judging the morality of immigration policy. Even if life on
the margins in the United States is as awful as Ms. Mahler maintains, most would
still choose it if it offered the possibility of a better life for their
children.

In addition, tales of woe raise the inevitable question, which personal stories
can never answer, of whether there exists a means of comparing suffering. Yes,
immigrants find life difficult in America. But so do native-born Americans. Mr.
Ungar dutifully records stories about immigrant children having racial epithets
thrown in their faces, while Ms. Mahler explains the many ways in which illegal
immigrants can be paid too little or charged too much. Yet surely some
perspective is required before the moral books are closed. The obvious reason
these authors lack perspective is that Mr. Ungar, and to a much greater degree
Ms. Mahler, want Americans to feel guilty for the way they treat the immigrants
in their midst. But one can also feel proud to belong to a country that offers
immigrants a chance.

FINALLY, personalized accounts of immigration are of little help for policy
makers. Since we can never open our borders to everyone, we have to make
distinctions among different categories of claimants, all of whom have some
justice on their side. The most important one we make is between political and
economic refugees. Mr. Ungar is uncomfortable with that distinction, while Ms.
Mahler snorts with contempt over its absurdity. Indeed it can be blunt. Yet
something much like it is essential if we are to preserve a humanitarian
immigration policy. Sometimes justice to those we do not yet know requires
harshness to those in front of our faces. And that remains true even if we hear
their stories and come to know them as people.

The most illustrative story in either book is told by Rafael Ramirez, a Peruvian
described by Ms. Mahler. His journey to the United States was oppressive, his
employment in this country sporadic. His family remained behind. Injured at work
one day, he was awarded $40,000 and returned home to Callao. "I spent the first
month drinking beers with everyone I knew," he told Ms. Mahler. "But I got
bored. I had bought a house and furniture for it and everything, but I knew that
I could no longer stay. So my wife and I decided to come back to the United
States and we snuck over the border." Figure out the rights and wrongs in that
one, and you may have an answer to the immigration question the rest of us lack.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 17, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Small Gain In Big Fight To Liberate Puerto Rico

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 31;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Dec. 16


The mail arrived on Dec. 2 while Juan Mari Bras was celebrating his 68th
birthday in the western city of Mayaguez. He was already feeling lucky from
recovering from heart surgery a few months earlier, but he said the mail brought
the best gift he received that day -- the loss of his United States citizenship.

"I spent my whole life traveling the world with a U.S. passport to preach
independence for Puerto Rico," Mr. Mari Bras, a lawyer, said in an interview
this week. "I haven't been able to get it for everyone, but at least I got it
for me."

Now, Mr. Mari Bras plans to apply to Puerto Rico for citizenship, something that
is not formally recognized, as people born on the island are United States
citizens. But by his move he hopes to rejuvenate the slumping Puerto Rican
independence movement and force the governments of the island and the United
States to take another look at the relationship between the two.

The decision whether to allow a certificate of Puerto Rican citizenship will be
made by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. Mr. Mari Bras
envisions a court challenge if the certificate is denied.

The move by Mr. Mari Bras has touched off spirited debate among Puerto Ricans
and it has spread to the mainland. On learning of the action, a New York City
Councilman, Jose A. Rivera, who was born in Puerto Rico, invited Mr. Mari Bras
to speak at a ceremony on Dec. 22 at City Hall to honor the 100th anniversary of
the Puerto Rican flag.

The case has caused confusion at the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"All I can tell you is that we're aware of this rather unusual case and it is
under investigation," said a spokesman for the agency in Washington, Rob Koon.
The rights of people who renounce their citizenship but continue to live in the
United States are determined "on a case by case basis," he said.

Hundreds of United States residents renounce their citizenship each year to
become citizens of other countries or as political protests, according to the
State Department.

In December 1993, Mr. Mari Bras joined about 300 people in a mass renunciation
of their United States citizenship at a ceremony at which they adopted what they
said was a Puerto Rican passport. He is the only one so far to legally renounce
the citizenship.

The State Department approved his loss of citizenship on Nov. 22, more than 16
months after Mr. Mari Bras took the required oath before a United States Consul
in Venezuela, on July 11, 1994.

The State Department will not comment on the case except to confirm that Mr.
Mari Bras is no longer a United States citizen, said a spokeswoman, Suzanne
Lawrence.

Mr. Mari Bras is upset that the State Department official who prepared the
certificate wrote that he "expatriated himself" and left blank the space for his
new nationality. He had chosen Puerto Rico.

Mr. Mari Bras points out that the United States recognized Puerto Rican
citizenship under the Foraker Act of 1900. The Jones Act of 1917, which gave
United States citizenship to Puerto Ricans, does not supersede the earlier law,
he argues. "It's not expatriation," Mr. Mari Bras said. "My country is Puerto
Rico and I'm not leaving. I was born here."

The State Department will only list recognized countries on the form, Ms.
Lawrence said.

Now lawyers, politicians, and political analysts in Puerto Rico are wondering
whether Mr. Mari Bras will be allowed to continue to reside in his native city
of Mayaguez or to return to the island if he travels abroad.

Kenneth McClintock, a member of the Puerto Rican Senate and a statehood
advocate, said an internationally recognized Puerto Rican citizenship would
require new immigration rules and could confuse the perception of the island on
the mainland. A Puerto Rican citizen, he said, "is an American citizen in Puerto
Rico."

"If a court recognizes that he is a citizen of Puerto Rico then you are
imperiling the civil rights of all U.S. citizens residing in Puerto Rico," Mr.
McClintock said.

On Wednesday, Senator Ruben Berrios, president of the Puerto Rican Independence
Party, filed a resolution that would guarantee the rights of Puerto Ricans who
renounced their United States citizenship. The Senate will return from recess in
January.

Speaking of the independence movement, Mr. Mari Bras said: "It's going to take
off again. Right now we see the viability of independence as a way to increase
the interdependence of Puerto Rico. It should not only be between us and the
United States."

But Puerto Ricans appear badly divided over the status issue. In a plebiscite on
Nov. 14, 1993, voters decided by 48 percent to 46 percent to remain a
self-governing commonwealth subject to Federal laws instead of trying to become
the 51st state. Only 4 percent of the voters backed independence.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 20, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Seekers Lose in Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 122 words


To the Editor:

Re "Mexican Asylum Cases Must Be Reduced" (letter, Dec. 14):

Representative Lamar Smith asserts that his bill, House Resolution 2202, would
have the salutary effect of diminishing the number of "frivolous" claims for
political asylum in the United States.

He does not mention that it would foreclose many meritorious claims by imposing
a 30-day deadline for the filing of the complicated seven-page asylum
application form.

This deadline threatens to short-circuit asylum for applicants with a credible
fear of persecution but an inability to find quick, expert assistance in a
strange land, language and legal system.  CARL R. BALDWIN
New York, Dec. 14, 1995
The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 20, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Bars an Unruly Group After an In-Flight Fracas

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Dec. 19


Perhaps the captain never should have turned off the seat-belt sign.

A food fight broke out aboard a Northwest Airlines flight from London on Monday,
and when the plane landed here 17 passengers were sent back to Europe.

Another passenger was arrested on charges of interference with the crew after
officials said he had assaulted a flight attendant.

Marta Laughlin, a spokeswoman for the airline, said the travelers, who were from
three families, did not like having their drinking limited on the flight.

They began throwing food, yelling and swearing, the airline said. Ms. Laughlin
said she was told that children in the group were sent to steal liquor from the
flight attendants' beverage carts.

"It was a rowdy group," Ms. Laughlin said. "They were carrying on and they
didn't like the flight attendants limiting their alcohol. It was basically
pandemonium."

The captain radioed ahead to report the fracas after flight attendants tried to
quiet the group and met with resistance.

Federal officials herded aside the 18 travelers, ranging in age from about 4 to
65, after the plane landed here.

Dean Hove, acting district director for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said the travelers, believed to be British, were found to be
inadmissible to the United States.

Four were sent back to London on Monday, and 13 others were sent back today.

"They claimed to be tourists," Mr. Hove said.

But immigration agents believed they planned to stay in this country illegally,
Mr. Hove said. Officials said the passengers made inconsistent statements about
the purpose of their trip.

The passenger who was arrested, Michael Purcell, 25, appeared today before
Magistrate Judge Ann D. Montgomery and was ordered held without bond.

A criminal complaint said that Mr. Purcell had assaulted and intimidated a
flight crew member and flight attendant, interfering with their duties.

An affidavit by an agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation said Mr.
Purcell was loud, disruptive and aggressive on the eight-hour flight -- so
disruptive that the captain left the cockpit to try to calm him. He eventually
was restrained with handcuffs, the affidavit said.

The flight originated in London. After making its scheduled stop here, it
continued on to Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Israel Bars Seven U.S. Jews, Calling Them Security Risks

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 5;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Dec. 20


Israel barred entry today to seven American Jews, including a New York rabbi
whom the Government considers to be a security risk in light of the
assassination last month of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin.

The Interior Ministry said Rabbi Abraham Hecht, 73, of New York, had given a
religious justification for the killing of Mr. Rabin only months before it
occurred -- though he later apologized in a letter to Mr. Rabin days before the
assassination.

The ministry said today that the six other American Jews had been linked to
illegal activities in Israel, had backed groups outlawed in Israel or had been
active in the Jewish Defense League, which was founded by Rabbi Meir Kahane, an
anti-Arab activist who was assassinated in New York.

"All of these people have a criminal past, could endanger the public order or
endanger national security," Interior Minister Haim Ramon said. As a result,
they would be barred from entering the country or being granted immigrant
status, he said.

The names of the six others were not immediately available, nor was it clear
whether Mr. Ramon's statement was a preventive move or whether the seven had
actually been turned back by immigration control.  Under Israeli law, a
foreigner whose mother is Jewish can become a new immigrant and claim Israeli
citizenship.

"The files of these people were considered over a long period by security
officials and the state prosecutor, who unanimously recommended I exercise my
authority," Mr. Ramon told the Israeli radio.

Israeli officials pledged to crack down on extremists after the assassination of
Mr. Rabin on Nov. 4 by Yigal Amir, a religious Jew opposed to Israel's handing
over control of the West Bank to Palestinians.

Within days of the assassination, the Interior Ministry put into effect a policy
banning Jews identifying with Jewish "terrorist" groups, announcing it would
prevent the entry of an activist in Rabbi Kahane's Kach movement, which is
outlawed here.

In a speech in June, Rabbi Hecht talked of the "illegality" of turning land in
the West Bank over to Palestinian control. And citing the teachings of
Maimonides, he said killing those who endangered Israel was justified.

In remarks widely quoted in the American Jewish press, Rabbi Hecht cited
religious law that allows a person to be killed for handing over Jewish people
or property to an alien people -- apparently a reference to Mr. Rabin's deal
with the P.L.O. giving Palestinians self-rule in the West Bank.

After Mr. Rabin's killing, Rabbi Hecht was suspended from his synagogue in
Brooklyn for six months, though he maintains that the message of his speeches
was distorted.

The trial of Mr. Amir, Mr. Rabin's assassin, was put off from Tuesday until Jan.
23 in Tel Aviv. Mr. Amir, 25, has said he killed Mr. Rabin to prevent the
further handover of West Bank land to Palestinian control.

Israel's Channel 2 television broadcast a videotape on Tuesday in which Mr. Amir
is seen waiting for Mr. Rabin in a parking lot, stalking the Israeli leader and
shooting him in the back at close range. The parking lot had been cordoned off
and was supposed to be secure.

The broadcast prompted Israelis to ponder anew whether the assassination was a
result of a huge security blunder or a conspiracy. Some suggested that the Shin
Bet secret service, responsible for protecting Mr. Rabin, was somehow involved.

"My feeling after seeing the tape is that Yigal Amir did not act alone," said
Tamir Bar-Nathan, 23, who works at a Jerusalem bakery. "Someone was in on it,
whether it was the police or the Shin Bet, some official body."

"Killing the Prime Minister just looked so easy," he said.

Channel 2 said Mr. Amir had been seen in the secured area for about 20 minutes.
While others were barred from the area, Mr. Amir's presence did not seem to
raise any alarm. At one point three uniformed policemen stood beside him.

The newspaper Yediot Aharonoth said on Wednesday that Mr. Rabin was surrounded
by four bodyguards when he set out for the parking lot. The videotape shows one
of the bodyguards stepping aside at one point, leaving Mr. Rabin's back exposed.

Tom Segev, a prominent liberal Israeli journalist, called on the state
commission of inquiry investigating the security blunders to check conspiracy
rumors.

Jewish settlers have suggested that Shin Bet, hoping to catch Mr. Amir in the
act of trying to kill Mr. Rabin, tampered with Mr. Amir's gun to make it
ineffective, but that its plan went awry.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 23, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 89 words



Work Permits for Cash

Low-level immigration clerks in Manhattan have been taking bribes to issue
employment authorization cards to illegal immigrants, Federal officials said.
Page 29.

Death in the Andes

Colombian immigrants in the New York area mourned their own among the dead in
the plane crash in the mountains of Colombia on Wednesday. Page 6.

F.B.I. Blocks Plot on Poison

Federal agents have arrested an Arkansas man who they say was trying to smuggle
a poison capable of killing thousands of people. Page 7.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 24, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FLATBUSH;
Dutch Christmas Via the Caribbean

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 8;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 471 words


It has been a long time since Dutch was spoken at the Reformed Protestant Dutch
Church of Flatbush. This Christmas season, though, the white-steepled stone
church, which gave Church Avenue its name, reverberated once again with the
strains of caroling by families who are bringing Dutch heritage back to
Brooklyn. They do not, however, hail from the Netherlands but from the Caribbean
islands of Aruba and the Dutch Antilles, which like Brooklyn were colonized by
the Dutch in the 17th century.

A wave of immigrants from the islands arrived in the city in the 1940's when
many Arubans were laid off from their jobs at an oil refinery. Since then,
immigration has slowed to 100 or so people a year. Many keep in touch through
local social clubs like the Antillean Vets, whose members play softball in
Marine Park.

Recently, families from Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, St. Maarten, St. Eustatius and
Saba packed the church gym to sing, eat cookies like spekulaas and peper noten
and sit in the lap of Sinterklaas, the Dutch St. Nicholas. "I think we woke the
Dutch ghosts," said Ingrid Leer Charles, who grew up in Aruba and is secretary
of the Super Stars Fun Club, an Antillean social club.

According to Dutch legend, Sinterklaas is a white-bearded man dressed in red,
who wears a miter emblazoned with a cross and carries a staff. "He is a holy
man," Ms. Charles said, "a bit like the Pope." Sinterklaas is said to reward
good children with gifts while his servant, Zwarte Piet -- Black Peter --
punishes bad children.

Dutch picture books feature Zwarte Piet as a thick-lipped black caricature. The
Super Stars club, whose members are mostly black, has resisted incorporating him
into its holiday parties. But it plans to do so next year. "We didn't use him
because we used to talk about this racial business: Why should the bad one be
black and holy person white?" said Andy Williams, the club president. "But when
we were growing up, it wasn't that type of issue. So now we want to go back and
make it a nonracial issue and have him back, just like it was when we were
growing up."

James Jack, who grew up in St. Nicholas, Aruba, remembers those days. "We used
to have Sinterklaas come to school," he said. "And Zwarte Piet was terrifying.
He would jump through the classroom window. Some children would have tears in
their eyes."
   MICHAEL COOPER

TIMELINE
Dutch Tracks

 1600 Dutch land on Caribbean island of St. Eustatius.

1636 First Dutch settlements in Brooklyn: "New Amersfoort," where Flatlands is
today, and Gowanus.

1654 Peter Stuyvesant orders Reformed Protestant Dutch Church built in Flatbush.

1767 English is introduced at Dutch church services in Brooklyn.

1940's Many Arubans immigrate to New York.

1991 Dutch Christmas parties return to Reformed Protestant Dutch Church.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 29, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Foreigners Flock to Slopes to Work, Not Ski

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section A;    Page 16;    Column 1;    National Desk

LENGTH: 1481 words

DATELINE: SILVERTHORNE, Colo. Dec. 22


Snowshoes adorned the ski chalet wall, a snow-clad Rocky Mountain peak dominated
the bay window, and Sidy Ba paused in his cleaning chores to talk about the
mountains back home.

"In Mauritania, we have mountains, too, but it's the desert, the Sahara," the
32-year housekeeper said, his body lithe and his French precarious, since he
rarely used his second language during a nomadic youth spent herding goats along
the Senegal River in West Africa.

West Africans in the Rockies are part of the rapidly changing face of the ski
resort work force as the classic American ski bum, immortalized in movies and
magazine covers, becomes scarce. With American college students shunning
low-status jobs, and high housing costs scaring away American blue-collar
workers, hotels, resorts, and restaurants are increasingly trying to ease an
acute labor shortage by hiring immigrants from Africa, Latin America, Europe,
and the former Soviet Union.

The new ski resort worker is more likely to be looking for a long-term job that
will pay enough to help support the family at home, employers say, and less
likely to take up the standard resort offer of a free season pass for the ski
slopes.

"Ski?" asked Fatou Toure, a 20-year-old Ivory Coast woman and a charter member
of a new group, The Association of Africans in Colorado. "I'm here for a precise
goal: to make money. I see all those people slipping around; that's not for me."

Yet even with the influx of immigrant labor, as winter embraces the nation's
most popular skiing state, Colorado's mountain resorts are still struggling to
fill openings for chambermaids, janitors, sales clerks and other low-status
jobs.

Scarce and expensive housing in the resort areas may be partially to blame. But
some employers say the problem is caused by the confluence of long-term trends:
Jobs in the ski industry have increased while there are about the same number of
American college students, who have traditionally filled those jobs.

Also, employers say, those students have lost interest in these jobs, even if
the perks include free skiing time. The limited number of students who do want
to work in resorts find they can nearly always choose from among better paying,
cleaner jobs.

"Generally, the American college kid doesn't want to write home and say he is
cleaning toilets," said John W. Reilly, personnel manager for Ralston Resorts
Inc.

So employers are looking to workers like Sidy Ba to fill the gap.

"In the 1970's, the labor market was Denver, in the 1980's, it was national, and
in the 1990's, it went international," said Jim Felton, a spokesman for Ralston,
whose resorts include Arapahoe Basin, Breckenridge and Keystone. Mr. Felton
estimated that almost 10 percent of the workers at those areas were foreigners,
including European ski instructors, Australian parking attendants and Costa
Rican maids.

Gregorievich Harut, a 49-year-old former judo trainer from southern Russia,
works in the laundry at the Hampton Inn here.

"We're from Russia, Belarus, Lithuania, Ukraine," Mr. Harut said. "We're all
educated people -- a psychologist, a teacher, an economist, a lawyer."

In recent years, the United States Department of Labor has certified local
shortages of ski instructors and motel janitors, allowing Colorado resorts to
import workers on temporary visas. This season, for the first time, one Colorado
resort won permission to import nannies, lift attendants and restaurant workers.

Because of the shortage of workers, mountain resorts have taken to a variety of
tactics to court those looking for jobs.

"The Best Place to Work!" one ski area, Copper Mountain, implores from one of
three pages of help-wanted advertisements in today's Summit Daily News, a
newspaper here. Breckenridge, a competitor, woos prospective workers with a list
of "incredible benefits" that includes "a free ski pass for eight mountains
(that's 4,144 acres) of world class skiing." And the 7-Eleven chain offers
workers at their store here and in Vail "a $1/hr. bonus for employees who work
the entire ski season."

"Applicants interview us," groaned Barbara LeRoy, who largely hires Eastern
European housekeepers at the Hampton Inn here.

Despite a month of job fairs and heavy fall advertising in college newspapers,
the ski season has started with about 10 percent of Colorado's 86,000 ski
industry jobs unfilled, said John Frew, president of Colorado Ski Country USA, a
resort group. "All the resorts are looking for employees," he said.

In Colorado ski towns, wages generally start at $7 an hour, almost double the
national minimum wage of $4.25. In Idaho, another major skiing state, one resort
has raised all salaries by 35 percent in four years.

But Lalo Delgado, a counselor in Denver for Mexican immigrant workers, said,
"The problem in the resort areas is not the salaries -- it's that there are no
houses."

Describing the housing outside Aspen for Mexican workers, Sheriff Bob Braudis of
Pitkin County said, "We have visited trailers that are wall-to-wall mattresses.

"People tell me, 'Bob, you've got to clean up the valley.' I tell them: 'Who
cooked your breakfast this morning? Who cleaned your toilet?' "

In Silverthorne, one classified advertisement for a ski shop worker starts
simply: "Housing available."

To ease the housing shortage, the Roman Catholic diocese has built low-income
housing and has urged resorts to house their own employees. Here in
Silverthorne, for example, Keystone and Arapahoe provide housing for 1,100
employees -- about one-third of their combined peak season total.

Some Coloradans say greed has created a situation in which workers cannot afford
to live in the communities they serve.

"Before they search overseas for new janitors, ski resorts first should mop up
their own mess at home," Mark Obmascik, The Denver Post's environmental
columnist, wrote recently. "Resorts created a problem when they sold
million-dollar trophy homes around the base of their ski slopes but neglected to
provide basic shelter for the laborers who actually make the resorts run."

A casualty of these economic forces has been the growing shortage of American
college students interested in skiing, parties and work, usually in that order.

"For the standard ski bum, skiing is top of the list -- 'four or more, and out
the door,' " said Mr. Reilly of the Ralston Resorts, repeating the adage about
ski resort workers who vanish after four inches of new snow blankets the slopes.

In contrast, the new workers from Africa and other southern climates spurn free
ski lessons for a second job.

"We have a lot of relatives in Africa who don't have anything," said Mr. Ba, who
cleans rooms at Keystone during the day, then moonlights at a Wendy's
restaurant. "We can't live the life of America. We can't go to nightclubs, go to
restaurants, go to basketball games. We eat together. We send money home."

All the West Africans and Eastern Europeans who were interviewed said that they
had legal documentation to work in the United States.

But the Denver office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates
that the number of illegal aliens in Colorado has grown to about 22,000 today,
from 17,500 three years ago. The Federal agency has 17 field agents to control
illegal immigration in this state.

California's recent moves to strip illegal aliens of social service benefits
have diverted some Mexicans to labor-short Colorado, said Joe Greene, district
director of the Denver office of the Immigration Service. The number of Mexican
workers in the resort towns increases by thousands yearly, according to social
service workers.

Facing an influx of illegal workers, the agency last summer conducted a workshop
in Vail to teach mountain employers about forgeries of Social Security cards and
about the fines of up to $10,000 they can face for knowingly hiring illegal
aliens.

Earlier this month, the agency followed up on its word, conducting raids
throughout Vail and Aspen. Forty-five illegal workers were detained at 12
businesses, largely construction companies and restaurants. The workers, all
Mexicans, were deported.

"This will not be the only visit we make up there this season," Mr. Greene
promised from Denver.

Meanwhile, in the lee of the 12,777-foot-high peak of Buffalo Mountain,
Silverthorne's fledgling community of about 50 West Africans is gingerly coming
to grips with winter sports. Fofana Bakary, a one-time member of the Ivory Coast
Olympic boxing team, ventured out recently on a snow board.

"The first time I did, I fell, and it hurt all over," the 29-year-old said in
French, before dissolving into Dioula, a West African trading language, to crack
jokes with Miss Toure.

Turning to the English he has picked up at the Sav-O-Mat gasoline station here,
he said, with the confidence of a proven athlete, "Now, I want to buy a board --
and go fast."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Colorado ski resorts are increasingly turning to immigrants to
ease a labor shortage. Sidy Ba of Mauritania, a housekeeper in Silverthorne,
Colo., is among the Africans drawn to the state by the promise of work.; The
United States Labor Department permits Colorado to import some workers on
temporary visas. Gregorievich Harut, a judo trainer from Russia, works in the
laundry room of the Hampton Inn in Silverthorne. (Photographs by Brian Brainerd
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 31, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOOKING BACK, LOOKING AHEAD;
Turns of the Ethnic Kaleidoscope in Queens

BYLINE: By TONY MARCANO

SECTION: Section 13;   Page 8;   Column 4;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 579 words


It seemed to be a routine issue. The city's Landmarks Preservation Commission
proposed guidelines for a landmarked shopping district in Jackson Heights that
would restrict storefronts to certain colors and eliminate signs that hang out
over the sidewalk.

Residents who favored the guidelines called it a matter of esthetics. Immigrant
shop owners who opposed them called it racism.

Perhaps nowhere else in the city do immigrant issues overshadow nearly all
others to the extent they do in Queens. School overcrowding is linked to
thousands of immigrant families with school-age children. Doing business in the
borough often means doing business with an immigrant -- either as a merchant or
a customer. Queens has been described as "polyglot" so often that it's a cliche.
And with so many cultures colliding, misunderstandings are often difficult to
avoid.

Yet the culture clashes are what keeps Queens alive, and lively. The borough has
an estimated 120 nationalities, and traditional enclaves and neighborhoods are
becoming ever more mixed.

Take Flushing: once a center of Jewish life, it is losing its synagogues, just
as it lost its last kosher deli over the summer. But while the synagogues and
delis have been largely replaced by Asian churches and greengrocers, a thriving
Jewish immigrant community has emerged in nearby Kew Gardens Hills, populated by
young immigrants from Israel and the former Soviet Union. And the state of flux
continues: some of Flushing's Asian businesses are being supplanted as Indians
and Pakistanis branch out from Jackson Heights -- which had also long been
associated with Colombians, but is now seeing a large increase in the number of
Mexican immigrants.

The Colombian influence is still strong in Jackson Heights, just as the Korean
character of Flushing has not ebbed. But as living space and business
opportunities are exhausted in a given area, many immigrants have no choice but
to seek housing and employment wherever they can. The result: Mexicans and
Colombians living next to Pakistanis in Jackson Heights; Guyanese living next to
Poles in Ozone Park;; Koreans and Chinese living next to Afghans in Flushing,
and immigrants living next to the native-born everywhere.

For the most part, it's a borough of peaceful coexistence, although not always
outright harmony. Jackson Heights merchants with flashy signs say landmarks
guidelines will cut profits and drive them out of business; residents say they
are trying to maintain a neighborhood's character. A Chinese congregation says
dancing by Hispanic clients and mah-jongg games played by Asians at a
church-leased senior center are offensive to their faith and orders the center
out; the clients say it's just harmless fun.

For many institutions, it's adapt or die. In Woodside, a dying Episcopal church
hired an Indian pastor, and a newfound Indian congregation revived it. New
slaughterhouses in Ozone Park and fish markets in Jamaica that cater to
Caribbean immigrants are thriving. Those who fail to adjust are left behind --
an Elmhurst Elks Lodge, an anachronism with an all-white membership that has
failed to attract minorities, is dying.

However you look at it, change is inevitable. By the turn of the century, the
borough's white population is projected to drop to 34 percent of the total, from
48 percent just five years ago, while all other populations will increase,
according to a study by the City Planning Department.
   TONY MARCANO

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Newcomers School for immigrant students: Queens in
microcosm. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 1, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Women Seeking Asylum End Hunger Strike

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 31


A group of Chinese women, some of them survivors of the Golden Venture smuggling
ship that went aground off the coast of New York nearly three years ago, resumed
eating in a county jail on Friday, ending their 50-day hunger strike to protest
their detention and the Government's plans to deport them.

Frustrated by delays in their appeals for asylum, 10 illegal Chinese immigrants
detained in a Kern County jail in Bakersfield, Calif., began fasting on Nov. 9,
saying they would rather starve than remain in jail.

The women, who began drinking nutritional supplement beverages about three weeks
ago, ate rice and pancakes on Friday.

"I'm glad they've decided to start eating," said Paula Harris, a lawyer for the
Chinese American Foundation, which represented the women in appeals before the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But Russ Bergeron, a spokesman in Washington for the immigration service, says
the plight of these women has been exaggerated. "There were significant amounts
of food purchased before the strike, which indicates this perhaps was not a
spontaneous act."

Those who participated in the hunger strike say they are entitled to political
asylum because of China's family planning policies of forced abortions or
sterilizations.

But in a ruling in 1989, the Board of Immigration Appeals invalidated political
asylum claims based solely on China's family planning practices. Immigration
experts say that refugees must now show they face forced abortions and
sterilizations because of their political opinions, not merely their
citizenship.

The Golden Venture arrived off the shore of Queens in the early morning hours of
June 6, 1993. Most of its 286 passengers had given their smugglers up to $30,000
for passage to the United States, and some of the passengers had spent up to
three years in transit.

According to the immigration service and the New York City Medical Examiner's
office, 10 died after the grounding and 6 were never captured, while 76 have
been released and 47 have been deported to China. The remaining 147 are in five
prisons and jails around the country.

The hunger strike at the Bakersfield detention center has also sparked another
battle, between the lawyers for the 22 Chinese refugees and religious and
anti-abortion groups, who accuse one another of taking advantage of the women.

Members of Voice for Life, an anti-abortion group based in Bakersfield, Calif.,
and People of the Golden Vision, a religious group based in Dallastown, Pa.,
said that Ms. Harris and Joseph Poon of the Chinese American Foundation had
persuaded the women to begin the hunger strike to generate publicity.

Terri Palmquist of Voice for Life, said she began visiting the women before
their fast. "When I visited them the night before the hunger strike," she said,
"they told me they would not have to do it for more than 15 days and then they
would be free."

Mr. Poon did not return telephone calls to his office, but Ms. Harris adamantly
denied the allegations.

"My only concern is to effectuate the release of these girls," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 7, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE WORLD;
Europeans Redefine What Makes a Citizen

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

DATELINE: PARIS


CHILDREN born on French soil to foreign parents used to acquire French
citizenship automatically, but since 1993 they have had to apply for it before
their 18th birthdays. Like the rest of Western Europe, France has tightened
citizenship rules to discourage immigration. Nearly three million people in
France, immigrant and native alike, are unemployed, and extreme-right political
movements have persuaded 15 to 20 percent of the electorate that unemployment
would vanish if the immigrants went home.

In Germany, it can be easier for a child whose family lived in Russia for 200
years to become a German citizen than it is for an American or for the
German-born child of a Turkish "guest worker," even if that child speaks no
Turkish and has been educated in German schools. Germany defines citizenship by
bloodline. So Russian descendants of the ethnic Germans whom Catherine the Great
brought over to farm the Volga River Valley can come back to Germany as citizens
under the country's law of return. But most others wanting to acquire German
citizenship might find it easier to pass through the eye of a needle.

Britain, which admitted millions of people from its former African and Asian
colonies until the 1970's, long ago raised the barriers. A proposal in the late
1980's to try to settle nerves in Hong Kong, which reverts to China next year,
by giving full British passports to thousands of the colony's most dynamic
business leaders and investors met with howls of protest from British
politicians afraid of a backlash from their constituents. A recent attempt by
Chris Patten, the colony's Governor-General, to revive the proposal fell on deaf
ears.

While the creation of European Union points to a continent drawing closer
together, with many countries issuing European rather than national passports,
the efforts to limit immigration seem to be resulting in more rigid definitions
of citizenship rather than more relaxed ones.

Still Guarding the Borders

The anti-immigrant mood is widespread in Europe these days, and it's one of the
reasons why the 15-nation Union has not yet made good on a promise made five
years ago to do away with internal border controls and create a true common
market that could eventually stimulate the economic growth needed to bring down
chronic high unemployment.

Nine of the 15 nations eventually agreed to try to do away with inspection of
passports and identity cards at crossing points along their borders by Jan. 1,
1993, but that was postponed by more than a year. Belgium, Germany and Spain
don't guard their frontiers with France anymore but France, despite its claim to
be at the core of the new Europe, unilaterally delayed the elimination of border
controls by six more months at the turn of the year.

The French are worried about drug smuggling as well as illegal immigrants, and
basically they aren't yet confident that their neighbors will do the job of
barring the door for them as well as they can do it themselves.

For centuries, most of Europe has defined nationhood by ethnicity, even if
citizenship follows different rules. Liberty, equality and fraternity means
French citizenship today for 1.8 million people whose ancestors weren't Gauls,
most of them from its former North African colonies.

But in Germany, a country where 6.9 million foreigners live, barely a trickle
ever become citizens. Of the nearly 2 million Turks living there, only 19,000
acquired German citizenship in 1994. Many who might qualify (by having lived in
Germany for 15 years without a criminal record and by being self-supporting)
don't apply because they would have to give up Turkish citizenship and the right
to own or inherit property in Turkey, if they ever got it.

Citizenship, immigration and asylum are all connected issues. After the
unification of Germany in 1990, refugees began pouring into the country, and in
1992, 438,191 people from the Balkans, central Europe and elsewhere claimed
political asylum there. What most of them really wanted was a better life, but
until 1993, German asylum law entitled anybody who set foot on German soil to
make a claim and to make years of appeals if the claim was denied.

The seemingly uncontrollable influx led to firebombings and anti-foreigner
violence by neo-Nazi and other extremist groups and to a more general public
clamor to cut back the flow of asylum-seekers.

In 1993, the German Parliament changed the asylum law to make it possible for
German authorities to repel unqualified applicants at the point of entry. Asylum
applications plummeted, and last year they had dropped to about 127,000.

More than half of these people were fleeing countries where xenophobia exploded
into war. With the disintegration of Yugoslavia, hundreds of thousands of people
who had lived as "Yugoslavs" in a multi-ethnic state were driven out of their
homes, raped and murdered simply because they happened to be Muslim, Croat or
Serb.

Can Slovaks Be Czechs?

While Bosnia may be an extreme example, the results of intolerance can be seen
elsewhere. Even in the Czech Republic, widely viewed as the most tolerant and
democratic of all the formerly communist states of central Europe, a Czech human
rights group estimates that about 20,000 Gypsies have been denied citizenship
since 1993. No citizenship means no health benefits or pension rights, and
Gypsies are not the only ones who have problems because of the Czech Republic's
law, which grants citizenship most easily to ethnic Czechs. Slovaks, no matter
how long they had lived in the Czech part of the country, became foreigners the
instant the country split up, and had to apply for Czech citizenship if they
wanted it. Many did not qualify. International organizations have urged Czech
officials to change the law, but so far they have made no move to do so.

Problems like these exist on a larger scale throughout much of the former Soviet
Union, causing political insecurity in central and eastern Europe.
Disenfranchised Russian minorities in Belarus, Ukraine and the Baltics look to
Russia for protection that Russian nationalists like Vladimir Zhirinovsky would
be only too happy to give them.

Chaos produces political backlash, which is why the nationalist, Communist and
Agrarian opposition to President Boris N. Yeltsin will have about 250 of the 450
seats in the Parliament that was elected last month.

Here in France, where double-digit unemployment may be the undoing of the
welfare state, the right-wing National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen wins votes
by saying that the 3 million unemployed French workers would find jobs if 3
million immigrants would go back where they came from.

But demographic experts say he's wrong. Low birth rates in France, and in
Germany and Britain too, mean that workers from outside will be needed to pay
the pensions of the baby-boomers who will start retiring after the turn of the
century.

Maintaining their high standard of living is definitely something that appeals
to the hearts of well-off Europeans, who might eventually be driven by economic
self-interest into simplifying citizenship rules.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Turkish workers in Germany, even children born there, are
rarely able to obtain German citizenship. (Metin Ylmaz/Paparazzi); A human
rights group estimates that 20,000 Gypsies have been denied Czech citizenship
since 1993. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 7, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

What Immigration Crisis?

BYLINE: By Richard Rayner;   Richard Rayner is a frequent contributor to the
Magazine. His last article was on Bruce Willis in May. He was assisted in this
article by an interpreter, Jose Pallares.

SECTION: Section 6;  Page 26;  Column 1;  Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 7327 words


MARIA T. BITES HER NAILS. AT 31, WITH FIVE CHILDREN, she's one of the 1.7
million immigrants now estimated to be living in California illegally. She
speaks almost no English, even though she has been in America for more than
eight years. In her clean and sparsely furnished living room, her kids --
Gustavo (11), Mario (7), Maribel (6), Cesar (5) and Joan (4) -- are in front of
the TV, laughing first at "Home Improvement," then at "The Simpsons."

The refrigerator is almost empty; it contains only a gallon of milk, some
Kool-Aid, a few tortillas. Her life is frugal, a devotion to the future of her
children. Though there are three bedrooms in the apartment, all five sleep with
her because she hates to let them out of her sight. Since she has no car and can
rarely afford the bus, the family walks everywhere, Maria leading the way like
Mother Goose with the kids behind toting Batman and Pocahontas backpacks. On a
typical day she walks six miles, shuttling between her apartment and the local
school in Van Nuys.

In Guadalajara her husband was a thief, a drug addict, a small-time street
hustler who with friends jumped some guy and, during the robbery, knocked out
his teeth. The man's friends came looking for him with a machete. They chopped
off his hands. One was beyond repair, but doctors were able to sew back the
other. He also sustained injuries to the head and neck. His brain was damaged,
Maria says, and he began to abuse and beat her.

For her, as for so many, the decision to make the journey to El Norte was the
beginning of an epic. Gustavo was 3 at the time, Mario was 8 months, and she was
5 months pregnant with Maribel. Maria crossed the border with the help of a
coyote, a guide, but when she arrived in San Diego the woman who'd paid for her
brothers' crossings didn't have any money this time. Maria was kept a slave in
the coyote's house. He beat and raped her until, after three months, her brother
raised $300, half the sum agreed for the crossing, and the coyote let her go.

She stayed with her brother in Los Angeles, the Pico-Union district, and it was
here that Maribel was born. "I'd come out of labor and I was staring at the wall
and I said to my sister-in-law, 'Look, she's there.' She said, 'Who?' I said,
'The Virgin Mary.' She said: 'There's nothing there. You're crazy.' But it was
true all the same. For eight months the Virgin would appear to me. She made me
strong.

"At first I had to beg for food. Sometimes I did day work for Latinos, for $10 a
day. I'd take off into the city on the bus, not really knowing where I was
going, and get off to beg on the streets. I'm ashamed of that."

Slowly, she clawed her way up. It is in so many ways a classic immigrant's tale,
although she has been the beneficiary not just of her own drive, but also of
something equally important -- welfare. She's here illegally, with fake ID, and
she doesn't work. She receives $723 in cash and $226 in food stamps, and Section
8 takes care of more than two-thirds of her $1,000 rent (high, because landlords
know illegals won't complain).

It's a myth, however, that anyone can come over the border and start milking the
system. Only Medicaid and limited food benefits are available to illegal
immigrants, and most don't apply for these because they fear detection by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Maria T. gets what she does because of
her children who were born here.

Local, state and Federal Governments spend about $11.8 billion a year educating
legal and illegal immigrant children, according to the Urban Institute, a
nonpartisan research organization, compared with the $227 billion spent to
educate all children. Generally, this is more than offset by the taxes that
legal and illegal immigrant families pay -- $70.3 billion a year, the Urban
Institute says -- while receiving $42.9 billion in total services. (Illegal
immigrants pay $7 billion in taxes.)

Maria T. thus represents the nightmare scenario -- an illegal immigrant who's
sucking money from the system and putting nothing back. Even so, it's not clear
that she's a villain. She hopes one day to go to work herself. She hopes and
believes that her bright children will become outstanding. She believes in
America, as the man said at the beginning of "The Godfather," though it's the
Government that is helping her out, not Marlon Brando.

MY WIFE, FROM FINLAND, HAS A GREEN card; I'm English, in the process of applying
for one myself; our son was born an American. When we moved into our house in
Venice, Calif., one of our neighbors, an elderly white woman with whom we're now
very friendly, said, "No Americans live on our block anymore."

Maybe she had the jitters about new neighbors, or maybe there was something else
at play. I knew that her father had been born in Germany and had journeyed to
Detroit, where she was born. I wanted to say that logically, therefore, our son
is every bit as American as she is. But in any debate about nationality, I know,
logic fades fast.

My own father once traced our family tree back to 1066, when one Baron de
Rainier sailed from Normandy to help conquer England. Since then, give or take
the occasional Irish excursion, my progenitors were all born within a hundred or
so miles of one another in the north of England. So, when I came to America and
found that nearly everyone was from somewhere else if they stepped back a
generation or two, I found myself thrilled and oddly at ease. It explained
America's drive, its generosity and up-for-anything energy. As Melville wrote,
"We are not a nation, so much as a world."

Not everyone sees things this way. Many have drawn a line behind which they
stand, true Americans, fearful and angry about the erosion of their identity.
With unintended irony they talk of themselves as "natives." On immigration, they
argue that enough is enough, that the borders must be secured and a drastic
cutback enforced. Those who are allowed in, they say, must be professionals or
skilled workers because the others -- mobs of unskilled, third-world peasants --
drain resources and take jobs. They cost billions and dilute the gene pool. They
are mutating the face of America.

California itself, for instance, passed an anti-immigrant measure with scary
ease. In last year's state election nearly 60 percent voted for Proposition 187,
the so-called Save-Our-State initiative, which sought to deny public education,
nonemergency health care and welfare to illegal immigrants. By linking illegal
immigration to joblessness and crime, Pete Wilson revived his flagging
gubernatorial campaign and was swept back into office, even though, as an exit
poll showed, few who voted for 187 actually thought it was going to work.

Wilson was avid for votes and a reaction and he got both. Many legal Latinos,
fearful of deportation, refused to go near schools and emergency rooms. There
was immigrant bashing and hate mail. Since the Republicans took control of the
United States House and Senate, moreover, it seems as though all Washington has
been grandstanding on the issue. Dozens of immigration-related bills were
introduced last term, including two major vehicles, one from Senator Alan
Simpson of Wyoming and the other from Representative Lamar Smith of Texas. At
some point, the two bills could be rolled into one. Simpson aims to have the new
law in force by October 1996. This is all happening at warp speed.

Many of the bills are mean-spirited and, to a lot of observers, wrongheaded. One
would impose a tax on employers who hire legal aliens. Others would deny
citizenship to children born in this country to illegals, or eliminate some
categories of family immigration. The anti-immigration forces have done an
excellent job of creating an atmosphere of crisis in which the debate has
focused on how to slow the "flood" of immigration, legal and illegal. But
illegal immigration should not be folded over to scapegoat legals as well. The
real point is that there isn't any immigration crisis.

Solving the problems we do have will require more than hastily drawn
legislation. Demetrios Papademetriou, an immigration expert with the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, says: "Polls tell us that Americans are
worried about illegal immigration. Good. Let's take care of it. Polls say people
think some employers are too unscrupulous with immigrants. Let's take care of
that, too. But this requires patience and wisdom. Congress has neither at this
time."

"THE PERCEPTION IS THAT IMMIGRATION IS OUT of control," says Joel Kotkin, author
of "Tribes" and a fellow at the Pepperdine University Institute of Public
Policy. "It isn't. If you say to most Americans, 'We have 800,000 legal
immigrants a year,' they're going to reply, 'Hey, that's not so bad.' And this
is the truth of the situation. But it's somehow been demonized so that people
think there are millions coming across the border."

The Border Patrol logged 1,094,718 apprehensions in 1994. On page 26 of his
"Alien Nation," a leading restrictionist, Peter Brimelow, writes that legal
immigration is "overwhelmed by an estimated 2 to 3 million illegal entries into
the country in every recent year." He goes on to note, correctly, that many of
these illegal entrants go back home, and that some trundle to and fro across the
border every day. By page 33, however, he's writing "a remarkable 2 to 3 million
illegal immigrants may have succeeded in entering the country in 1993."

Within seven pages illegal entrants have mysteriously become illegal immigrants,
attached to that hyperbolic two to three million, a figure vigorously disputed
by I.N.S., which regards as preposterous the idea that for every border crosser
caught another three get away. Indeed, throughout the 1970's there were some
eight million border apprehensions and during that time, according to the best
estimates of I.N.S., about one million illegals came to reside -- seven
apprehensions per illegal immigrant.

So how many illegals are coming in and staying each year now? The Urban
Institute says 250,000 to 300,000. The Center for Immigration Studies, a
conservative research group, says 400,000, while I.N.S. says 300,000. The Census
Bureau until recently guessed 200,000 to 400,000; now it agrees with the I.N.S.

The 300,000 figure is considered firm because it was based on the years
following 1988, when the I.N.S. started to process the genuinely reliable data
it amassed following the 1986 amnesty for illegals. Too much of this and the
eyes glaze over, but the gist is, the further you get from 1988, the flakier the
statistics become. And the argument over the number of illegal immigrants is
nothing compared with the furor over how much they cost.

The fact is, no one knows for sure; there is simply no up-to-date research. "The
issue has caught political fire," Papademetriou says. "But serious academics
haven't got out into the field yet. They're reluctant to play into the hands of
the politicians."

Immigration is in the spotlight not because of money but because it so impinges
on issues like race, the role of government, national identity and change. Name
an issue and you can hook it to immigration. One side looks at crime, failing
schools and soaring welfare spending and sees too many immigrants. The other
sees America, the greatest nation on earth, built on the backs of immigrants and
still benefiting enormously from the brains, energy and determination (not to
speak of low wages) of the next generation of newcomers. Right now the debate is
more emotional than informed. It's all temper tantrums and red-hot sound bites.

WHEN PEOPLE COMPLAIN ABOUT IMmigration, about the alien "flood," it's Latin
Americans they mean, who from their entry points in California and Miami are
fanning out through the country. There's concern about the small minority who
are criminals, and the seeming reluctance of these people to learn English.
Mixed in with this is the prejudice summarized by D. H. Lawrence in "Mornings in
Mexico." They are other, he concluded, they are dirty, I don't trust them and
they stink. There's also the suggestion that Latinos are lazy, though everywhere
you look in Los Angeles you see evidence to the contrary.

Until recently the rough understanding was that, though you may have arrived
illegally, if you manage to stay you get legal. There's a desire to thwart that
now, and an unanticipated effect of Proposition 187 was a record surge in
citizenship applications. The Los Angeles district alone receives about 25,000 a
month. This scramble for certainty of status prompted the I.N.S. to process
90,000 applications in 1994 and 125,000 in 1995, with 250,000 projected for
1996.

On a hot September morning I visit the basement of the Federal Building on Los
Angeles Street to sit in on preliminary interviews. Applicants must show that
they have been law-abiding, tax-paying residents for at least seven years. They
must be able to read, write and speak English, and correctly answer a
substantial proportion of a questionnaire about current affairs, history and
constitutional principles. In a little booth an I.N.S. interviewer asks Maria
Elena Ortiz, a Mexican-born resident for 17 years, who the Mayor of Los Angeles
is.

She doesn't know.

"What is the highest law of the land?"

"The Ten Amendments," she says.

"What is the capital of the United States?"

"Sacramento."

"No," says the interviewer. "The capital of the United States."

She's unsure.

"Where does Bill Clinton live?"

"Washington, D.C.?" she answers, still doubtful.

The next day, at the downtown convention center, 3,500 applicants who have
successfully negotiated this interview and all the other I.N.S. hurdles attend a
ceremony to become citizens. It's a feel-good affair, serious business mixed
with Super Bowl hoopla and a celebration of the immigration myth. A guy from
I.N.S. in a crisp and collarless white shirt stands up to sing "The
Star-Spangled Banner." An MTV-style video shows a farmer in the Kansas wheat
fields, the Dallas Cowboys, a squadron of F-16's booming out above the Rockies.
Federal Judge Dickran Tevrizian talks of the courage it takes to leave one's
birthplace and fulfill one's dreams. "We Americans by birth can learn from you
Americans by choice," he says. He then requests that these particular new
citizens not go out and do graffiti. When the judge finishes, 3,500 fists, 40
percent of them Mexican until just a few moments before, raise high the Stars
and Stripes and wave.

MARIA T. TAKES ME TO MEET SOME FRIENDS WHO live in the poor, densely populated,
northeast section of the San Fernando Valley. I'm standing on the sidewalk when
a skinny white guy comes up, offering a Makita power drill, still in its box,
for $20. The street is filled with drug dealers.  Behind a locked gate, the
building's 32 apartments are cramped around a tiny concrete courtyard where all
the young kids play. Two of the kids, maybe 4 or 5 years old, get excited when
they hear the tinny music of an ice-cream truck and rush out toward the street.
Beyond the gate it's gangsters and rap, urban America; inside you could be in
Mexico.

Agustin C. and Maria V. have four children: Vanessa, Antonio, Alejandro and
Catalina. Vanessa, the oldest, 7, is Maria's child by a previous relationship;
all were born here. Agustin has a genuine green card valid until 2004, while
Maria is here illegally. Her first fake green card, which cost $50, almost got
her caught. The second was a much better buy at $150. She shows it to me
proudly. "I've already got four jobs with this one."

They pay $600 a month for a ground-floor apartment with two bedrooms, one bath
and a small living room with kitchen attached. The TV is tuned, as always, to
Channel 32, a Spanish-language station. The brown shag carpet is littered with
crayons, empty soda cans and broken tortilla chips. Two fans -- one on the
floor, the other above the dining table -- stir the stagnant air, while flies
circle an open trash bin in the center of the room. A cockroach skitters down
the wall.

"I came to America to work," says Agustin. "Before, I knew only what I was told,
that it was easy to earn money. They said you could sweep dollars up from the
streets like leaves."

With sly humor, Maria says: "And now it's true, he does -- in a way. He's a
gardener."

Agustin's smile shows a shattered top jaw, front teeth victims of a soccer game.
He works for a landscape company that tends the lawns, sprinklers and hedges of
corporate office buildings throughout the valley. He gets up at 6 in the morning
and often doesn't return until 7 at night. For this he receives $300 a week,
though his boss has just agreed to a raise to $350. His ultimate goal is
citizenship for both him and Maria, though he says, "I'm proud to be Mexican."

He came to America in 1986, at age 20. By then he'd worked construction all over
Mexico and had unloaded fish at Vera Cruz. He was already married, with two
children, when -- he's reluctant to admit -- he discovered that his wife was
cheating on him. His mother-in-law, who now looks after those two children,
helped him with money for the journey.

Agustin is a hustler, an adventurous survivor. His grandfather died at 132, he
says. When I express skepticism he springs out of his chair and hurries into the
bedroom, returning with a cheap nylon gym bag, which, he says, contains his
grandfather's birth certificate. Rooting around inside, however, he can't find
it. Instead, with pride he shows me the stub of the first paycheck he received
in America; it's for $105.26, for a 40-hour week. He goes on pulling more and
more stuff out of the bag. He has kept not just that first check stub, but every
other one since. The bag holds nothing less than the history of his life here --
letters and postcards from back home, copies of his tax returns and dealings
with I.N.S. and the various fake ID's he used before getting his legal green
card. He did all the paperwork himself. He has friends who used lawyers, he
says, but they ended up getting cheated.

I recall a visit to Room 1001 of the downtown Federal building to pick up my
work permit and "advanced parole status" (preliminary green card approval). Room
1001 proved not to be a room at all but a huge induction and inquiry area in
which 1,500 people stood in line or waited for their names to be called. More
stood outside, around half the block, trying to get in. The crowd was almost
entirely Asian, Middle Eastern and Hispanic. I spotted only two other whites,
one an English hairdresser protesting so loudly at the indignity of being made
to wait at all that I moved away and sat next to a middle-aged Mexican with a
mustache and a cowboy hat who told me he'd been coming here five years now for
his green card.

Five years! My heart plunged, but my expensive and very efficient Century City
lawyer had provided an immigration specialist, a "facilitator" as he called
himself, to walk me through. When, after an hour or so, a list of names
mysteriously boomed out over a loudspeaker, mine was at the top. The fellow who
had been in the mill all this time shrugged and smiled. It seemed like a
miracle, although I knew this was exactly what it was not. Wheels had been
oiled, though on this occasion, staring at all those faces dazed with boredom, I
felt no guilt, merely gratitude. I waltzed out five minutes later bearing the
employment card that made me legal.

Agustin doesn't resent his own difficulties. Whites have treated him pretty
well, he says. He has no complaints. His mistrust and dislike are reserved for
blacks, whom he believes are given all the breaks. "There's a system. You have
to learn how to exist within the system."

He first heard about Proposition 187 when he came home one night, showered and
turned on the TV. "I wasn't comfortable with it. Maria could be deported, with
our kids, and it would totally destroy my family. Sure, there are cases of
abuse. But nearly all of us want to work. Here in California they hire us
happily for low wages. Then they throw immigration at us if we ask for more. I
think they're scared that we might become them. We're the people that made
California. We built it."

By the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848, Mexico ceded California to the
United States. It was just at this time that gold was discovered and lotus-land
took on a new importance. Mexicans feel to this day that they were cheated, and
that in coming to California they are asserting a historical right; with each
payday and welfare check they claim revenge. "It's a scar, not a border," notes
the Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes.

Sucking at his broken teeth, Agustin says: "Mexico is overshadowed by the U.S.,
which tends to use smaller countries for its own benefit. Americans buy our oil
cheap, refine it and sell it for less. They exploit us and then they get upset
when we come here." He goes quiet, and wipes his hands. He seems a little
embarrassed. He says sadly, "I agree that the immigration problem is
overwhelming."

IT'S TRUE THAT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PUT A tremendous burden on the health and
education systems. The Los Angeles Unified School District creaks under their
influx. Vanessa, a fearless girl with an attention span as long as a rock video,
attends a Van Nuys elementary school. She is taken there each morning and
collected each afternoon in a van by "the driver," as he's known in the
neighborhood, to whom Maria and other mothers pay $12 a week. Ten years ago
there were 750 pupils at the school. Now there are 1,550, and nearly 400 more
are bused out. More than 85 percent are Hispanic, most from families like that
of Agustin and Maria, for whom getting the kids dressed and out to school is
sometimes too much. The school, accordingly, has a high rate of nonattendance
and transiency. There's a constant influx of new students throughout the school
year.

Vanessa's teacher is a chunky young guy with a mustache and a powerful, square
jaw. He was born in Los Angeles to Mexican parents with little education. "A lot
of people who come to El Norte, they think all their problems disappear," he
says. "They know they'll get more money. But the hurricane of getting a job,
paying the bills -- that soon takes over, and they don't look after their kids'
education. I know these people work so hard. But a child can fall behind and
behind and behind and then that's it, they're lost."

Vanessa, in danger of this, might be sent to special ed. "Maybe she'll make it
out," her teacher says. "But most likely she'll marry at a very young age, have
kids and depend on the government, welfare."

One of the immigrant's implied bargains is this: I'll do your bad jobs for not
much money, but you must educate my children. In return, the welcoming country
expects that the immigrant and his or her family learn the national language. I
remember that in Agustin and Maria's apartment the only reading material of any
kind is Bride's magazine, from which Maria plots her wedding to Agustin next
year. But then I also remember that Agustin and Maria work so hard they haven't
time for much else. They're intimidated by the education system, perhaps even by
books themselves.

Meanwhile, Vanessa, black-haired and beautiful, shoots up her hand to answer all
the questions. She's eager, overeager, perhaps because I'm there with the
photographer, and gets most of them wrong. Her T-shirt says, "When I Grow Up I
Want to Be a Movie Star."

By now I think I'm getting to know this family pretty well. I'm doing that
writer's thing of congratulating myself on having got out there and actually met
people. Then one morning out of the blue Maria says: "The other family who live
here just had a baby the night before last. They came back from hospital today."

I say, "The other family?"

She gestures back toward the corridor that leads to the bedroom from which
Agustin had produced his gym bag, to a shut door behind which I'd supposed the
kids slept.

Another family lives in there? A whole family?

She nods.

I'm fascinated. It's not just that I've been naive. Something has been revealed,
one more barrier of mistrust cleared away. Of course, there must be others. And
then there's something else: levels of hierarchy don't stop with immigrant and
nonimmigrant, legal and illegal. Agustin and Maria have tenants who, it turns
out, pay $250 a month for the smaller of the apartment's two bedrooms and use of
the bathroom and kitchen. The arrangement doesn't seem to work. Maria is wishing
they'd leave so she could bring in one of her sisters who has twin baby girls.
Then her sister could baby-sit for her while she worked 13-hour night shifts at
a local print shop, a job she had done before and to which she's been asked
back.

In due course the young couple appear, Ruben and Lena, carrying their new baby
in a car seat. Next day, at a wedding party for Maria's sister, Ruben explains
that he, like Agustin, was born in a pueblo in the state of Hidalgo and came
across when he was 15.

Now he's a dayworker, one of the many thousands in Los Angeles who stand on
corners waiting to be hired. He takes a 90-minute bus ride each morning to the
far southwest side of the valley, because that's where the white people are.
"They pay better," he says. "And are less likely to cheat you."

At 7:30 in the morning, he stands on a street corner beneath a Bank of America
sign that towers above the parking lot of the 7-Eleven. He spoons noodles into
his mouth as a flatbed truck pulls in with two workers already in the back. The
driver buys a Snapple and the truck heads out again, up into Topanga Canyon.
"There's a lot of construction up there," says Ruben. "Many rich people. But
they use legal workers. Those guys will get $20 an hour. I'm looking to get $7,
$8 an hour." Sometimes, however, he has to take $4.

What patrons are doing is against the law as well. Negotiations happen in a
blink, before the 7-Eleven security guard has a chance to jot down the license
of the car, which he passes on to his boss, who'll give it to the police -- at
least that's the threat. It's a hustling scene. By 8 A.M. there are perhaps a
hundred workers, grouped in various spots around the block. The security guard
has been instructed to let them stay because, of course, they spend money at the
7-Eleven.

Historically, immigration has been tolerated, even encouraged during labor
shortages. Labor migration has been going on for centuries and it's hard to see
how 300,000 or so illegal immigrants per year will make or break the American
economy. Indeed, in Los Angeles they're most likely an asset. The number of
illegals in California is thought to be growing by 125,000 a year -- hardly an
economic catastrophe in a state of 31 million. In Los Angeles, where 80,000 jobs
were created last year, it's a definite plus. The city has a thirst for people
who will work for $5 or even $3 an hour.

The legal Chinese immigrants who have revitalized the San Gabriel Valley, the
Latinos who are opening businesses in depressed areas of South Los Angeles and
the Russians and Iranians who are opening businesses all over are the principal
reasons the city is so different from, say, Detroit. Despite the fires, the
earthquake, the riots, the decimation of the defense and aerospace industries,
Los Angeles is very much alive. Says Joel Kotkin: "The only place where American
society is evolving is where the immigrant influx is strong. Cities would have
no future without them. But if you're sitting in Idaho, it looks different."
ON SATURDAY AGUSTIN and Maria and all four kids pile into the family car, a
20-year-old beige Datsun with more than 200,000 miles on it, a type of vehicle
so common in Los Angeles that it has a name: Border Brothers' Cadillac. Agustin
got it from a man he met through work, in exchange for doing the man's garden
each Saturday for a month. Today is the fourth and final Saturday.

With Maria at the wheel the Datsun heads out onto Sepulveda Boulevard, and a cop
car pulls up alongside. Inside the Datsun there's a sudden alarmed flurry
because, it turns out, Maria has no California driver's license: if caught,
therefore, her fake ID would most likely be discovered and she'd be in all sorts
of trouble. But the black-and-white makes a left, and she smiles with nervous
relief. I ask why she bothers, if every time she gets behind the wheel she risks
deportation and the breakup of her family.

"I like to drive," she says.

I remember that Elton Gallegly, the Republican Representative for Ventura
County, has added a provision to Lamar Smith's bill, to the effect that if
you're here for 12 months, undocumented, you'll be prohibited from trying to
become legal for 10 years. The motto is seek, bar, deport. He's hoping to make
it impossible for illegals to stay.

"He's hallucinating," Maria says. "Does he think I'm just going to up and leave?
Even if I am found and deported I'm going to crawl back here on my stomach if
necessary to be with my children. He'll only push us deeper underground."

This is stupid, I say. You should get yourself legal: follow the procedures,
marry Agustin, become a citizen -- it's not that difficult.

"I know," she says, and explains how she dislikes governments telling her what
to do. She hated it in Mexico as well. Governments are there to be mistrusted
and got around, she says, sounding every bit a member of the Michigan militia.
"I put more into this society than I get out," she says. "I work, I don't claim
welfare, my children are Americans."

And so, meanwhile, she likes to drive.

We head west to a leafier, more prosperous section of the valley and stop
outside a big house with a spanking new silver Lincoln in the drive. The
electronic garage doors open to reveal two more cars, a new BMW and a new Honda
Civic, and Agustin steps inside to heft out the tools. He mows the lawns, front
and back, adjusts the sprinklers, wields a buzzing trimmer at the edges.

The owner of the house, Antoine, a dapper middle-aged man dressed entirely in
white, steps out with sodas for the kids and presents each of them with a crisp
dollar bill. "Funny, isn't it?" says Antoine. "How something that means nothing
to oneself can mean so much to someone else."

Los Angeles has more social gradations than a Henry James novel. People are kept
separate by language, by geography and mostly of course by money, a point
Antoine has used $4 to make.

Antoine's kindly superiority is without thought or effort. He thinks of himself
as a weary and saddened man of the world, not as an American, and certainly not
as an immigrant. Yet he's of Armenian descent, born in Lebanon, where he worked
in the hotel business. When the civil war really got going, back in the 1970's,
he was twice kidnapped by Muslim groups, and so he left to come here. His
24-year-old son was killed by shelling in Beirut a month ago, about the time he
decided to give Agustin the car. "I think there are too many immigrants," he
says. "But Agustin is a nice guy and a hard worker. I like him."

Which pinpoints another problem: too many, but a nice guy and a hard worker.
Immigration is typically an area where public pronouncement is at odds with
private behavior. The whole debate is an onion. You can go on and on peeling
back the layers and incongruities. Governor Wilson himself was embarrassed by
the unsurprising revelation that he'd once hired an illegal. In California this
is neither remarkable nor unusual, considering the available labor pool.
Moreover, the distinction between legal and illegal starts getting fuzzy the
moment they decide to stay and try to change their status, a process that --
even as I.N.S. struggles manfully -- often takes years.


SOUTH OF SAN DIEGO I RIDE out with the Border Patrol, which prides itself on
being bigger and much more visible these days. Federal money has boosted the
number of agents in the San Diego sector to 1,500, compared with 798 in 1991. At
a cost of $46 million, "Operation Gatekeeper" has been put into effect, a
clampdown designed to squeeze border-runners away from traditional crossing
areas like Imperial Beach, where they can easily hop onto a bus or train, into
others farther east where the journey is longer and more arduous.

The border was once chaotic and violent. Now it's surreal. The "coyotes" occupy
the high ground, warning each other with bird calls when agents approach. A
Vietnam-vintage Bell chopper, small enough to get into the canyons, whirls with
its searchlight blazing. On a hill overlooking the ocean and a former K.G.B.
listening station on the Mexican side, a truck looms in the night with a huge,
humming infrared periscope sticking out the top. Inside, in the eerie light, an
agent stares into a screen on which humans are shown as white blobs, referred to
as "glows."

Leaning against the hood of another truck, staring up at the ugly 10-foot-high
steel wall that now snakes along 24 miles of the border, an agent speaks with
regret of the wild days not so long ago when they'd come pouring over 1,000 at a
time and he'd nab as many as 50 or even 100 by himself. All the rest would get
away. Now it's more of a cat-and-mouse game, he says, moving toward the fence as
a figure clambers on top, spots him and then jumps back. "Do you think you could
do this all night?"

A big friendship park dedicated by Pat Nixon in 1974 is deserted now, its picnic
tables crumbling in the shadow of the wall. "It's a battle, it's a war," says Ed
Head, night supervisor at the Imperial Beach station. "It's good to feel that
we're winning for a change."

Coming up on midnight, an agent takes me on a long and bumpy ride, way out east
into the San Ysidro Mountains, where we've heard that two or three groups of
illegals, with perhaps as many as 15 or 20 in each group, are being chased by
Border Patrol agents. In the end, this is what much of the new game comes down
to -- guys hoofing it after other guys across rough country in the pitch dark.
By the time we arrive the bust has already gone down and 38 glows are sitting in
the dirt in the glare of truck headlights.

Some have covered their eyes. Others have cuts on their hands and faces. Some
have hiked for 12 hours up this 3,000-foot mountain wearing sneakers or toeless
sandals. Some are from Central America, and have journeyed for months before
that. Their dream to come to America must have been very strong. Within 40
minutes they'll be processed and dumped back over the border in Tijuana, where
those who are O.T.M. (another Border Patrol usage: Other Than Mexican) will most
likely be treated very unsympathetically indeed by a Mexican Government that has
its own savage ideas about what to do with aliens.

There's one young man with bulging brown eyes and mean, kinky hair. A Border
Patrol guy says, "Yo, Prince!"

The young man's sad expression doesn't change. He says, "Que?"

The next day Arthur Ollman, director of San Diego's Museum of Photographic Arts,
walks me through "A Nation of Strangers," an exhibit he has spent four years
putting together. It documents the history of immigration in America; indeed, it
is a moving and beautiful apologia for the same. "The bottom line is that the
stuff we're going through today is not unique. We've been there before. We don't
have to panic," he says.

"Native Americans! Arouse!" runs one anti-immigration poster, circa 1850. There
have been immigrant floods before, at times of economic difficulty, and much the
same fears concerning assimilation. Beneath Don Bartletti's recent photograph of
a beefy bleached blonde holding a placard that says, "Control Immigration or
Lose America," I read the following, quoted from a 1994 Utne Reader: "The rate
of immigration relative to the nation's base population is far below historic
levels. . . . Moreover the percentage of foreign born people in the U.S.
population has fallen from 8.89 in 1940 to 6.8 today."

America's not being overrun after all.

"It's true that we're changing to a more international place," says Ollman.
"Americans will become more polyglot. The melting-pot metaphor doesn't work
anymore. It's a mosaic. But we're not being overrun, and I find it almost
offensive this idea that America is no longer strong enough to handle its
immigrant influx."

I'm reassured.

My reactions, that is to say, are predictably liberal. Back home, in Los
Angeles, I remind myself how much I like the diversity of the place. And yet
we'd just hired a nanny. The only white applicant for the job was a disturbingly
energetic 30-something woman with great rifts in her curriculum vitae, a
self-confessed graduate of "12 Steps" whose hands were covered in paint and who
exclaimed midway through the interview, "And in my spare time I'm a professional
clown!"

We went the safe route. We hired a 22-year-old Mexican, Christine, who had
already worked for three families, came with solid references and has a
2-year-old daughter who is a citizen. With Christine I find myself sympathetic
and friendly one moment, a paranoid patron the next, questioning her stability,
her hygiene, her habits. I can't imagine that Pete Wilson himself would be any
crankier than I was when Christine came back with the stroller and told me that
while she'd been walking our baby a man on the street had asked her for a date.

We've done more than invite Christine into our lives. We're trusting her with
our child, our future. She meanwhile looks to me as a way in, a handhold on a
society she doesn't understand and can't quite negotiate. She gets me to write
to a lawyer with whom she's in dispute. She asks me to cash a check for her,
because, she says, she's in between bank accounts. In a way, I suppose, she's
after me to behave like a parent. I feel edgy, threatened. I hate it.

Pro-immigration forces have tended to keep their focus tight on the economic
issues because they sense that Americans don't want to be told they're racist.
Nobody does. Yet, one of the problems with the immigration issue is that it does
impinge on the race issue, and thus appeals temptingly and dangerously to the
worst side of all of us.

A central argument of Brimelow's "Alien Nation" is that America has always had
an essential nature, an ethnic core, and that it's white. He writes that "the
first naturalization law, in 1790, stipulated that an applicant must be a 'free
white person.' Blacks became full citizens only after the Civil War."

He goes on: "Maybe America should not have been like this. But it was." And now:
"Americans are being tricked out of their own identity."

Reading this, I'm overcome with a weird looking-glass giddiness. Someone's
trying to change the rules here, to wipe a rag over history. America's identity
is precisely that of mutation, its power drawn from an energetic and quite
fearless ability to adapt and win. Its national book, after all, is "The
Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," about a beautiful and dangerous river that
never stops changing.

ALONG WITH more than 7,000 others, Maria T. and her family stand in line outside
the Fred Jordan Mission in downtown Los Angeles, where on a boiling August day
they wait for a free handout of clothes and sneakers. They've been huddled in
sleeping bags and under blankets all night, during the course of which a man was
shot to death outside a Chinese food store on the opposite side of Fifth Street.
This is Skid Row, a scary neighborhood.

The kids are tired, hot and hungry, but still excited about getting new Nikes.
Television crews from Japan, Spain and Germany, as well as from local news
programs, stand by to record the happy event. People hold umbrellas against the
sun, and a man passes up and down the line with a garden hose, drenching
upturned faces. Last year, about 8,000 children were helped. In 1995, however,
corporate giving has slipped for the first time, and they have only 5,000 pairs
of shoes.

Only 5,000 pairs of shoes, at least 7,000 children, and so outside, as the hours
pass, the huge line gets anxious. Maria is scared because no one helped when a
big group came surging up the street and muscled in ahead of them. Now her
children are crying, and it looks as if they might not get sneakers after all.
The smaller sizes have already run out. Maria talks to one of the mission
workers, a man she has met before. Can he help? He's sorry, he says, but there's
nothing he can do, and he turns away.

Other mission workers walk down the line, quietly inviting families to leave.
Maria stands with her arms around her children gathered around her. By now she
has waited for almost 24 hours. It's the end of a long and stressful day and her
kids feel sick. "This isn't right," she says.

AMERICA IS AN IMMIGRANT Nation; indeed, a nation of strangers. I like it that
way, though the arguments in favor of the idea are not merely sentimental and
historical. Corporate interests value immigration for something that troubles us
-- keeping wages lower, and these days not just at the level of busboys and day
workers.

The American economy is in relatively good shape and has pretty much the legal
immigration it needs. The system isn't broken, doesn't need fixing -- and
certainly not in the ways that are now being proposed. Illegal immigration is
touchier. Listening to academics makes it easy to forget the racially inflamed
brush fire that is the debate in California.

Recent polls show a surprising sympathy even for illegal immigrants, provided
they otherwise play by the rules: work, get documentation, learn English. Only
20 percent say immigrants take jobs away from citizens, and 69 percent say they
do work that citizens don't necessarily want and that needs to be done. Few say
that the American-born children of illegals should be deprived of education and
welfare, let alone their citizenship. The message here is a sensible one: beef
up the Border Patrol; deport criminals; don't break up families; target
labor-enforcement at bad-guy sweatshop employers and make an effort to deal with
temporary visa overstays, who surprisingly make up as much as 50 percent of all
illegals; supply Federal assistance to heavily impacted areas such as Los
Angeles, and forget the idea of a national verification system or an
identification card.

Ultimately, this is a debate about values, not money. This is about how America
feels about itself.

THE LAST TIME I meet with Maria T. she has heard of the passing of the new
Federal welfare bill, which will cut off welfare payments after five years, a
measure that, in some respects, seems like a federalization of Proposition 187.
Understanding the vulnerability of her position, she is panicked. I've had a
hunch all along that she sends some little portion of the money she gets to her
husband in Guadalajara, not so much to support him as to keep him away. "He
doesn't understand how much our life has changed," she says. She asks if I know
of anyone, an American, who'd be prepared to marry her.

I'm not sure this is the solution and, anyway, what about the guy in
Guadalajara?

"He's not really my husband," she says. "I just call him that," and I reflect
again how fluid human situations slop outside the bucket of any political
oratory.

She bites her nails and gathers the kids around her for a walk to the store.
Mario, already rebellious, is reluctant to come along. Soon he'll be at the age,
Maria knows, where she'll have to start worrying about the danger and lure of
the gangs; kids his age, or younger, get slammed in (eerily graphic usage for
the youth trap of every poor neighborhood in Los Angeles). Maria believes in the
American dream more than I do, at least to the extent that she trusts the
uniquely American promise that her children will have a better life than she
does. At the shrine outside the a church on Cedros Avenue she lights a candle.
She thanks the Virgin for a brand new day and asks for another one. Then she
walks to J. C. Penney, where she buys socks for the kids and then, from another
counter, an American flag, for hope.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: ROUNDUP: Illegal immigrants, caught in the headlights of the
San Diego Border Patrol in September, waited to be processed and returned to
Mexico. Some from Central America had traveled for months; many will probably
try to cross again. (pg. 26-27); CLOSE WRAPS: Some of Maria T.'s children huddle
in her bedroom. (pg. 28); ROOM TO SPARE: The family clothing is kept in another
bedroom; Maria T. hates to let her children out of her sight, and so insists
that all five of them sleep in her room. (pg. 29); UNSTEADY JOBS: Immigrants
hope to be among those choosen for daywork. (pg. 30); STEADY JOBS: Nannies and
their charges in L.A. (pg. 31); (Joseph Rodriguez/Black Star)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 10, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Many Asian-Americans Want Immigration Cut

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 187 words


To the Editor:

Re "Anti-Immigrant Mood Moves Asians to Organize" (front page, Jan. 3): There
are many ChineseAmericans who support drastic cuts in immigration.
Chinese-American activists promoting mass immigration do not represent all
Chinese-Americans.

In the 1994 election campaign, those activists (and practically all of the
newspapers in California) labeled Proposition 187, the immigration-control
measure, as "anti-Asian."

Yet according to exit polls, the majority of Asian-Americans voted for it.

Even prominent advocates of large-scale immigration like Antonia Hernandez,
president of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, and Prof.
Paul Wong of the University of California, have acknowledged that immigration
has an adverse economic effect on minority groups in particular.

Prof. George Borjas of San Diego University has estimated that immigration cost
$133 billion a year in job competition losses to United States-born workers.

YEH LING-LING
Orinda, Calif., Jan. 4, 1996

The writer is a representative of the Diversity Coalition for an Immigration
Moratorium.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 18, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Chickens in Russian Pots

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words


When Victor Spivak joined forces in 1993 with two other immigrants from the
former Soviet Union, their export trading company was little more than a cramped
studio apartment in New York.

But now the 27-year-old Mr. Spivak is riding the crest of a booming export
business. His enterprise -- the Ascop Company -- has some 180 employees and
customers from St. Petersburg to Novosibirsk.

He owes it all to chicken.

In a scant three years, Russia has become the biggest export market for American
poultry, with chicken exports soaring from $81 million in 1993 to $303 million
in 1994. And 1995 was another record-setting year, with more than $500 million
in sales, according to Agriculture Department estimates.

Even these statistics do not tell the whole story. American officials say
millions of dollars of frozen chicken is being shipped from the United States
through Eastern Europe to avoid Russia's hefty tariffs. Specialists at the
American Embassy in Moscow say actual exports may be twice the official figure.

The stampede began after Russian poultry production plummeted in the economic
upheaval that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union, and Americans rushed in
to fill the void. With money scarce, demand was high for low-cost meat, and
"chicken is the cheapest protein in Russia," said August Schumacher, director of
the Agriculture Department's Foreign Agricultural Service.

One twist is that since health-conscious Americans have been trained by years of
advertising to prefer white meat, Russians are getting the dark meat -- which
they prefer anyway. And because the Bush Administration gave exports a strong
shove, Russian consumers dubbed the first influx of packaged chicken parts
"Nozhki Busha," or "Bush legs."

The exports are so visible that chicken has already been caught up in the rising
tide of nationalism in Russia, with angry poultry producers contending that the
imports are part of a Western plan to destroy Russian chicken production and
capture the market.

In the United States, the growing Russian market is big news for leading poultry
producers, like Tyson Foods Inc., the Arkansas giant, which recently opened a
Moscow office, and for trading companies like Ascop and its overseas rivals,
like the Russian importer Soyuzcontract.

"Maybe 70 percent of poultry in Russian cities is imported," Mr. Schumacher
said.  "When you see trade go from nothing to $500 million in three to four
years, that beats selling notebook computers."

Ascop's story, though, is not just a tale of enterprising immigrants with a feel
for the Russian market. It is also a story about Russia's erratic transition to
a capitalist economy, its sagging agricultural production, the differing tastes
of American and Russian consumers and even superpower politics.

The United States had exported chicken to Russia in the past, but those exports
were eroded by political tensions and by subsidized exports from Western Europe
and Brazil.

As relations warmed between Moscow and Washington, though, the Bush
Administration offered American exporters loan guarantees to promote the sale of
chicken leg quarters to Russia.

The idea was simple. Having spent no small amount of advertising dollars to
persuade American consumers to purchase white meat, which has less fat and is
used in fast-food chicken sandwiches and the ubiquitous chicken nuggets,
American producers had a lot of dark meat on their hands.

But Russians preferred dark meat, both for its taste and because it could be
used in soups. Also, without the benefits of sophisticated genetic engineering,
breast meat in Russian chickens was stringy and unappealing.

The next big lift came from the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and
Russia's unsteady progress toward market reforms. Russian chicken production has
always been inefficient compared with that of the United States, but economic
upheaval took a further heavy toll.

Feed companies were privatized, and the price of Russian chicken feed, which is
often of poor quality, rose. Meanwhile, state subsidies to chicken producers
were cut off. According to American estimates, Russian poultry production fell
40 percent from 1991 through 1995.

Ascop's managers saw the opportunity early on. Mr. Spivak, who was born in Kiev,
emigrated to the United States as a boy, graduating from Northeastern
University.

The other principals in the company now are Simon Dikker, who emigrated from
Moldova, and Sergy Sparilis, who left Uzbekistan, as well as Michael Varshisky,
who came from Novosibirsk.

At first, Ascop traded in metals. "The purpose of the company was simple: trade
with Russia," Mr. Spivak recalled. "It was strictly opportunistic."

But Mr. Spivak had his eye on frozen food, and soon after he joined the company
it began to charter ships and fill them with frozen poultry for export to
Russia. Its first shipment was in April 1993.

Even then, some American poultry companies were skeptical that the trade in
chicken would really take off, Mr. Spivak recalled. Meanwhile, distributors in
Russia were still learning about the trade, which led to some setbacks. Some
chicken in an early shipment to St. Petersburg spoiled when the Russian buyer
failed to manage the cargo properly.

But gradually the business took off. In 1995, Ascop exported about $180 million
worth of frozen poultry to Russia, about a third of the officially recorded
trade, Mr. Spivak said. The company also distributes their chicken by rail to
cities throughout Russia.

"Everyone from babushkas to C.E.O.'s" buys it, Mr. Spivak said. "The Russian
food industry is depleted." He said Ascop had a profit margin of about 10
percent.

"They have the Russian connections," said Dale Posthumus, a consultant on trade
with Russia. "They work in between the suppliers and importers. They have good
relations with the major importers."

Big agricultural producers, like Tyson and Goldkist, have benefited handsomely
as well despite sizable tariffs, which were increased last year from 20 to 25
percent. The Russians have also imposed an 11.5 percent value-added tax on
imports.

Archie Schaffer, a Tyson spokesman, said that exports accounted for about 10
percent of the company's $5.5 billion in annual sales and that Russia was the
largest foreign customer.

Bob Anthony, chairman of American Poultry International, a consortium of
American poultry exporters, said the going rate for dark meat was about 45 cents
a pound and ranged as high as 52 cents for chicken prepared for export and
packed on cargo ships, double the price before the current boom.

Even with the tariffs, though, it has been hard for Russian poultry producers to
compete. Russian producers must receive 10,000 rubles a kilo -- about $2.10 --
to break even, according to an American Government analysis. But imported
poultry sells for about 8,500 rubles a kilo in Moscow and other Russian cities.

Indeed, the export business is becoming institutionalized. This month, Russian
veterinarians started inspections of about 360 American poultry plants, a
condition the Russians insisted on to insure quality control.

"We get calls weekly from people in Russia," said Toby Moore, a spokesman for
the United States Poultry and Egg Export Council, an industry trade association
based in Atlanta. American companies, Mr. Moore added, are "making money hand
over fist."

For the American poultry industry, foreign sales, which now make up about 15
percent of the expanding poultry market, are no longer merely a means of
handling excess production. They have become an integral and lucrative part of
the market.

American officials project a 5 percent increase in exports for 1996, a
respectable increase but a far cry from the sharp rises of past years. But Mr.
Anthony said he expected exports to Russia to continue to grow at a higher rate.

"The question is," observed Mr. Schumacher, "is this sustainable?"

And will it be politically viable? "Low prices and huge volumes of imported
poultry may strengthen the anti-trade positions of the Communist and Agrarian
Parties before the Presidential elections in June 1996," according to a report
from the American Embassy in Moscow.

The pressure from Russian producers could lead to still higher tariffs or new
subsidies at home in the short term. Grigory Nerubenko, the head of the Russian
association of poultry producers, has appealed for as much as 2 trillion rubles,
or up to $430 million in subsidies.

But there is a powerful countervailing pressure that is likely to keep the
market open to foreign exports: the demand by Russian consumers for lower-cost
meat.

In effect, the politics of chicken pits Russia's consumer-packed urban areas
against Russian producers, and Russian mayors have proved to be a powerful
friend of the consumer.

Mr. Posthumus noted that American companies were considering how to diversify
beyond Bush legs to processed chicken foods like chicken meal for sausage,
chicken fast-food nuggets and chicken franks, which are already sold in Russia.

But Mr. Spivak is concentrating on how to improve Ascop's distribution and is
not worried that Russian producers may grab back the trade. The Russian
agricultural sector, he said, has "a lot of problems which will take a very long
time to solve."


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Russian stores, like the Novy Arbat Supermarket in Moscow, are
stocked with lower-priced American poultry. Russia is the largest foreign
customer for Tyson Foods, whose chicken lables are in Cyrillic. (Naum
Kazhdan/The New York Times, top; James Hill for The New York Times); Victor
Spivak has helped bring American frozen chicken to Russia through the Ascop
Company, an export trading company based in Manhattan. "Everyone from babushkas
to C.E.O.'s" buys it, he said. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

Graph: "Plump Sales" tracks the value of U.S. chicken exports to Russia,
annually, from 1992 through an estimated 1995. (Source: Agriculture Department)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 18, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Parents' Suit On Classes Is Rebuffed

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 322 words


A State Supreme Court justice has dismissed a lawsuit by a Brooklyn parents'
organization that accused the state Commissioner of Education of illegally
permitting tens of thousands of immigrant children to spend up to six years in
bilingual education classes.

The suit by the Bushwick Parents Association, which represents 150 Brooklyn
families, argued that children in bilingual classes were learning neither
English nor other subjects particularly well. The reason, the suit contended,
was that the state routinely granted waivers to schools, permitting them to hold
children in classes taught in their native language -- usually Spanish -- for
three years beyond the three-year limit established by state law.

But Justice Joseph C. Teresi of State Supreme Court in Albany disagreed, saying
in a decision last Friday that Commissioner Richard P. Mills had followed the
law in permitting the waivers in cases where students required additional
instruction before crossing over into mainstream classes.

The decision comes as educators in New York City debate the effectiveness of
bilingual programs, which usually offer students no more than a single period of
English instruction each day. In a report issued in 1994, the Board of Education
concluded that in general, children who take classes in English fare better
academically than do students in bilingual programs.

Sandy DelValle, associate counsel of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund, said her organization had pressed for the dismissal of the suit,
which she labeled "politically motivated," and said was aimed at "bashing
bilingual education." It can take a child six years to feel comfortable learning
in a second language, she said.

But Robert Smith, a lawyer representing the parents' group, said the suit's
motivation was practical. "If they are not speaking English after three years,"
he said, "another three is not what they need."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 18, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Chickens in Russian Pots

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: Section D;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words


When Victor Spivak joined forces in 1993 with two other immigrants from the
former Soviet Union, their export trading company was little more than a cramped
studio apartment in New York.

But now the 27-year-old Mr. Spivak is riding the crest of a booming export
business. His enterprise -- the Ascop Company -- has some 180 employees and
customers from St. Petersburg to Novosibirsk.

He owes it all to chicken.

In a scant three years, Russia has become the biggest export market for American
poultry, with chicken exports soaring from $81 million in 1993 to $303 million
in 1994. And 1995 was another record-setting year, with more than $500 million
in sales, according to Agriculture Department estimates.

Even these statistics do not tell the whole story. American officials say
millions of dollars of frozen chicken is being shipped from the United States
through Eastern Europe to avoid Russia's hefty tariffs. Specialists at the
American Embassy in Moscow say actual exports may be twice the official figure.

The stampede began after Russian poultry production plummeted in the economic
upheaval that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union, and Americans rushed in
to fill the void. With money scarce, demand was high for low-cost meat, and
"chicken is the cheapest protein in Russia," said August Schumacher, director of
the Agriculture Department's Foreign Agricultural Service.

One twist is that since health-conscious Americans have been trained by years of
advertising to prefer white meat, Russians are getting the dark meat -- which
they prefer anyway. And because the Bush Administration gave exports a strong
shove, Russian consumers dubbed the first influx of packaged chicken parts
"Nozhki Busha," or "Bush legs."

The exports are so visible that chicken has already been caught up in the rising
tide of nationalism in Russia, with angry poultry producers contending that the
imports are part of a Western plan to destroy Russian chicken production and
capture the market.

In the United States, the growing Russian market is big news for leading poultry
producers, like Tyson Foods Inc., the Arkansas giant, which recently opened a
Moscow office, and for trading companies like Ascop and its overseas rivals,
like the Russian importer Soyuzcontract.

"Maybe 70 percent of poultry in Russian cities is imported," Mr. Schumacher
said.  "When you see trade go from nothing to $500 million in three to four
years, that beats selling notebook computers."

Ascop's story, though, is not just a tale of enterprising immigrants with a feel
for the Russian market. It is also a story about Russia's erratic transition to
a capitalist economy, its sagging agricultural production, the differing tastes
of American and Russian consumers and even superpower politics.

The United States had exported chicken to Russia in the past, but those exports
were eroded by political tensions and by subsidized exports from Western Europe
and Brazil.

As relations warmed between Moscow and Washington, though, the Bush
Administration offered American exporters loan guarantees to promote the sale of
chicken leg quarters to Russia.

The idea was simple. Having spent no small amount of advertising dollars to
persuade American consumers to purchase white meat, which has less fat and is
used in fast-food chicken sandwiches and the ubiquitous chicken nuggets,
American producers had a lot of dark meat on their hands.

But Russians preferred dark meat, both for its taste and because it could be
used in soups. Also, without the benefits of sophisticated genetic engineering,
breast meat in Russian chickens was stringy and unappealing.

The next big lift came from the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and
Russia's unsteady progress toward market reforms. Russian chicken production has
always been inefficient compared with that of the United States, but economic
upheaval took a further heavy toll.

Feed companies were privatized, and the price of Russian chicken feed, which is
often of poor quality, rose. Meanwhile, state subsidies to chicken producers
were cut off. According to American estimates, Russian poultry production fell
40 percent from 1991 through 1995.

Ascop's managers saw the opportunity early on. Mr. Spivak, who was born in Kiev,
emigrated to the United States as a boy, graduating from Northeastern
University.

The other principals in the company now are Simon Dikker, who emigrated from
Moldova, and Sergy Sparilis, who left Uzbekistan, as well as Michael Varshisky,
who came from Novosibirsk.

At first, Ascop traded in metals. "The purpose of the company was simple: trade
with Russia," Mr. Spivak recalled. "It was strictly opportunistic."

But Mr. Spivak had his eye on frozen food, and soon after he joined the company
it began to charter ships and fill them with frozen poultry for export to
Russia. Its first shipment was in April 1993.

Even then, some American poultry companies were skeptical that the trade in
chicken would really take off, Mr. Spivak recalled. Meanwhile, distributors in
Russia were still learning about the trade, which led to some setbacks. Some
chicken in an early shipment to St. Petersburg spoiled when the Russian buyer
failed to manage the cargo properly.

But gradually the business took off. In 1995, Ascop exported about $180 million
worth of frozen poultry to Russia, about a third of the officially recorded
trade, Mr. Spivak said. The company also distributes their chicken by rail to
cities throughout Russia.

"Everyone from babushkas to C.E.O.'s" buys it, Mr. Spivak said. "The Russian
food industry is depleted." He said Ascop had a profit margin of about 10
percent.

"They have the Russian connections," said Dale Posthumus, a consultant on trade
with Russia. "They work in between the suppliers and importers. They have good
relations with the major importers."

Big agricultural producers, like Tyson and Goldkist, have benefited handsomely
as well despite sizable tariffs, which were increased last year from 20 to 25
percent. The Russians have also imposed an 11.5 percent value-added tax on
imports.

Archie Schaffer, a Tyson spokesman, said that exports accounted for about 10
percent of the company's $5.5 billion in annual sales and that Russia was the
largest foreign customer.

Bob Anthony, chairman of American Poultry International, a consortium of
American poultry exporters, said the going rate for dark meat was about 45 cents
a pound and ranged as high as 52 cents for chicken prepared for export and
packed on cargo ships, double the price before the current boom.

Even with the tariffs, though, it has been hard for Russian poultry producers to
compete. Russian producers must receive 10,000 rubles a kilo -- about $2.10 --
to break even, according to an American Government analysis. But imported
poultry sells for about 8,500 rubles a kilo in Moscow and other Russian cities.

Indeed, the export business is becoming institutionalized. This month, Russian
veterinarians started inspections of about 360 American poultry plants, a
condition the Russians insisted on to insure quality control.

"We get calls weekly from people in Russia," said Toby Moore, a spokesman for
the United States Poultry and Egg Export Council, an industry trade association
based in Atlanta. American companies, Mr. Moore added, are "making money hand
over fist."

For the American poultry industry, foreign sales, which now make up about 15
percent of the expanding poultry market, are no longer merely a means of
handling excess production. They have become an integral and lucrative part of
the market.

American officials project a 5 percent increase in exports for 1996, a
respectable increase but a far cry from the sharp rises of past years. But Mr.
Anthony said he expected exports to Russia to continue to grow at a higher rate.

"The question is," observed Mr. Schumacher, "is this sustainable?"

And will it be politically viable? "Low prices and huge volumes of imported
poultry may strengthen the anti-trade positions of the Communist and Agrarian
Parties before the Presidential elections in June 1996," according to a report
from the American Embassy in Moscow.

The pressure from Russian producers could lead to still higher tariffs or new
subsidies at home in the short term. Grigory Nerubenko, the head of the Russian
association of poultry producers, has appealed for as much as 2 trillion rubles,
or up to $430 million in subsidies.

But there is a powerful countervailing pressure that is likely to keep the
market open to foreign exports: the demand by Russian consumers for lower-cost
meat.

In effect, the politics of chicken pits Russia's consumer-packed urban areas
against Russian producers, and Russian mayors have proved to be a powerful
friend of the consumer.

Mr. Posthumus noted that American companies were considering how to diversify
beyond Bush legs to processed chicken foods like chicken meal for sausage,
chicken fast-food nuggets and chicken franks, which are already sold in Russia.

But Mr. Spivak is concentrating on how to improve Ascop's distribution and is
not worried that Russian producers may grab back the trade. The Russian
agricultural sector, he said, has "a lot of problems which will take a very long
time to solve."


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Russian stores, like the Novy Arbat Supermarket in Moscow, are
stocked with lower-priced American poultry. Russia is the largest foreign
customer for Tyson Foods, whose chicken lables are in Cyrillic. (Naum
Kazhdan/The New York Times, top; James Hill for The New York Times); Victor
Spivak has helped bring American frozen chicken to Russia through the Ascop
Company, an export trading company based in Manhattan. "Everyone from babushkas
to C.E.O.'s" buys it, he said. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

Graph: "Plump Sales" tracks the value of U.S. chicken exports to Russia,
annually, from 1992 through an estimated 1995. (Source: Agriculture Department)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 18, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Parents' Suit On Classes Is Rebuffed

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section B;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 322 words


A State Supreme Court justice has dismissed a lawsuit by a Brooklyn parents'
organization that accused the state Commissioner of Education of illegally
permitting tens of thousands of immigrant children to spend up to six years in
bilingual education classes.

The suit by the Bushwick Parents Association, which represents 150 Brooklyn
families, argued that children in bilingual classes were learning neither
English nor other subjects particularly well. The reason, the suit contended,
was that the state routinely granted waivers to schools, permitting them to hold
children in classes taught in their native language -- usually Spanish -- for
three years beyond the three-year limit established by state law.

But Justice Joseph C. Teresi of State Supreme Court in Albany disagreed, saying
in a decision last Friday that Commissioner Richard P. Mills had followed the
law in permitting the waivers in cases where students required additional
instruction before crossing over into mainstream classes.

The decision comes as educators in New York City debate the effectiveness of
bilingual programs, which usually offer students no more than a single period of
English instruction each day. In a report issued in 1994, the Board of Education
concluded that in general, children who take classes in English fare better
academically than do students in bilingual programs.

Sandy DelValle, associate counsel of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund, said her organization had pressed for the dismissal of the suit,
which she labeled "politically motivated," and said was aimed at "bashing
bilingual education." It can take a child six years to feel comfortable learning
in a second language, she said.

But Robert Smith, a lawyer representing the parents' group, said the suit's
motivation was practical. "If they are not speaking English after three years,"
he said, "another three is not what they need."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 21, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Education Of Immigrant Children

SECTION: Section 13CN;  Page 11;  Column 2;  Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 192 words


Over the last five years the vast majority of articles on bilingual education
have lamented its failure.  Perhaps it's time to recognize a misguided effort to
solve a problem. We should cut our losses and redirect our efforts.

Forget about teaching in the foreign language of each 20 students whose native
language isn't English, as is the law in Connecticut. Is there a child who can't
speak the tongue of his country? Of course not. Transplanted children learn the
new language of their adopted countries all over the world every day. We don't
have to feel guilty about it.

Immigrants are here to enjoy the benefits that their country didn't provide. One
of the costs of enjoying the benefits of America is the use of the English
language. Most parents understand this and send their children to public school
specifically to learn English.

Total immersion is the way children learn in their native lands. It works in a
second country as well. Provide good teachers who can teach English and focus on
that. This is the best way to help them assimilate and be successful. They don't
have to be spoon fed.

ROBERT P. WATSON
Norwalk

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 27, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

New Jersey Daily Briefing;
Rise in Immigration

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 72 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Largely because of foreign immigration, New Jersey's population grew by 43,000
in 1995, according to Census Bureau data released yesterday. The growth, the
19th largest increase of the 50 states, was augmented by about 33,000
immigrants, whose number combined with the normal birth rate to offset the
departure of 36,000 residents from the state, the bureau said. With 7.95 million
residents, the state is the ninth most populous.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 28, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Mexican Immigrants Run To Remember a Miracle

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 27;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 474 words


Far from their small village of Chinantla, Mexico, a hundred runners lined up in
the wind-driven rain in Bushwick, Brooklyn, yesterday morning to commemorate a
miracle of almost a century ago.

The men and women, most only slightly protected by plastic garbage bags, stood
on Suydam Street behind two torchbearers preparing for a journey that would take
them from St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church to St. Bernard's Church at 14th
Street and 9th Avenue in Manhattan, a distance of about six miles. But the real
journey was deeper, toward a sense of connectedness sometimes elusive for the
city's estimated 500,000 immigrants from Mexico.

The runners were duplicating an annual event in Chinantla, from which many of
them come. In Mexico, hundreds of runners form a relay between Our Lady of
Guadalupe Church in Mexico City and the church of Padre Jesus in Chinantla. Each
runs almost half a mile, over a distance of more than 300 miles.

Here, the event is a chance to have fun running, a favorite pastime of the
city's Mexican immigrants, then to gather for Mass and a feast with mariachi
music. Flower sellers, clerks, mechanics and janitors can forget their long
hours of work.

But most important is honoring a miracle reported in Chinantla almost a century
ago. That was when a statue being carried by missionaries somehow became too
heavy to carry and had to be left in a church. More recently, the church burned
down, but the statue, known as Padre Jesus, was not harmed.

"This is mystical," said Emilio Alomso, who works at two building-maintenance
jobs. "God wants us to do this; there is an energy, a light, a force to what
we're doing today."

Adam Lazaro, president of the Club Atletico Mexicano de Nuevo York, the city's
principal Mexican running club, said, "It's part of our roots, and we are good
runners."

Leticia Leal, 22, said that she had never been to Chinantla, her mother's
hometown, and that this was a way to feel closer to her roots. "I needed to run
today," she said.

The New York version, which was held for the second time yesterday, pales before
the event in Mexico, which includes bullfights, horse races, cock fights, a
dance, fireworks and a carnival.

Indeed, yesterday's run was too small to warrant police escorts. Several
officers came and counted the crowd, which organizers had hoped would be four
times as large, and told the group they would not stop traffic for them.

But the mood remained upbeat in the drab church basement before the run. A woman
in a black dress passed out paper towels, "para camino," for the road. The Rev.
Gianni Agotinelli, pastor of St. Joseph's, said a prayer in Spanish, asking for
peace, union and forgiveness. The two torches, each containing balls of twine
soaked in kerosene, were lit. The group then climbed the stairs to make their
way into the rain.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexican immigrants about to begin a run intended to duplicate an
annual event in Chinantla, Mexico, commemorating a miracle there almost a
century ago. The New York version leads from Brooklyn to Manhattan, but the real
journey is toward a sense of connectedness at times elusive for the immigrants.
(Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 28, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WHAT IMMIGRATION CRISIS?

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 14;   Column 1;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 107 words


As an emigrant from Sweden, I welcome Rayner, who, judging by his article, is
not only intelligent but has a good heart. We badly need people like him in
these darkening times.

The "native" Americans who want to restrict immigration and are angry that their
"hard-earned tax dollars" might be wasted on "illegal" aliens ought to read up
on some history. It may dawn on them that there is a connection between their
exceptionally comfortable life and the land and resources so violently wrested
from Native Americans. It is time we became our brothers' keepers. That should
be the new world order.

ILZE A. CHOI
New Orleans

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH RODGRIGUEZ/BLACK STAR)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 30, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Visa Lottery Is Given Credit For Neighborhood Revival

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section B;   Page 4;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 696 words


An annual visa lottery that strives to diversify immigration to this country has
revitalized some New York City neighborhoods, attracting thousands of Irish and
Polish immigrants to once-fading neighborhoods, according to city demographers.

The annual lottery, which this year will offer coveted green cards to 55,000
foreigners, has been responsible for bringing 95 percent of the city's Irish
immigrants and 64 percent of Polish immigrants since 1992, replenishing
neighborhoods like the historic Polish community in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, and
the old Irish neighborhoods in Sunnyside, Queens, and Norwood, the Bronx.

"That energy is palpable," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said during a news
conference yesterday. "That energy drives the city." At the news conference,
officials announced the lottery and rules for applying. Applications will be
accepted from Feb. 12 to March 12.

From 1992 to 1994, 9,300 Polish and 9,000 Irish lottery winners moved to New
York City, according to preliminary statistics from the city's Planning
Department. The surge has meant that Ireland, which in the 1980's ranked 30th
among countries sending immigrants to New York, today ranks 12th. In the 1980's,
Poland ranked 18th; today it holds 6th place.

On Bainbridge Avenue in the Norwood section of the Bronx, for instance, Irish
newcomers can buy Irish chocolates, Irish sausages, Irish brown bread and Irish
beer. It is the neighborhood where Bridie O'Malley settled when she first moved
from Ireland.

Two years ago, she won the lottery, guaranteeing permanent legal residence in
the United States.

"It was, like, an unbelievable feeling," said Ms. O'Malley, 27, who now works as
a paralegal.

For eight years, Ms. O'Malley lived here illegally, working as a waitress, with
no hope of gaining legal status because she had no immediate family in the
United States.

Since the 1960's, the largest waves of immigration have come from Asia and Latin
America, areas of political and economical instability, while the more
prosperous Europeans stayed home.

Under American law, these new immigrants could and did bring their spouses,
children and close relatives with them. But as the years passed, Irish- and
Polish-Americans in the United States found themselves generations away from
their European-born relatives.

Immigration policymakers decided that groups like the Irish and Polish were
underrepresented, so Congress created the visa lottery as part of the
Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1990 to create greater diversity among
immigrants.

Since then, the pool of applicants has been expanded to include all but 11
countries, excluding, in the interest of diversity, those that have sent 50,000
or more immigrants to the United States during the last five years. The excluded
countries are China (mainland and Taiwan), India, the Philippines, Vietnam,
South Korea, Britain (except Northern Ireland), Canada, Mexico, Jamaica, El
Salvador, Colombia and the Dominican Republic.

Immigrants from anywhere else, whether they live illegally in the United States
or abroad, can apply as long as they have a high school education or have worked
five years in a field that requires at least two years of training.

There is no application form. For years, the State Department, which directs the
program, has asked that applicants simply write their names, the names of their
spouses and children, their date of birth and country of origin on a plain piece
of paper and mail it to one of several processing centers in the United States.

This year, in an effort to fight application fraud, the State Department will
also require immigrants to sign the sheet of paper and to include a photograph.
In previous years, some ineligible applicants have assumed the identities of
other immigrants, hoping to win a green card.

Only 7 percent of New York's legal immigrants gain entrance to the United States
through the lottery system. But for the Irish and the Polish, the two groups
that have benefited the most from the system, it has been virtually their only
way to get in.

"They simply wouldn't be here without the lottery," said Joseph Salvo, the
city's chief demographer.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph/Map: "BY THE NUMBERS: Visas by the Draw" shows this year's
lottery allotment, divided by geographic region. (Source: State Department)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 31, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Futile Rush In Desperation For Green Card

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 5;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words


Mohammed Uddin was sound asleep in his Queens apartment when he got the call.
The Government was giving out green cards at the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices in Manhattan, his friend told him.

In a flash, Mr. Uddin was dressing and kissing his wife goodbye. By 1:30 A.M.
yesterday, he was in a taxi, racing toward downtown.

Over in Brooklyn, the phone was ringing in Kazi Hossain's apartment. The story
he heard: 10,000 green cards were already gone; only 2,000 were left. By 2 A.M.,
he, too, was on the road, also hoping for the chance to get the permanent
resident visa that would allow him to work and live legally in the United
States.

But when they arrived, there were no green cards to be had, only hundreds of
immigrants already in line, all with scarves and gloves and dreams in hand, all
willing to endure the freezing night for the promise of legitimacy in America.

"It was like a flood coming, all the people coming, from India, Pakistan,
Bangladesh," said Mr. Hossain, a 33-year-old Bangladeshi, who waited until dawn
yesterday only to discover that the rumor was not true. "Everybody wants a green
card. This rumor, it was like a dream."

The late-night pilgrimage of nearly 1,000 people -- a mistaken response to an
announcement about the annual Federal immigration lottery -- offered a glimpse
of the desperation that many of the city's estimated 350,000 illegal immigrants
feel about getting a green card.

Those standing in the lines snaking around the Federal Building in lower
Manhattan included waiters and housekeepers, chefs and janitors -- people who
fuel the city's underground economy, often working long hours for little pay and
with few of the protections of legal residents.

Curiously, it was Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's efforts to help them that sparked
the rumors that whipped through the city's immigrant communities. His
announcement of the Federal immigration lottery at City Hall on Monday was
intended to give people guidance about applying for the 55,000 coveted visas
available to illegal immigrants in the United States and foreigners living
abroad.

But some immigrants who watched the Mayor on English-language newscasts
understood little of his announcement, either because of language difficulties
or perhaps because they only focused on two words: green cards. Once started,
the wrong message traveled quickly, passing second-, third- and fourth-hand over
the phone lines.

"Obviously, there was a massive miscommunication," said Valerie Oltarsh,
executive director of the Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs, as she looked
helplessly at the hundreds of people demanding information about the lottery and
clarifications of the rumors. "They don't understand. We've been trying to tell
them, but they don't understand," said Ms. Oltarsh, who returned later with
pamphlets about the lottery.

Congress established the visa lottery as part of the Immigration and
Naturalization Act of 1990 to create greater diversity among immigrants. In last
year's lottery, the United States received 4.5 million qualified entries for the
55,000 visas.

Some people in line yesterday and Monday night were not even eligible for the
lottery, which is open only to those from countries that have sent fewer than
50,000 people to the United States in the past five years. The bulk of the
available visas -- 81 percent -- will go to immigrants from Europe and Africa.
The rest will be parceled out to people born in Asia, Latin America, Oceania
(which includes Australia and New Zealand) and North America.

Applicants must have either a high school diploma or five years of experience in
a field that requires two years of training. The lottery will be open for
applications from Feb. 12 to March 12. If selected, illegal immigrants would
have to pay a $750 fee for a green card.

Excluded are people from China, Taiwan, India, the Philippines, Vietnam, South
Korea, the United Kingdom (except Northern Ireland), Canada, Mexico, Jamaica, El
Salvador, Colombia and the Dominican Republic.

For many of New York's illegal immigrants, the lottery is their only opportunity
to get a green card, which grants legal, permanent residency in the United
States. Outside the lottery, most green cards go to the immediate relatives of
American citizens and permanent legal residents, those with specialized skills,
or people with $1 million or more to invest in American industry.

"There isn't a way that people who don't have those connections can come here,"
said a spokeswoman for the State Department who insisted on anonymity. "That's
why people come here illegally."

And it is also why hundreds of people turned up before dawn at the Federal
building.

Getting a green card would mean the opportunity to work legally -- usually at
better wages. It would allow them to bring their spouses and children to the
United States. And it would allow them to travel to their home countries without
fear of being turned back when they return to the United States.

Mr. Hossain, for instance, a bartender with a business degree from a Bangladeshi
university, was dreaming of the day he could get financial aid to study
computers at a college in the United States.

Mr. Uddin, a 32-year-old chef from Bangladesh, was hoping to open his own Indian
restaurant.

And Julie Ravello, a 42-year-old housekeeper from Trinidad, was dreaming of
going home and seeing her five children for the first time in six years. She
fears that without a green card she would be denied re-entry to the United
States.

Jose Vargas, a 36-year-old Colombian who showed up at the I.N.S. building
yesterday, said he heard the Mayor's message on Spanish-language television. But
he said that a newscaster said Colombians could participate in the lottery, too.

"We're included," insisted Mr. Vargas, who has worked as a janitor in New York
since 1986, even as he read the white pamphlet that clearly said in Spanish that
Colombians were excluded. "I need this. To work, to bring my children here so
they can study and have a future."

A group of 10 Indian men suffered the same disappointment when they waited in
line for five hours only to discover that Indians could not apply. One
26-year-old man, who would not give his name, shrugged his shoulders and said he
would apply anyway. "This is my only chance," he said sadly. "What else can I
do?"


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hope for a green card drew hundreds yesterday, in vain, to the
immigration service in lower Manhattan. (Associated Press) (pg. A1);
Five-year-old Jia Hong Wang and his mother were among the hundreds who lined up
at the immigration service's offices in lower Manhattan yesterday morning after
hearing that a green-card lottery was to held. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 1, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Lottery Phone Line Crashes

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 206 words


Swamped with telephone calls from immigrants hoping to enter the Federal
immigration lottery, the city's lottery phone line crashed yesterday, city
officials said.

"The system was overwhelmed," said Valerie Oltarsh, the executive director of
the city's Office of Immigrant Affairs and Language Service. She said the city
received about 4,000 calls yesterday.

Ms. Oltarsh said that it may take time for the phone line to return to service.
In the meantime, applicants looking for information about the lottery -- which
offers immigrants the opportunity to vie for 55,000 green cards, or legal
permanent residency -- can call the New York immigration telephone line at (718)
899-4000, she said.

Applicants can also receive a copy of the lottery rules by mailing a written
request along with a stamped, self-addressed envelope to the city's Department
of Consumer Affairs, 42 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10004. On the envelope,
applicants should indicate that they need information about the visa lottery.

Misinformation about the lottery rules prompted nearly 1,000 immigrants to rush
to the Manhattan office of the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service on Tuesday looking for green cards and application forms.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 4, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Neighborhood Report;
Immigrants Blaze Political Trail

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 10;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 535 words


In recent years, the city's growing number of South Asians have begun to
contribute money to political campaigns, but have rarely run for office
themselves. Now a new step has been taken: for the first time, two South Asians
are running for school board seats.

The candidates, friends born in Bangladesh, are Morshed Alam, a 38-year-old
municipal worker vying for a seat in the mostly black 29th District in southeast
Queens, and Sachi G. Dastidar, a 49-year-old college professor running in the
mostly white and Asian 26th District in northeast Queens.

Both men said they hoped their efforts would spark greater activism by South
Asians. Many immigrant parents do not get involved in Parent-Teacher
Associations, Mr. Alam said, nor vote in school board races, though the boards
are open to parents who are not American citizens.

"They don't know the role of the school district officials on their children's
lives," he said. "I want to bring them into the process."

But because South Asians are a small minority of both districts, both candidates
will need votes from beyond their own ethnic group to succeed in the May 7
election. The two men are circulating petitions to get the 200 signatures they
need by March 12 to get on the ballot.

Both are active in the Eastern Queens Democratic Club. Because school board
races attract low turnouts and can hinge on a small number of votes, the support
of such clubs and civic associations can be crucial (though a Democratic
endorsement could cost some Republican votes). Candidates' ability to mobilize
voters from their own ethnic communities can also be important.

In the last election three years ago, candidates in District 29 won with about
1,200 votes, said Arthur F. Rojas, the president of the Queens Village Civic
Association, who is backing Mr. Alam.

Nearly half of the students in Mr. Dastidar's district are white and 30 percent
are Asian, mostly Koreans and Chinese. The 15,000-student district stretches
from Little Neck to Bellerose. There is one Asian-American on the board; the
rest are white.

Mr. Alam's 25,000-student district, stretching from Jamaica to Laurelton, is
three-fourths black, 12 percent Hispanic and 9 percent Asian. Its board is
predominantly black.

"If we don't build coalitions with other ethnic groups, especially other
minorities," said Said Ullah, editor of Probashi, a Bengali-language weekly
newspaper, "we will not be able to carve out a position of influence."

Both candidates said they were optimistic about their ability to do that.
"Someone said to me, 'Oh, you can bring in votes from your community,' " Mr.
Dastidar recalled. "I said, 'I think my community is broader than just my
ethnicity.' "

Mr. Dastidar, who was raised in India, is the father of two children who have
attended city public schools. He is a member of Community Board 13 and has
established a foundation that supports orphans in Bangladesh.

Mr. Alam, the father of three public school students, has been active in the
Queens Asian-American Democratic Club and District Council 37, the city workers
union.   SOMINI SENGUPTA

Chart: "New Territory, Close to Home" gives a breakdown of the two canidates
backgrounds

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 11, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

7 Thais Enter Guilty Pleas For Detention In Sweatshop

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 39;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 10


Seven people accused of luring dozens of garment workers from Thailand and
keeping them in virtual slavery at a clandestine factory in suburban Los Angeles
pleaded guilty on Friday to violating Federal civil rights laws.

The seven, all Thai citizens, signed plea agreements with the United States
Attorney's office that will result in prison terms ranging from two to seven
years.

Last August, state and Federal agents raided a garment factory in suburban El
Monte and found 72 Thai immigrants confined in a compound ringed with razor wire
and spiked fences.

The authorities said many had been held against their will, forced to toil day
and night for less than $2 an hour. Some were told that they had to repay the
cost of transporting them from Thailand, yet their imprisonment continued after
the "debt" was repaid.

The operators of the El Monte sweatshop admitted to conspiracy, harboring
illegal aliens, forcing workers into involuntary servitude and labor and civil
rights violations.

Those pleading guilty included Suni Manasurangkun, 66, identified as the
ringleader, and her sons Wirachai, 37, Surachai, 39, and Phanasak, 34. Two other
sons believed to have been involved in the sweatshop operations have been
declared fugitives.

Guilty pleas were also agreed to by Sunthon Rawangchaisong, 31, and Seri
Kanchakphairi, 29, who were hired to guard the workers, and Rampha Satthaprasit,
34, described as a lieutenant in the operation. All seven are to be sentenced in
April and May.

Prosecutors said Suni Manasurangkun and her sons managed the sweatshop,
recruiting workers among the poor in Thailand, providing them with false
passports and confining them to a windowless warehouse where they worked long
hours for little pay.

The case underscored the problem of abuse in the garment industry. It prompted
the Labor Department to notify more than a dozen of the country's largest
retailers that goods made by immigrants working in such factories may have ended
up in their stores.

Sweatshop Watch, a coalition supporting the workers, said many of them continued
to suffer from serious medical problems caused by their years of imprisonment.

Immigration officials said they would be allowed to remain in the United States
for now.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 14, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Highlights of the Report by the Regional Plan Association: Work Force;
Advocating Full Participation

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 220 words


Access to lifelong adult education and retraining in the rapidly changing world
of work will be central to prosperity in the next century, the plan contends.
But shifting population patterns will also mean that minority residents and
immigrants -- the fastest-growing segment of the population -- will need to be
helped past the barriers of language and discrimination that now hinder their
full participation.

The plan thus advocates two tracks that on some levels appear to conflict. It
says that strenuous efforts must be made to help immigrants and minority group
members assimilate into the mainstream economy through education, job training
and the learning of English. But at the same time, it urges recognition and
encouragement of the informal economy that operates in many ethnic neighborhoods
off the tax rolls and often in violation of various laws.

The plan also envisions a new kind of job information network that would help
poor inner-city residents learn about job opportunities, and a campaign to push
for immigration changes that would encourage more skilled immigrants with
work-related visas to move to the region. A regional council of business,
government and community leaders should be formed to guide the creation of a
lifelong learning system, the plan says.   THOMAS J. LUECK

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 17, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

In Iowa Town, Strains of Diversity

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: STORM LAKE, Iowa


At the Toui Lo market, one of two Asian stores here in Storm Lake, Laotian women
were shopping, picking over jumbo tiger shrimp laid out in cardboard boxes or
selecting bags of rice off the shelves. At the Lamp Lighter motel, across the
street, Sunil and Geeta Patel, a couple from India, checked in guests while
Hispanic maids cleaned the rooms.

Meanwhile, at a restaurant next door to the motel, Patrick J. Buchanan spoke at
a noontime rally this month and sought out a local newspaper reporter to
denounce a local meat-packing plant for hiring what he said were illegal aliens.
Then, he demanded that English be designated the United States' official
language.

It is no coincidence that Mr. Buchanan chose this small farming and university
town set amid rolling prairie in northwestern Iowa to make his nativist appeal.
In the past 25 years, Storm Lake has undergone a startling metamorphosis as
immigrants have flocked here to work in two packing plants.

In 1970, the town of 8,591 people had 22 minority residents -- mainly faculty
members and students at Buena Vista University, including two young blacks who
had been adopted by a white family. Today, town officials estimate that Storm
Lake's population, now 8,769, is 10 percent minority, mainly recent immigrants
from Mexico and Southeast Asia.

The transformation of Storm Lake, bringing with it cultural clashes and strains
on government services, has not always been easy. And it demonstrates how small
towns in the rural heartland are facing the same issues in absorbing immigrants
that are confronted by places like New York, Miami and Los Angeles.

Signs in public buildings here are now often printed in Spanish and Lao as well
as in English. Crime has increased, though there is a debate over whether that
is attributable to the newcomers. The school system, where 24 percent of the
students are members of minorities, has been spending an extra $100,000 a year
for its English as a second language program, and has a difficult time finding
bilingual teachers.

"They're taking over the place," said Gwen Ehlers, 45, from nearby Newell, who
attended Mr. Buchanan's rally. "They have to broadcast school cancellations in
three different languages. When you go to the clinic, their languages are posted
all over. They're catering to them."

Norman Olberding from nearby Odebolt said, "I listen to Storm Lake radio every
morning, and the first five minutes is nothing but crime news with a bunch of
names you can't pronounce."

To be sure, there are many in town, like Rev. Duane C. Queen, pastor of Lakeside
Presbyterian Church, who believe that the new arrivals have injected vitality
into Storm Lake, teaching a culturally isolated community valuable lessons about
different customs and religions as well as different foods.

"It's easy to be in a Caucasian community, wherever it may be, and say you have
no prejudices," said Mr. Queen, whose church is near the 3,000-acre glacial lake
that gives the town its name.

There have been smaller, though more tangible, gains from the immigrants. "Our
soccer teams have improved markedly," Mayor Sandra Madsen said.

To many displeased with Storm Lake's makeover, the real villain is I.B.P., a
food-processing company that opened a hog slaughterhouse in 1982, taking over an
abandoned meat-packing plant. Unlike the previous operator, which had employed
highly skilled, unionized butchers, I.B.P. uses low-skilled, lower paid,
non-union workers. In Storm Lake and the surrounding areas, where unemployment
rates consistently are under 3 percent, such workers are not easily found.

"It's not a pleasant job," said Dana Larsen, editor of The Pilot Tribune, the
local newspaper. "It's all production line, lots of knife work. Cutting hogs is
not the type of work I think a lot of people want to do."

To counteract the local labor shortage, I.B.P. has recruited employees in areas
far from northwestern Iowa, including parts of Texas, where it has found
Hispanic workers. The recruitment effort, plus word of mouth in Hispanic and
Asian communities, has resulted in the influx of immigrants, although I.B.P.
officials stress they check the relevant documents of job applicants and do not
knowingly hire illegal aliens.

"Laotians like to work but don't have any skills or anything like that," said
Khampradith Thongvanh, a refugee from Laos who came to Storm Lake in 1976, after
Communist takeover in Laos. "But they are hard workers, and we have I.B.P. that
hires anybody. It doesn't matter if they talk English or not. People start to
know about the packing plant and start coming from California or Texas -- start
to come here because it's cheap and easy to get a job."

Now, residents are warily eying a small group of Somalis who have taken up
residence to work in a turkey slaughterhouse. As Muslims, the Somalis will not
handle swine carcasses. Storm Lake residents are asking themselves whether the
arrival of the group represents the advanced elements of yet another immigrant
influx.

While I.B.P. officials emphasize how much they contribute to Storm Lake and the
local economy in taxes and an annual $36 million payroll, some residents are not
mollified. Several years ago, Spencer, a city north of here, refused to grant a
zoning variance to another meat-packing company after citizens protested at
public hearings that they did not want their town to become another Storm Lake.

"It was the worst thing they ever did when they let I.B.P. in," Mr. Olberding
said. "They absolutely ruined this town."

Mr. Queen hears such talk and shakes his head. When he thinks of recent
immigrants, he thinks of people like Mr. Thongvanh, who worked as a janitor when
he first arrived here, is now an interpreter at the I.B.P. plant and has two
sons attending the University of Iowa. In 1988, when he became a citizen, Mr.
Thongvanh took the middle name of Barry, which friends say is in honor of his
favorite singer, Barry Manilow.

"I just wish people would get to know these people they have such strong
feelings about," Mr. Queen said.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Moon Boulommayong is one of the Southeast Asian immigrants who
have moved to Storm Lake, Iowa, many to work at a food-processing plant. But
their arrival has provoked complaints from some residents. (Jim Wilson/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

About New York;
A Latin Takes Manhattan

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 758 words


BALBUENA has finally arrived!

This is momentous news in Washington Heights, heralded on posters in store
windows and on walls, where Orodoto Balbuena dwarfs the city skyline like a sly
grinning conqueror with his ever-present black beret and Afro comb. Who is this
Caribbean Kilroy whose name pops up almost everywhere on streets packed with
Dominican immigrants on their pre-dawn journeys to work or on their daily rounds
shopping?

He is they.

Balbuena, a romantic rube played by Luisito Marti, is the star of "Nueba Yol," a
movie comedy made by Angel Muniz with a few dollars and a lot of heart. It is
every immigrant's story of scheming and dreaming to get a visa to come to New
York, where legend has it that money can be plucked from the street like lettuce
in a field. Never mind that many newcomers find the pickings slim and the only
money to be had comes from chopping lettuce or washing dishes.

His exploits are already legend on Dominican television, where Balbuena's
outrageous and unsuccessful plans to come north have made him the Ralph Kramden
of the immigrant set. In real life, such attempts sometimes end in tragedy in
the shark-infested waters off the Dominican Republic.

New York, as Balbuena says, is a serious matter.

THAT knowledge may be why the audience at a recent screening of the new film
erupted in Stallone-worthy cheers when Balbuena, hanging on to his elusive visa
and even more elusive English, finally made it past a wary immigration officer
at Kennedy International Airport.

"Whoever had a dream to come to New York becomes a Balbuena," said Mr. Muniz,
who wrote and directed the movie on a $280,000 budget. "It's difficult to make a
movie about Balbuena without people laughing. It's difficult to make a movie
about immigration where people don't cry."

It's also hard to make a Spanish-language movie and find a home for it in New
York, despite ethnic theaters for groups like Indians and Chinese. Decades ago,
there were many theaters where Hispanic immigrants saw movies where the men were
brave, the women beautiful and everybody spoke Spanish -- often with a Mexican
accent.

The creators of "Nueba Yol" -- Dominican slang for New York -- hope to revive
that tradition, noting that the movie, which broke records in the Dominican
Republic, is showing healthy box-office returns in the 10 local theaters where
it is playing.

Video killed the Spanish movie market, said Lawrence Eulojio Martin, one of the
movie's associate producers. Mexican producers thought theaters would be
obsolete.

Mr. Martin refused to believe such talk. He knew Hispanic immigrants liked the
slam-bang Hollywood adventure movies, but they also yearned to see somebody they
could identify with. Consider Jimmy Smits's tender yet realistic portrayal of a
single father trying hard to buck a lifetime of bad luck in "Mi Familia" and you
get a sense of what Mr. Martin means.

Unfortunately, when Hollywood goes Hispanic, the results are Al Pacino chewing
his way through scenery and the Spanish language in "Scarface" or Marisa Tomei
in "The Perez Family" playing a hooker with more ham than a meaty Cuban
sandwich.

"We all love Hollywood pictures, but give us a Latin hero and we'll go to the
movies," Mr. Martin said. "You've got to give the Latin people their own heroes.
You can't expect Hollywood to give it to them."

Enter Balbuena.

ALTHOUGH he combines the optimism of Candide with the romantic luck of Beauty's
Beast -- this is a movie after all -- this immigrant Everyman is someone who
knows what it's like to arrive in a strange land with no money, English or job
prospects. His audiences certainly do, too. When he is told the dollar bills in
New York flutter unnoticed down the street, viewers laugh knowingly.

When his cousin Pedro's Americanized children reject him, viewers empathize with
the sting of being treated like a bumpkin. And when Pedro tells his children
he'll send them back to Santo Domingo if they don't like his discipline, the
audience cheers.

With the movie set in Washington Heights, the drug trade that is the bane of
decent families in the community is featured. So too are the dangers that come
with easy money and the fear of returning to the homeland empty-handed and
defeated.

But Balbuena, like many of his countrymen, would rather scrub toilets than take
a shortcut.

"Your dreams become reality when you return to the motherland," he tells his
cousin. "The victory is to return with your conscience clean."

When the hero is Everyman, the heroics are in the everyday.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 23, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: MOVING WEST;
Buchanan Steps Into an Arizona Crossfire

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1801 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Ariz., Feb. 22


In a tangled and contentious debate, Patrick J. Buchanan and Lamar Alexander
jostled for position tonight in the Republican Presidential contest here,
battling over two issues that are expected to dominate the nomination fight over
the next two weeks of primaries: trade and Mr. Buchanan's idea to shut borders
to illegal immigrants.

Senator Bob Dole, the third leading Republican candidate, skipped tonight's
debate. Both Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Alexander tweaked Mr. Dole for not appearing.
But then the two of them, along with Steve Forbes and Representative Robert K.
Dornan of California, roared off on their own for 90 wild minutes, and Mr. Dole
was nearly completely forgotten.

"Pat, I'm not going to let you hijack our party," Mr. Alexander said, announcing
from the start of the debate his strategy of trying to turn this into a two-way
race between himself and Mr. Buchanan, rather than between Mr. Dole and Mr.
Buchanan.

"I'm going to debate you on ideas. Buchananism is wrong for our country. It's
wrong for our party. We need a rising, shining America, not a divided,
pessimistic America as we go into the next century."

Mr. Buchanan waited until Mr. Alexander was done, paused, and then leaned
squarely into the camera.

"Lamar," Mr. Buchanan deadpanned. "Welcome to 'Crossfire.' "

The audience, at Arizona State University in nearby Tempe, loved it, cheering,
laughing and hooting along, helping to transform the event into what was clearly
the most entertaining, and freewheeling, encounter of the Republican
presidential season, with far more time expended on issues like social security
than on campaign tactics and negative advertising. Mr. Buchanan appeared most
comfortable with the format, playing to the audience the way he has been playing
to rallies down here, and the crowd responded to him enthusiastically.

Mr. Alexander seemed less comfortable with the format. He returned so frequently
to his qualifications -- as a former chief executive of Tennessee -- that the
audience groaned at one point, and Mr. Buchanan cut him off, saying, "Lamar,
we're not electing a resume."

Mr. Dole's absence here raised the question of how much of an effort he will
make in Arizona. His aides said that he planned to come here this weekend, but
politicians said he had unquestionably been hurt by staying away from the
debate.

Both Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Alexander tried to make the most of it, as they sought
to establish themselves as the two main candidates in at least this part of the
race. By contrast, Mr. Forbes was often overshadowed by the dynamics involving
Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Alexander. At one point, he tried to intercede, scolding
the audience for being rambunctious, saying: "Calm down. You're eating into my
time."

The debate capped an exultant day for Mr. Buchanan, in which he found himself
basking in the perch at the top of the Republican Party. He began the day by
warning party leaders that their attacks on his Presidential campaign, asserting
he was too extreme to lead the party this fall, could scare off "the Pat
Buchanan movement" and insure President Clinton's re-election.

Mr. Buchanan was delighted at the attention he was winning. "There's no doubt
that these fellas are playing right into by hands by gathering together and
putting on this hysterical performance," he said this morning at the airport in
Tucson in his first stop in Arizona.

But Mr. Buchanan went further than simply enjoying the discomfort he had caused
Republican leaders. He argued that the record turnout in New Hampshire, and
support from young, independent and lower-middle-class voters showed that he was
building a new political movement.

Mr. Buchanan, who considers himself a student of American political history,
promptly named it the Buchanan Movement, and argued that its adherents would be
critical to any Republican nominee who wanted to defeat President Clinton.

"Listen: We have a great movement here," Mr. Buchanan said, talking over the
roar of departing jets as he stood on the wind-whipped airport tarmac in Tucson.
"And if you bring Pat Buchanan's movement together with the Republican Party, we
have a majority. We can win. I can't bring my people back into the Republican
Party if their leader is under constant attack and assault."

With his remarks, Mr. Buchanan fired a warning shot at Republican leaders to
"stop the name-calling." More important, he was again able to position himself
as an opponent of the Washington establishment, including his own political
party.

But he also was suggesting that win or lose, he now had the leverage to play a
major role in Republican Party affairs when the party holds its convention in
San Diego in August. And while he reiterated that he intended to support the
party's nominee, whomever it is, aides said it was possible that Mr. Buchanan
might reconsider that position if the Republican Party did not include a plank
opposing abortion in its platform in its platform.

But less than an hour after an ebullient Mr. Buchanan asserted a new political
movement was coalescing behind him, he witnessed a reminder of why Republican
leaders find his candidacy so worrisome. An event intended for pictures -- Mr.
Buchanan in cowboy garb riding in a horse-drawn in the 71st Tucson Rodeo Parade
-- was disrupted by patches of jeering spectators along the route. It was a
demonstration of why the contentious Mr. Buchanan so rarely participates in such
unscripted events.

Mr. Buchanan sat in the front bench of a six-bench covered wagon, his business
suit replaced with cowboy boots, a black cowboy hat and an embroidered
blue-denim shirt, for the Tucson Rodeo Parade, or La Fiesta de Los Vaqueros. It
quickly became clear that many in the crowd, which included a heavy turn-out
from Mexican-Americans who make up a substantial part of this city's population,
were not pleased with their honored guest.

Ron Asta, a former Pima County supervisor, yelled, "Go Get 'em, Pat!" But Lori
Martin was more typical of the crowd, yelling "Go Home!" as Mr. Buchanan's
wagon-cade rolled slowly up the street. Mr. Buchanan's wagon came to a stop in
front of Sid Gershenson, who kept yelling at the candidate: "Kick out the
immigrant Buchanan! Down with Buchanan, a racist!"

Mr. Buchanan, conscious of the television cameras recording the event, looked
right when the "Racist, go home" chants arose from the left, and looked left
when the boos arose from the right. He was not seen engaging his critics.

The episode came as Mr. Buchanan turned his most of his campaign's resources
into winning Arizona's primary next Tuesday. In so doing, Mr. Buchanan has
decided not to make major pushes in South Dakota and North Dakota, which also
hold primaries on Tuesday and where Mr. Dole has been concentrating his efforts,
aides said.

After that, Mr. Buchanan is to fly his shoestring campaign to South Carolina,
for the March 2 primary. It is a race which state and national Republicans
believe could again -- as it did in 1988 for Vice President George Bush in his
contest with Mr. Dole -- set the tone for the delegate-rich contests in the
South in the subsequent 10 days, particularly in Florida, Texas and Georgia.

Mr. Buchanan's aides said they believed Arizona was an ideal state for a
victory, in part because Senator Phil Gramm of Texas has pulled out, leaving
conservative voters up for grabs, and in part because the state seemed attuned
to Mr. Buchanan's nationalistic message.

Indeed, within hours within arriving in Arizona and again tonight, Mr. Buchanan
presented a new page in his campaign book, substituting his emphasis on trade
issues with a denunciation of illegal immigration and a demand that English be
the official language of the United States.

"The Constitution obligates the President of the United States to defend the
states against foreign invasion," Mr. Buchanan told a television interviewer
earlier in Tucson, 60 miles from the border. "And that's what's taking place
when one, two, three million people walk across your border every year."

When his interviewer suggested that his emphasis on immigrants was considered
racist in some quarters, Mr. Buchanan asserted: "We've got to enforce our laws
and defend our frontiers. Every country has a right to do it."

He was challenged again tonight on the point in the debate.

When the moderator asked Mr. Buchanan about radio commericals he began
broadcasting today pledging to construct a barrier on the Mexican-American
border, the crowd broke out in whoops, and Mr. Buchanan grinned.

He asserted that illegal aliens were taking jobs, and, in some cases, were
responsible for crime and going on welfare. "Within six months," he declared, "I
will stop the illegal immigration coming from the southern border of this
country cold!"

Mr. Forbes said that it was a mistake to step up patrols at the border. And he
noted that legal immigration was "good for America," providing talent that had
added to the nation's productivity.

Mr. Buchanan also found his trade policies under attack by Mr. Alexander and Mr.
Forbes. Mr. Alexander said it would be a mistake to impose tariffs on the
country's trading partners, and that the Government should institute lower
barriers -- particularly taxes -- to productivity. "That's the way to create a
rising shining America, not to build a wall around the country," Mr. Alexander.

"That is not the Republican Party of Ronald Reagan," Mr. Alexander said, in an
exchange that hinted at underlying struggle between him and Mr. Buchanan for the
Reagan mantle. "That is Buchananism and it is wrong for our country."

Mr. Forbes said: "Let's remember one simple thing. When you put politicians in
charge of trade, the American people lose. Tariffs are another form of taxes.
Protectionism always fails. It gave us the Great Depression and cost us 20
million jobs."

Mr. Buchanan did not back down, repeatedly defending his ideas -- including
proposals to impose a 20 percent tariff on China and 10 percent on Japan -- and
ridiculing the argument by Mr. Alexander and Mr. Forbes that free trade would
bring prosperity.

"Wake up and smell the coffee!" Mr. Buchanan said. "This country can not afford,
we can not afford to export our manufacturing base. We've got too many weak
sisters in Washington, Lamar, who don't understand that."

At one point, Mr. Dornan -- who uncharacteristically seemed the calm note in a
generally discordant evening -- came to Mr. Buchanan's defense, decrying
Republican moderates who have been publicly worrying about Mr. Buchanan's rise.

"Stay out of Bill Clinton and Dick Gephardt's vocabulary, throwing the word
'extremist' at one another," Mr. Dornan said, referring to the House minority
leader. Mr. Buchanan turned to Mr. Dornan, grinned, and joined the audience in
applause.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick J. Buchanan arriving in Tucson, Ariz., and being
directed where to stand for a news conference. (Associated Press); "I can't
bring my people back into the Republican Party if their leader is under constant
attack and assault," he said. At a rodeo parade, he was jeered by some
spectators who chanted, "Racist, go home!" (Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 25, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Population Making Inroads on the South Fork

BYLINE: By MERYL SPIEGEL

SECTION: Section 13LI;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2336 words


FIVE years ago a young man from Mexico City who identified himself as Juan left
his family and illegally crossed the border to the United States. With no
prospects of earning a living and with a wife and two children to feed, he hoped
to find a better life here.

Instead of heading toward California like most Mexican immigrants, Juan traveled
to join his brother-in-law on the South Fork, where he was immediately employed
as a painter.

"He told us it was a safe place, less crowded than the city and that our
children would receive better care," Juan said in Spanish.

Sister Cathi Kugler, a social worker for Apostolado Hispano, a Roman Catholic
program on the South Fork, translated the interview with Juan.

Juan, 35, is one of many workers from Latin countries, including Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico and
Nicaragua, who are settling on the South Fork.

Hispanic immigrants had historically been attracted to the region to be migrant
field workers in the growing season and dishwashers and maids in the tourist
season. But as winter approached they frequently returned to their home
countries.

Despite the fact that many continue to be seasonally unemployed, more immigrants
are staying longer and calling for their families.

The community is growing quickly, because of a "colony effect," Sister Cathi
said, adding that after a family member finds work, other relatives, as well as
their children, often follow. And as the community grows, schools,
municipalities and church groups are helping the immigrants cope with their
problems.

In 1990, 812 Hispanic people lived in the Town of East Hampton, accounting for 5
percent of the population, and 1,201, or 2.6 percent, lived in the Town of
Southampton, according to Census figures from Roy Fedelem of the Long Island
Regional Planning Board.

On Long Island, Hispanic people made up 6.3 percent of the population in 1990,
the second largest minority group after blacks. Spanish-speaking people are the
fastest-growing segment, and, Mr. Fedelem projected that in the Census for the
year 2000 they would surpass blacks.

Asians, however, including Chinese, Filipinos, Indians and Koreans, are the
fastest-growing minority group by percentage on Long Island, Mr. Fedelem added.
In 1990, 2.4 percent of Long Islanders were Asian, compared with 1 percent in
1980. Large groups of Asians have settled in several North Shore communities,
including Hempstead, North Hempstead and Oyster Bay.

Because many Hispanic immigrants are not legal, officials say, it is difficult
to estimate their numbers on the South Fork.

But Anthony T. Rosalia, editor of El Mensajero, or The Messenger, a free
newspaper in Southampton, said he thought that the number of Hispanic people
more than doubled since 1990. He estimated that 2,500 Hispanic people lived in
East Hampton.

Mr. Rosalia founded the newspaper with his mother, Lucille, five years ago "to
help the Hispanic and English communities get to know each other," he said.
Published in Spanish and English, its circulation ranges from 3,100 to 4,000, he
added.

In most public schools on the South Fork, the number of Hispanic students has
more than doubled in five years, according to education officials. The Town of
East Hampton, including Montauk, reports that it has 200 Hispanic students, or
almost 13 percent of the enrollment in the district. Five years ago the district
had 76, or 5 percent, according to an administrator, Joseph Frascino.

Mr. Frascino, who recently started a multicultural program in the district, said
that most of the Hispanic students were in the high school and lived in Montauk.

"In 1986, there was not one English as a Second Language teacher in the
district, the principal of the elementary school in East Hampton, Dennis
Donatutti, said. "Now there are five."

In the Southampton district, the increase in Hispanic students is consistent
with the rest of the South Fork, according to the district psychologist and
supervisor of the E.S.L. program, Dr. Harmon Cohen. The number grew, from 30 in
1990 to 65, or 4 percent of the total enrollment in the district last year, and
the number of E.S.L. teaching positions has increased, from one and a half to
three, he said.

Many Hispanic singles migrate here, experts said, hoping to save enough money to
move their families, a process that can take years.

But Juan was lucky. In two months, he said, his wife and two children joined him
in Southampton. "I worked day and night to bring them here," he recalled.

However, they are "wetbacks," said Sister Cathi. Late one night they waded
across the Rio Grande, escorted by an illegal guide called a coyote, she said.
They have no legal documents, she added, and "they have no hope of getting
them."

Sister Cathi said it was extremely difficult for Mexicans to obtain the
documents unless they were part of the government's seasonal farm worker program
or family reunification program or were sponsored by an employer.

In addition to the difficulty of obtaining documentation, the immigrants often
face other obstacles.

At the time of the interview Juan had been out of work for two months because of
an accident. While painting a house, he fell off a ladder and knocked a leg bone
out of place, he said. Although his supervisor deducts 4 percent of his salary
for accident insurance, Juan has been told that his particular fall is not
covered, he said.

Because he has no documentation, he does not have a strong case, Sister Cathi
said. And since they have no recourse, she added, immigrants are often taken
advantage of. "I tried five or six lawyers," Juan said. "But they all said they
couldn't help me, since I have no papers."

The family plans to live here indefinitely, because they have nowhere else to
go. They share a house with two other families in Southampton, and Juan's wife
cleans a few houses each week.

Although Hispanic immigrants are a frequent target of criticism, Sister Cathi
said, they are the backbone of the local economy. "Commerce on the East End,"
she added, "depends on them."

The Hispanic workers are in jobs that Americans are not seeking, Mr. Rosalia
added.

A landscaping manager in Southampton, Chris Bishop, agreed that Hispanic workers
did not take jobs from other residents. In season, from March to November, Mr.
Bishop said, he hires seasonal workers, including 10 who speak Spanish.

He said that all his foreign laborers had to have legal documents and that all
were paid on the books. They start at $8 an hour and can work up to $10.
Overall, he added, the foreigners are hard workers who often have two full-time
jobs in the summer.

People are under the impression that the immigrants pay no taxes, Mr. Rosalia
said, but most are paid on the books.

Last year Juan and his wife earned $14,000 before taxes, he said. Acccording to
Sister Cathi, even workers without legal documents pay taxes because they often
present false Social Security numbers to obtain jobs.That means that taxes are
deducted from the paychecks, but that the workers do not receive refunds.

"We pay taxes but get none of the benefits," Juan said.

Another immigrant, 31 years old, qualified for a green card, or residency visa,
one year after moving to East Hampton in 1990. He left his wife and two children
in Guatemala, he said, where "people were fighting and being killed."

In five years, he said, he has seen his family once, when he was issued a visa.

"I've tried to bring my family here, but nobody has helped me, and a lawyer
costs too much," he said in broken English. Although he would like to stay, the
worker said, he will probably return to Guatemala next year because he misses
his family.

While on the South Fork the Guatemalan has found work eight months out of the
year, he said, but right now he is unemployed until next month. "I tried to find
a job doing anything, but there is no business," he said.

In the last year he has worked steadily for an irrigation company in East
Hampton. After completing the paperwork, he said, he was hoping to receive
unemployment benefits.

Learning the system and breaking the language barrier are the biggest problems,
according to Anne Bernard, an outreach worker for the Town of East Hampton. Ms.
Bernard is an advocate for Hispanic residents, whether they need her to fill out
forms, drive them to doctors' offices or translate.

The Human Services Director of East Hampton, Edna Steck, said Hispanic people
were frightened of most authority figures. For example, they are afraid to
question the school system, because they fear that "their situation will be
jeopardized," she said.

Ms. Steck emphasized the need to teach Hispanic parents the importance of being
involved in their children's educations.

Sometimes a family asks Ms. Bernard to make telephone calls for them. They think
that with their accent "they will not get good service," Ms. Bernard said.

In addition to the outreach program, which serves 60 families, East Hampton
offers free E.S.L. classes for adults and an after-school tutoring club for
schoolchildren.

Many students leave school for up to three months in the winter, when their
families travel, and the program helps them catch up, the director, Audrey
Gaines, said. About 50 students attend the program, half of whom are Hispanic.

"We could have a lot more," she added. "But the program is full, and I have had
to turn many away."

In the schools, teachers say, most Hispanic students attend year-round, and few
parents continue to take their children out of school.

Some students have motivation problems, said Sandy Vasquez, an E.S.L. teacher in
East Hampton. Because many have been separated from their parents for up to four
years, "they have a lot going on emotionally" when they are reunited.

In Southampton, Joaquin Mendez, a high school guidance counselor who is from the
Dominican Republic, also said "reunification" posed problems. About half the
Hispanic people, Mr. Mendez said, are "people in transition," people who live
with three or four other men or women who are single or have left spouses and
children behind.

At food pantries, workers say, the number of immigrants has increased
substantially over several years. The coordinator of the Southampton food pantry
at the Sacred Heart church, Mary Ann Tupper, said many Hispanic people were part
of the "invisible poor" who worked in the seasonal tourist trade and went to the
pantry in the winter, when they were out of work. "You don't see them unless you
deal with them," she said.

The director of a pantry in East Hampton, Bob Fariel, said, "A lot of Hispanics
are bunching up and living in motels here and in Montauk." Because the pantry,
in Montauk, is open only once a month, many Hispanic people apparently go to
East Hampton weekly for food.

In Hampton Bays a 19-year-old from Puebla, Mexico, moved to Long Island two
years ago and found work as a landscaper. But in the winter he does not have a
way to earn a living, he said, and he lives in a small apartment with four other
young men, also out of work.

In another residence in Hampton Bays, a 22-year-old woman from Chiapas in
southern Mexico, lives with three other Mexican women, including her mother. She
works preparing salads in a restaurant, but her mother, a housekeeper, is out of
work.

Sister Cathi, who translated that interview, too, said the women lived
"abstinently" to send money to their families.

On the positive side, 20 percent of the Hispanic immigrants are part of "intact
families" that are moving ahead, Mr. Mendez said. They have lived in the region
for seven or eight years and their lives have become more stable because they
found year-round work. "Their children are able to compete in school," Mr.
Mendez added.

In fact, the salutatorian at Southampton High School in 1993 was a girl from
Ecuador, Carolina Avendano. When she moved to Southampton, she entered high
school not speaking English. Today she is a sophomore at the Massachusetts
Institue of Technology in Cambridge.

Another more subtle success story involves a Costa Rican family in East Hampton.
A housekeeper; her husband, a carpenter and their three children migrated from
the capital, San Jose, six years ago.

Although the woman loves Costa Rica and would like to return someday, she said,
"there are no good jobs" and the cost of living is high.

Looking back, she said times were tough, but "things are better now." The couple
are saving to buy the three-bedroom rental home where they live.

In addition to public programs, private services are also focusing on the
immigrants. One prime example is Hampton Community Health Care in Water Mill,
run by a pediatric nurse practitioner, Harriet L. Hellman.

While working for a pediatrician in East Hampton, Ms. Hellman recounted, she
noticed that no one was serving the medical needs of the growing immigrant
community. She said she was the only professional who spoke Spanish in the
office.

In May she opened a large clinic on Montauk Highway with bilingual personnel. It
has seen 500 children and adolescents. "Ninety percent are Spanish speaking,"
she said.

Ms. Hellman offers a sliding-fee scale based on income. Some patients pay right
away in cash, andothers "bring me $5 each week."

Ms. Hellman stressed that Hispanic culture was centered on a strong family unit.
"These people love their kids and have good values," she said.  In a recent
snowstorm, she said, a young man with asthma went to her office to pay for a $20
influenza vaccination.

The area has a dire need for additional Spanish-speaking health practitioners,
Ms. Hellman said, and Southampton has no bilingual social workers or public
health nurses.

"There are huge pockets of poverty," she said. "The white middle class either
doesn't know about it or chooses not to know. Large numbers can't read and write
or use the system. The church groups have been most successful at helping them."


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lucille Rosalia, left, publisher of El Mensajero, with her son,
Anthony, editor. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times); Sister Cathi Kugler, right,
conducts a Bible study lesson with immigrants. (Maxine Hicks for The New York
Times) (pg. 1); Sister Cathi Kugler, left, shares a joke with Gloria Delgado
after church service. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 25, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For Immigrant Maids, Not a Job but Servitude

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1746 words

DATELINE: GLEN COVE, L.I.


The story of Etelbina Flores is the stuff of a television novela, a Spanish soap
opera of a timid immigrant maid who toils in a wealthy suburban house for hourly
wages too meager to buy a feather duster.

Her own house is like the crowded steerage compartment of a bulky ship,
containing five Salvadoran families with lives too tenuous to question
authority. Yet something snapped the day her Great Neck boss accused her of a
$400 theft and, she says, she was forced to submit to a strip search to prove
her innocence; she dropped her mop and sued.

"I am not a thief," Ms. Flores said defiantly. "I didn't like what they were
saying."

The dirty little secrets behind the closed doors of some upper middle class
houses in the suburbs from New York to Los Angeles are the immigrant women who
work up to 15-hour shifts, six days a week, for wages amounting to $2 an hour.

Some disgruntled domestic workers like Ms. Flores, who can barely write her own
name, are trying to bare those secrets with rebellious strategies ranging from
court challenges and professional mediation to self-esteem training and a new,
untested weapon of last resort -- demonstrations outside the employers' houses.
They are receiving encouragement and legal advice from organizations that work
with immigrants.

"It's really remarkable to us the difference that we see in the women who've
been trained in their legal rights," said Jennifer Gordon, a Harvard-trained
lawyer who heads one such organization, the Workplace Project in Hempstead, L.I.
"As we see more and more women becoming trained, we see them getting stronger
and stronger."

Ms. Gordon said employers treat domestics differently from all other workers.

"They don't think they have any obligation to pay minimum wages," she said, "but
they say they treat her like family. But if your sister came to live with you,
would you pay her $1.90 an hour and make her work 80 hours a week?"

In the hierarchy of domestic workers, laboring in the suburbs and living with an
employer is considered the lowest rung of the ladder because women are isolated
without transportation and often are compelled to work hours without defined
limits. Days start before breakfast and can linger until a baby stops crying in
the middle of the night. Some women rarely leave the house.

The popular Spanish term for this job sums up the more cynical view of the
occupation -- "encerrado," locked up.

Some have paid as much as a week's salary in advance to immigrant agencies or
friends who help them find jobs. Typically, it is the new immigrants with shaky
legal status and few options who take these positions at wages that start at
about $150 a week in the New York area, $100 in California.

To reach them, community organizers have tried a variety of strategies to
contact workers before they get their frantic telephone calls complaining about
a family quarrel, a financial dispute or a dismissal.

In Jackson Heights, Queens, along a crowded strip of Indian and Bangladeshi
shops and restaurants, social workers for a group called Sakhi for South Asian
Women circulate leaflets to reach immigrant women who are recruited from India
to work in the houses of upper middle class Indian families living in
Westchester County and northern New Jersey.

Their message, translated in English, Hindi, Bengali and Urdu, contains basic
information for women who rarely leave their employers' homes and are paid
monthly in rupees -- the equivalent of about $320. These are the women who
complain to the agency about living in drafty basements, isolated by language
and suburban address, their passports and money held in safekeeping by their
employers.

"We try to tell them the right kind of conditions to demand -- break-time,
holidays and things like that," said Neela Trivedi, who coordinates a domestic
worker's project for Sakhi, which means "woman friend" in Urdu.

The Workplace Project on Long Island sends its organizers to the cafeterias of
Roman Catholic churches with large Spanish-speaking congregations to find
domestics who need help.

On a Sunday morning at St. Peter of Alcantara Church in Port Washington, after
Mass and the coffee hour had ended, dozens of Salvadoran women and men lingered
to listen to Dina Aguirre deliver a testimonial about her own bittersweet
experiences as a domestic in Garden City.

She was dressed for church instead of work, a woman of 20 in a long green dress
and black high heels, who had moved here seven months ago from Guatemala where
she had been studying to be a school teacher. She speaks little English and
lacks immigration documents, a resume that gave her few choices.

"I worked for three weeks without getting paid," she said. "I worked from 7 in
the morning until 7 at night and sometimes till 11. I asked the woman to pay me
and she said, 'I don't owe you anything because you ruined my blouse.' She said,
'Give me your address, and I will send you a bill for all that you owe me.' "

Her Garden City employer, Ana Marie Lobos, declined to discuss Ms. Aguirre's
brief employment, but insisted that she had been paid. Ms. Aguirre agrees that
she finally did get a paycheck, but only after suing in small claims court and
receiving an award of $600.

Her tactic is increasingly being used by other domestic workers in the suburbs
of Long Island who have discovered how difficult it is to make a claim for back
wages. In some cases, the women had already turned unsuccessfully to their local
police department for help or the State Department of Labor, where claims can
take as long as 18 months to investigate.

But those who win court claims don't necessarily feel victorious; they still
have to collect the money.

The calendar belonging to Yanira Juarez, 25, is filled with entries marking the
paydays that passed without payment from her employer in Bellport, L.I., where
she worked as a housekeeper. Ultimately, she won her claim in court for back
wages of more than $2,000, but the award remains unpaid.

"I returned and I returned again with a friend who spoke English to tell her
that I needed the money," Ms. Juarez said. "She took my address and said, 'I
will send it.' I'm still waiting."

Such complaints are so common that various social agencies have created special
units to offer advice and counseling to domestic workers. The Coalition for
Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles circulates a comic book called "Super
Domestica," a caped maid who offers negotiating tips in Spanish.

"There are ways to come to an agreement with your employer," declared Super
Domestica as she hurtled through the clouds in knee-high boots. "Use the
relationship you have with her, especially if she likes you. This can work to
your advantage." To reach "encerradas" isolated in their employers' homes, the
group also regularly sends its organizers to three Beverly Hills parks where the
women gather with their charges. The group offers seminars for domestics in tax
planning and self-esteem, which they contend is critical training for women who
don't have the skills to assert themselves.

The Workplace Project on Long Island is also circulating an advice comic book
about scornful bosses and overworked maids, but their proposed solutions are far
more aggressive. They are organizing workers to form "justice committees" of
domestic workers who will appear at an employers doorstep to show their court
orders and demand back wages.

"I find that a lot of employers feel that they're doing employees a favor by
giving them a job," said Ms. Gordon, the founder of the project. "And they're
shocked when they complain."

Often employers raise the threat of reporting undocumented immigrants to the
authorities, but in turn they could face sanctions because it is illegal to hire
someone who lacks work authorization documents or a residency permit, the
so-called green card.

The employers themselves offer starkly different versions of disputes involving
their domestic workers.

David Brush, a Point Lookout, L.I., resident, was flabbergasted when his former
nurse's aide, Aurora Chavarria, a Colombian immigrant, sued him in small claims
court for $2,600 for three months of back wages. The case is pending.

"There should be agencies that are regulated by the government that are going to
check that these women are not illegal," he said. "I paid her $100 a day. You
tell me why she's complaining. What she did is sit on her tail, watching the
Latin channel on TV. All these people, they seem to know exactly what to do.
They learn just how hard they can push. It's like it's organized. It's too well
organized."

Mr. Brush noted that while he employed Ms. Chavarria to nurse his wife, at least
$7,000 worth of suits disappeared along with $2,000 in pants and shoes. "I'm not
blaming her," he said. "But when she came here these things were still here."

Accusations of theft or damaged property are often intertwined with a worker's
claim for back wages. It's a constant anxiety for workers who fear being falsely
accused, said Marta Lopez-Garza, an associate professor in sociology at
Occidental College in Los Angeles who studied the Mexican, Salvadoran and
Guatemalan women who dominate domestic work in the West.

Those tensions are compounded for workers who are undocumented and fear that
their employers could report them to Federal authorities.

That was the case of Ms. Flores, 24, the undocumented immigrant from El
Salvador, who speaks only Spanish and relies on her husband, Martires Villatoro,
to read for her. She found a $125-a-week job last summer working as a live-in
domestic for a Great Neck family, who used a Spanish-speaking friend to
communicate instructions to Ms. Flores.

Her employment ended four weeks later in an explosive quarrel: the employer
accused her of stealing $400 stuffed in the husband's coat pocket. She said she
was forced to strip in front of the husband and wife to prove she didn't have
the cash.

"She's a big liar," insisted her former employer, Flora Charkhy. As they
demanded information about the missing money, she said, Ms. Flores insisted on
disrobing. "She suddenly started taking off her clothes. I said, 'Don't do that,
please!' "

Ms. Flores sued in small claims court and their dispute ended in professional
mediation. The result: $150 in back wages for Ms. Flores, who is now hoping to
find work in a beauty salon.

"I was very sad because it was very difficult for me," Ms. Flores said. "But God
knows what happened."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: SUPER DOMESTICA The cartoon character "Super Domestica," a
caped maid who hurtles through the clouds in knee-high boots bearing
house-cleaning tools, offers negotiating advice to domestic workers in Spanish:
"Libertad and Raquel are correct. Yes, there are ways to come to an agreement
with your employer. Use the relationship you have with her, especially if she
likes you. This can work to your advantage." (pg. 1); Etelbina Flores, above
right, an undocumented immigrant from El Salvador, won $150 in back wages from a
mediator after suing her former employer in small claims court. She and her
husband, Martires Villatoro, live in a house with four other Salvadoran
families. Dina Aguirre, below, gave a testimonial on her experiences as a
domestic worker at St. Peter of Alcantara Church in Port Washington, L.I.
(Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. 37)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 29, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Cultural Reluctance To Spare the Rod;
Newcomers Say Americans Spoil Children

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1706 words


The immigrant mothers sat along the edges of Brooklyn playgrounds and talked
about two methods of discipline: the American way, and the way they brought with
them from their homelands.

American parents, they say, give a young child a timeout or ground an older one,
then may even feel guilty about it. The immigrant parents believe sterner is
better, they say. They would slap a fresh mouth, spank a disrespectful child or
beat one who dared to lie or skip school.

But that approach requires them to walk a fine line. If they administered the
kind of lickings they endured while growing up in the islands, they say, they
might lose their own children to foster care, or even face arrest.

"The first thing a child learns here, 'If you spank me, I'll call 911,' " said
Emma Henderson, a mother of three who grew up in Dominica. "There's something
wrong about it."

At a time city planners estimate that more than half of New York City's
population is made up of immigrants and their children, one of the central
cultural clashes is about where spanking ends and child abuse begins. Many
immigrants, from cabdrivers to baby sitters to schoolteachers, say Americans
spoil their children by sparing the rod. The police and child protection workers
are too quick to cry abuse, they say.

The child protection system, with many social workers who are themselves
immigrants, has not had an easy time resolving some cultural differences.
Critics say that too often, caseworkers judge excessive punishment as
acceptable, and have called for better training for agency workers.

These issues have come to the fore in two recent child welfare cases, with the
arrest of a Nigerian immigrant charged with assaulting his son, who was found
with a broken wrist, and of a Cambodian immigrant couple that the authorities
said beat their disobedient daughter with a plastic curtain rod.

The Nigerian father, Shakiru Adebayo, told the police he was following the
disciplinary ways of his country. The city caseworker who investigated an
earlier abuse report on the family had decided the beatings of the boy were
signs not of abuse, but of the father's cultural beliefs, school officials said.

But Olikoye Ransome-Kuti, a pediatrician who was Minister of Health in Nigeria
from 1985 to 1993, said last week that Mr. Adebayo, if guilty of the charges,
had crossed the line into brutality even in the context of his own culture.
Breaking a child's wrist is "clearly beyond the pale," said Dr. Ransome-Kuti,
now a consultant to the World Bank in Washington.

In New York City, city officials concede, the city has done a poor job in recent
years of training the new workers to make complex judgment calls about when a
child is being abused.

In a confidential November 1995 memo, Gene D. Skarin, associate general counsel
of the city's Human Resources Administration, voiced alarm about caseworkers who
have lived in the United States only a few years and see "excessive corporal
punishment being an acceptable form of discipline."

Immigrants who think that hitting is the best way to teach children to be
respectful and studious are running into a contrary view, held by many doctors,
psychiatrists and social workers, that physical discipline can deaden a child's
spirit and lead to violence later in life.

That view, along with a growing awareness of child abuse, has contributed to an
evolving definition in the United States of what constitutes excessive corporal
punishment, which is against the law. In many parts of the country, and in New
York in previous decades, for example, principals routinely paddled the
mischievous. But for more than 30 years, corporal punishment has been forbidden
in New York City schools.

Immigration experts say the issue is a highly charged one for many people
locating in the New York metropolitan area from all over the globe: Nigerians,
West Indians, Dominicans, Mexicans, Eastern Europeans and Russians, among
others.

Often, the parents have come to America for the sake of their children, only to
feel they are losing them to the rebellious ways of American youth. Separated
from the extended family members and neighbors who had helped keep children in
line back home, and separated from their children by the long hours they put in
at work, panicky immigrant parents may rely more on harsh discipline, experts
say.

Mary C. Waters, a Harvard University sociologist who interviewed West Indian
immigrants and their children in New York City from 1991 to 1993, said corporal
punishment was the central issue for them.

"When I asked what's different about the United States," she said, "they said:
'The state comes between you and your children. Americans don't discipline their
children well, and when you do it the right way, there's the danger your kids
can call social services on you.'

"They were at a loss as to how to discipline your child if you couldn't hit
them. It cut across class lines."

Una Clarke, a Jamaican-born City Council member from Queens, said that
immigrants must learn new ways to discipline their children as part of their
adaptation to American culture. When she worked for the city supervising day
care centers, Ms. Clarke said, she tried to teach parents, for example, that
they can tell children they will not get a new pair of sneakers until they
behave.

"Many families saw that as bribery," she said. "You have to tell them it's a
reward for appropriate behavior. Clearly, there is a clash of values. But the
law of this country has to be one law."

The conflict between West Indian parents and children is intensified by the
particular pattern of their migration, in which the mother typically arrives
first, with her children following years later, often as teen-agers. Parents
then discipline children who are resentful at having been left behind, and who
in some cases may not know their parents well.

"The kids all knew they could call D.S.S. on their parents," Professor Waters
said. "When new kids arrived from the West Indies, that was one of the first
things they'd tell each other. They saw it as a lever to use against their
parents. They could threaten this and maybe reduce the beating they were going
to get."

George Mathelier, a Haitian immigrant, said he sees the power struggle between
immigrant parents and children taking place at Prospect Heights High School in
Crown Heights, Brooklyn, where he is a social worker. The Caribbean children who
were used to beatings in their schools in the islands "quickly realize the
system here is lax and loose and they can get away with murder."

He described the case of a 14-year-old Haitian who had been neglecting his
homework and taking money from his parents. His father, a cabdriver, gave him a
beating and the son called 911. The father was arrested and taken away in
handcuffs. The case was resolved with a court recommendation of family
counseling. The father pretended he was no longer angry, Mr. Mathelier said.

Next summer, the family went to Haiti on vacation. At the airport there, the
father pulled out a leather strap and whipped his son on the spot. Two days
later, the family flew back to New York, leaving the teen-ager in Haiti with
relatives.

The clash of cultures is especially acute for the thousands of immigrant women
who work as baby sitters, often 50 or more hours a week caring for the children
of upper-middle-class professionals. Daily they come face to face with two
opposing attitudes toward discipline.

Barbara Solomon, who was a schoolteacher in Tobago, took a job as a baby sitter
when she first immigrated two years ago. One day, the 4-year-old girl in her
care came in from school and dropped her coat and lunch bag on the floor.

"I told her to take it up," Ms. Solomon said. "She started screaming and
throwing a tantrum. I thought, 'If she was my 4-year-old, I would have slapped
her.' Her brother picked up for her. She told me her mom did not allow her to
put her things away. I believe in children learning to pick up after
themselves."

Ms. Solomon, who now works 12-hour shifts seven nights a week caring for an
elderly person and spends another 20 hours a week in college studying tourism,
said her four children have not challenged her right to discipline them. She
said she tells them that if she cannot punish them here she will take them home
to do it, an effective threat since they love living in the United States.

"Beating or flogging a child was the parents' way of getting them to conform,"
she said. "It's because we love them that we use it."

Like many other West Indian parents, Ms. Solomon said she understood the
difference between discipline and abuse. She said she was careful not to bruise
her children or hit them so hard their skin swells. She said she always
explained the reason for the spanking.

"If I cannot beat them and they get out there, the police will shoot them when
they do wrong," she said. "I love my children more than the system loves them."

The immigrant mothers in Brooklyn talked of their own mothers' pelting them with
whatever came to hand, a bar of soap, a cup, a pot spoon; or whipping them with
a broomstick, a shoe or a switch.

Ingrid Neverson, a 24-year-old from St. Vincent, who works a a baby sitter,
vividly remembered the time she told her grandmother she was going to the
library to study, but instead went to the beach. Her uncle spotted her and
called the grandmother.

When Ms. Neverson got home, her grandmother found her wet bathing suit, took the
15-year-old Ms. Neverson to the bedroom and gave her a beating that left welts
all over her back. "It was long," she said. "It was painful."

At the time, Ms. Neverson tried to move in with her father or her grandfather,
but both backed up her grandmother. Now, she said, she thinks that her
grandmother did the right thing.

As the 2-year-old boy she looks after tugged affectionately on her hand at a
playground in Prospect Park, Ms. Neverson seemed shocked when asked if she had
ever slapped him. She said the boy is well disciplined and that she would never
hit him. When asked what she would do when she has children of her own, she
replied:

"I would spank my kids. Those are my kids. I would discipline them how I see
fit."

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 1, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Plans to Cut Off Financing to Some Groups That Help Immigrants

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 669 words


The Giuliani administration plans to stop financing for several groups that now
get city funds to provide services to immigrants, including an agency that has
been helping Dominicans, the city's largest immigrant group.

At the same time, the city is close to signing contracts with several nonprofit
groups that will be receiving the grants for the first time. Three of them
primarily serve Jewish immigrants from the former Soviet Union, now the fourth
or fifth largest foreign-born group in the city.

In polyglot New York, where immigrants from more than 140 countries compete for
scarce government grants, the city's decision about how to parcel out $2.5
million for immigrant services to 23 groups over the next 33 months has stirred
controversy.

City officials said the contracts would be awarded solely on the basis of merit,
and dismissed complaints about the process as so much grumbling from groups that
lost out in the competition. While Dominicans may be used to working with an
organization whose contract was not renewed, they will be able to get help from
other groups that have won contracts this time, the officials said.

"The groups awarded contracts are extremely well-known and well-established,"
said Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter. "The notion that these groups came out of the
blue is ridiculous."

But an umbrella advocacy organization for 80 groups, including some that won and
lost contracts in this round, sharply criticized the Giuliani administration,
suggesting that it was using the grants to reward groups that back Mayor Rudolph
W. Giuliani.

"If someone in the Mayor's administration feels the Orthodox community needs to
be rewarded for its political support of the Mayor, there are other, higher
profile pots of money it can be done from," said Margie McHugh, executive
director of the New York Immigration Coalition.

Testifying yesterday at a public hearing at City Hall, officials from groups
that will soon lose their money protested, saying that the city's Community
Development Agency had slighted groups experienced in helping immigrants.

City officials said that they expected to sign contracts soon.

One of the largest awards, $199,198, went to Agudath Israel of America, an
Orthodox Jewish group that is receiving the grant for the first time. The group
plans to organize a group of lawyers to provide free services, primarily to
Russian immigrants, as well as some from Iran, Syria and Israel.

The Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty will receive two grants, for
$224,000. William Rapfogel, executive director of the group, said the services
would be open to all, but would probably primarily serve immigrants from the
former Soviet Union.

A third group that will mainly help Russian immigrants is Jackson Heights
Kehillah in Queens.

The groups whose contracts are not being renewed include Traveler's Aid, a
division of Victim Services, in Jackson Heights, Queens; the Center for
Immigrants Rights in the East Village; the Riverside Language Program on the
Upper West Side; the Y.M.C.A. Elesair project, which provides educational and
employment services, on West 17th Street in Manhattan; the Union Settlement in
East Harlem; Bronx Educational Services in the South Bronx, and the Northern
Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights in Washington Heights.

The Northern Manhattan Coalition, which received $110,000 this year from the
Community Development Agency to serve its overwhelmingly Dominican clientele,
will get nothing next year. Its executive director, Manuel Matos, said his group
has helped more than 10,000 Dominicans to become citizens and register to vote
since the early 1980's. Though his group is nonpartisan, Dominicans generally
register heavily Democratic.

He said he believed the group was denied financing for political reasons. But
Diane McGrath-McKechnie, Commissioner of the Community Development Agency, said
that when the scores used to award contracts are made public, the reason Mr.
Matos's group lost will be clear.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 2, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

North Dakota, With German Roots, Adopts Spanish as Second Language

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: BISMARCK, N.D., Feb. 24


In a high school and a city named for the Iron Chancellor of Imperial Germany,
the grandchildren of German immigrants pore over their lessons in the school's
most popular foreign language: Spanish.

It may seem an improbable choice in a state that is more than 1,000 miles north
of Mexico and has a minuscule Hispanic population. Living in places like Berlin,
Karlsruhe and New Leipzig, half of the 640,000 residents in North Dakota are
descended from German immigrants. As recently as 1990, one-quarter of the
state's households included a German speaker.

Like their peers around the country, students in North Dakota began flocking to
Spanish classes 25 years ago. The number of students studying Spanish in
Bismarck and across the state outnumber those learning German by 6 to 1, and the
number of students studying Spanish is up 50 percent from 1990, to 11,000.

"My dad was saying that at his company they don't hire people anymore if they
don't speak Spanish," said Becky Reidinger, a German descendant in the Spanish 2
class at Bismarck High School. "I want to be a teacher, and some school kids now
don't speak English."

What has happened in North Dakota reflects trends in language study and use in
the rest of the country.

Embodying the generational shift is North Dakota's Governor, Edward T. Schafer,
the grandson of a German immigrant. Mr. Schafer's father spoke only German at
home until he went to elementary school. Today, the Governor, who owns a
vacation home in Yucatan, Mexico, drills his step-daughter, Kari, in Spanish
over the dinner table.

"Spanish is the language of today," Mr. Schafer said in an interview. "More and
more, we are getting so much of the Latin American influence in the States now."

Spanish surpassed French a quarter century ago to become the most popular second
language taught in American schools. In North Dakota, Prairie Public
Broadcasting and interactive television bring Spanish classes to many of the
state's high schools. German, however, is no longer taught on television in the
state.

"It's kind of artificial because we don't have any Spanish-speaking people in
the state," said Harold Smith, a professor of French at Minot State University
who struggles to keep students interested in French and German. "With our German
heritage and proximity to Canada, German and French would be more logical than
Spanish."

In American universities from 1968 to 1990, the number of students studying
German dropped 38 percent and the number studying French fell 30 percent while
the number studying Spanish rose 46 percent.

In 1990, the most recent year for statistics compiled by the Modern Language
Association of America, about 534,000 American college students were studying
Spanish, double the number studying French and quadruple the number studying
German.

"Spanish is so visible in popular culture -- the Latin stars are crossing over,"
Mary Kay Keller Rawlston, a Spanish teacher, said of the influence of television
on her students at Bismarck High. "Many North Dakotans plan to go elsewhere. And
wherever they go in the U.S., Spanish will be useful."

One student, Chris Ludwig, said: "My grandparents speak German. But there are
more and more Spanish-speaking people in America."

Such comments grate on the ears of German-American elders who remember the
suppression of the German language in the United States from World War I through
the 1950's. While one-quarter of the United States' population is of German
descent, three generations of cultural restrictions has reduced the language to
a few pockets in this country.

"Twenty years from now, you are going to hear very little German spoken in North
Dakota," said Michael M. Miller of North Dakota State University, who teaches a
course on the immigration of Germans from Russia to the United States.

The two World Wars sharply inhibited the use of German in the United States
after local ordinances banned its use churches, shops and even telephone
conversations and after the Federal Government restricted German-language
newspapers.

"Ninety percent of the German-language papers were wiped out in 18 months,"
during World War I, said Eberhard Reichmann, director of publications for the
German-American Center at Indiana University.

After that war, about half of the states passed laws forbidding the teaching of
modern languages to elementary school children. Although declared
unconstitutional by the United States Supreme Court in 1923, the laws had the
effect of purging the instruction of German from virtually all public high
schools. The number of students attending German-language classes plummeted to
0.6 percent in 1922 from 24 percent in 1915.

World War II gave German-Americans renewed stimulus to drop their accents,
cancel their festivals, shut down their radio programs and anglicize their
names.

"Well into the 1950's, there was a stigma against people of German background,
that German equaled Nazi," said Don Heinrich Tolzmann, director of
German-American studies at the University of Cincinnati.

Today, there are scattered efforts to revive the teaching of German in
Midwestern states where German descendants account for about half of the
population, the Dakotas, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska and Wisconsin.

"This is the core area of German heritage," Mr. Reichmann said. "It is
absolutely absurd that everyone is learning Spanish."

At Bismarck High, in a classroom decorated with South American travel posters,
Olof J. Ribb is rebuilding the German program.

"Enrollment depends on word of mouth," said Mr. Ribb, freshly energized by a
year of study in Germany. "With German increasingly important in Eastern Europe,
I think we can boost enrollment."

In addition to enriching conversations with grandparents, students say German
offers fringe benefits not available with Spanish.

Aaron Thurn, a senior who plans to farm in an area of German-Russian settlement,
said, "My parents can help me with my homework."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Kay Keller Rawlston teaching her Spanish class at Bismarck
High in North Dakota. Though the state has a tiny Hispanic population, Spanish
is the most popular second language at Bismarck, as it is nationwide. (Jeffrey
G. Olson for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 3, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS;
Immigration Bill Stirs Fears

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 10;  Column 5;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 583 words


Dilip Jani has dished up tea and tandoori at the Jackson Diner on 74th Street
for the last 11 years, and since 1992, when he applied to sponsor his wife and
children, they have waited in Bombay for the visa backlog to clear. Pramoda Rai,
a waitress at the diner, is seeking legal papers for her elderly mother, who
came to stay with her since her father died. And across the street at
Melodyland, a video and music shop, Seema Vermani has also been thinking about
sponsoring her mother.

But legislation being debated in Congress -- which would cut immigration of
extended family members -- would jeopardize their aspirations. Along 74th Street
in Jackson Heights, a bustling multinational commercial strip, the proposals,
which would cut legal immigration by as much as a third, have left many
immigrant merchants and workers fearful that they may never be reunited with
family members and that the legal labor supply would dry up, damaging the local
economy. But many in the surrounding residential blocks say Jackson Heights
cannot support more immigrants and welcome the legislation.

Under the Senate bill, parents could not sponsor their children over the age of
21, like Mr. Jani's eldest son. The measure would also make it more difficult to
sponsor elderly parents: Ms. Rai and Ms. Vermani could bring their mothers only
if most of their siblings have lived in the United States and if they could
prove that their mothers would not rely on Government benefits. And both the
Senate and House bills would bar immigrants from sponsoring brothers and
sisters.

Proponents argue that the restrictions are necessary to curb the number of
extended family members who emigrate to the United States under family
reunification provisions. These immigrants, they contend, compete for scarce
jobs and receive costly government benefits.

But on 74th Street, many say such laws would break up families. Mr. Jani, for
example, said that by Indian custom, it would be unthinkable for his son to
remain behind by himself, even at age 21. "Really, I'm very much upset," he
said. "If he is not coming then I have to go back. I'm not going to say goodbye
to my family permanently."

Both bills on Capitol Hill would also bar unskilled workers from obtaining
employment visas; currently, about 10,000 such visas are offered annually.

On 74th Street, recent immigrants from the Indian subcontinent peddle saris and
sweetmeats. Colombians dominate the long, bustling strip of restaurants and
long-distance telephone shops. Korean groceries are staffed almost exclusively
by owners' families and their Latino workers. Severing legal immigration
channels, many people on 74th Street maintain, would encourage illegal
immigration, further driving down wages in the immigrant marketplace.

"The legal ones won't get the jobs," Ms. Vermani surmised. "The ones who are
here legally -- they're already suffering. They will suffer more."

Still, there are others in Jackson Heights who support efforts to stem the flow
of immigrants. Karl Christensen, president of the Jackson Heights Neighborhood
Association, said many in his group "think the boat is full."

"They think there should be zero percent immigration," he asserted.

Mr. Christensen, a Jackson Heights resident for 50 years, complained that
immigrants in his neighborhood have packed single-family homes with more than 20
people.  "They take money, work or whatever, and it is siphoned out of the
community," he said.   SOMINI SENGUPTA

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:  The House and the Senate are considering bills that seek to stem the
flow of immigrants and revise rules for obtaining visas for family members. The
House version was approved by the Judiciary Commitee last fall and is scheduled
for a vote before the full House during the week of March 18. Debate on the
Senate version by the Judiciary Committee began Thursday. Chart outlines the
following areas related to the bills: sponsorship, workers' visas, and refugees.

Chart: "IN CONGRESS: Immigration Legislation"

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Sending 5 Boat People Back to Cuba

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, March 4


The United States was sending five boat people back to Cuba today under last
year's migration accords, which have not been affected by Cuba's downing of two
small civilian aircraft, American officials said.

A spokeswoman at the United States Interests Section in Havana said the five
would be handed over by the Coast Guard at Puerto Cabanas, 40 miles west of
Havana, where repatriations of Cuban rafters have taken place during the last 10
months.

"Nothing has been altered in the migration accord," the spokeswoman said. "It
continues to function."

The migration accords, which include an American undertaking to grant at least
20,000 visas a year to Cubans, have been one of the few areas of dialogue
between the United States and Cuba. The May 1995 agreement represented a
reversal in a decades-old American policy of accepting all Cuban boat people as
refugees.

The United States has led international condemnation of Cuba for downing two
small planes flown by Miami-based Cuban exiles off Cuba on Feb. 24 and has taken
a series of punitive measures.

Cuba, which contends that the planes were violating Cuban airspace, has said
since the planes were downed that it will continue to abide by immigration
accords with the United States reached after a August 1994 rafter crisis.

In Washington today, the Canadian Trade Minister, Art Egleton, said a bill in
the United States Congress to penalize foreign companies doing business in Cuba
was a "dangerous precedent" and an overreaction to the downing of the planes.

He said he registered Canada's objection to the bill in a "frank and direct"
talk with the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor.

"I think this is a dangerous precedent for one country to say if you trade with
someone else you can't trade with us," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 10, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

IMMIGRANT VOTERS RESHAPE POLITICS

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1828 words


In one of a thousand small chain reactions of democracy, Pamela Brathwaite, of
Barbados, was in Brooklyn Federal Court taking the oath of citizenship one
recent morning so she would be able to vote, just as a friend had done before
her and just as her mother, sisters, uncle and cousin would do after her. They
were telling one another that one more vote would make a difference.

She and the hundreds of others crammed into the grand wood-paneled courtroom --
their voices an exotic murmur of Chinese, Spanish, English, Russian and other
languages -- are part of a phenomenal increase in the number of immigrants who
are becoming citizens and voters in New York City and across the nation.

Largely because of their numbers, the new immigrant citizens are already
reshaping the city's politics and the nation's highly charged debate about
immigration.

They offer many reasons for deciding to become Americans and, often, Americans
who vote. Many worry about bread-and-butter issues: soaring tuition at public
colleges; the path to betterment; cutbacks in spending on a health care industry
that employs many immigrants, and Republican proposals to strip legal immigrants
of benefits like Medicare and food stamps.

And some say that more than any specific proposal, it is the harshness of the
national debate about immigrants that has made them profoundly insecure. "I feel
it in the air," said Confesora Lopez, a 45-year-old home attendant from the
Dominican Republic who has lived in New York for 15 years.

The number of immigrants applying for citizenship in the New York metropolitan
area more than doubled from 1992 to 1995, to 141,235. The 1996 numbers are
already outpacing last year's.

And the pool of potential citizens in the city is vast. Census Bureau estimates
this week showed that foreign-born people coming to New York between 1990 and
1995 contributed a net growth of 460,000, even as the city lost more than
one-tenth of its population to other parts of the country.

A million legal immigrants -- 1 in 6 adults in the city -- have lived in the
United States long enough to qualify for citizenship: five years, or three if
they are married to citizens. "It's a sleeping giant that gets bigger every
year," said John Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the
City University Graduate Center, who estimated the number of potential citizens
based on census data.

Most experts say the new citizens are probably predominantly Democratic voters,
with strong strains of Republicanism. Federal authorities do not yet have a
breakdown by nationality for 1995. But from 1990 to 1994, the largest infusions
into New York were from the West Indies, the Dominican Republic, Colombia,
Ecuador, China and India.

In general, West Indians -- who have achieved more political power than any
other immigrant group in the city -- vote heavily Democratic. Asians are more
likely to be Republican, but have the lowest voter registration rates in the
city, according to the Voter Assistance Commission.

Dominicans, the city's largest immigrant group, vote overwhelmingly Democratic,
though 10 percent to 20 percent swing Republican in some elections, according to
a 1995 study of voting patterns by the Hispanic Research Center at Fordham
University. In contrast, although about half the Colombian and Ecuadorean
immigrants were registered as Democrats, more than half of them voted for the
Republican mayoral candidate, Rudolph W. Giuliani.


The Allegiance Of the New Citizen

Four days a week, 300 people are sworn in at a mass ceremony in the Brooklyn
courthouse. More than two-thirds of the new citizens register to vote on the
spot, according to the New York Immigration Coalition.

After 16 years in the United States, Ms. Brathwaite, 30, raised her right hand
on a recent morning as she stood beneath W.P.A.-era murals of immigrants
debarking from steamships at Ellis Island, to swear that she renounced "all
allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty."

Earlier, waiting on a bench, she had reached around her baby, who was nestled
against her chest, to fill out a voter registration form perched on her knee. A
nurse's aid at Kings County Hospital, she said she feared that reductions in
government spending could cost her the job she started just a few months ago.

"My girlfriend begged me to come and do it," Ms. Brathwaite said. "She told me
if you become a citizen, you get to vote. I figure I can make a difference."

By April, the Immigration and Naturalization Service will quadruple the size of
the New York staff that handles citizenship applications, to 104. There are
special factors pushing the influx. A large number of illegal immigrants granted
amnesty under a 1986 law are now eligible for citizenship. And the immigration
service, long despised for its bad service, is taking steps to improve. For
example, rather than waiting in line to file an application, an immigrant can
now mail it in.

David Rosenberg, director of the service's citizenship program, said the agency
expected to have processed all pending applications by September, in time for
the November election. But Mr. Rosenberg said, "We're not doing this for the
election. This is an ongoing effort."

Asked why they were becoming citizens, many of the immigrants interviewed at the
ceremony answered simply, with an idealistic fervor that many Americans would
find naive, that they treasured the right to vote -- a right that many had never
before exercised freely.

"I want to be real American," said Anna Iglukhovsky, a 44-year-old bookkeeper
from Russia.

Jean Fontin, a 24-year-old bus driver from Haiti, said, "I want to have liberty,
justice and to be a part of the government."

In a city where the native-born black and non-Hispanic white populations are
declining, where no single political party has a lock on citywide office and
where the last two mayoral elections have been decided by fewer than 100,000
votes, politicians are courting immigrant voters.


Immigrants' Power Draws City Powers

The Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, tasted Indian sweets
recently on a tour of immigrant Queens; she was a grand marshal of the Pagwah
parade in the Guyanese community of Richmond Hill, Queens, and often talks about
her grandfather who taught English to Yiddish-speaking immigrants on the Lower
East Side.

"I can say Happy New Year in Chinese and Korean," she said. "I'm actually,
seriously, learning Spanish."

Mayor Giuliani has made tributes to immigrants and their role in revitalizing
New York a theme. He regularly criticizes the Republican Presidential candidate
Patrick J. Buchanan for his anti-immigrant positions. In January, the Mayor
himself announced a Federal program to give 55,000 immigrants green cards.

Philip Kasinitz, a sociologist at Hunter College, said: "If Republicans want a
future in New York and this isn't a blip, they have to keep Staten Island in the
city and they have to make inroads to new immigrant populations, particularly
Asians and to some extent Latins."

Immigrants in New York are more likely to gain power than in the other great
portal, Los Angeles, experts say. Many more immigrants in New York are legal.
New York also has a larger City Council, with 51 seats, than Los Angeles, with
11 seats, which makes it easier for an immigrant voter bloc to influence an
election. Two immigrants, Guillermo Linares, a Dominican from Manhattan, and Una
Clarke, a Jamaican from Brooklyn, were elected in 1991 from such districts.

"Ethnic politics are alive and well in New York," said Roger Waldinger, a
sociologist at the University of California at Los Angeles. "It means a lot of
noise and conflict, but better an active and noisy group trying to get involved
than a quiescent mass that's ready to explode -- the Los Angeles situation."

The complexity and the halting nature of the political changes the immigrants
will cause in New York result from the huge wave of immigration that has swept
the city since 1965, when Congress did away with the national quota system that
favored Europeans. The city's new immigrants come from more than 140 countries.
The domination that Irish-Americans gained over Tammany Hall and the Democratic
Party machine in the 1870's is not possible for the polyglot immigrants of
today.

And that means immigrants will often have to form coalitions to gain power.
Their success, according to experts, will rest on the answer to questions like
the following:

Will native-born black New Yorkers ally with West Indian immigrants? Will
rivalries between Puerto Ricans and Dominicans split Hispanic votes? Will people
from Asia -- Indians, Pakistanis, Chinese, Taiwanese, Koreans -- form alliances?

And more fundamentally, will those citizens who register to vote actually go to
the polls?


Learning to Tell Presidents Apart

The immigrants lining up for free citizenship classes offered by community
organizations say they want to be citizens and voters so much that they
willingly spend long hours studying for their interviews.

Three hours a night, three nights a week, for nine weeks, 30 immigrants come to
sit at battered desks in a junior high school classroom in Washington Heights to
learn English and American history. Their teacher, Efrem Ballenilla, who works
for the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights, fired questions at
them.

"Who were our friends in World War II?" he asked.

"England and France," voices chorused back. "Spain," said another student.

"No, Spain supported Germany," Mr. Ballenilla said. "Do you remember who was
President at the beginning of the war?"

"Lincoln," replied one woman. She was hooted down by others yelling out
Roosevelt's name.

"Right," the teacher told them, "the guy who established the welfare."

Most of the immigrants in the class have been New Yorkers for years, and they
are seeking citizenship now for many different reasons. Lilia Carrasco, 70, a
widow from Peru, said she was terrified the Government would cut off her
Medicare and Social Security benefits because she is a legal immigrant, not a
citizen. "How am I going to live if they cut this?" she said. "How will I
survive? I have nothing."

Mrs. Lopez, the home attendant, said she felt ever more insecure about her lack
of citizenship. She works seven days a week for low pay taking care of
Alzheimer's patients. She said that she wanted to give her three children a
chance at a better life, but that she sensed a hostility toward immigrants.

"I feel an obligation to become a citizen to protect my family and to protect my
rights," she said. "There are politicians, who are children of immigrants, who
don't remember the stories of their parents and grandparents. This is a country
of dreams. They have forgotten that."

Mrs. Lopez plans to remind them at the ballot box.

 The article also misstated the number of seats on the Los Angeles City Council.
There are 15, not 11.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 1996, Monday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about the impact of new immigrant citizens on New York City
politics described a Republican welfare plan incorrectly. Under the proposal, it
would be up to states to decide whether to provide Medicaid, the health program
for the poor, to immigrants who have not become citizens. The proposal would not
strip legal immigrants of Medicare, the health insurance program for the
elderly.

GRAPHIC: Photos: When new citizens are sworn in at the Brooklyn Federal
Courthouse, two-thirds register to vote on the spot. (Monica Almeida/The New
York Times) (pg. 1); Students attending a free citizenship class given by the
Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights in Washington Heights learn
who was President at the start of World War II. (Hint: it wasn't Lincoln.) (G.
Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. 28)

Graphs: "A LOOK AT THE NUMBERS: Seeking U.S. Citizenship" shows the number of
applications received and country of origin for New York and the nation, 1990
through 1995. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 10, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Returned Refugees Say Cuba, Defying Pact, Retaliates

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1687 words

DATELINE: CAMAGUEY, Cuba, March 4


One day after Washington and Havana agreed last May that "boat people" fleeing
Cuba would no longer be guaranteed political asylum in the United States, 13 men
were picked up aboard two rafts adrift in the Caribbean. Assured by the American
and Cuban Governments that there would be no retribution against them, they were
forcibly returned to their homes here.

Ten months later, however, members of the group, the first to be handed over to
the Cuban authorities under the agreement, contend that neither Government has
lived up to its obligations. The Cuban Government, they complain, has from the
day of their return carried out a campaign of reprisals, intimidation and
harassment against them, while the United States has failed to prevent continued
violations of the immigration accord the two nations had signed.

In six hours of interviews in this industrial city 350 miles southeast of
Havana, the returnees said they and several of their relatives had been
systematically threatened by State Security agents, arrested on trumped-up
charges or accused of working for the C.I.A. All but two are now without jobs
because of their political status, they said, and the pair still employed are
regularly harassed by co-workers, bosses or State Security officials.

"For the two Governments, this agreement has been marvelous," said Ulises
Cabale, 29, an electrician who has been assigned to a temporary work-training
program to repair electrical meters. "But for us, it has been a disaster that
leaves us in a worse position than ever."

It was not possible to corroborate independently all the accusations the
returnees made. But they offered specific details about actions taken against
them, including dates and the names and ranks of the security officials said to
be involved.

All those interviewed said they were interested in making their situation known
because they still wished to leave Cuba and hope eventually to be admitted to
the United States.

Under the May agreement, the Cuban Government promised to "insure that no action
is taken against those migrants returned to Cuba as a consequence of their
attempt to emigrate illegally." In return, the United States ended its 30-year
policy of treating virtually all Cubans who reached American shores as political
refugees, and was authorized to send diplomats from the American Interests
Section, its quasi-embassy in Havana, to interview returning raft refugees to
insure that the accord was being properly carried out.

'Illegal Departure' Is Still a Crime

But the agreement does not "preclude the obligation of the Cuban authorities or
society to act against such a person for other reasons or crimes committed
before or after the attempt" to leave Cuba, Ricardo Alarcon, the Cuban official
who negotiated the accord, noted a week after it was announced. Nor did Cuba
revoke an "illegal departure" statute on its books, which the rafters here said
has recently been used to detain and question several of them.

The returnees said they had repeatedly told the American diplomats who are
monitoring the accord of those and other reprisals being taken against them. But
American officials have simply brushed aside their complaints, they said, and
urged them to apply to a program that selects 20,000 Cubans each year for entry
to the United States.

"Every time the people from the American Interests Section come, they tell us we
do not meet the requirements to be political refugees," said Felix Ivan
Rodriguez, a 29-year-old cook. "They tell us we have no priority, that our best
chance is to try our luck in the lottery, like everyone else."

Human rights groups suggest that it is no accident that American officials are
reluctant to pursue claims that the accord is being violated. Despite a recent
heightening of tensions between Washington and Havana, they say, the Clinton
Administration has a vested interest in preventing another flood of Cuban
refugees toward Florida.

"There is a conspiracy of self-interest and silence going on between two
contending parties, the United States and Cuba, that victimizes these innocent
asylum seekers," said Arthur Helton, director of the Forced Migration Projects
of the Open Society Institute, a New York-based human rights group. "The last
thing either Government wants to do is raise the question of the viability of
the migration accords."

Officials at the American Interests Section in Havana declined to discuss how
the immigration accord is carried out, referring all questions to the State
Department in Washington. [A spokesman there said on Friday that the returnees
appeared to be subject to the same type of surveillance and ostracism as any
other disaffected Cuban, but that there was "no proof they are being persecuted"
as a direct result of their effort to leave Cuba.]

In a letter to the Open Society Institute last month, Peter Tarnoff, the State
Department official who negotiated the agreement, said the United States was
"generally satisfied that the Cuban Government has fulfilled its commitment."
While there have been "individual instances of concern," he added, "we have
engaged the Cuban Government vigorously on each of these."

For its part, the Cuban Government has consistently rejected any suggestion that
it has taken reprisals against returnees.

"In all cases, Cuba has received them in accordance with the agreement," Carlos
Fernandez de Cossio, a Foreign Ministry official who specializes in relations
with the United States, said at a news conference in Havana on Feb. 29.

Since the agreement was signed in May, just over 300 Cuban asylum-seekers have
been forcibly returned to their homeland by the United States. Though it is not
clear how the experience of later groups compares with that of the first 13
returnees, human rights observers say it is likely that they have also been
subjected to acts of official reprisals, harassment and intimidation.

Indeed, the Open Society Institute has documented several instances in which
returnees from other groups have apparently been victims of official reprisals.
In one case, a university professor lost his job because he was considered a
"dangerous example" to his students, and in another a returnee was beaten by the
police shortly after his return and the doctor who treated him was dismissed.

In testimony to Congress last year, Mr. Tarnoff said the United States would
regard the inability of returnees to get a job as a reprisal "if it results from
an attempt to leave Cuba without authorization." He also said any threat against
relatives of repatriated refugees would be considered a reprisal "if it is
officially sanctioned and is in response to the attempt to leave Cuba without
authorization."

Interviewed at the small house he shares with his brother and fellow returnee
Cesar and their mother and wives, Ulises Cabale said that only he and one other
member of the first group that returned under the agreement were still employed.
All of the others, he said, have been dismissed or are unable to get jobs
because their files identify them as politically "unreliable."

One Is Accused Of Being a Spy

One of these others, Julian Avalo, 32, an automobile mechanic, said: "The only
kind of work I've been offered is forced labor, harvesting sugar cane in a work
brigade. Everyone knows that we were deported, so do you think they are going to
give me a job over a party member, especially when unemployment is so high here?
No way."

Denied employment as a Government cook, Mr. Rodriguez found a job at one of the
new private restaurants the Government has allowed to open. But after he was
visited by American diplomats late last year, he said, State Security agents
turned up at the restaurant and accused him of being an American spy.

"They told the owner that I am cooperating with the C.I.A. and need to be put
under constant vigilance," Mr. Rodriguez said. "Now I am worried I am going to
lose this job because my boss doesn't like the idea of having to report on my
activities all the time."

Both Mr. Avalo and the Cabale brothers said they too had been warned that they
might be arrested for spying for the United States as a result of their contacts
with the American Interests Section. Because they are returned refugees, they
said, their telephone is tapped, and they are under increased surveillance by
State Security, the police and the neighborhood watchdog group known as the
Committee to Defend the Revolution.

"I've been thinking lately that it might be better to tell the American
diplomats not to come anymore," Mr. Avalo said.

A Wife, Too, Finds She Is Unemployable

Mr. Rodriguez's wife, Giselda, who lost her job at the telephone company shortly
before her husband set off from Cuba, has also discovered that she is
unemployable. "Everywhere I go, they tell me I can't work for any state
enterprise because my husband tried to leave the country, and that makes me an
unreliable person," she said.

On the other hand, another returnee, Victor Aballe, 43, spent six months in jail
on what he says was a fabricated charge that he had embezzled money at his
former job. While imprisoned, he said, State Security "insinuated that I was in
this fix for having left the country, and that they were using this other case
to cover that up."

Mr. Aballe, a lawyer, said that since his release last month, he and another
returnee, Augusto Trinidad Ochoa, a 41-year-old electronic technician, had been
formally accused of espionage. The charges have for the moment been dropped, he
said, but "the way things work here, you can never tell what will come up."

Ulises Cabale said that as a result of the reprisals the returnees "feel like
there is a hand on our necks, squeezing, and that we can't continue to live
under this yoke." In the face of American indifference, he said, he fears that
the Cuban Government will be emboldened to take even harsher reprisals.

"It seems like the migration agreement was signed between the authorities in
Washington and Havana," he said. "But we live in Camaguey, not Havana, and we
have no one here to protect us."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julian Avalo, left, and Cesar Cabele were among 13 Cuban rafters
forcibly returned to their homeland last May. A Cuban official escorted them to
a bus waiting to take them back to the town of Camaguey. (Cindy Karp for The New
York Times)

Map of Cuba highlightng Camaguey: Cuban returnees in Camaguey say they have been
mistreated.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 11, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 87 words


An article yesterday about the impact of new immigrant citizens on New York City
politics described a Republican welfare plan incorrectly. Under the proposal, it
would be up to states to decide whether to provide Medicaid, the health program
for the poor, to immigrants who have not become citizens. The proposal would not
strip legal immigrants of Medicare, the health insurance program for the
elderly.

The article also misstated the number of seats on the Los Angeles City Council.
There are 15, not 11.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 11, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Jobs Immigrants Take

BYLINE: By Roger Waldinger;   Roger Waldinger, professor of sociology at
U.C.L.A., is the author of the forthcoming "Still the Promised City? New
Immigrants and African-Americans in Post-Industrial New York."

SECTION: Section A;  Page 17;  Column 3;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


America is in the throes of another debate over legal immigration, and this time
those that would close the country's doors seem to have the upper hand. While an
unhealthy nativism lies behind today's backlash, there are real reasons to worry
about immigration. The most important: its negative effects on low-skilled
African-Americans.

Until recently, the argument that legal immigration hurts blacks has found
little scholarly support.

For one thing, immigrants often have a hard time winning the jobs filled by
African-Americans. In New York City, for instance, more than one-third of
African-Americans in 1990 worked in government. These jobs are among the most
difficult for immigrants to get. Paradoxically, immigration spurs black
employment in government, because immigrants need public services like street
cleaning and public education.

But for low-skilled blacks, immigration is a different story. Stuck in the inner
city at a time when immigration has significantly expanded, they are finding
increased competition for jobs.

From World War II until 1965, the number of low-skilled people in New York City
dwindled even faster than the supply of low-skilled jobs. But the 1965
immigration bill changed that. Since then, the number of people chasing
low-skilled jobs has been increasing.

And in cities with large numbers of immigrants, these jobs increasingly belong
to the foreign-born. In 1990, immigrants made up two-thirds of employed Los
Angelenos with less than a high school education, and 90 percent of the employed
with only an elementary school education.

Why do immigrants win these jobs? First, immigrant groups are very good at
creating their own job niches and networking. And economists and sociologists
have repeatedly demonstrated that personal contacts are important, especially
among blue-collar workers.

Everyone knows about Korean-owned groceries and Indian-owned newsstands. But
large industries also hire through the immigrant network. In 1990, Mexican
immigrants were heavily overrepresented in 53 of Los Angeles's 82 largest
manufacturing industries. A supervisor in a printing plant told me: "The
referrals occur before the vacancy appears. Everybody out there knows about it
before we do."

Secondly, employers play a role in immigrant hiring. Many, if not most, believe,
however falsely, that immigrants will be more productive than blacks.

Recruiting through the immigrant network cuts off the workplace from the open
job market. The result: African-Americans are often a very small minority in
manufacturing industries. In New York's garment industry, for instance, only 3
percent of workers are black.

This disadvantage is likely to become worse in the future. Blacks have had the
best of economic times when a vigorous economy has encouraged employers to pull
in workers whom they previously had excluded. In 1970, for example, 81 percent
of African-American men were employed. But the immigrant influx makes it
unlikely that African-Americans would reap dividends even in a period of full
employment.

That said, closing the immigration door even partly may not help. Legislation in
Congress would cut the flow to 500,000 to 600,000 immigrants a year. At that
level, New York, Los Angeles and other cities with huge immigration populations
can still expect to receive a large and disproportionate share of newcomers, who
tend to settle where their contacts are.

Alleviating the economic distress of low-skilled blacks requires attacking two
problems: the unwillingness of employers to hire them and the lack of meaningful
training. Putting roadblocks in the paths of immigrants simply won't do the
trick.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 12, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Let Immigrants Take Jobs From the Poor

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 190 words


To the Editor:

I was puzzled by the March 11 Op-Ed article on immigrant competition with black
Americans, "The Jobs Immigrants Take." Roger Waldinger spent almost the entire
piece outlining how immigrant numbers and networking freeze low-skilled blacks
out of jobs -- then concludes that reducing immigration won't help!

He may be right that the modest cuts proposed in legislation before Congress
would still result in large numbers of immigrants moving to our big cities. It
would seem, however, that the corollary should be that deeper cuts are needed,
and that a larger proportion of those who are allowed in should be skilled, so
as not to compete with the United States' own working poor.

Reducing the flow of unskilled immigrants is not a panacea for our inner cities;
Professor Waldinger's prescription for providing job training and attacking
pro-immigrant discrimination is right. But no effort to help this nation's poor,
black or otherwise, can succeed without changes in our pernicious immigration
policies.

MARK KRIKORIAN
Executive Director
Center for Immigration Studies
Washington, March 11, 1996

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 14, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Census Sees a Profound Ethnic Shift in U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 984 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13


Fueled by immigration and higher birth rates among Hispanic women, the United
States is undergoing a profound demographic shift, and by the middle of the next
century only about half of the population will be non-Hispanic whites, the
Census Bureau predicted today.

By 2050, the bureau said, immigration patterns and differences in birth rates,
combined with an overall slowdown in growth the country's population, will
produce a United States in which 53 percent of the people will be non-Hispanic
whites, down from 74 percent today.

In contrast, Hispanic people will make up 24.5 per cent of the population, up
from the current 10.2 percent, and Asians will make up 8.2 percent, an increase
from the current 3.3 percent. The percentage of the black population will remain
relatively stable, rising to about 13.6 percent by the year 2050 from the
current 12 percent.

The population as a whole will rise to about 394 million from 262 million, an
increase of 50 percent, the bureau said. Even with that increase, it added, the
country would be going through some of the most sluggish population growth in
its history.

Over all, the report suggests that the United States is experiencing one of the
most dramatic shifts in its racial and ethnic makeup since the trade in slaves
transformed the racial composition of the South and the waves of immigration
from Eastern and Southern Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries gave
an ethnic flavor to industrialized urban areas of the Northeast and Midwest.

"The world is not going to be the same in 30 years as it is now," said Gregory
Spencer, director of the Population Projections Branch at the bureau. To put the
growth rates of the Asian and Hispanic population in perspective, the report
noted that the two groups were expected to have annual growth rates of 2 percent
to the year 2030. In comparison, even at the zenith of the Baby Boom, the
country as a whole never grew by 2 percent a year.

The report, "Population Projections of the United States by Age, Sex, Race and
Hispanic Origin: 1995 to 2050," noted that its projections were simply
projections. Changes in legislation regarding immigration, changes in fertility
rates, and breakthroughs in medical care that could extend life expectancy could
alter future estimates.

Though the United States is the fastest-growing country in the industrialized
world, the report indicated that the nation was about to embark on a sharp
slowdown in the rate of its population increases. Indeed, the report said that
after 2025, the United States would grow at a slower rate than any time in its
history, mainly because of declining birth rates and an increased number of
deaths as the population ages.

But with that slowdown will come more diversity, a phenomenon that will present
a host of new economic business and social issues. For example, the report noted
that by the year 2030, the non-Hispanic white population would make up less than
half of the people under the age of 18, but three-fourths of those over 65.

Given this, questions of the mix of tax revenues distributed to public education
or Social Security or Medicare could easily take on a racial and ethnic tinge.

"You might have somewhat poorer Hispanics being asked to pay for the benefits of
relatively well-off white Baby Boomers," said William H. Frey, a research
scientist with the Population Studies Center at the University of Michigan.
"It's not clear what the political dynamic of that will be. It may not just be
the boomers verses the busters."

The Census Bureau report is likely to fuel the debate over immigration.

The report's population-growth projections are, in part, based on an annual net
increase in immigrants -- both legal and illegal -- of 820,000. Both the Clinton
Administration and Republican sponsors of bills being debated in Congress
support changes in the immigration law that would reduce legal immigration by
about one-third. Leaders of both parties advocate vigorous efforts against
illegal immigration.

Much of the debate has focused on whether immigrants take jobs from unemployed
citizens but its subtext concerns population growth in general and ethnic
diversity in particular.

Organizations such as the Carrying Capacity Network and Negative Population
Growth and the Federation for American Immigration Reform argue that immigration
should be curbed because the country is approaching its limit in terms of a
manageable population.

Dan Stein, executive director of the federation group, said: "The most important
part of the story is that this is happening and no one has asked the country is
this what we want. Do we really want another 100 million people?"

For their part, pro-immigration organizations say the country can accommodate a
higher population with little difficulty. They say they fear their opponents are
worried not about the number of added residents, but rather their ethnic
backgrounds.  "We are all against illegal immigration," said Lisa Navarete, a
spokeswoman for the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group.
"And when it comes to legal immigration, we are not being flooded with people."

The Census Bureau reports indicate that the number of births to non-Hispanic
whites is expected to drop throughout the rest of this decade and begin a slow
rise in the next century. In contrast, births to women of Hispanic and Asian
descent are projected to more than triple by the year 2050.

In addition to higher birth rates, the median age for these groups is younger
than for non-Hispanic whites and, as a result, they have more women of
child-bearing age.  Cultural mores relating to family size also come into play.
For example the fertility rate of Hispanic-American women born in Mexico is 147
births per 1,000 women, much higher than that of non-Hispanic whites and of
Hispanic women born elsewhere in Latin America.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "DEMOGRAPHICS: The Changing Face Of the Nation" shows
population distribution in the U.S. by race and ethnic origin. (Source: Census
Bureau)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 14, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

New York City's Newest

SECTION: Section A;   Page 22;   Column 1;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 676 words


New York City has heard warnings throughout its history about the burdens of its
large population of immigrants. New estimates from the Census Bureau, showing
migration patterns in and out of the city in the first half of the 1990's, may
well reinforce fears that a rising flood of arrivals from foreign countries will
increase the cost of schools and social services while the city's tax base keeps
eroding. Examined more carefully, however, the patterns of immigration yield a
strikingly more hopeful portrait. In fact, the influx of foreigners in the city
is enhancing its economic vitality and rescuing whole neighborhoods from
decline.

The large number of new immigrants, especially those from Asia and the
Caribbean, are everywhere evident in New York City. But immigration levels were
much higher in the past. The City Planning Department estimates that half the
city's population is foreign-born or descended from a foreign-born parent,
compared with nearly 80 percent in that category earlier this century.

Starting in the 1950's, the trend of upper- and middle-class people, especially
whites, fleeing the city while the poor flood in has indeed eroded the city's
tax base. But that pattern has changed in the last couple of decades. According
to the Planning Department's population division, Puerto Ricans and native-born
black citizens -- who constituted the greatest wave of newcomers in the postwar
decades -- are now leaving the city in proportionately larger numbers than
whites. An especially extraordinary change is taking place in the city's black
population, with native-born black residents leaving the city and being replaced
by immigrants from the Caribbean and elsewhere. The Planning Department
estimates that about 40 percent of the city's black residents are foreign-born
or descended from a foreign-born parent.

With its proud symbol of the Statue of Liberty, New York City certainly remains
a beacon of freedom for refugees and the poor. But immigrants today are
increasingly people with skills, entrepreneurial spirit and cohesive family
structures who are less inclined to go on welfare or use public housing than
current city residents. Except for Dominicans and Mexicans, all the foreign-born
groups in the city have a lower percentage of people in poverty than the city's
average of 19 percent. According to the Planning Department, the median
household income for foreign-born black residents is more than $28,000, compared
with $22,000 for native-born black residents.

Providing services to immigrants does cost the city money, particularly because
they are a major factor in expanding school enrollment. But educating the
children of immigrants amounts to an investment in the trained work force and
taxpayers of tomorrow. There is also little doubt that many of these immigrants
are working at lower wage rates than native-born New Yorkers, perhaps
contributing to a stagnation or even decline in wages for native-born workers.
But the work they do is also helping to keep businesses and retail outfits
afloat and provide domestic help to middle-class families in which both spouses
work.

New York, like other major cities, has its share of decaying neighborhoods, but
think of what would have happened in many of them if there had not been
immigrants. Some two million people left New York City in the 1970's, the period
of its worst financial difficulties since the Depression. In that same period,
800,000 immigrants came to the city to seek opportunities. The city actually
grew in size in the 1980's and is projected to grow again this decade. In
neighborhood after neighborhood, immigrants have moved in, set up shops and
revitalized community life.

The next time New Yorkers hear warnings of immigrants strangling its services
and wrecking its economy, they should remember that the city remains a place of
perhaps the greatest ethnic diversity in the United States, where immigrants of
all kinds come to compete and seek opportunity. Their story is one of success
for them and the city itself.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 15, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

How the Irish Came, and Overcame

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER

SECTION: Section C;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3038 words


THE Irish are New York's ur-ethnic group. They were here first -- which is to
say that they were the first to immigrate in real numbers and complicate the
neat world the Dutch and the British had made for themselves -- and they were
the first to struggle as a group with the issues of discrimination and
assimilation that still define the immigrant experience today.

"Gaelic Gotham: A History of the Irish in New York," which opened this week at
the Museum of the City of New York, is an attempt to look at the sum total of
the Irish presence in New York. The show casts its net wide. The tale it sets
out to tell begins with elite figures in the city's history who preceded the
great waves of immigration (like DeWitt Clinton, who is probably mistakenly
remembered as British rather than Irish), then moves on to the hundreds of
thousands of Irish who settled in New York from the mid-19th century through the
early 20th, becoming everything from ditch diggers to political powerhouses; it
concludes by looking at the complex, ambiguous identity the Irish have in the
city today, as they are at once an ethnic group and the bedrock of the city's
established history.

This big, sprawling exhibition is pleasant and consistently engaging, yet it
never quite delivers on its promise. Chock full of artifacts of every which
kind, it feels as much like the hold of a vast ship as a museum gallery, though
it should be said that the good ship Gaelic Gotham has had a somewhat troubled
voyage toward this museum port, during which more than a little bit of its heavy
cargo had to be cast overboard.  For the exhibition, large and sweeping as it
is, was originally to have been still larger; several lenders withdrew objects
and many participants in ancillary programs stepped aside after the museum
terminated its relationship with a curatorial consultant and found itself at
odds with some scholars of Irish history who complained that their views were
not being represented.

Indeed, a few weeks ago, this exhibition threatened to become New York's local
version of the Smithsonian Institution's Enola Gay contretemps in 1995, when
disputes over the content of an exhibition the Air and Space Museum had planned
for the 50th anniversary of the atomic bomb became so heated that the event was
abandoned altogether.

That was a defining moment for history museums everywhere in the United States,
and the lines of the dispute were clear: the objectors thought that the
Smithsonian's planned exhibition gave too much credence to the possibility that
dropping the bomb might not have been the wisest course of action. In New York,
however, it was harder to get a sense of just what was at issue, in part because
the Museum of the City of New York, perhaps learning from the experience of the
Smithsonian, refused to release the outline of "Gaelic Gotham" while it was
still in the planning stages. The museum's director, Robert R. MacDonald,
insisted that the exhibition was going ahead, with or without the lenders who
withdrew their material, and argued that he and his curators were not answerable
to outsiders wishing to influence the content of their shows.

Now that "Gaelic Gotham" is open, it is even harder to know just what the
dispute was about: the exhibition is broad-minded, and presents the Irish in a
positive, but generally nonjudgmental way. Paradoxically, this is one exhibition
script that probably could have been released without doing much harm to a
museum's independence, because there isn't much in it that a reasonable person
could object to. There are more than a few things lacking in "Gaelic Gotham,"
but earnestness in its portrayal of the Irish is certainly not one of them.

The Irish are presented as eager participants in all phases of the city's life,
and as central to its growth. Indeed, "Gaelic Gotham" all but suggests that the
Irish experience is a metaphor for the entire history of New York. From the
city's colonial beginnings to its years of imperial expansion in the 19th
century, the Irish played a role, and it was a role both subservient and
powerful. Their vast numbers made them a potent political force, but many Irish
were financially powerful as well; the exhibition points out that while great
masses of Irish laborers built the subways and much of the rest of New York's
infrastructure, they often did so under the supervision of Irish contractors and
builders.

The Irish as exploiters as much as exploited? Or the Irish as having succeeded
early on at mastering the American game? The exhibition refrains from making a
simple judgment here, and lets us consider both possibilities.

So, too, with the presentation of politics, in which we get a whiff of
Irish-dominated Tammany Hall and its corruption, yet we are also made to
understand how successful this system was at encouraging wide participation in
the political process and a sense on the part of even the newest and most
impoverished of immigrants that the system both took care of them and engaged
them in civic life.

Most visitors will come away from this exhibition seeing it more as a great
Irish attic than as the presentation of a particular point of view, however. It
is really a parade of artifacts as much as anything else: there is Al Smith's
derby and Margaret Sanger's original birth-control pamphlets; there are models
of ships on which immigrants traveled, a 1901 police uniform, a 19th-century
glass ballot box and original renderings of St. Patrick's Cathedral. The only
well-known piece of art is William Michael Harnett's 1888 still life, "Violin
and Music," on loan from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, but there are
photographs galore, sketches of Eugene O'Neill, and pipes, cups and bottles
found in a 1991 archeological excavation of Five Points, the intersection in
lower Manhattan near what is now Foley Square, that represented the depths of
19th-century urban squalor and was heavily populated by the Irish.

Among the most pleasing artifacts is an entire trunkful of memorabilia belonging
to a former maid, Annie Finnegan, who immigrated to New York in 1904 and died in
1948. Miraculously, the trunk was found intact last summer in upper Manhattan by
a reader of The Irish Echo, who had heard about the exhibition and called to ask
if the museum had any interest in her find. The trunk turned out to contain
objects that come together to tell the story of a life, a life that itself is a
kind of metaphor of assimilation, beginning with Annie Finnegan's letters of
reference as a maid and continuing with her marriage to a streetcar conductor
and her daughter's graduation from college.

All well and good. But telling a story through artifacts can take it only so
far, and there are moments -- many of them -- when one wishes for a somewhat
more defined point of view. The exhibition treads delicately on the subject of
the Roman Catholic Church and its central role in the lives of many immigrants,
as well as in the political life of the city; a few Mass cards and charming
vintage photographs of old bishops don't make much of a point (though it's worth
mentioning that having cardinals and Margaret Sanger in the same exhibition does
remind us of the breadth of Irish experience, if nothing else).

Another subject handled with kid gloves is the behavior of the Irish, and how
others behaved toward them. The exhibition touches briefly on the draft riots of
1863, among the most violent civic disturbances in the history of New York,
which involved mainly Irish men protesting the Civil War draft. On the other
hand, it gives equally short shrift to the terrible discrimination the Irish
were subject to here in the 19th century and for a fair portion of the 20th. For
three-quarters of a century after their heavy wave of immigration began in the
mid-1900's, the Irish in New York were generally treated as a low, and sometimes
even untouchable, class. And there is almost nothing said of the tragic
discrimination that poor Irish Catholics faced in Ireland, where virtually all
power and position were restricted to Protestants, a discrimination that played
as large a role as the potato famine in encouraging the Irish to cross the
Atlantic.

Once here, of course, they found the corridors of power only slightly more open
to them. Acute observers will notice that the Irish tended to use established
institutions -- the police, the political parties, the church -- as a means of
achieving enculturation in New York and that they were less inclined than some
immigrant groups to function as entrepreneurs or to seek to build new kinds of
institutions. Yet the exhibition makes this point only implicitly, and never
explores what it might mean.

"Gaelic Gotham" tries to bring the story right up to the present, but does so
mainly through a series of videotaped interviews and a film presentation of
contemporary Irish voices in New York. There are some spectacular photographs of
recent St. Patrick's Day parades and some memorabilia of recent protests, like
the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization's attempts to be included in the march.
These are intended to show how the parade has come to function as a kind of
political statement. Of course, that is precisely what it has always been. From
the day when the St. Patrick's Day parade first began, it existed not only to
give the Irish a starring role on Fifth Avenue; more important, it demonstrated
the determination of ethnic groups to occupy center stage in the life of New
York. The Irish showed the way, truly.

Events at the Museum Of the City of New York

"Gaelic Gotham: A History of the Irish in New York," an exhibition of paintings,
prints, photographs, costumes and artifacts, will be on view through Oct. 27 at
the Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103d Street. Hours:
Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, 1 to 5 P.M. Admission
is by contribution: $6; $4 for students, children and the elderly; $10 for
families. Information: (212) 534-1672. A number of special events are planned in
conjunction with the exhibition. Unless noted, events take place at the museum
and are included in museum admission. Here is the schedule through May.

Tomorrow

 OPENING CELEBRATION, with "A Couple of Blackguards," a two-man show of music
and stories featuring Frank and Malachy McCourt at 2 P.M.; a performance by
Donny Golden's Traditional Irish Dancers is to follow at 3 P.M.

Sunday

 "FOR OULD IRELAND SO GREEN": THE ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARADE IN 19th-CENTURY NEW
YORK." A lecture on the history of the parade by Prof. Brooks McNamara, author
of the book "Day of Jubilee: The Great Age of Public Celebrations in New York,
1788-1909." 2 P.M

 "ST. PATRICK'S DAY FAMILY CELEBRATION." Celtic art is to be discussed by
Patrick Gallagher, an artist, at 3 P.M., followed by a performance by dancers
from Donny Golden's School of Irish Dance at 4 P.M.

March 23

 "GAELIC GOTHAM: A HISTORY OF THE IRISH IN NEW YORK." A behind-the-scenes look
at the exhibition, to be led by Edward O'Donnell, the historian for the project.
2 P.M.

March 29

 "THE CULTURAL VOICE OF IRISH NEW YORK," Graduate Center of the City University
of New York, 33 West 42d Street, Manhattan, Harold M. Proshansky auditorium,
first floor. A panel discussion on how an Irish identity has affected those in
the arts; participants, including writers and professors, are to be Billy
Collins and Eamon Grennan, poets; Elizabeth Cullinan and Ellen Currie,
novelists; Joyce Flynn, a literature professor, is to be the moderator. 3 to 5
P.M. Free. Registration: (212) 534-1672, extension 260.

March 30

 "PAINTING THE GREEN." A talk on the Irish images found in artwork displayed in
the exhibition, to be presented by Jan Ramirez, director of the exhibition. 2
P.M.

April 25

 "AN EVENING OF IRISH NEW YORK POETRY." A reading by well-known and emerging
poets. Exoterica, a poetry organization in the Bronx, is a sponsor. 6 P.M.

April 27

 "FROM EMERALD ISLE TO ELLIS ISLAND." A walking tour of Ellis Island led by
Edward O'Donnell, the historian for the project and a director of Big Onion
Walking Tours. 1 P.M. Fee: $15; $13 for students, the elderly and members of the
museum. Information and meeting place: (212) 534-1672, Ext. 206.

May 4

 "IRISH, JEWISH AND CHINESE WOMEN WORKERS IN NEW YORK CITY." A lecture to be
given by Annalise Orlick, a history professor at Dartmouth. 2 P.M.

May 18

 "AL SMITH AND BELLE MOSCOWITZ: HOW THE IRISH AND JEWS OF NEW YORK HELPED INVENT
THE NEW DEAL." A lecture on how a progressive agenda for New York City in the
1930's was created by Smith, an Irish politician, and Moscowitz, a Jewish social
worker; given by Robert Disch, a scholar. 2 P.M.

May 25

 "IRISH GREENWICH VILLAGE." A walking tour to be led by Edward O'Donnell, with
stops at Ireland House at New York University; St. Joseph's Church; the site of
the Astor Place riot and places associated with noted Irish-American writers,
including Henry James, Eugene O'Neill and Mary McCarthy. 1 P.M. Fee: $9; $7 for
students, the elderly and museum members. Information and meeting place: (212)
534-1672, extension 206.

May 26

 "PLUNKITT OF TAMMANY HALL." Malachy McCourt assumes the character of the
politician George Washington Plunkitt in a one-man performance. 3 P.M.

Where to Be Found Wearing Green

Events celebrating St. Patrick's Day, which falls on Sunday, are taking place
all weekend in New York City. Here is a sampling of events.

Today

 "TRIBUTES: THE SPIRIT OF IRELAND FROM HORSEFAIRS TO PILGRIMAGES," Oak Ridge,
Forest Park, entrance off Myrtle Avenue and 79th Lane, Woodhaven, Queens. A
photography exhibition that highlights County Clare and features works by the
photographers Eileen Malony, Bill Porter and Barbara Sheehan. Hours: Monday
through Saturday, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Through March 21. Free. Sponsored by the
Queens Council on the Arts. Information: (718) 647-3377.

 "BEIN' WITH BEHAN," Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22d Street, Chelsea. A
one-man show based on the life of the Irish playwright Brendan Behan; written by
Michael L. Kavanagh, who also appears in it; directed by Bruce Heighley. 8 P.M.
Through May 26. Tickets: $20. Reservations and show times: (212) 279-4200.

 "MOUNTAIN STAGE," WFUV-FM (90.7). The first of three days of radio programming
devoted to Irish music. A tape of a live performance featuring the singers
Eileen Ivers, Tommy Sands and Maura O'Connell. 8 P.M.

Tomorrow

 ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARADE, up Fifth Avenue, from 44th to 86th Streets, ending at
Third Avenue and 86th Street. Begins at 11 A.M.

 "BIG APPLE IRISH CELEBRITIES," Adventure on a Shoestring. A walking tour past
current and former East Side residences of such personalities as Katharine
Hepburn, Maureen O'Hara, Georgia O'Keeffe and Ed Sullivan. 1 P.M. Fee: $5.
Reservations and meeting place: (212) 265-2663.

 IRISH MUSIC AND DANCING, South Street Seaport, Pier 17 Atrium, South and Fulton
Streets, lower Manhattan. Performances by the O'Donnell Band and the Inishfree
School of Irish Dancing. Noon to 8 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 732-7678.

 "FROM EMERALD ISLE TO ELLIS ISLAND: IRISH ELLIS ISLAND," Big Onion Walking
Tours. A tour of Castle Clinton and Ellis Island. Meets at 9 A.M. at Castle
Clinton, western corner of Battery Park, lower Manhattan. Fee, which includes
ferry ticket: $15; $13 for students and the elderly. Information: (212)
439-1090.

 IRISH NEW YORK WALKING TOUR, Big Onion Walking Tours. A tour of the former
Little Ireland district of lower Manhattan, between City Hall and Houston
Streets. Stops include the Old St. Patrick's Cathedral, former Tweed Courthouse,
Five Points slum and Al Smith residence. Meets at 1 P.M. on the steps of City
Hall. Fee: $9; $7 for students and the elderly. Information: (212) 439-1090.

 IRISH NEW YORK, Municipal Art Society. A walking tour of the former Little
Ireland section of lower Manhattan. Meets at 1 P.M. at the Horace Greeley statue
near City Hall. Tickets: $15; $12 for society members. Reservations: (212)
935-3960.

 IRISH RADIO PROGRAMS, WFUV-FM (90.7). "Mile Failte," a taped performance by the
singer Seamus Begley, 8 A.M; "A Thousand Welcomes," a pre-St. Patrick's Day
Parade celebration with Irish singers, 9 A.M. to noon; "The Thistle and
Shamrock," a taped show with the singers Bill Whelan and Michael O'Suilleabhain,
noon to 1 P.M.

 IRISH MUSIC, New York Public Library, Parkchester Branch, 1985 Westchester
Avenue, at Pugsley Avenue, Parkchester, the Bronx. Traditional and original
works performed by Gryphon & Company. Tomorrow at 2 P.M. Information: (718)
829-7830.

Sunday

 ST. PATRICK'S DAY AT THE KNITTING FACTORY, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa. A
daylong celebration with music, dance and live video hookups to the Arthouse in
Dublin and Cafe Electronique au Web in Paris. The hookups will provide
broadcasts of entertainment in Dublin and Paris, as well as conversations
between clubgoers there and at the Knitting Factory. 2 to 6:30 P.M. Admission:
$5. Information: (212) 219-3055.

 "WHEN IRISH EYES WERE SMILING!" Adventure on a Shoestring. Walking tours of the
Clinton section of Manhattan, formerly known as "Hell's Kitchen," which had a
large Irish community at the turn of the century. 11 A.M. and 1:30 P.M. Fee: $5.
Reservations and meeting place: (212) 265-2663.

 THE CHIEFTAINS AT AVERY FISHER HALL, Lincoln Center. A performance by the Irish
band, and Raymond and Anna Ayers, dancers. 8 P.M. Tickets: $20, $30 and $40. The
concert is sold out, but any returned tickets will be available one hour before
the show. Information: (212) 875-5030.

 ST. PATRICK'S DAY SAIL, World Yacht, Pier 81, West 41st Street and the Hudson
River. A dinner cruise with traditional Irish music and dance; entertainers
include the New York City Police Department Emerald Society Pipe Band. 7 P.M.;
boarding is at 6 P.M. Price: $75 a person. Reservations and other information:
(212) 630-8100.

"CEOL NA NGAEL" WFUV-FM (90.7). Taped Irish folk music, and a live broadcast
from Dublin. Noon to 4 P.M.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Images from New York's Irish past: An 1890 theater poster for
Ada Rehan, Hughson Hawley's 1880's painting of Irish laborers laying track,
right, and Alton Tobey's 1928 portrait of Al Smith campaigning for the
Presidency. (Photographs from the Museum of the City of New York) (pg. C1);
"Violin and Music," an 1888 painting by William Michael Harnett. (Museum of the
City of New York) (pg. C5)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

On Multi-Cultural Education

SECTION: Section 13LI;  Page 22;  Column 2;  Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 427 words


The positive spin of your Feb. 11 article, "Multi-Cultural Education: Immersion
Lesson for Students," disguises some very troubling aspects of this movement.
For starters, solicitude for immigrant or minority students is nowhere near as
new as the article implies. It was present during the last major wave of massive
immigration in the early 20th century, while teaching various perspectives has a
long tradition in American education.

The multi-culturalist proponents tout the importance of learning of differing
points of view. No problem there. The danger lies in pretending that all points
of view are of equal significance or validity. In particular, the
multi-culturalists suppress or deny the reality of an American point of view.
Their programs presume only a variety of perspectives determined by group
identity. Consequently, the reality of the American experience, which heretofore
has assimilated immigrant populations and Americanized them -- with recognition
for variation in degree -- is rejected. It is precisely this type of
"group-think" which has led to the implementation of the ethno-racial quota
system so despised by the majority of Americans.

Most strikingly, none of the various educational and multi-culturalist "experts"
cited in the article demonstrates any concern to inculcate American history and
heritage in immigrant children in order to aid in their assimilation of American
culture. On the contrary, the multi-culturalist approach encourages immigrants
to maintain their foreign traditions rather than adopting to American norms. The
local multi-culturalists, and their many allies nationwide, have flipped the
traditional assumption that immigrants should adjust to the American condition.
In its place they propose, implicitly or explicitly, that Americans adjust to
them -- a prescription for national suicide unique in world history.

Totally missing from the quoted statements of Long Island's multi-culturalist
advocates, and this seems standard with such people, is any comprehension that
such a thing as American culture, or nationhood, exists. The so-called
"celebration of diversity" typically results in a stifling or diminution of the
American heritage. The different programs, increasingly mandated, which
emphasize multi-cultural/minority interests, reduce or exclude the
historical/cultural heritage of the majority of American citizens and their
children. This is the surest way to generate the resentments which the
multi-culturalist programs purportedly diminish.

RICHARD F. WELCH
Woodbury

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

New Immigrants Transforming The Population

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

SECTION: Section 13LI;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1427 words


AS immigrants continued to arrive in Nassau and Suffolk Counties in moderate
numbers, an even larger number of residents departed, Census estimates for the
first half of the 1990's show.

The estimates confirm that expanding ethnicity, led by increases among Asian and
Hispanic people, continues to transform a region that was once predominantly
native-born white, with native-born blacks as the largest minority segment.

The estimates depict an overall rate of change that lags far behind the
upheavals after World War II, but they underscore profound challenges in
employment, housing and education.

Planners and experts said net migration from the two counties involved
departures by retirees and out-of-work or underemployed former military workers.

In a countertrend, the figures and anecdotal information suggest, some
outmigration from Nassau involves retirees and families who are moving to
Suffolk.

According to the regional planning board, eastern Suffolk has a higher
percentage of retirees than Florida. One eastern Suffolk school district,
Eastport, more than doubled in size from 1990 to 1995, in part because of the
arrival of young families from western Suffolk and Nassau, according to
Superintendent Robert R. Dillon.

"These are people trying to recapture the American Dream," Dr. Dillon said. "Our
windows are still glass, and there's no graffiti."

Experts said another bloc of the departing included young adults and working
people who could not afford or were repelled by housing and living costs in one
of the most expensive, highly taxed regions in the country.

According to the estimates, which were released this month, the net
international immigration to Nassau was 28,993. In the five years the net
domestic migration was more than 47,000.

The disparity was even greater in Suffolk, notwithstanding retirees and young
families who moved from Nassau. The figures showed that the net immigration of
18,229 was less than half the net migration of nearly 40,000.

Despite the deficits, the estimate showed that the population increased in both
counties. The increases resulted from births at a record level in Suffolk and at
the highest level since 1967 in Nassau, according to the Long Island Regional
Planning Board.

The Nassau population increased, from 1,287,444 in 1990 to 1,305,722. That
contrasts with the 2.6 percent decline from 1980 to 1990.

In Suffolk, where the 1990 Census showed an increase of 2.9 percent over 1980,
the new figures show an additional increase, from 1,321,768 in 1990 to 1,353,704
last year.

The estimates show that the proportion of Nassau residents over 65 increased, to
15 percent in 1995, up 1 percent since 1990. In Suffolk, that group increased,
from 10.6 to nearly 11.3 percent.

The executive director of the regional planning board, Lee E. Koppelman, said
the figures for Hispanic immigration were too low, because they did not fully
include illegal aliens. "The unofficial growth is even higher," he said.

He said the Hispanic population included people with Indian and black ethnicity,
Latin Americans of predominantly European ancestry, Portuguese and Spanish
Europeans and migrant laborers, including Mexicans.

The 1990 Census showed that Hispanic people had surpassed blacks in Suffolk,
87,852 to 77,303. In Nassau blacks outnumbered Hispanic people, 105,315 to
77,386. The planning board projects that the Hispanic total will eventually be
higher in both counties.

Newer residents from Central and South America continue to cluster in
communities where earlier waves of Hispanic immigrants had settled. Those
communities include areas in Babylon, Glen Cove, Hempstead, Huntington, Islip,
Long Beach and Patchogue, said Larry Meneses, executive director of La Union
Hispanica in Islip.

Mr. Meneses, a member of the Nassau County Charter Revision Commission, said
that Hispanic people were increasingly dispersing and that the number of
Hispanic businesses on the Island was expanding. "There has been a real
explosion of Hispanic-owned businesses," he said.

For lower-income Hispanic immigrants, housing continued to be an acute problem,
the Census reports say. Several experts say many newly arrived Hispanic workers
and families crowd into illegal rental units. Though smaller in numbers, the
Asian population had the highest rate of growth for any group. From 1980 to 1990
it increased 33.8 percent, to 38,434 in Nassau, and 111.5 percent, to 22,415 in
Suffolk.

Mr. Koppelman said Asian immigrants tended to be more affluent and widely
dispersed, with most coming from China, Japan, Korea and Vietnam. Long Island
has also had smaller contingents of Indians, Pakistanis and other groups, he
added.

The Island is attracting business people from an array of immigrant groups, Mr.
Koppelman said, adding, "What we are attracting are entrepreneurs who can afford
to come here, and a good deal of that is migration from New York City."

Planners, elected officials and business groups have long supported so-called
affordable housing in part because it might provide homes for a workforce that
would include immigrants.

"The amount of affordable housing being built is minuscule, but at least it's
beginning to happen," Mr. Koppelman said. "It's happening because a lot of
communities are beginning to discover that they can no longer find people to do
service work. When you can't find someone to cut the grass or fix your car,
there is more acceptance."

The president of the Long Island Housing Partnership, Jim Morgo, said his group
was reaching out to the Hispanic population.

"We do have a considerable number of Hispanic immigrants who inquire about our
homes," Mr. Morgo said, "and they have an increased sophistication about
qualifying for mortgages. The whole genesis of the housing partnership was
economic, not philanthropic. What xenophobes often overlook is that immigrants
are good for an economy."

But experts say large numbers of immigrants in rental units pressure some school
districts that have had a rapid growth in students who speak English as a second
language, if at all.

The legislative chairman of the Nassau and Suffolk School Boards Association,
Dr. Bruce Brodsky, said 15 of the 25 districts in the state with the highest
levels of students with limited English were on Long Island.

Some Long Island districts report that students speak 30 or more languages and
dialects. Most of those districts are on the South Shore, but North Shore areas
like Port Washington are also affected, he said, adding:

"We are faced with 12-, 13- and 14-year-olds who are coming in not only
illiterate in English. but in their own language. These kids are, of course,
very high-cost kids to educate. We have been saying this for the past five
years, but nobody has been listening to us."

The strain is greatest, Dr. Brodsky said, in districts that are not wealthy and
where school taxes are already high and facing further increases in part because
of extensive remedial and bilingual education.

Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed budget would eliminate state aid for bilingual
education, he noted. Mr. Pataki has also proposed capping state aid for building
classrooms as the State Education Department estimates that enrollment on Long
Island is approaching an historic peak.

The new Census estimates do not include ethnic breakdowns of net immigration.
Long Island's first immigrants, English Protestants, supplanted Indians and
predominated from the colonial period to World War I.

After World War II, Levittown, other suburban housing and the development of
aircraft industries led to a population explosion and rapid transformation as
people of German, Irish, Italian, Polish, Russian and other ancestries moved in.
Many Jews also settled on the Island, and Roman Catholics grew to outnumber
Protestants.

"It was bedrock Protestant for all those years, and then after World War II the
whole thing just turned around," said Dr. Roger Wunderlich, an adjunct associate
professor of history at the State University at Stony Brook.

Dr. Wunderlich, also editor of The Long Island Historical Journal, said the
region had recently been depleted by "an alarming migration of young college
graduates."

He said he regularly asked students in his course on Long Island history whether
they planned to remain on Long Island after graduation. The students' answers,
he said, were always the same. "They say they don't see how they can live on
Long Island because it's too expensive," he said. "They say it doesn't look good
for staying here."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Shifting Population on Long Island" shows the migration
pattern for Nassau and Suffolk counties and the elderly population in N.Y. and
U.S. (Source: U.S. Census Bureau)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 18, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Phone Plan Is Attracting Immigrants In New York

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1439 words


Danny Coronel, a bartender from Elmhurst, Queens, lost his telephone when a
former friend used it for calls to Hong Kong -- $1,900 worth. Jose Ramos, a
livery-cab driver, and his wife, Jackie, never had a phone, even though they
moved to Washington Heights in Manhattan from the Dominican Republic more than
two years ago. "We didn't have anything in our name in this country," Mr. Ramos
said. "It was just too hard."

They are by no means alone in New York, where the percentage of homes without
phones is higher than in any other metropolitan area in the country. Tens of
thousands of New Yorkers, most of them recent immigrants, go for long periods
without a home phone, an appliance as common in American households as a
refrigerator or a front door. The experts cite a variety of reasons -- credit
problems, language barriers, lack of identification or simple fear of the
system.  Some people get phones only to lose them quickly to homesickness as
unpaid bills for international calls mount.

Instead, in many neighborhoods like Washington Heights and the Lower East Side,
Flushing in Queens and Sunset Park in Brooklyn, thousands of people have cobbled
together a kind of alternative telephone existence. They carry beepers and
cut-rate international calling cards, forage for working pay phones and, for the
last several years, have flocked to a growing number of phone parlors,
storefront businesses that let customers call overseas from private booths.

But now a tiny midtown telephone company that operates more than 150 phone
parlors believes it has found an innovative way to begin changing that and at
the same time build itself into a minor player in the local telephone market in
New York.

In early January, the four-year-old company, Microtel Communications, began
installing special phone lines in the homes of customers who have lost Nynex
service or cannot get it. Working something like long-distance pay phones, the
line allows users to make local calls and reach directory assistance and 911 for
$23 a month. When customers want to make calls outside the New York area,
however, they must pay in advance at one of the centers the company has set up
throughout the city, particularly in Queens, the Bronx and Washington Heights.
They can talk until their time runs out, and then the call is cut off.

"Because there's no risk, we don't need to protect ourselves -- no questions, no
credit applications," said Robert A. Manghir, the company's president. "It's a
great marriage. We're giving people service who couldn't get it, and that's
wonderful -- and play the violins -- and we're making money at it, too."
Telecommunications experts say they believe it is the first service of its kind
in the country.

In the shadows of the recent deregulation of the telecommunications industry,
with long-distance giants now racing into local markets, Microtel has quietly
seized a head start on a sizable share of potential customers long ignored,
largely because "Baby Bell" companies formed by the breakup of the AT&T
monopoly, like Nynex, have not had a cost-effective way of providing service
while also controlling risk. While some Baby Bells, like Bell Atlantic, have
provided services like Microtel's, they have done so only on a limited basis.
Microtel intends to make the service the heart of its business.

Using leased Nynex lines, the company sets up a switching system that connects
customers to a central hub. Even though the phones are scattered in different
locations, they are essentially extensions of the same system, much like the
phones in a business office. Microtel then provides the long-distance service by
buying millions of minutes of long-distance time from other carriers at
wholesale prices and reselling the time to their phone parlors and home-phone
customers.

The potential for the business is huge. As of November 1995, the Federal
Communications Commission and the Census Bureau estimated that more than 350,000
homes in the New York metropolitan area, or nearly 12 percent, lacked telephone
service. That is the highest percentage of any large metropolitan area in the
country, the agencies found.

Nynex has a program called Life Line that allows elderly and welfare recipients
to get phone service for almost no money, but many of the customers Microtel
hopes to reach miss that safety net. They are largely working-class immigrant
families from the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Mexico, Pakistan, Bangladesh
and India who are not on public assistance but who also cannot afford to pay
deposits or erase a debt left on a phone by a previous user.

While their jobs are often tenuous and their income fluctuates, they also tend
to spend much more on long-distance because many of their loved ones are in the
countries they left behind.

"It's a nice, lucrative little niche if they can convince the people out there
in this situation that they are reliable," said David J. Roddy, chief
telecommunications economist for the accounting and consulting firm of Deloitte
& Touche.

He added that the company was anticipating strategies that other local providers
would probably take under deregulation, such as aiming at specific pockets of
customers and offering nontraditional service and payment plans. "I think
they're going to have plenty of competition before long," he said.

The company has signed up a little more than 1,000 customers since it began
advertising the service late last year on radio, in Spanish-language newspapers
and in fliers and banners proclaiming, "Todos Califican" or "Everybody
Qualifies."

Microtel relies on small neighborhood businesses, like its own phone parlors or
video stores or bodegas, to serve as agents, who enroll customers, collect their
long-distance money and at the same time use the service as a magnet to draw
more customers into their stores. On Sherman Avenue in Washington Heights, for
example, Jose Caba, who has owned a clothing boutique for 17 years, runs the
service out of his basement and has signed up several dozen longtime customers.

The company's sales strategy so far has been a mixture of brash car-lot
hucksterism and carefully planned ethnic marketing -- Pakistani salesmen
knocking on doors in heavily Pakistani Flushing, print ads tailored for
Ecuadorean weeklies. In a move to solidify its credibility in Washington
Heights, its most promising neighborhood, the company hired a businessman well
respected in the Dominican community, Nelson Acosta, and recently promoted him
to a vice presidency.

Mr. Manghir, whose mother, Faye, owns the company, dwells little on the social
or cultural aspects, however. "You want dial tone?" he asked in a recent
interview, going into one of his stock sales speeches. "We'll give it to you no
questions asked, in the basement, the bathroom, the attic, one room, two rooms,
three rooms, wherever you want it. Pay up front and call wherever you want. Pay
your bills, or we'll shut it off. Simple as that."

Some consumer advocates are wary that the company will end up exploiting those
it purports to help. "While it's good that at least someone is willing to come
in to give them something, we think this is basically second-class service,"
said Robert Ceisler, executive director of the New York Citizens Utility Board.
"And there's danger that profiteering companies are going to come in and try to
take advantage of people just because they have trouble getting a phone."

But the company appears to be gaining popularity in the neighborhoods it serves.
Its long-distance rates are sometimes better than those of bigger carriers -- 65
cents a minute to Colombia, compared with 74 cents with MCI or about 81 cents
from AT&T, for example. "I'm telling everybody to sign up," said Mr. Ramos, the
29-year-old livery driver from Washington Heights, who added that he does not
mind that he has to hand over the money before he calls his mother in Santo
Domingo.

"It's a good idea for people with only so much money: I can only talk what I can
pay," he said. "My sister has had her phone cut off twice because she talks too
much and then she can't pay. She gets on and just can't hang up."

Agustin Garcia, president of the Dominican Chamber of Commerce of New York, had
a line installed in his headquarters in Washington Heights in January and his
staff uses it frequently to call Santo Domingo, he said.

"There has been a vacuum in phone service in this community for a long time,"
Mr. Garcia said. "Anyone who comes here and provides an alternative to New York
Telephone and speaks to us in our own language is going to be welcomed with open
arms."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 21, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Case of Green Card Bribes

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


DeAndre Rudolph, of Irvington, a former investigator for the Federal Immigration
and Naturalization Service, pleading guilty in Federal Court yesterday to
accepting a $4,000 bribe in November for selling a detector the Government uses
to determine if green card applications have been filled out properly.

The device, a slotted metal plate, can be used to make the application for a
residency visa look as if it had been processed by agency officials, said Martin
Cronin, an assistant United States attorney.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 24, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Homecoming of Ethnic German Immigrants Sours

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1420 words

DATELINE: SOHREN, Germany


Emmi Schleicher arrived in Germany from her native Kazakstan six years ago and
thought she had finally come home to the land her ancestors left over two
centuries ago. Since then, she has learned a painful lesson.

As an ethnic German in Kazakstan, she said, she faced nationalist hostility
among Kazaks who called her a foreigner. Now she confronts another kind of
animosity from Germans who do not accept her as a German and who say she and
others like her receive social benefits they do not deserve.

"In Kazakstan they said we were Germans and should go back to Germany," said
Mrs. Schleicher, 32, who was a librarian in Almaty, Kazakstan, and collects
admission at a public swimming pool in this small town in western Germany. "Now
we are in Germany and people here curse us as 'the Russians.' "

She is not alone. Since the late 1980's, in one of Europe's greatest population
shifts since the end of the cold war, more than a million ethnic Germans from
the former Soviet Union have taken advantage of German laws permitting them to
reclaim full citizenship, and thus automatic access to Germany's bountiful
welfare system that provides unemployment pay, housing allowances and state
pensions.

But their arrival has coincided with economic straits for many Germans, who are
facing record unemployment at a time when the abundance of social benefits is
being called into question. A result has been a greater readiness among Germans
to attribute their woes to their immigrant kin, and an equal readiness among
politicians to play to those passions for votes.

The animosity threatens Germany's social fabric with perhaps the most emotional
collision of identities since neo-Nazis rampaged against foreigners,
particularly the country's two million Turks, after reunification in 1990.

"Burning houses have shown that the readiness to accept people is not without
limits," Oskar Lafontaine, leader of the opposition Social Democrats, said,
referring to attacks on foreigners elsewhere in Germany. With three important
state elections scheduled for March 24, he is campaigning for limits on
immigration by ethnic Germans.

The hostility has a particular twist here in Sohren, a town south of Coblenz
where many of the 1,200 immigrant Germans have moved into apartments vacated
when some 15,000 United States troops and their dependents pulled out from the
nearby Hahn air base two years ago.

"For 40 years we lived in good, neighborly relations with the Americans," said
Heinz Michel, Sohren's Mayor for the last 22 years. "But right now, all these
people moving in at once is just too much."

For many of the new arrivals, the hostility has come as a shock after the
upheaval and persecution their families faced since 1941, when Stalin banished
them to Siberia and Central Asia to punish them for Hitler's invasion of the
Soviet Union.

Throughout the cold war, German leaders routinely campaigned for the right of
ethnic Germans to return home. German governments even paid millions of dollars
to the dictatorship of Nicolae Ceausescu to allow ethnic Germans to leave
Romania.

West Germany even made it a constitutional right for ethnic Germans to acquire
full German citizenship, even though it had been 200 years since the czars
invited Germans to Russia, where they were prized for their agricultural skills
and organization.

The end of the cold war changed the equation.

German reunification cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars. An economic
slowdown added to unemployment and strained the state's ability to finance
pensions and other social benefits. The opening of Eastern Europe's frontiers
threatened Germany with an unchecked flow of poor migrants. Hostility to
outsiders inspired the German authorities to enact a string of laws to keep the
numbers of foreigners -- and ethnic Germans -- within tight limits.

Since Jan. 1, 1993, the number of immigrant Germans accepted in Germany has been
limited by law to 220,000 a year. And now Mr. Lafontaine wants that number
halved, a demand that has struck a responsive chord among many Germans. One
recent opinion survey said about 70 percent of Germans support his campaign.

The end of the cold war also meant a drastic reduction in the number of American
forces in Germany. At the height of the cold war, American military personnel
stationed in Germany numbered around 250,000. Now the total is 76,000.

In Sohren, where the original inhabitants number some 2,000, the American
presence injected thousands of jobs and $180 million a year into the local
economy. When the last Americans left two years ago, Mayor Michel said, "we
became poor."

The arrival of the immigrant ethnic Germans, by contrast, has produced only a
sense of division and strain. In the area surrounding Sohren, immigrant German
children already outnumber the children of the original inhabitants in some
schools. Five new kindergartens have been built, and resentment has grown.

"They have a completely different mentality," Mayor Michel said of the immigrant
Germans. "They have trouble with the language. Most of them have no work. The
living standards we have are totally strange to them. We have no jobs to offer
them."

Neither do they shop, visit the bars or spend money as the Americans did, people
at several stores on the town's main street said.

Mayor Michel said that when Mr. Lafontaine brought the issue into the public
spotlight, "he destroyed the only little bit of reconciliation that had happened
in this town."

Indeed, in other places where immigrant ethnic Germans are housed in former NATO
barracks until they find homes, German officials worry that disaffected young
men among them, speaking no German, are rapidly forming a crime-prone underclass
that will arouse even greater German hostility.

In her new three-level house that she shares with 10 other people from two
generations of in-laws, Mrs. Schleicher does not see it that way.

"Our people are disappointed, upset, confused," she said, speaking only slightly
accented German. "They are people who have lost themselves. Here, they thought
they would find a home where they wouldn't be discriminated against. But they
have been disappointed."

Her father-in-law, Johannes Schleicher, 69, a former truck driver, seemed to
agree. In 1941, he said, he and his family were ordered out of the autonomous
republic set up for ethnic Germans in the Volga region and sent to Siberia. They
built a house, he said, but then the family was sent on to Kazakstan. They built
a house there, too.

Now, propelled by anti-German sentiment in Kazakstan and lured by the better
economic prospects here, he has come to Germany. So the family pooled their
pensions, their wages and their own labor to build yet again. "Where am I
supposed to go?" Mr. Schleicher said. "Back to the Volga? The Russians don't
want us there."

Such was Germany's desire in the early 1990's to avert massive immigration of
ethnic Germans from the former Soviet Union that Bonn offered tens of millions
of dollars to Moscow to rebuild its onetime republic on the Volga. That plan
foundered on the refusal of Russians now living there to give up their land and
the reluctance of ethnic Germans to return.

According to official statistics, the immigrant ethnic Germans as a social group
are notably younger than average in Germany's aging society, meaning that they
draw proportionately less in pensions and contribute more to the work-force
paying social security contributions.

At the same time, the statistics suggest that unemployment last year among
immigrant ethnic Germans, while disproportionately high in some areas like
Sohren, was lower than the average in states like Baden-Wurttemberg, where the
most contested of the March 24 state elections is taking place.

In Mrs. Schleicher's neat living room, with its new furniture, its television
and a garden gnome as decoration, the perception is different.

Sure, the older people said, they are drawing pensions of around $900 a month --
30 percent less than the German average -- to which they have made no direct
contribution. But they said their children wanted to work and pay their dues,
even with jobs other Germans would not look at, and well below what they were
qualified to do in the Soviet Union.

"People say we've brought unemployment here," said Olga Borge, another
immigrant. "But the Germans who come here from Kazakstan want to work. If
there's work and they can get it, they do it, whatever it is. Sometimes, it
makes you weep."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emmi Schleicher, an ethnic German from Kazakstan, thought she
was bringing her daughter Veronika home to a better life when she and her family
immigrated from Russia. Instead, she has found resentment. (Jim McDonald for The
New York Times )

Map of Germany highlightine Sohren: New arrivals to Sohren have been shocked to
find hostility there.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Immigrants Help Bolster U.S. Economy, New Report Says

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 32;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 30


From Cambodian doughnut-shop owners to Chinese electronics engineers, Asian
immigrants do far more good than harm to the nation's economy, a new report
says.

The study, sponsored mainly by the Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics, a
national nonprofit organization based in Los Angeles, was made public this week,
timed to allow the nation's 7.2 million Asian-Americans to call attention to
their achievements as Congress considers revising immigration laws. While the
report used Asian-American success stories in California as examples, it applied
its conclusions to the country as a whole.

As the fastest-growing immigrant group in the United States -- the number of
people whose origins are in Asia or the Pacific increased by 385 percent from
1971 to 1990, and is expected to reach 11 million by the year 2000 --
Asian-Americans have a special interest in keeping the nation's doors open.

But the Chinese, Filipino, Indian and other Asian and Pacific immigrants also
serve as potent examples of the economic shot in the arm that immigrant
entrepreneurs provide, said the report's main author, Bill Ong Hing.

"When you see an immigrant working, a well-meaning person might think, 'Oh, an
American could have been working in that job,' but what you do not see is the
job-creation process," said Mr. Hing, an associate professor at Stanford Law
School who is an immigration scholar. "Immigrant entrepreneurs are left out of
the calculation."

And those entrepreneurs go far beyond the stereotypes of Chinese dry cleaners
and Korean grocers, said Edward J. W. Park, a sociologist at the University of
Southern California who contributed to the report.

Of the estimated 2,000 high-technology companies in the Silicon Valley near San
Francisco, he says nearly 500 are run by Asian-Americans. The report said 15 of
the nation's most successful high-tech companies were founded by immigrants;
those companies now have a combined revenue of $22.25 billion.

The report, titled "Asian Pacific Americans: Reframing the Immigration Debate,"
seeks to counter anti-immigration arguments by citing the achievements of Asian
and Pacific immigrants.

While opponents of immigration have emphasized the financial burden that
immigrant children impose on education and welfare budgets, the report focused
on a longer look at the life span of such children, viewing the money spent on
education as an encouragement to advanced schooling and an investment later
returned in taxes and productivity.

It found that among Americans 25 to 38 years of age in 1990, Asian Pacific
Americans were twice as likely as non-Hispanic whites to have received a
post-college degree. And once they reach the second generation in America, the
number of Asian-Americans receiving welfare is much lower than average.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

New Takes on the Melting Pot

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE

SECTION: Section 13CN;   Page 1;   Column 3;   Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1795 words


WHEN Judy Sulik moved to Bridgeport from the suburbs a few years ago she went
exploring her new hometown and was amazed. Along with the expected Italian
restaurants and Irish taverns she found a veritable United Nations of cuisines.
Around every corner the native food of yet another ethnic group was being
served.

And so, "without leaving my hometown" Mrs. Sulik turned her discovery into a
combination international cookbook and restaurant guide, "An Adventure for Your
Palate," collecting recipes from Bridgeport's ethnic restaurants introduced by a
brief profile of each establishment.

Irish and Italian food are represented, but also Brazilian, Bulgarian, Jamaican,
Mexican, Portuguese and Thai. Bridgeport, it seems, is surprisingly
cosmopolitan. "That's not the image many people have of it," Mrs. Sulik said.

Nor of Connecticut as a whole, for that matter. But in fact, the state is
reflecting a 10-year wave of immigration that brought in tens of thousands of
new residents from all over the world, even while the total population declined
by a few thousand.

The newcomers have brought their music, sports and food, widening horizons in a
state that fancies itself "the land of steady habits" and stages most of its
official celebrations around historic Yankee traditions.

Typifying the newcomers are four immigrant groups: Brazilians, Irish, Hungarians
and Vietnamese.

For example, this month an Irish musical group, Big Geraniums, played "Gaelic
rock" in Fairfield. And the large Brazilian population in Danbury held an indoor
tournament for soccer, a wildly popular sport in Brazil. In June, both ethnic
groups will hold three-day festivals in Connecticut open to the general public.

While recent Irish immigrants add a relatively subtle touch of the modern to the
traditions of native-born Irish-Americans, the bouncy samba rhythms and spicy
meat dishes served up by the Brazilians are standouts in the new cultural mix.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service recorded 91,489 foreigners entering
the United States between 1985 and 1994 who listed Connecticut as their
destination, but many of those were single individuals making multiple trips or
paying a visit and returning home, so the actual number of resident aliens in
the state is certainly smaller.

In the five years starting 1990, according to recent Census Bureau figures, the
influx of foreign immigrants was 36,963, statewide. Immigrants interviewed for
this article were living in Connecticut throughout the 10-year immigration wave,
and their observations confirmed I.N.S. records indicating that arrivals nearly
doubled between 1985 and 1991, the peak year, and has tapered down since then,
probably due to the state's sluggish economy.

These recent immigrants nearly offset an equally large migration of native-born
people out of the state in search of jobs elsewhere. That immigrants replaced
native-born residents, rather than just adding to them, intensifies their
cultural effect, especially in the cities where most have settled.

"It's not numerically a flood, but it's an important pattern," said Thomas
Steahr, professor of demography at the University of Connecticut. Professor
Steahr said the traditional ethnic mixture of Connecticut leaned heavily toward
western and central Europeans, African-Americans and Puerto Ricans. But the new
immigrants are largely from Asia, Africa, South America and eastern Europe.

The Connecticut Department of Education reported that 95 different languages
were spoken by children in the state's public schools in the 1994-95 school
year. Federal census data lists as major categories, white, African-American,
Hispanic, and "other minorities."

"That 'other minorities' category has gotten quite a bit more diverse,' " said
Thomas Murphy, a spokesman for the department.

Many new immigrants have come to the state because of Connecticut's growing
foreign trade. But more typical are people like Carlos Coelho, who moved to
Bridgeport from Governador Valadares, Brazil, in 1983, recently divorced and
looking for opportunity. He chose Bridgeport because his sister, Necy Fernandes,
a television studio-set decorator for the decorating and home entertaining
expert Martha Stewart, lived nearby.

Bridgeport and Danbury are attractive destinations for Brazilians because both
cities had long-established Portuguese communities who speak the same language.

When Mr. Coelho arrived there were only about 35 Brazilian families in
Bridgeport. Now he estimates its Brazilian population to be about 1,700.
Danbury's is even larger, around 4,000, said Fernando Flores, who arrived in
1988 with his wife, Angela, to join relatives.

Mr. Coelho said he watched as Brazilian immigration increased. "From 1987 the
population started to grow, and it slowed down in 1992," he said.

They were skilled workers in Brazil. Mr. Coelho was a cash register mechanic,
Mr. Flores an electrician and Mrs. Flores a dressmaker. But Brazil's economy was
poor and their prospects were dim. After years of working and saving they have
opened small businesses of their own. The Flores own a cleaning service and a
party decorating business. Mr. Coelho has a travel agency catering primarily to
other Brazilians. His brother, Cleber, also operates a travel agency and started
the Barriga-Cheia restaurant, which appears in Mrs. Sulik's book. Mr. Coelho has
remarried, having met his wife, Glenda, a Chilean immigrant, while learning
English in night school.

Their stories are repeated often -- the tales of skilled, educated people who
are looking for better lives and join relatives and friends from their native
countries who have already established themselves. But with each nationality the
motivation to emigrate may be different.

For Irish immigrants, Connecticut offers higher wages. For Hungarians, the
social and economic disruptions resulting from the fall of Communism, as well as
their new freedom to migrate, are the motivations. For the Vietnamese, Communism
still remains, which is cause enough.

Johnny Huynh came to Connecticut in 1986 as a teen-ager, after two aimless years
in Arkansas. His uncle, who lived in Stamford, got him a job at Pitney Bowes.
Mr. Huynh spent much of his pay bringing the rest of his family to Connecticut,
and last summer he opened a restaurant, Pho Que Huong. His family operates the
business, and many of his customers are Vietnam War veterans who never lost
their taste for Vietnamese food.

Mr. Huynh said Bridgeport is a second American destination for many Vietnamese,
who move there from California, New York and the South, and who, like him,
believe their chances for success are better in Connecticut. "There's already an
established community here, so that's why they come," he said.

Jacqueline Wong, a Vietnamese refugee of Chinese extraction who is Mr. Huynh's
fiance, noted that the city's other established groups include Koreans,
Taiwanese, Chinese, Cambodians, Laotians and Thais. Each group is very
tight-knit, rarely socializing with the others, she said.  The University of
Bridgeport is the center for inter-group socializing that does occur.

Ms. Wong said each nationality has its own social club that hosts ethnic
festivals and parties at which the different Asian groups sample each other's
cultures.

At the University of Connecticut in Storrs, the Asian Center, which opened in
1993, is trying to make Asian culture more accessible to native-born state
residents, the center's director, Angela Rola, said. It offers exhibits of
Asian-American art and history, music, literature and other cultural events, as
well as a place for Asian students to socialize.

Ms. Rola said Asians are the largest racial minority at the Storrs campus.
Eleven percent of the students are Asian-Americans or Asian nationals. The
university offers courses in Hindi, Japanese, Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean and
Tagalog, the language of the Philippines. Ms. Rola, a second-generation
Filipino, said foreign trade produces demand for the new immigrants.

"I get calls from major corporations to see if we have experts who can give
cultural crash courses on different nations in Asia," she said.

Bridgeport and its suburbs have the second-largest concentration of Hungarians
in the United States (after Cleveland), making Connecticut a popular destination
for newer immigrants.

Joseph F. Balogh, a Stratford resident who is active in the Pannonia American
Hungarian Club, which helps these immigrants start new lives, said recent
immigrants have fled the high unemployment and crime that troubles
post-Communist Hungary. Many of them lived in Romania and Czechoslovakia, before
continuing on to the United States. "Most of them have relatives already here,"
Mr. Balogh said.

Relatively few in number, the Hungarian newcomers quickly absorbed by the older
Hungarian immigrant community, dominated by refugees from the 1956 Soviet
invasion of Hungary, and make little cultural impact, Mr. Balogh said. But they
do add to the audience for Hungarian culture and cuisine. Hungarian orchestras
regularly perform at Tomlinson Middle School in Fairfield Center, which is
walking distance from the Pearl of Budapest, a Hungarian restaurant.

The impact of the Irish newcomers of the last 10 years reflects change in
Ireland itself, according to John Smith and Lena Smith, cousins and partners in
the Black Rock Castle, an Irish restaurant that appears in Mrs. Sulik's book.

Mr. Smith said Ireland has moved in the last two decades from an isolated
agricultural nation to one strongly involved in tourism and manufacturing, and
reforming its educational system. Irish emigres are much better educated and
skilled than they were 25 years ago when he and his cousin arrived. "Up to 15
years ago there wouldn't have been many new Irish, and the old folks carried on
Irish traditions as they knew them," he said.

Ms. Smith said the newcomers emphasize Irish culture as they have lived it,
"rather than just the clubby feeling between people who share a lineage."
There's also more demand for importing Irish entertainment, including many of
the island's best performers.

Professor Steahr said one of the most remarkable aspects of the immigration is
the extent to which it has gone unnoticed by native-born residents. "It takes a
period of time before the in-migration begins to be noticeable," he said.

The insular nature of immigrant communities, language barriers and native-born
Americans' ignorance of other cultures are all reasons. But Ms. Rola said she
believes that eventually people will begin to recognize each other and enjoy
their differences. "The buzz word used to be 'melting pot,' but now we're
embracing multiculturalism, diversity," she said. "It's got to make a great
impact."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brazil means soccer. Linda De Souza, with 6-month-old Kayo and
3-year-old Kevin, wait for the team, below, to take the floor. (pg. 1); Carolyne
Dutra, 8, makes a point for her mother, Eliane, in the stands at Western
Connecticut State College in Danbury. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York
Times) (pg. 12)

Chart/Map: "BY THE NUMBERS: Connecticut's Gains and Losses" shows which counties
are losing residents because they decided to move elsewhere and which counties
are gaining immigrants from abroad. (pg. 12)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 1, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

As China Undercuts Democracy, Hong Kong Scuffles for Passports

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 5;   Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1386 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Monday, April 1


Inexorably, the clock marched toward midnight, and the last chance to apply for
a British overseas passport.

Then, a few minutes into this morning, a phalanx of blue-uniformed police pushed
a tiny woman, barely visible in their midst, toward the doors of the black
marble-and-glass Immigration Tower as she clutched a white paper application.

Yau Sui-chun, who turns 62 this month, was the last of the 54,178 Hong Kong
residents to file on Sunday for status as British overseas citizens by the
formal midnight deadline.

As she pushed her application across a plain wood table under the glare of
television lights, she ended a final week of mounting clamor by more than
100,000 Hong Kong residents to register as citizens of a British Dependent
Territory.

Each day, for the last week, tens of thousands of people, anxious over China's
increasing intrusions into Hong Kong affairs, camped in the rain, stood in
interminable lines and at times engaged in scuffles over line-jumping, all to
sign up for this tenuous sort of British identity -- an identity they hope will
provide some security after China retakes this colony on July 1, 1997. Despite
Beijing's assurances of autonomy, many here are deeply afraid of what will
happen then, and their fears have grown with recent Chinese intrusions into Hong
Kong's democracy.

"This is the best we can hope for," said Billy Lai, who joined the line for
passport applications early on Sunday, as he took the application form from an
immigration officer. "Much better than a Chinese passport."

The British National Overseas passport, while not conferring British
citizenship, does allow residents of British and former British territories to
travel without a visa to Britain and about 80 other countries.

As for the new "Special Administrative Region" passport that will be issued here
by China next year, only Britain and Singapore have so far agreed to grant
visa-free entry to its holders.

Already, about half of Hong Kong's 6.2 million residents are, by virtue of
birth, eligible for British overseas passports. Those flowing into immigration
offices on Sunday were among the two million Hong Kong residents who were not
born here, mostly immigrants from China, and were clutching at the last
opportunity for a semblance of British identity.

Those who waited here for hours were not Hong Kong's power-brokers, but its bus
and taxi drivers, clerks and secretaries, vegetable sellers and waiters,
plumbers, electricians and road workers. They never attended Oxford or Harvard
or Berkeley.

They do not hold British, Canadian or American passports, nor have they
purchased citizenship from Mauritius or other small countries that offer
passports for a price. Their fates remain here.

"People are afraid of China," said one young woman in a black T-shirt, who would
only give her name as Miss Yip, moments after emerging from the immigration
building shortly before midnight on Sunday.

"Maybe the S.A.R. passport is not so useful," she said as she smoked a
cigarette, referring to the Chinese papers. "Maybe some countries don't accept
it."

Greg Wong, a damp blue-and-white plaid shirt clinging to his generous girth,
waited in the shadow of Immigration Tower as impatience occasionally propeled
him into short bursts of pacing.

"I've got a passport already," he said. "I'm waiting for my brother to come out.
This is the last day so we came early."

When reminded that the government that will be set up by Beijing will issue its
Special Administrative Region passports, Mr. Wong waved his hand. "These
passports are better," he said.

Although China has publicly promised Hong Kong that it will, in China's words,
"enjoy a high degree of autonomy," confidence in China's assurances has waned in
recent months.

As Taiwan embraced democracy a little more than a week ago in its first direct
presidential election -- an election China tried to influence with an
intimidating battery of war games and missile tests -- Hong Kong has found
itself falling increasingly under the whim of Beijing's officials. Week by week,
Hong Kong residents are finding China's hand intruding into matters that they
had believed were their own.

The territory's legislature, fully elected last September for the first time in
a mix of direct and indirect voting, will be abolished after China's takeover
next year, a decision confirmed little more than a week ago in Beijing by the
Preparatory Committee, which was formed by China to rubber-stamp its plans for
Hong Kong.

Indeed, when rumblings here swelled over the legislature's impending abolition,
China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, curtly dismissed them as "laughable."

"To mechanically ape the Western democratic model does not accord with Hong
Kong's actual conditions or accommodate the interests of all social strata," Mr.
Qian lectured the Preparatory Committee as it stamped the order for the
dissolution of Hong Kong's legislature.

And he denigrated suggestions that Hong Kong residents might elect the
territory's new chief executive who will govern after the Chinese take-over as
"irresponsible."

That day, the lone member of the Preparatory Committee to vote against the
abolition of Hong Kong's elected legislature, Frederick Fung, was informed by
Beijing that he would not be given a seat on the body to elect Hong Kong's new
chief executive or a seat in what Beijing calls the "provisional legislature" it
plans to install next year.

Hong Kong's Governor, Chris Patten, who has pushed the territory toward more
democratic governance and has been repeatedly vilified by Beijing as a result,
denounced China for its decision to abolish the elected legislature.

"A black day for democracy in Hong Kong," the Governor said.

Then, Beijing officials here pummeled public confidence further by spreading
hints that senior civil servants will have to declare their support for the new
provisional legislature. Failure to do so, these officials intimated, would lead
to dismissals.

"If he opposes the provisional legislature," Hong Kong newspapers quoted an
unnamed senior Chinese official as saying of Hong Kong's ranking civil servants,
"he is not eligible to join." Like many unattributed remarks, it was not clear
precisely what weight to assign to the comment, but it shocked local officials
and prompted Mr. Patten to leap to the defense of the civil service.

"You can't toy with these things," he said.

Martin C. M. Lee, the leader of the Democratic Party, the largest party in the
legislature and one that has called on the preservation of democratic rights
after China's takeover, described these recent events as a dire sign for the
territory's future.

"It is not Hong Kong people who will rule Hong Kong," he said, after leading a
protest on Sunday against Beijing's plans for the territory. "It is Beijing
puppets put into this election committee for the new chief executive who will
rule Hong Kong."

But it was the line in Hong Kong's Wanchai district, which snaked away from the
Immigration Tower to a sports stadium rented as a holding area, that provided
the starkest sign of Hong Kong's mood.

As the evening drew to a close, 130,134 people had applied for the quasi-British
passports in the final week, more than in the previous four years.

Beijing's representatives here tried to dismiss the rush for passports as a vote
of no confidence in China's rule.

"It is the deadline today," said Zheng Guoxiong, a vice director of the New
China News Agency, Beijing's de facto embassy here. "That is why people are
lining up. Everyone acts like this just before a deadline."

And Rita Fan, a member of the Beijing-appointed Preparatory Committee, brushed
aside any suggestion that the stampede for passports represented disillusionment
with China.

"It is only natural that lots of people are applying because it gives them more
choices when they go abroad," she said. "But it does not mean they have no
confidence."

But Hong Kong's elected representatives saw nothing but alarm in the swell of
events.

"People have been quite unnerved by a series of attacks from Beijing lately,"
said Emily Lau, an independent member of Hong Kong's legislature. "When the
British deliver us to Communist rule, we will be kicked out of office and only
puppets of Beijing will be elected."


LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hong Kong police officers escorted Yao Sui-chun, the last of
more than 50,000 people who filed applications for a British National Overseas
passport yesterday, the final day to apply for the documents many hope will
provide some security after the British colony reverts to Chinese rule next
year. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A10)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

California TV Crews Tape Police Beating

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: SOUTH EL MONTE, Calif., April 1


A pursuit of a pickup packed with people suspected of being illegal immigrants
ended today with deputies being videotaped as they clubbed the driver and swung
at a woman.

"It's another Rodney King," said Ramona Ripston, executive director of the
American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, who immediately called
for a Justice Department investigation.

The deputies were videotaped by television news crews in helicopters as they
took numerous baton swings at two people beside the vehicle. Portions were
broadcast by KCAL and KCBS television in Los Angeles. The pictures from aloft
were sometimes jumpy and obscured by brush.

The unidentified male driver suffered bruises and a possible fractured elbow,
said Mark Lohman, a spokesman for the Riverside County Sheriff's Department, and
was awaiting booking on felony charges. Mr. Lohman said the other 20 occupants
of the truck had not been injured.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

In the Queens Mosaic, A Turkish Inlay;
Community Takes Root in Sunnyside

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1720 words


Knowing next to no one, Mesut Yaktubay stepped off the plane from Turkey two
weeks ago and became an instant regular at Sunny Grocery, a postage-stamp-sized
market on an unremarkable corner in Sunnyside, Queens.

He does not come for the fava bean paste dip, the fried liver, the shiny
pistachio-dappled squares of sobiyet pastry or anything else that the little
shop sells. Mr. Yaktubay is much more interested in what Sunny Grocery gives
away.

Through the Sunny Grocery network, for example, Hatice Cetinkaya has been able
to rent an apartment at a price she can afford, even though she is in the United
States on a six-month tourist visa and must shuttle back to Turkey before the
visa expires to get another visa to return to New York a few months later.

And Ayse Sevinc and her family, who arrived in New York with no money, found a
Turkish bakery to give them bread and cakes, a Turkish greengrocer to deliver
free fruits and vegetables and Turkish families to donate furniture for the
one-bedroom fourth-floor walk-up she shares with her husband and three children.

Sunny Grocery, through its owner, Vedat Evren, has become the social club, real
estate agent and employment office for the latest arrival at New York's
perpetual ethnic festival: a growing community of Turkish immigrants that is
quietly taking root in the brick and garden neighborhood of Sunnyside.

Relying as it does on an ad hoc life-support system, Sunnyside's fledgling
Turkish community is a case study in how an immigrant enclave is created and
nurtured, even side by side with traditional foes. It is an echo of the first
city neighborhoods settled by immigrants, the constellations of Italians and
Jews, Irish and Chinese.

"Little Italy must have been like this," said Nur Emirgil, who was among the
first Turkish settlers of Sunnyside 14 years ago. "Chinatown was probably like
this once. We are just the seeds of a community. We have a network from ear to
ear.

"Somebody calls or knocks on the door and asks, 'Can this person stay on your
couch for a few days?' 'Do you know any job they can get, someplace that doesn't
care about green cards?' 'Can you go with them to the doctor to translate?' "

The birthing process is difficult as the Sunnyside Turks try to establish
themselves in their new country without cutting ties to the old culture. They
want their children to learn English but not lose touch with Turkish. They want
to find good jobs and learn to function in the American system, but many need a
translator just to visit the doctor, take a driving test or ask for directions.

"The community wants to be Turkish, but they also want to be New Yorkers," said
Ms. Emirgil, who heads a women's group trying to raise money for a Turkish
school and social center in Sunnyside. "They also want to contribute their share
to the hubbub. It's past time this community moves on to where it's living now,
but not to forget its culture. And the kids should not be squeezed between two
cultures and wind up cultureless."

From the old country, these immigrants, who seem to come from all economic
classes and regions of Turkey, have transplanted some of the tensions and
conflicts from Turkey to New York.

In Sunnyside as in Turkey, for example, the majority of Turks are secular
Muslims, who believe religion should be kept separate from government and
education. But there is also a minority of conservative Turkish Muslims, who,
like an increasingly active Islamic movement in Turkey, are much more
traditional in their religious practice and are trying to gain ground in
Sunnyside. The group's leader, Necdet Camli, said they are particularly
interested in shaping the education of Turkish children and have set up a
masjeed, or a small mosque, where children are taught academic subjects together
with Islam.

The Turks are also learning to coexist with their country's traditional enemies,
the Greeks, who dominate nearby Astoria, and the Armenians, many of whom also
live in this northern swath of Queens. In one-on-one relationships, the Turks
say, there is virtually no tension. Often, there is even warmth, as though the
loud struggle of life in a new country drowns out the ethnic clashes from home,
reducing them to a murmur. Armenians buy pita and grape leaves at Turkish
stores, and Turks rent from Greek landlords and work at Greek gas stations.

But the Turks are aware that the leaders of the Turkish government and the other
ethnic groups do not exactly exude the same harmony. Some said they have seen
small groups of Greeks at the annual Turkish-American Day Parade in Manhattan
chanting slogans about the divided island of Cyprus. Even the date of the
parade, meant to correspond with Turkey's National Independence and Children's
Day, had to be changed several years ago because it fell a day before the
Armenian community's commemoration of the 1915 massacres under the Ottoman
Turks.

Turkish organizations in New York read Greek and Armenian newspapers and watch
Greek cable television "to know what is going on and how they are trying to
influence the U.S. government," said Nihal Kustimur Green, who is president of
Dost Turkish American Community Service, a Manhattan group.

"Greek television here, they have a lot of programs that put down the Turkish in
Cyprus," said Ahmet Sandik, who heads a New York group called the U.S. Council
for Human Rights in the Balkans and stops by Sunny Grocery every morning for
coffee and Turkish newspapers. "We keep watching out of the corner of our eye."

For years, Turkish immigrants have dotted the Upper East Side of Manhattan and
settled among other Muslims and Orthodox Jews in the Midwood, Brighton Beach and
Sheepshead Bay sections of Brooklyn. In 1990, the Census reported about 9,500
Turks in the city; Turkish leaders say the number, swelled by illegal immigrants
and those who do not respond to the census, could be three times that. In the
last five years, as economic conditions in Turkey have worsened, more Turks have
been immigrating to the United States.

In Sunnyside, a trim neighborhood of about 30,000 people, small family-run
stores and low brick apartment buildings, a small cluster of Turks has swelled
to the point where the sashaying sounds of the Turkish language can be heard on
the streets, and the syrupy smell of flaky pastries drifts onto the sidewalk.

The number of Turkish children in Public School 150, the neighborhood's
elementary school, has nearly quadrupled in the last three or four years, and
Turks now make up nearly 20 percent of the 1,000 students, said the principal,
Gloria Guzman. Ms. Guzman said that P.S. 150 now brings in a Turkish-speaking
counselor for parent-teacher meetings and includes in the curriculum Turkish
folk tales, music and dance.

Of the approximately 900 Turks who immigrated legally to New York City from 1990
to 1994, 75 went straight to Sunnyside, more than to any other neighborhood
except the larger, more diffuse Midwood and Brighton Beach areas.

The heart of Sunnyside -- between 39th and 50th streets, and Skillman and
Greenpoint avenues -- has become a magnet for Turks who had lived for several
years in Brooklyn, or even in Long Island, New Jersey or Manhattan. Mr. Evren
and others estimate that 400 to 500 Turkish families now live in Sunnyside.

"Every year, year by year, the Turkish community there in Sunnyside is growing,"
said Fuat Tanlay, the Turkish Consul General, who will pay his first official
visit to Sunnyside on Saturday. "Of course, as a consul general, I want that
this community be organized. That's why I would like to go there and see in
place all the problems and try to help them."

Like Mr. Yaktubay, 38, who was a marketer for a large ice cream company in
Turkey, most newcomers land with no job and no place to live. They stay on
someone's couch for a while or find a good deal on an apartment from one of
Sunnyside's Turkish apartment managers or superintendents.

They find work in other people's businesses, generally low-skilled jobs that
require little English. Mustafa May, a French teacher, found himself doing
construction work. A dancer who spoke on condition of anonymity because he is
working here illegally got an off-the-books job with a greengrocer in Jackson
Heights. Ms. Sevinc's husband, Ragip, a tax inspector for the Turkish Ministry
of Finance whose family had a sumptuous house in Turkey, managed to find only a
summer job selling Mr. Softee ice cream. Their son, Kubilay, began supporting
the family at age 18 working 17 hours a day, seven days a week in a Turkish
bakery on Queens Boulevard.

Lowery Bakery is one of only a few Turkish-run businesses that have managed to
open in Sunnyside, including a meat market and a combination flower shop and
greengrocer. A Turkish restaurant opened about three years ago but closed a few
months later because, residents said, the food was not very good.

"We are a very closed community right now," said Ms. Emirgil, whose group
recently helped 150 people apply for legal immigration status in the visa
lottery. "Voters are not registered. People do not speak English. They don't
know who their representatives are. Some of them do not know their rights under
Social Security, medical care, immigration laws."

Ms. Cetinkaya, who shuttles back and forth on a tourist visa, is not legally
allowed to open a bank account and does not know what to do with her money.
Once, she said, she got mugged on the subway and was robbed of the $485 she was
carrying.

In the meantime, there is Mr. Evren and Sunny Grocery.

On a recent Friday night, Mr. Yaktubay stood -- there is not even an upended
milk crate to sit on -- among the plasticene sacks of paprika and tahini, the
watery troughs jiggling with olives, the snug trays of filo dough and feta
cheese. Turkish music slithered under the fluorescent lights, and the beneficent
gaze of Kemal Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey, shone from several
portraits hung high on a wall.

"I buy my bread every day here and talk to Vedat, ask him if he hears something,
will he let me know," said Mr. Yaktubay, who was on his way to a billiard hall a
few blocks away where young Turkish men hang out. "Anyplace where Turks are
gathered I go and I say, 'I am here looking for a job.' I don't think there's
any other alternative."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Women participating in a memorial service in a mosque in
Jackson Heights, Queens. The conservative Turks are part of a larger enclave of
secular Turkish Muslims. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg. B1); Vedat
Evren, left, the owner of the Sunny Grocery in Sunnyside, Queens, has turned his
store into the social club, real estate agent and employment office for
immigrants from Turkey who are settling in the area. (Nancy Siesel/The New York
Times) (pg. B4)

Map of Queens (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Immigrants Face Old-Time Bigotry

SECTION: Section A;   Page 22;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words


To the Editor:

The bigotry New York City Councilwoman Julia Harrison displayed when analyzing
Asian immigration to Queens is not surprising, but her hypocrisy is (front page,
March 31).

According to Mrs. Harrison, her grandfather had the right to come here because
he was fleeing persecution in a foreign land, but today's Asian immigrants are
only here to make money and break the law.

Obviously, Mrs. Harrison is not aware of the massive human rights violations
occurring in Asian countries, most prominently in China. Immigrants come here
because the United States offers things that they cannot have in their home
countries, such as freedom.

Mrs. Harrison also forgets that her own immigrant population of Jewish Europeans
settled here speaking languages the old-timers couldn't understand and selling
foods they had never tasted. Moreover, such Jewish immigrants as Meyer Lansky
became criminals, yet I would hope outsiders would not brand all Jewish
immigrants as criminals, as Mrs. Harrison has done with the Asian population.

Mrs. Harrison's remarks are repugnant and misinformed. I hope that like the
racists of 100 years ago, she will lose her fight to keep immigrants out.

DAVID KRAUT
New Haven, April 1, 1996

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Videotape of Beating by Authorities Jolts Los Angeles

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section A;   Page 10;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 2


A television news crew's videotape of two white sheriff's deputies clubbing two
unresisting Mexicans has jarred the Los Angeles area and revived accusations
that there is a pattern of police abuse of minorities that law-enforcement
authorities have failed to confront.

The videotape, shot from a helicopter on Monday afternoon, shows the deputies
swinging their nightsticks like baseball bats at a man and a woman suspected of
being illegal immigrants. It is reminiscent of the tape that captured the police
beating of Rodney G. King by officers of the Los Angeles Police Department five
years ago. That tape stirred revulsion around the country and made police
brutality a subject of national debate.

The video of the latest beating, which followed an 80-mile high-speed chase that
began in Riverside County to the east and ended in the Los Angeles County
community of South El Monte, was broadcast on local and network television on
Monday night, and heated reaction quickly ensued.

In Mexico City, the Ministry of Foreign Relations announced today that it had
sent a letter to the United States Department of State to express its
"indignation" at the incident and the "flagrant violation of the human rights"
of Mexican citizens. The ministry added that the "evident abuse of authority
shown in this case confirms the urgent necessity to take effective actions to
eradicate discriminatory attitudes which lead to acts of institutional
violence."

Civil rights organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union and
black and Hispanic advocacy groups, joined in the public condemnation, saying
there was a pattern of violence and racial abuse among law-enforcement officers
not only in Southern California but across the nation as well.

In Washington, the Federal Bureau of Investigation opened an inquiry into the
possibility of civil rights violations.

Other investigations were undertaken by the Riverside County Sheriff's
Department, the agency to which the two deputies belong, and the Los Angeles
County Sheriff. Gil Garcetti, the District Attorney of Los Angeles County, said
he expected that the case would ultimately be submitted to his office "to
determine whether criminal charges are warranted."

Addressing reporters today, Sgt. Mark Lohman, a spokesman for the Riverside
County Sheriff, said: "I'm not going to stand up here and say that there was no
force used, because you would laugh me out of the room. We saw it. We saw the
same videotape that everyone's seen, and we're embarrassed."

The department identified the two deputies as Donald Franklin and Tracy Watson,
and said they had been placed on paid leave pending the outcome of the
investigation. The Associated Press reported that Deputy Franklin had been with
the department for 20 years, and Deputy Watson for 5.

The events that led to the beating began shortly before noon on Monday near the
Riverside County town of Temecula, where there is a Border Patrol checkpoint
along an Interstate highway. Border Patrol officers there became suspicious when
they spotted a dilapidated pickup truck traveling a side road adjacent to the
Interstate as if, the officers suspected, to avoid the checkpoint.

The officers called the Riverside County Sheriff's Department, which dispatched
patrol cars that began the pursuit. Deputies chased the pickup as it moved north
on Interstate 15 and then west on the Pomona Freeway at speeds of up to 100
miles an hour, officials said.

Sergeant Lohman, the spokesman for the Sheriff's Department, said the occupants
of the pickup -- there proved to be 21 of them -- had thrown not only beer cans
at the pursuing patrol cars but also pieces of the metal frame that was affixed
to the truck's bed. At least twice, he said, the truck sideswiped other cars in
an effort to divert attention. No one in the other cars was reported injured, he
said.

Ultimately, in South El Monte, about 20 miles east of downtown Los Angeles, the
truck came to a halt along the freeway. The videotape, shot by a helicopter news
crew from station KCAL that had been following the pursuit, shows that most of
the truck's occupants then began bolting from it and dashing for cover.

For a moment, the man behind the wheel and a female passenger in the front seat
remained near the vehicle.  It was then that the beating began.

For about 15 seconds, the tape shows, one deputy repeatedly clubbed the man on
the back and the shoulders with a nightstick and continued doing so as he fell,
face down, to the ground. When the female passenger got out of the front seat,
one of the two deputies -- it is not clear which -- hit her twice in the back
with his nightstick and then yanked her to the ground by her hair, her head
hitting the front bumper on the way down. Neither the woman nor the man appeared
to offer any resistance or make any effort to get away.

The driver was later identified as Andrian Flores Martinez, 26. He suffered
bruises and a hairline fracture of an elbow, the authorities said. He was taken
to Riverside General Hospital and awaited booking on charges of evading arrest,
throwing objects from a vehicle and either assault or felony hit and run,
alternatives resulting from the truck's sideswiping other vehicles on the
freeway.

The woman was identified as Leticia Gonzalez-Gonzalez, 33. She was reported to
have suffered numerous bruises but not to have required immediate medical
attention. Like Mr. Martinez, the police said, she is an illegal alien.

The other occupants, who were uninjured, were taken into custody by the
Immigration and Nationalization Service for questioning.

Today some two dozen demonstrators protested the incident outside the Federal
Building in downtown Los Angeles, chanting "We want justice" in English and
Spanish.  Several tried to enter the building but were turned away.

Among the protesters was Jose de Paz, executive director of the California
Immigrant Workers Association, who told reporters that "the pigs in uniform
committed the real illegal act" and that the television crew "captured on tape
the true illegals in our midst."

Roberto Lovato, executive director of the Central American Refugee Center in Los
Angeles, said: "This is something that we know goes on every day in the lives of
immigrants, African-Americans and poor people generally. It's been a disease we
haven't been able to rid ourselves of."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The day after the beating of two Mexicans was captured on
videotape, left, Hector Brolo of the Mexican-American Political Association went
to the Federal Building in Los Angeles to condemn police brutality. (Agence
France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Beating Increases Tension on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 10;   Column 4;   National Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 5


The videotaped beating of two Mexicans by police officers in California has
accentuated the tension that has been growing between the United States and its
neighbor over immigration issues.

The Mexican Government reacted swiftly and angrily, peppering American agencies
from Washington to California with diplomatic protests and demanding a Justice
Department civil rights investigation.

Through its consul in Los Angeles, Jose Angel Pescador, Mexico encouraged the
beating victims to sue for damages, the Foreign Ministry said. On Thursday in
Los Angeles, lawyers for one Mexican whose beating was captured on the
videotape, and for one who says he too was beaten at the scene, filed suits
against Riverside County, Calif.

The violence occurred on Monday after sheriff's deputies from Riverside County
had chased a speeding, ramshackle pickup packed with 21 illegal aliens for 80
miles along California highways. When the pickup finally pulled over and
stopped, most of its occupants scattered.

But two deputies, Donald Franklin and Tracy Watson, seized two Mexicans, a man
and a woman, and pounded them with nightsticks. The episode was videotaped by a
Los Angeles television station from a helicopter overhead.

The suits against Riverside County said the deputies "recklessly, intentionally
and wantonly" violated the civil rights of the plaintiffs.

The suits assert that Enrique Funes Flores, the driver of the truck, and
Santiago Garcia Pendraza, a passenger, were beaten without provocation. Mr.
Flores is seeking $10 million in damages, while Mr. Pendraza is seeking $10,000.
Mr. Pendraza, who was not on the videotape, says he was thrown to the ground and
kicked by deputies.

A third migrant, Alicia Soltero Vazquez, whose beating was shown on the tape, is
also expected to file a claim, the precursor to a lawsuit.The lawyer who
initially represented her, David Ross, said the claim would most likely be filed
sometime next week. Late this afternoon, Mark Rosenbaum, a lawyer for the
American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, said his organization had
replaced Mr. Ross as Ms. Vazquez's lawyer. The State Bar of California said Mr.
Ross was licensed to practice only in Florida.

The state bar has also sent investigators to look into reports that lawyers
offered their services to the victims at the Federal detention center in Los
Angeles, where the truck's passengers were taken after the beatings. In this
case, some lawyers and others may have stretched the gray margin that separates
aggressive pursuit from unethical ambulance-chasing, said Tracy Genesen, a
special assistant to the chief trial counsel of the state bar.

"So far," Ms. Genesen said, "we're in the investigative stage. No charges have
been filed nor determinations of culpability made."

In Mexico City, Foreign Ministry officials said Mr. Pescador, the consul in Los
Angeles, was in contact with at least four Hispanic grass-roots organizations in
California to encourage their protests to the Clinton Administration and in the
streets.

Every night since Tuesday, when the videotape was first broadcast here, the
beatings have dominated the main television network, Televisa. A private network
that often serves to air Government views, Televisa has portrayed the Mexican
migrants as wantonly brutalized victims of American racism. Its reports have
shown the migrants' crying children and distraught parents, and the conditions
of bare-bones poverty at home that drove them to seek work in the United States.

Neither the Government nor Televisa has raised the thorny issue of the stream of
millions of Mexicans who enter the United States illegally each year and work
without papers.

After years when the United States and Mexico enjoyed unusually warm relations,
resentment built recently as President Clinton responded to mounting
anti-immigrant sentiment among American voters by hardening his policy on
illegal immigration. In the most visible sign of its new line, this year the
Administration clamped down on border crossings by adding about 1,000 Border
Patrol agents.

Mexicans were especially offended by the Presidential campaign rhetoric of
Patrick J. Buchanan, who said he wanted to seal the border by building something
like the Great Wall of China.

Mexican legislators lashed out at the United States this week. Jose Angel
Conchello, a conservative who heads the foreign relations committee of the
Senate, called the beatings "a natural consequence" of the political mood in the
United States.

The Institutional Revolutionary Party, Mexico's long-ruling party, said in a
statement that the violence showed "how far racist and xenophobic attitudes have
reached in the United States as a result of the electoral campaign."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexican workers who were part of a group in the back of a pickup
that was pursued by the police attended a news conference on Thursday. After the
chase, a passenger and the driver were videotaped being clubbed. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Immigrants Help New York Thrive;
Apology Demanded

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 198 words


To the Editor:

As an elected member of the New York City Council, Julia Harrison should
acknowledge the contributions that Asians have made to Flushing, Queens, which
is now a vitally thriving business center. She should be trying to bring about a
good working relationship among the diverse populations that live in her
district. Instead, she lights a fire where none existed before and castigates
and denigrates all Asian-Americans (front page, March 31).

You report that she alludes to Asians as "criminal smugglers," "robbers" and
"paupers," and "talks about rude merchants and illegal aliens." She says that
the arrival of Asian-American businesses was "an invasion, not an assimilation."

Asian-Americans are only 12.3 percent of the registered voters in the 20th
Council District, and many more are politically apathetic. Still, the
Asian-American community demands a public apology from Mrs. Harrison. The City
Council should condemn her statements in a public session. And all
Asian-Americans should take note and vote.

JOSEPHINE CHUNG
New York, April 3, 1996

The writer is president of the New York chapter of the Organization of Chinese
Americans.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Immigrants Help New York Thrive

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 261 words


To the Editor:

Re "Queens Old-Timers Uneasy as Asian Influence Grows" (March 31): I don't
understand why Councilwoman Julia Harrison finds the growing Asian population in
Flushing, Queens, so "discombobulating, very upsetting." Her beliefs that the
many Asians coming to the United States have entered illegally and are
ungrateful, affluent profiteers looking to exploit this country are unfounded.

According to 1994 Immigration and Naturalization Service figures, the 10 largest
illegal immigrant groups in New York State did not even include Asians.

According to a 1994 report by the Asian Pacific Public Policy Institute, more
than 30 percent of Southeast Asian households in the United States depend on
welfare for their survival, giving them the highest rate of welfare dependency
of any racial or ethnic group. In Manhattan's Chinatown, the 1990 unemployment
rate was 6 percent, but nearly 25 percent of all families were living in poverty
and working in jobs with low pay and no health insurance.

According to the Korean American Small Business Service Center in Flushing, only
half of all Korean-owned businesses break even.

Unable to attain financial stability in the United States, thousands of Asians
have returned to their native countries, contrary to Ms. Harrison's claim of an
Asian invasion. But those immigrants choosing to remain in the United States
have actively participated in their communities.

MICHAEL I. RHEE
Washington, April 3, 1996

The writer is a member of the Conference on Asian Pacific American Leadership.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Immigrants Help New York Thrive

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 206 words


To the Editor:

As residents of Flushing, Queens, since 1956, and having reached the age of 65,
we feel compelled to respond to "Queens Old-Timers Uneasy as Asian Influence
Grows" (front page, March 31).

Surely our neighborhood has changed, but unlike Councilwoman Julia Harrison, we
feel it is for the better. With the influx of Asians in the past decade, homes
in Flushing are as well kept as ever, downtown businesses are thriving, and
neighborhood decay has been arrested.

Years ago we eagerly visited the first Korean restaurant in Flushing. Today we
are regulars at many of the Chinese and Korean restaurants here. We are
fortunate to be able to purchase superb fruits and vegetables from local Asian
markets.

Our oldest son has been married for 11 years to a Chinese-American lawyer; our
youngest is engaged to a Korean woman in the travel business. Both women grew up
abroad, moved to Flushing and have embraced the challenges and opportunities
here.

Our new neighbors may not look like us, but we share many ideals: a strong work
ethic reinforced by strong religious convictions, devotion to family and
reverence for education.

NANCY SCIALES M.D.
WILLIAM J. SCIALES , M.D.
Flushing, Queens, April 3, 1996

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 7, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Who Needs More Evidence of Police Brutality?

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 10;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 86 words


To the Editor:

Re "Videotape of Beating by 2 Deputies Jolts Los Angeles" (news article, April
3):

Aside from the beating, the two sheriff's deputies who chased a pickup truck of
illegal immigrants used poor judgment. There could have been no possible
suspicion that 21 people had just robbed a bank or committed a serious felony. A
chase at speeds of 100 miles an hour could have led to casualties that would
have rivaled those of a combat engagement.

ROBERT HOWARD
Berkeley, Calif., April 3, 1996

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 9, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 125 words



Computerized Cosmology

A new computer simulation shows how the universe might have progressed from an
almost uniform fireball to today's panorama of galaxies. Science Times, page C1.



Police Fight Immigration Bill

Several police groups are opposing a proposal in a House immigration bill that
would let states deny education to illegal immigrants, arguing that it would
lead to more crime. Page A16.


Camden Yards It's Not

The plan for a multipurpose stadium on Manhattan's West Side goes against the
current wisdom in stadium design. New analysis, page B1.

St. John's Hires Coach

The Red Storm is hoping Brooklyn-born Fran Fraschilla can restore basketball
success the way he did at Manhattan College. Page B11.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 10, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

English Commands Preceded Deputies' Beating of Mexicans

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 9


An audio recording of conversations between two white sheriff's deputies who
beat two Mexican immigrants last week indicates that the officers ordered the
Mexicans to get to the ground before striking them. But because the orders were
in English, which the Mexicans apparently do not speak, they may not have
understood the commands and may have had trouble complying with them.

In the recording, secretly taped by a California Highway Patrol officer who
witnessed the beatings, the deputies, both of Riverside County, are heard
shouting at the Mexicans several times to "get down." Only after striking them,
do the deputies deliver their first orders in Spanish.

The April 1 beatings occurred after a chase by highway patrol officers and the
two sheriff's deputies from Temecula, where there is a Border Patrol checkpoint,
to South El Monte, about 60 miles to the northwest, near Los Angeles. When the
chase ended, the occupants of the battered pickup truck bolted from it and
dashed for cover, according to a videotape taken by a helicopter news crew that
had followed the chase.

The tape also showed the deputies repeatedly clubbing both the truck's driver, a
man, on the back and shoulders, and a female passenger.

The audio recording was released today by Harland W. Braun, a Los Angeles lawyer
who represents Officer Marco DeGennaro, the patrolman who made it. Mr. Braun
said Officer DeGennaro often carried a tape recorder in his pocket and recorded
arrests as evidence to protect him in court proceedings.

On the recording one voice says: "Get down; get down. Get on the ground. Put
your hands on the ground."

Another voice repeats the command, "Get down. Get down. Get down."

There is a pause and then the sound of pounding.

The first voice continues, "Get down on the ground." Then the second voice says,
"Stay down." And then the first voice says: "Get your hands back. Manos aqui,"
meaning "hands here" in Spanish. "Manos aqui. Manos aqui."

John D. Barnett, an Orange County lawyer who represents one of the two deputies,
Officer Kurt Franklin, said the recording suggested that the officers were
initially trying to subdue and arrest the Mexicans, not merely punishing them,
as some critics of the deputies contend.

Mr. Barnett said the tapes "support my client's position that he was dealing
with noncompliant suspects," adding, "You can hear him on the tape give several
commands to lay down, and for the suspects to put their hands behind their
backs."

Mark Rosenbaum, chief counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California, who is representing one of the two beaten Mexicans, Alicia Sotero
Vasquez, 33, said his client did not speak English.

"The fact that the order was in English, rather than Spanish, indicates that it
wasn't intelligible," Mr. Rosenbaum said. "But even if the order was
comprehensible, the punishment for failing to comply is not a beating with a
nightstick by a county sheriff."

The audiotape, he said, is "powerful, irrefutable eyewitness testimony from a
law-enforcement source as to the excessive force that was applied."

Peter A. Schey, a lawyer who represents the driver of the truck, Enrique Funes
Flores, 26, also said his client did not speak English.

Officer Franklin and the other deputy, Tracy Watson, have been suspended with
pay pending an inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and local
law-enforcement authorities. Officer Franklin has been with the Riverside force
for 20 years, and Officer Watson for 5.

Also on the recording, whose existence was unknown to investigators until last
weekend, Officer DeGennaro can be heard describing the beating to a supervisor
just after he saw it from a few feet away.

"Those S.O.'s were whaling on those guys," Mr. DeGennaro says on the tape
referring to the sheriff's officers. "All I did was grab mine and throw him on
the ground."

The sergeant replied, "Were there cameras?"

Mr. DeGennaro says: "There were cameras, Sarge. Nothing happened on C.H.P.
side."

The beating has become a rallying cause for Hispanic rights groups and has
focused attention on what some people believe is a pattern of police abuse of
minorities.

Mark Lohman, a spokesman for the Riverside County Sheriff's Department, said all
deputies received instruction in basic Spanish. Mr. Barnett, Mr. Franklin's
lawyer, said his client could only say a few phrases in Spanish.

The same article later referred incorrectly to Mr. Funes Flores's lawyer, Peter
A. Schey. He did not represent the driver of the truck.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 1996, Saturday

CORRECTION:

An article on Wednesday about an audio recording of sheriff's deputies in
Riverside County, Calif., just before they beat Mexican immigrants who had
entered the United States illegally in a pickup truck referred incorrectly to
one immigrant, Enrique Funes Flores, also known as Adrian Flores Martinez. While
the Sheriff's Department originally suspected Mr. Funes Flores of being the
truck's driver, it later declared that he was not.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 12, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 47 words


An article on March 31 about the involvement of Asian immigrants in New York
City politics misstated the percentage of adults of Asian descent in Queens who
were registered to vote in 1995. It is 11.6 percent, according to the city's
Voter Assistance Commission, not 4 percent.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 13, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 97 words


An article on Wednesday about an audio recording of sheriff's deputies in
Riverside County, Calif., just before they beat Mexican immigrants who had
entered the United States illegally in a pickup truck referred incorrectly to
one immigrant, Enrique Funes Flores, also known as Adrian Flores Martinez. While
the Sheriff's Department originally suspected Mr. Funes Flores of being the
truck's driver, it later declared that he was not.

The same article later referred incorrectly to Mr. Funes Flores's lawyer, Peter
A. Schey. He did not represent the driver of the truck.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Strangers in the Next Pew;
Churches Troubled, or Revitalized, by Immigrants

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 33;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1906 words


As the Rev. John Cole looked out recently over his 80-member congregation of
blacks, whites, natives and immigrants in Jamaica, Queens, he offered what he
hoped was a healing instruction: write your name and telephone number on a piece
of paper, he said, pass it to someone across the aisle, and call that person
during the week and ask if he or she needs a prayer.

Blessing Egwu, 39, a Nigerian immigrant, said later: "This is a step toward the
reunification of the membership. This will help to heal the wounds that some
people may still be nursing."

The First United Methodist Church has come a long way since last year, when
divisions in the congregation were so deep that an outside committee, hired to
reconcile the warring members, had deemed them irreconcilable. Like many
churches in Queens, First United is struggling to incorporate new immigrants who
share a faith but who bring their own religious and cultural notions to it. The
effort often transcends conflicts between blacks and whites as older members of
these two groups sometimes unite against newcomers from Asia, Africa and
elsewhere.

Since the early 1980's, as waves of immigrants have made Queens the nation's
most ethnically diverse county, the number of houses of worship registered with
the Queens Federation of Churches has risen to 700 from 450, with as many as 200
others believed to dot the borough. But many of those new churches were created
in storefronts, apartments and basements by the newcomers because existing
congregations failed to integrate them. Meanwhile, some of the older churches,
with predominantly black or white congregations, are dead or dying.

For the traditional Protestant denominations in the United States, the need to
integrate has become more urgent, because membership has been dwindling here but
growing overseas and among immigrants.

"Unfortunately for the United States, the most segregated time of the week
remains Sunday morning," Mr. Cole said. "The number of truly integrated churches
are few and far between. As a church we're moving on. If you can't get along in
a church in this part of Queens, we are in trouble."

Some established congregations have fought against immigrants, and at least one
church in Queens has been sustained by disgruntled whites who left their
increasingly immigrant churches. But most Protestant churches, because of the
way they are structured, have failed to integrate immigrants, said the Rev. N.
J. L'Heureux, director of the Queens Federation. Unlike Roman Catholics, who are
expected to attend their neighborhood parish, Protestants may attend any church,
regardless of geography. So many white congregants who have left the city still
return to their old churches on Sundays, driving in from New Jersey or Long
Island. But they have lost touch with their churches' neighbors, and bring in no
new members.

What's more, because of Protestant churches' varying degrees of independence
from their denominations, lay leaders exert tremendous influence over a church's
fate. Many aging lay leaders cling to power, Mr. L'Heureux said, and are
threatened by the young, active immigrant members.

By all accounts, that is what occurred at First United Methodist of Jamaica.
Although the church was predominantly white through the 1970's, black members
became the majority in the 1980's, just as Filipinos rose to second place and
other immigrants arrived. With the white members dwindling to a handful and the
black members getting older, the former pastor, the Rev. Avelio De Leon,
cultivated new lay leaders.

"I did not see any more hope with the old guard and their leadership of the lay
people," Mr. De Leon, a Filipino-American, said. "While we needed their
experience, we needed the new leadership coming from the newcomers. That's why
they were so much against me."

About 18 months ago, First United's congregation seemed irreconcilably split.
Sunday morning services were routinely disrupted by a small group of longtime
members critical of Mr. De Leon. After the Bishop decided to remove Mr. De Leon
in late 1994, about 30 of the new immigrant members picketed the Bishop's office
and boycotted morning services for 20 consecutive Sundays.

"The United Methodist Church has lost around two million in more than a decade,"
said Mr. De Leon, who now divides his time between two "dying" Queens churches:
one with a congregation of 30 elderly Polish-Americans, the other with only 5
German-American regulars. "Growth is taking place, however, in the ethnic
churches: Koreans, Caribbeans, Africans and other Asians. And because of the
fast-changing face of Queens, the only way for our churches to survive is to
reach out to these new immigrants."

The rift grew wider between the old group of blacks and whites and the new group
of immigrants from the Philippines, Jamaica, Honduras, Nigeria, Kenya and
Pakistan. Last June, in the culminatiion of months of crises, the newcomers won
control over the church after being elected to all lay positions.

Some Push Others, Then Get Pushed

As in Jamaica, the conflicts often transcend race, said Stephen Warner, a
sociologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago who is directing a
nationwide study of new ethnic and immigrant congregations. "In the 1960's,
whites were being pushed out by blacks in churches," he said. "Now there are
many areas where blacks are the local population and they are being pushed out
by immigrants. Integration is not a two-way street. It's a six-way street."

Or 14-way, the Elmhurst Baptist Church might say, counting the nationalities in
its congregation. All white until the early 1970's, the church's population,
like the area's, has changed so completely that no one ethnic group dominates
today.

On Palm Sunday, about 100 members of Elmhurst Baptist gathered in the basement
of the Community United Methodist Church in Jackson Heights, where they have
been holding services since a fire forced them out of their Tudor-style church
last November. New deacons and elders -- a couple of white members in their
60's, and a score of immigrants from Zambia, Nigeria, Cuba, China and India --
were commissioned. Children of the young immigrant families sang holding palm
fronds.

"The two girls with bows in their hair are from Nigeria; the lovely parents are
there in front of us," said Kellene Holt, 88, who joined the church in 1932
after coming from Charlottesville, Va., and who remembers when the congregants
were "all like me, from the Confederate states."

The Rev. Felton Dunn became co-pastor with the Rev. Florence Li-Maldonado last
year. Mr. Dunn, the son of a black Southern Baptist preacher, had worried that
his emotional style would not appeal to the old-timers or the immigrants. But
they have responded, partly because some immigrants, who have difficulty with
English, grasp nonverbal cues.

"This was a very conservative church, very old-fashioned in the roles of men and
women," Mr. Dunn said. "Now when the people pray, they are holding hands,
putting their arms around one another. Men are shedding tears."

Unlike Elmhurst Baptist, most churches require conscious efforts from the clergy
to integrate, said Nancy Ammerman, a sociologist at Hartford Seminary who has
done research on the effects of immigration on churches in South Central Los
Angeles and Allston-Brighton, Mass.

"The clergy and lay leaders had to be very intentional about integrating their
worship," Ms. Ammerman said. "Incorporating symbols, music, stories, agreeing on
when and how long worship was to start, whether you're supposed to arrive on
time; they had to find opportunities to gather around tables and share their
foods."

When the United Methodist Korean Church of Astoria began sharing space inside
the Good Shepherd United Methodist Church in 1976, it became the third Korean
church in Queens. Good Shepherd's numbers were dwindling and, like many other
white churches, it needed a vibrant ethnic church to help maintain its building.
Like other Korean churches, this one kept growing and could have sought its own
building.

Instead, the two churches overcame misunderstandings and built stronger ties.
Today, the Rev. Penny Gadzini of Good Shepherd preaches in English a few times a
month to the Korean youths. On Holy Thursday, about 25 of Good Shepherd's 50
regulars and 50 of the Korean church's 210 came to pray as one body, the Koreans
holding black hymnbooks in their native language, other congregants holding red
ones in English.

Last year, the Koreans spent $450,000 to install air-conditioning in the
sanctuary and add a floor above the gymnasium to hold classes for the Korean
youths. "When I first suggested the idea," said the Rev. Taek Kyu Kim, "many of
my Korean colleagues said, 'If you move out, you may lose the investment.' And I
said, 'This building does not belong to us; it belongs to God.' "

Experiment, Growth And a Happy Merger

The Community United Methodist Church in Jackson Heights is perhaps the oldest
and most deliberate experiment in integrating Queens's immigrants. The Rev.
Austin H. Armitstead, who retired last year after 21 years as its senior pastor,
doubled the church membership by folding a Chinese, Hispanic and Korean
congregation into the church. A self-described benevolent dictator, Mr.
Armitstead said he mediated unexpected conflicts: when the Korean congregation
began worshipping in a nearby hall, the Chinese complained of the smell of
kimchee; an argument over service hours between the Korean and Spanish-speaking
pastors almost came to blows when the latter likened his colleague to the
Gestapo.

About 400 whites regularly attended the church during the 1950's. On Palm
Sunday, equal numbers of Korean, Chinese, Hispanic, old-timers and immigrants
from almost 60 countries prayed at four staggered services, rubbing elbows as
one group left and another arrived.

"It seems our society is disintegrating, people are angry and the politics of
this election is furthering that," said the Rev. Ronald Tompkins, the new senior
pastor. "This is our vote for the kind of world and nation we want to live in."

As for First United Methodist of Jamaica, a year after its crisis, things are
getting back to normal. The appointment of Mr. Cole, a white pastor, has
apparently brought peace to a congregation whose two largest groups are blacks
and Filipino immigrants. A few Filipinos left when Mr. De Leon, the
Filipino-born pastor, was reassigned. And after the old-timers lost the lay
control of the church, two black families stopped coming.

"They felt distressed about it," said Rosa Baker, who in 1949 became the
church's first black member. A retired nurse in her 70's, she said the church
should forget its bickering and move on with the new leaders. "I've been here
before most of these people came. I don't feel they could have done anything to
move me out."

Kenneth Bauzon, 47, a Filipino immigrant and a political science professor at
St. Joseph College in Brooklyn, was elected last year to the church's highest
lay position. He was still angry that the Bishop had removed Mr. De Leon, but
felt vindicated by his supporters' victory.

"It's a solution we can live with," Mr. Bauzon said. "God denied us something we
wanted, Reverend De Leon, but gave us something else, the leadership of the
church. On the other side, God gave them something and then denied them
something. It was proof that God is just."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Baptists from Elmhurst, Queens, whose church was destroyed in a
fire, have been worshiping in a basement of a Methodist church in Jackson
Heights. On Palm Sunday, several parishioners formed a prayer circle before the
service. Misun Han taught the Korean alphabet at a Methodist church in Astoria,
left, while the English-speaking choir, right, rehearsed. (Photographs by
Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 33); Baptists from Elmhurst observed
Palm Sunday in borrowed space at a Methodist church in Jackson Heights. (Rebecca
Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 34)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 15, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In America;
Freedom Birds

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 723 words


Nearly three years ago, in the pre-dawn darkness of June 6, 1993, a tramp
steamer called the Golden Venture ran aground in the rough surf off the Rockaway
Peninsula in Queens.

The rusting, 150-foot freighter was loaded with nearly 300 illegal Chinese
immigrants who had agreed to pay up to $30,000 each to be smuggled into the
United States. Panic set in when the ship ran aground. Terrified immigrants
began plunging into the frigid water, desperately trying to avoid arrest by
swimming what seemed like the final yards to a long-held dream of freedom.

Ten people drowned. More than 250 were arrested. A handful made it to shore and
escaped, ragged and soaking wet, into the limitless sanctuary of New York.

On the second floor of 70 Mulberry Street in Chinatown is a small facility known
as the Museum of Chinese in the Americas. One of its current exhibitions is "Fly
to Freedom: The Art of the Golden Venture Refugees."

Most of the men and women who were arrested when the ship ran aground are still
incarcerated, awaiting adjudication of their requests for asylum, which are
being processed at a torturously slow rate. They are being held at various
detention centers around the country. Many of the men were sent to the York
County Jail in York, Pa. It is their works of art, elaborate paper constructions
initially created to alleviate boredom and to provide tokens of gratitude for
attorneys working pro bono on their behalf, that are on display at the museum.

These are not ordinary artworks. They are dreamlike expressions of extreme
social and cultural isolation painstakingly fashioned from objects commonly
available to inmates. As Winston Dong, the museum's executive director,
explained, that means toilet paper, towel threads, magazines, writing paper,
pencils, pens and Magic Markers.

The theme throughout is freedom. Some of the detainees have said they fled China
because they were being persecuted for participating in pro-democracy
demonstrations. Others said they had been denied religious freedom because they
were Christian. Some said they had violated China's one-child-per-couple family
planning policy, and were afraid they would be involuntarily sterilized and
perhaps imprisoned. Some, no doubt, were economic refugees. The United States is
still the finish line in the race for opportunities of every kind.

No one who boarded the Golden Venture ever imagined that he or she would spend
nearly three years in the maddening confines of an American jail cell. At York,
the men did the best they could with the endless hours. They began to tear small
pieces of paper and fold them into various shapes. They worked and reworked the
paper into simple figures, pineapples, for example, and then more complex
figures, like eagles, which they called "freedom birds."

The pastime caught on. The men were not allowed sharp objects like knives or
forks. They used magazine inserts and plastic spoons to help shape their
constructions. Eventually they were entrusted with Elmer's glue and children's
scissors. They worked a dozen hours a day or more, creating ever more complex
and symbolic works.

Visitors to the museum will see bird cages with freedom birds trapped inside,
and a Statue of Liberty made from toilet paper, cardboard and magic marker, and
a cheerful foot-and-a-half-high model of the Golden Venture, which in reality
was a decrepit vessel with little in the way of rations and just one toilet for
some 300 people.

The plight of the Golden Venture refugees led to the creation of a support group
in the city of York called the People of the Golden Vision. It is an odd
alliance. Many, if not most, of the members of the support group are politically
conservative. They might be expected to be deaf to the pleas of illegal
immigrants.

But the complaints of the Golden Venture refugees center on issues that resonate
with American conservatives -- enforced abortions to limit the size of Chinese
families, the crackdown that followed the Tiananmen Square uprising, the
harassment of Chinese Christians.

A few of the refugees have been granted asylum. Some have given up and returned
to China. Those who are still imprisoned, the majority, have become increasingly
discouraged, even despondent. Depressed, the men in the York County Jail have
stopped making their paper constructions.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 18, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Case Exposes Cultural Ignorance

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 199 words


To the Editor:

Re "Woman's Plea for Asylum Puts Tribal Ritual on Trial" (front page, April 15):

While you rightly draw attention to Fauziya Kasinga's experience of seeking
asylum in the United States, you fail to place this situation in a global
context. Female genital mutilation, which is practiced throughout Africa and the
Middle East, has a higher profile in the immigration debate in Europe.

In 1993 Ingrid Katz, the undersigned, worked in France's Ministry of Women's
Rights. France had just outlawed female circumcision and was prosecuting African
mothers who allowed the operation to be performed on their daughters on French
soil. The legal enforcement bypassed the issue of why this ritual persists and
shifted the problem from daughter to mother.

We need to learn from the experience of England, France and other countries that
receive large numbers of immigrants from countries where the ritual is practiced
and formulate rational policies for women seeking asylum.

INGRID KATZ
PETER WINCH, M.D.
Baltimore, April 15, 1996

The writers are, respectively, a graduate student and assistant professor at
Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 18, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mute in an English-Only World

BYLINE: By Chang-rae Lee;   Chang-rae Lee is the author of the novel "Native
Speaker."

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1116 words

DATELINE: EUGENE, Ore.


When I read of the troubles in Palisades Park, N.J., over the proliferation of
Korean-language signs along its main commercial strip, I unexpectedly
sympathized with the frustrations, resentments and fears of the longtime
residents. They clearly felt alienated and even unwelcome in a vital part of
their community. The town, like seven others in New Jersey, has passed laws
requiring that half of any commercial sign in a foreign language be in English.

Now I certainly would never tolerate any exclusionary ideas about who could
rightfully settle and belong in the town. But having been raised in a Korean
immigrant family, I saw every day the exacting price and power of language,
especially with my mother, who was an outsider in an English-only world.

In the first years we lived in America, my mother could speak only the most
basic English, and she often encountered great difficulty whenever she went out.

We lived in New Rochelle, N.Y., in the early 70's, and most of the local
businesses were run by the descendants of immigrants who, generations ago, had
come to the suburbs from New York City. Proudly dotting Main Street and North
Avenue were Italian pastry and cheese shops, Jewish tailors and cleaners and
Polish and German butchers and bakers. If my mother's marketing couldn't wait
until the weekend, when my father had free time, she would often hold off until
I came home from school to buy the groceries.

Though I was only 6 or 7 years old, she insisted that I go out shopping with her
and my younger sister. I mostly loathed the task, partly because it meant I
couldn't spend the afternoon playing catch with my friends but also because I
knew our errands would inevitably lead to an awkward scene, and that I would
have to speak up to help my mother.

I was just learning the language myself, but I was a quick study, as children
are with new tongues. I had spent kindergarten in almost complete silence,
hearing only the high nasality of my teacher and comprehending little but the
cranky wails and cries of my classmates. But soon, seemingly mere months later,
I had already become a terrible ham and mimic, and I would crack up my father
with impressions of teachers, his friends and even himself. My mother scolded me
for aping his speech, and the one time I attempted to make light of hers I rated
a roundhouse smack on my bottom.

For her, the English language was not very funny. It usually meant trouble and a
good dose of shame, and sometimes real hurt. Although she had a good reading
knowledge of the language from university classes in South Korea, she had never
practiced actual conversation. So in America, she used English flashcards and
phrase books and watched television with us kids. And she faithfully carried a
pocket workbook illustrated with stick-figure people and compound sentences to
be filled in.

But none of it seemed to do her much good. Staying mostly at home to care for
us, she didn't have many chances to try out sundry words and phrases. When she
did, say, at the window of the post office, her readied speech would stall,
freeze, sometimes altogether collapse.

One day was unusually harrowing. We ventured downtown in the new Ford Country
Squire my father had bought her, an enormous station wagon that seemed as long
-- and deft -- as an ocean liner. We were shopping for a special meal for guests
visiting that weekend, and my mother had heard that a particular butcher carried
fresh oxtails, which she needed for a traditional soup.

We'd never been inside the shop, but my mother would pause before its window,
which was always lined with whole hams, crown roasts and ropes of plump handmade
sausages. She greatly esteemed the bounty with her eyes, and my sister and I did
also, but despite our desirous cries she'd turn us away and instead buy the
packaged links at the Finast supermarket, where she felt comfortable looking
them over and could easily spot the price. And, of course, not have to talk.

But that day she was resolved. The butcher store was crowded, and as we stepped
inside the door jingled a welcome. No one seemed to notice.  We waited for some
time, and people who entered after us were now being served. Finally, an old
woman nudged my mother and waved a little ticket, which we hadn't taken. We
patiently waited again, until one of the beefy men behind the glass display
hollered our number.

My mother pulled us forward and began searching the cases, but the oxtails were
nowhere to be found.  The man, his big arms crossed, sharply said, "Come on,
lady, whaddya want?" This unnerved her, and she somehow blurted the Korean word
for oxtail, soggori.

The butcher looked as if my mother had put something sour in his mouth, and he
glanced back at the lighted board and called the next number.

Before I knew it, she had rushed us outside and back in the wagon, which she had
double-parked because of the crowd. She was furious, almost vibrating with fear
and grief, and I could see she was about to cry.

She wanted to go back inside, but now the driver of the car we were blocking
wanted to pull out. She was shooing us away. My mother, who had just earned her
driver's license, started furiously working the pedals. But in her haste she
must have flooded the engine, for it wouldn't turn over. The driver started
honking and then another car began honking as well, and soon it seemed the
entire street was shrieking at us.

In the following years, my mother grew steadily more comfortable with English.
In Korean, she could be fiery, stern, deeply funny and ironic; in English, just
slightly less so. If she was never quite fluent, she gained enough confidence to
make herself clearly known to anyone, and particularly to me.

Five years ago, she died of cancer, and some months after we buried her I found
myself in the driveway of my father's house, washing her sedan. I liked taking
care of her things; it made me feel close to her. While I was cleaning out the
glove compartment, I found her pocket English workbook, the one with the silly
illustrations. I hadn't seen it in nearly 20 years. The yellowed pages were
brittle and dog-eared. She had fashioned a plain-paper wrapping for it, and I
wondered whether she meant to protect the book or hide it.

I don't doubt that she would have appreciated doing the family shopping on the
new Broad Avenue of Palisades Park. But I like to think, too, that she would
have understood those who now complain about the Korean-only signs.

I wonder what these same people would have done if they had seen my mother
studying her English workbook -- or lost in a store. Would they have nodded
gently at her? Would they have lent a kind word?

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 21, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Proficient in English But Trying to Lose Their Accents

BYLINE: By LINDA TAGLIAFERRO

SECTION: Section 13LI;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1309 words


GUIDO MASSOLA is holding his hand in front of his face and staring intently at
Arlene Corcoran's eyes and mouth. The two of them are slowly and rhythmically
intoning the words, "doe, toe" over and over again. As Ms. Corcoran repeats the
words, she asks Mr. Massola if he can feel his breath on his hand.

Mr. Massola, an insurance agent from Italy who has taken up residency in
Huntington Station, is one of the estimated 250,000 immigrants living on Long
Island who speak English with an accent, even though they may be proficient in
the language. He has opted to take a private class in accent reduction at the
Berlitz Language Center in Mineola.

Because it is often difficult for some foreigners to distinguish between the
sounds "d" and "t," teachers at the center have their students hold their hands
in front of their faces in order to feel the heavier breath that comes with
pronouncing "t" correctly.

The Berlitz Language Center in Mineola has teachers who are specially trained in
the field of accent reduction. "Unfortunately, losing a foreign accent is not an
easy task," said Agnes Jean, the center's acting director. "It takes time,
determination and repetition, repetition, repetition. Some accents are more
difficult to lose than others, and if the student lacks confidence, it will take
much longer."

There are other ways of learning to feel at ease with English. Once a month, 30
children from the Caribbean gather in St. Martha's Church in Uniondale to
practice their communication skills. The Junior Speakers Forum, a Toastmasters
International program that teaches children to be at ease with public speaking,
was started three months ago by Headly Wilson, a civil engineer who is
originally from Trinidad.

Mr. Wilson recalled his son's and daughter's experience when they came to this
country 28 years ago. "They had heavy accents," he said, "but that changed over
the years." He added that this was to their advantage because "when you have an
accent, people can prejudge you as unintelligent."

Some immigrants on Long Island are not as fortunate as Mr. Wilson's children.
Those who came here as teen-agers or adults often have a harder time losing
their foreign pronunciation, even though they are proficient in English. They
may find themselves isolated socially and experience difficulties in finding
jobs as well.

Sheldon Shamitz, director of the Adelphi University Refugee Assistance Program
in Hempstead, said: "Americans often do not take the time to accustom their ears
to English-speaking foreigners. Some even feel that people with accents simply
don't understand and are even intellectually inferior. As a result, those with
accents are limited in terms of access to opportunities in many spheres of
society."

Seema Azim, a young woman who left Afghanistan 11 years ago, works with Mr.
Shamitz as the job developer for Adelphi's program. Her function is to match
refugees in need of employment with suitable companies. Ms. Azim has an
excellent command of English, but years of speaking her native tongue have
accustomed her to pronouncing the letter "r" with a gutteral trill. Her vowels
are clipped and sometimes lost in between consonants.

She has elicited mixed reactions to her English pronunciation. "When I was in
college," she said, "some of my classmates remarked that I have a beautiful
accent."

Not everyone, however, shares this opinion. When Ms. Azim contacts prospective
employers for her clients over the phone, she occasionally has negative
reactions. "People may act one way when they meet you face-to-face, but on the
phone they react differently," Ms. Azim said. "They don't know you, and they
can't see what you look like. Sometimes when I call a company for the first
time, they hang up on me. But other people who I've had contact with for a long
time treat me very well."

Jennifer Gordon, executive director of the Workplace Project, a center for
Hispanic immigrant workers in Hempstead, said there were an estimated 200,000
Hispanic people living on Long Island. This makes them the largest ethnic group
in the area.

Omar Henriquez, a community organizer for the organization, came to Long Island
20 years ago as a teen-ager from El Salvador. At the time, he did not speak
English at all. He began to teach himself, but became frustrated when his
attempts to communicate in English were met with confused looks or demands to
repeat himself. "I'm sure I was saying the right words, but I was difficult to
understand because I had an accent," he said. "It's frustrating because you know
that you're an intelligent person, but if you can't communicate, then how will
anyone else know? The perception is that if you have an accent, you're an
uneducated person. It's very wrong."

He said that at one point, he wanted to lose his accent, but eventually changed
his mind. "I don't want to do that now because it's what makes me who I am," Mr.
Henriquez said. "It's part of my personality. I'm very proud of my accent."

His co-worker, Rhina Ramos, also came to Long Island as a teen-ager from El
Salvador. Ms. Ramos is a law school graduate who will be taking the bar exam
this summer. Although she has been in the United States for 13 years, she speaks
English with the rhythmic stresses of her native Spanish.

Like Mr. Henriquez, Ms. Ramos spoke no English when she came to this country. "I
was placed in ESL for 10 months, and then they told me I was ready to go to
regular classes with American kids," she said, "but I was always afraid to
speak. In high school, I had a teacher who used to imitate my accent when I
asked questions, so I decided not to talk in class and just study at home." As a
result, she said, she did not develop her speaking skills as much as she would
have liked to.

In college, one professor falsely accused her of not being the author of an
eloquently written term paper, because it seemed incongruous coming from someone
with such a thick accent, she said. Eventually, other teachers rallied to her
defense and convinced the professor of her honesty.

In addition, some students tried to correct her English. "They didn't understand
that it's not that I don't know how to speak," Ms. Ramos said. "It's just that I
can't pronounce certain letters, like 'j' and 'y.' I mix them up."

She added that there is a comical side to this drawback. "I once met someone who
went to Yale University, and he kept talking about Salvadorians in Yale, and I
thought he meant prison," Ms. Ramos said. "It can be quite confusing, but it
gets funny after a while. You can't take it seriously and let it get to you. You
have to move on."

Gladys Serrano is the executive director of the Hispanic Counseling Center in
Hempstead. She came to Long Island 25 years ago from Colombia. Although her
accent is distinctly Spanish, she has an optimistic view of the situation.
"Everyone in my agency is bilingual," she said. "A lot of people like myself
have accents, but that doesn't cause any problems as long as you have an
education. It can be difficult at times, but I think it's also difficult to lose
an accent, especially if you came to this country later in life. To have an
accent can also be a good thing. The fact that some people are bilingual is very
important. I'm proud to say that I am Hispanic and I know that my accent is
heavy, but at the same time, I'm happy that we are providing good services to
the community."

Dr. Susanne Bleiberg Seperson, professor of sociology at Dowling College in
Oakdale, said: "People who are born here are not used to listening to those with
foreign accents. It's so ethnocentric of us to demand that the only language
that people speak perfectly be English. I think that's changing because weUre
going to be forced to change. We're at least going to become more comfortable
with it because the population mix is changing."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arline Corcoran, an instructor, works with Guido Massola of
Italy on the pronounciation of the letter "h," as in house. (Steve Berman for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 22, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Not So Harsh on Refugees

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 480 words


The ordeal of a young woman from Togo who came to America to avoid the practice
of female genital mutilation should give members of Congress pause before they
approve any further limitations on the rights of refugees seeking sanctuary in
the United States. As detailed last week by Celia Dugger of The Times, Fauziya
Kasinga was detained for months before she obtained a hearing, and she was
strip-searched and held with convicted criminals. Shamefully, the anti-terrorism
bill just passed by Congress and immigration bills still pending could subject
many more refugees to similar treatment.

Ms. Kasinga's case involves female genital mutilation, a common practice in some
two dozen African nations that involves cutting off portions of a young woman's
genitals, often without anesthesia.

Ms. Kasinga fled Togo in 1994 to avoid mutilation after losing her status as a
member of a privileged family. Her determination to avoid the practice could
have subjected her to harsh treatment had she stayed, or if she is forced to
return home. She may have a reasonable claim for asylum on the basis of
membership in a social group vulnerable to persecution in her homeland.

But when Ms. Kasinga landed at Newark Airport in December 1994, seeking asylum
with a phony passport, she was immediately detained. Under the law, people who
have credible claims for asylum and family members already living in the United
States can be released, pending a hearing. Ms. Kasinga has a cousin in the
Washington area, but she was kept in custody anyway. After being held for months
at a New Jersey detention center, Ms. Kasinga was transferred to a Pennsylvania
prison and housed with convicted criminals.

Ms. Kasinga fared no better in court, where an immigration judge denied her
claim. The Board of Immigration Appeals will hear her case in May.

If some members of Congress had their way, Ms. Kasinga would have been returned
to Togo long ago. Under an immigration bill passed by the House, but now held up
in the Senate, anyone attempting to enter the country without proper documents
would only be entitled to a one-hour interview with an asylum officer. Denial of
an asylum claim would be subject to review by a supervisor, but not by any other
administrative or judicial body. These provisions, similar to ones in the
anti-terrorism bill, would deny a fair hearing to many asylum seekers.

The House immigration bill also calls for detention of any asylum seeker who is
awaiting a hearing, even when a credible claim has been presented. That could
subject more would-be refugees to the harsh treatment suffered by Ms. Kasinga.

Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont plans to offer an amendment that would not only
override the harsh exclusion provisions in the immigration bill but also
supersede the same provisions in the anti-terrorism bill. Congress should follow
his lead.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 26, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Is U.S. Too Generous In Immigration Policy?

SECTION: Section A;  Page 30;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 93 words


To the Editor:

Re "Now Legal Immigrants, Too, Become the Target" (letter, April 17): Immigrants
have been expensive for the United States taxpayer, owing to the enactment of
extensive Federal social programs since the last great wave of immigration
(1890-1910). We must decide if we can afford to continue a generous immigration
policy. We must also decide which immigrants we will admit. Should the United
States serve as the country of last resort for everyone who has a lousy job or
government?

RICHARD H. HOWARTH
Reston, Va., April 19, 1996

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 28, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

April 21-27;
Seeking Asylum From Genital Mutilation

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 109 words


Last week, after news accounts led to protests and the likelihood of continued
notoriety, the Immigration and Naturalization Service freed Fauziya Kasinga, 19,
who says she fled her homeland of Togo to escape the tribal rite of genital
mutilation and seek asylum in this country.

Ms. Kasinga, who spent more than a year in prisons and an I.N.S detention
center, will be among the onlookers Thursday when the agency's highest
administrative tribunal considers whether to grant her asylum -- and grapples
for the first time with whether women who face this sometimes deadly practice
are entitled to American protection.   CELIA W. DUGGER

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fauziya Kansinga.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico's Leader Quietly Adopts A Warmer Approach to the U.S.

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1388 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 1


In a series of quiet policy changes, President Ernesto Zedillo has recently
reversed some dearly held tenets of Mexico's historically prickly relationship
with the United States.

For the first time, Mexico recently approved American requests for the
extradition of two of its citizens to the United States.

Mexico also recently abandoned a long-held position rejecting international
discussion of its human rights record, and in a separate move allowed Washington
to begin airlifting illegal immigrants back to their hometowns deep inside
Mexico.

Last week the Defense Minister approved a military agreement providing for
training of Mexican soldiers at American bases and the provision of United
States weaponry. It is the first pact on this scale since the 19th-century
invasions that convinced Mexico that the United States was its principal enemy.

The Clinton Administration officials who have negotiated these policy changes,
and who will discuss further cooperation when a senior delegation headed by
Secretary of State Warren Christopher visits Mexico on Monday for annual
meetings, have praised Mexico's more accommodating posture.

But in Mexico the changes have aroused debate over whether the country is slowly
surrendering its sovereignty, continuing a trend that critics trace back to the
North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994, and that accelerated last year when
Washington and Mexico worked closely in the effort to rescue the Mexican
economy.

Mr. Zedillo's Government has seemed to avoid publicity for the recent shifts.
But in an interview today, a senior Government official said Mexico's
increasingly intimate ties with the United States showed the tremendous respect
with which both Governments viewed each other and were signs of "the intelligent
management of our bilateral relationship."

On the other hand, some Mexican academics and opposition politicians portrayed
the changes as a symptom of their country's financial and political
vulnerability.

"These shifts carry tremendous symbolic meaning," said Lorenzo Meyer, the author
of a standard history of United States-Mexico relations. "In the end, this chain
of events means we are losing the relative independence Mexico achieved for 50
years. The Government is weak, and the United States, sensing a power vacuum, is
injecting itself into our affairs."

At least since the 1930's, successive Mexican presidents have overseen a foreign
policy characterized by polite but distant relations with Washington and routine
opposition to American interests in forums like the United Nations.

"For decades Mexico sought to defend itself by saying no," said Humberto Garza
Elizondo, a professor at the Colegio de Mexico, "even sometimes to United States
initiatives with which the Government was not really in disagreement."

The tectonic plates of Mexican policy first shifted during the previous
administration, when President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, seeking approval of
the North American Free Trade Agreement, reversed decades of economic
protectionism and began seeking cooperation with Washington on a broad front.

Analysts described the recent changes as mini-earthquakes, still rattling to the
surface in the wake of that strategic shift.

All embody an approach to United States relations by President Zedillo that has
led analysts from both countries to describe him as more pragmatic and less
doctrinaire than his predecessors.

Mr. Zedillo's aides point out that he has forcefully defended Mexican interests
when he has felt them to be under siege by Washington. He has encouraged Mexican
consular officials in the United States, for instance, to vigorously defend the
rights of migrant workers, including those without documents.

"What we have sought, and are achieving, is a new class of communication, a new
form of contact with the Government of the United States," Mr. Zedillo said last
week in a speech in Tijuana, in which he responded to Mexican critics who have
accused him of cooperating too submissively with Washington. "We cannot confuse
diplomacy with machismo."

Throughout its history Mexico has declined to extradite its citizens. But on
April 17, Mexican officials delivered Francisco Gamez Garcia, who fled to his
homeland after being convicted in Arizona of sexually abusing a boy in 1993, to
the United States authorities in Phoenix.

The Foreign Ministry said the extradition request had been granted because Mr.
Gamez could not be tried in Mexico without violating the principle of double
jeopardy.

On April 25, Mexico sent another of its citizens, Aaron Morel Lebaron, to
Houston, where he is charged with the murder of four people, including a child.
The ministry approved that request "taking into consideration the infamous
nature of the crimes," as well as the fact that the United States Government
says he is an American citizen.

The extraditions followed lengthy discussions with the Clinton Administration.

American officials say they are hopeful that Mexico will now turn over top drug
traffickers it succeeds in arresting to the United States, especially in cases
in which the suspect faces charges in the United States but not in Mexico.

Mexico delivered the reputed trafficker Juan Garcia Abrego to the United States
authorities in January, but he was not extradited. Instead, the Government
declared him to be an American and expelled him as an undesirable foreigner.

The senior Government official, while acknowledging that the two extraditions
were the first in Mexico's history, denied that they represented any change in
policy. His comments suggested that it was not at all certain that Mexican
traffickers arrested in their homeland would be extradited to the United States.

"There has been no shift in our extradition laws, and we will in the future
examine each situation on a case-by-case basis," the official said.

The recent thaw in military relations is also partly the result of United States
pressure for heightened anti-drug efforts here.

Until the 1980's, Mexican military manuals portrayed the United States as the
country's natural enemy.

Besides Cuba, Mexico has been the only country in the hemisphere to consistently
keep the American military at arm's length, apart from the training of a trickle
of officers at American military schools over the years and a purchase of
American jets once in the 1980's.

But an agreement approved by Defense Minister Enrique Cervantes on April 24 in a
meeting with Defense Secretary William Perry reverses course, setting up the
immediate transfer of 20 UH-1H Huey helicopters to the Mexican Air Force,
perhaps 50 or more additional helicopters next year and the training of Mexican
soldiers in anti-narcotics tactics at Fort Bragg, N.C., as well as helicopter
pilots and mechanics at other bases.

Helicopters previously provided by the United States have been transferred to
the Mexican anti-drug police, not to the military.

"This is a major policy change by both Governments," said Roderic A. Camp, a
Tulane University professor who studies the Mexican military.

Mexico has also markedly changed its political stand on human rights inquiries.
For decades, like China, it held that international criticism of its human
rights record amounted to unwarranted meddling by foreigners. But, continuing a
recent trend toward more openness, Mexico announced in Washington on Monday that
it had for the first time invited a fact-finding rights delegation from the
Organization of American States to visit Mexico.

Such delegations, which broadly review human rights concerns, have visited
nearly all other Latin American countries.

A sign of the evolution of Mexico's immigration policies came when Mexico agreed
to a pilot program, financed by Washington, in which migrants who have been
detained illegally crossing the border can elect to be flown back to central
Mexico for return to their homes.

In four flights since April 3, 63 Mexicans have been ferried from San Diego to
Guadalajara, and a United States spokesman estimated that 450 more would be
flown home by July.

The United States is financing the program to get the illegals as far from the
border as possible. Mexico is cooperating as a way to support would-be migrants
who have spent their last pesos trying to get across the border.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 4, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Look Who's Minding the Shop;
California Garment Makers Try to Police Workplace

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 33;  Column 2;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1660 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


In the latest crackdown on sweatshops in the nation's largest garment center,
investigators working in teams of two stand watch outside sewing factories,
noting the number of employees and their arrival times.

Then, moving inside, they split up. One inspector occupies the management,
checking time cards, immigration work permits, tax forms and other documents.
The other talks to workers on the floor, interviewing enough of them to insure
that none can be singled out as a whistle-blower.

The investigators' reports, grading the workplace for compliance with state and
Federal laws on safety and wages, can be damning. There is just one catch: these
are not Government agents; they are employees of a private company, the Cal
Safety Compliance Corporation. And their reports are not sent to law-enforcement
officials, but rather to Cal Safety's clients, the big clothing makers who
contract with the small sewing shops and are under pressure from the Federal
Government to clean up their act.

In fact, the 52 inspectors who work for Cal Safety have instructions to
introduce themselves as "manufacturers' representatives," so that the owners and
their employees "will know we're not the Government," said Carol Pender, who
founded the company in 1990.

So how effective can their efforts be? That is an important question in an
industry that has thwarted numerous attempts over the years to eliminate the
exploitation of its workers. Critics say the self-policing is doomed to failure
because the interest of the big clothing companies to have clothes made cheaply
runs counter to the Government's goal to end exploitation.

But the Labor Department thinks otherwise. With fewer than 800 labor standards
inspectors to police American workplaces, a 19 percent decline over the last
decade, it is the inspiration behind the private sector's involvement in the
drive against sweatshop abuses.

[In Washington on Friday, the department issued its first-ever report on the
nation's garment workers, showing that almost half of the sewing shops that were
investigated had violated Federal labor laws. The largest number of enforcement
actions, 86, taken in the six months ended March 31 were in California, while
the total of back wages recovered for employees was greatest in New York, at
$593,000.]

In November 1992, the Labor Department began invoking an obscure provision of
the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act that authorized it to confiscate "hot goods."
It threatened manufacturers with the seizure of clothing produced by exploited
labor, unless they could show they were making honest efforts to buy only from
legitimate operators.

The effort got under way slowly but was bolstered last summer by the public
furor over the discovery of a slave camp for Thai immigrants in El Monte, Calif.
The police found nearly 70 workers locked inside a dilapidated garment factory
surrounded by barbed wire and spiked fences. The prisoners had been forced to
stitch together American brand-name clothes under threats of death if they tried
to escape. Federal labor officials later notified more than a dozen large
retailers that goods from the plant might have ended up in their stores.

[Two of the owners were sentenced to six years in prison last Monday, and five
others are scheduled to be sentenced next Monday.]

Meantime, the Labor Department's threat to confiscate tainted merchandise from
clothing companies has spawned a new industry concentrated in the Los Angeles
area of private "sweatshop cops." These specialists are hired by the clothing
manufacturers to audit the payroll practices and interview the employees of
their subcontractors.

The biggest is Cal Safety, which has already signed up more than 100 garment
makers, charging $200 for each quarterly audit it makes. Other inspection
companies include Apparel Resources of Yorba Linda, Calif., which was founded in
1992 and has 40 clients, and Stonefield Josephson, an accounting firm in Santa
Monica, Calif., which began offering the service to its clients 1992. In
addition, many manufacturers say they themselves monitor their subcontractors.

Most clients receive detailed quarterly reports on their subcontractors, with
failing grades given for violation of wage or safety laws or payroll
discrepancies. Ms. Pender of Cal Safety said her auditors had inspected 90
percent of the state's 4,000 licensed contractors and had given so many low
ratings that half had been cut off by at least one manufacturer.

The Los Angeles metropolitan area is the main battlefield of the Government's
war on illegal sweatshops. Fed by an influx of immigrant labor from Asia and
Latin America, the city's apparel industry has surpassed New York's to become
America's biggest, with $15.2 billion in sales last year and one-quarter of the
nation's million garment workers.

In industrial parks and decaying office buildings in Orange and Los Angeles
Counties, they cut, stitch, knit, iron, trim and dye fabric for 4,000 registered
sewing contractors and an estimated 1,000 underground ones. According to a
survey by state officials conducted in 1994, just as the effort to enlist the
private sector in policing the shops was getting under way, 90 percent of them
worked in sweatshop conditions that flouted state and Federal wage and safety
laws. Even sewing shops that stay within the law rarely offer their employees
paid vacations or health benefits.

Given the low-tech nature of the sewing business, unscrupulous entrepreneurs can
easily escape investigators -- whether those sent by government or the
manufacturers -- by keeping duplicate books and shutting down a site one day and
opening up elsewhere the next.

So far, the Federal Government's initiative has won scant support from any of
the parties involved. Some California labor officials privately grumble that it
is aimed more at placating public opinion than bringing about meaningful change.
And representatives of both the sewing-factory owners and their workers question
the wisdom of giving an enforcement role to clothing manufacturers. Patrick
Cheung, president of the Northern California Chinese Garment Contractors
Association, accuses the garment makers of hypocrisy for insisting that his
members pay fair wages to their workers while simultaneously lowering the rates
they pay the subcontractors for stitching work.

"They know it's not enough," Mr. Cheung said. He said 40 sewing shops closed in
the Bay Area last year, and added that profit margins among his remaining 350
members had shrunk to 3 percent from 10 percent since 1988.

For their part, the unions representing garment workers decry the new monitoring
system as a case of the fox guarding the hen house. "I can't say things have
gotten better," said Steven T. Nutter, regional director of the Union of
Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. For him, the only solution is
more Government intervention. "You can't terrorize an industry when you have 15
people policing it," he said. "You hit every contractor once every seven years.
They'll take that chance."

For all the doubts, there is some evidence that self-policing is doing some
good. A new survey of the California garment industry by the state and the
Federal Government shows that while abuses are still rampant, "companies with
monitoring programs have a significantly better rate of compliance than
nonmonitored companies," said Jose Millan, California's interim labor
commissioner.

Mr. Millan said the survey turned up 20 percent fewer overtime violations than
were found in a similar study two years ago, though little progress was made in
meeting record-keeping, safety or minimum-wage requirements. "There's been
slight improvement," he said. "It would be foolhardy to withdraw from the
program now."

And while the big clothing companies are not happy about what they regard as
another bureaucratic intrusion, they are at least going through the motions of
leaning on their subcontractors to abide by Federal minimum-wage and safety
laws. And Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich, at least, is hoping for a long-term
payoff.

"We've got to stop this exploitation, and we can't do it alone," Mr. Reich said
in a recent interview.

Law-enforcement officials have had a few successes. Most big garment makers
--including Guess Inc., Chorus Line and 43 other companies -- have signed a
voluntary agreement with the Labor Department to shoulder responsibility for
back pay owed to workers by their contractors. So far, the agency has recovered
more than $7.3 million in back wages for more than 25,000 garment workers since
1993.

But some garment makers say the cost of policing their contractors puts them at
a disadvantage to companies with overseas operations. "Our competitors can make
goods anywhere in the world," complained Christopher L. Bryer, a vice president
of Chazz, a unit of CMG Inc. that makes private-label apparel.

Since his company began monitoring its four sewing contractors, Mr.  Bryer said,
it has cut off one. But he wonders if the action did any good, saying the extra
expense played a role in Chazz's decision last year to hire sewing contractors
in Mexico.

Such protests fall on deaf ears in many quarters. Edna Bonacich, a sociology
professor at the University of California at Riverside who specializes in the
Los Angeles garment industry, said manufacturers were getting off easy. "The
department's demands are minimalist," she said. "It's the language of compliance
rather than a recognition of the industry's evil, exploitive practices."

Mr. Reich, meantime, is trying to extend the self-monitoring effort to
retailers. In newspaper ads and radio commercials, his department is urging
consumers to shop at stores that are on its "No Sweat" list of chains that keep
close tabs on their suppliers.

Mr. Reich says it is the civic duty of big companies to lead the attack on
worker exploitation. "It's a matter of corporate responsibility," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: California labor inspectors confiscated garments near Los
Angeles, but much of the burden of policing sewing shops has shifted to the
industry itself. A Labor Department ad urges support for manufacturers that
monitor conditions. (Photographs by Luis Sinco for The New York Times)

Graphs: "Less Oversight of a Bigger Business" show empolyment, wages, and
inspection figures for the California apparel industry. (Sources: Economic
Development Corporation of Los Angeles (employment), DRI McGraw Hill (wages),
California Division of Labor Standards Enforcement (inspection and penalties))

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Votes In Congress

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 182 words


Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York

Senate

1. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to an immigration bill that would delete a
provision in the bill making it more difficult for foreigners to gain asylym.
Approved 51 to 49, May 1.

2. Immigration: Vote to kill an amendment to an immigration bill that would
delete provisions calling for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to test
several pilot programs in states with large numbers of immigrants to find one
that best allows employers to verify the legal status of workers. Approved 54 to
46, May 1.

3. Immigration: Vote on passage of a bill that would tighten America's borders
and clamp down on millions of illegal immigrants living and working here.
Approved 97 to 3, May 2.

                                           1         2         3
Connecticut


Dodd (D)                                 Yea       Yea       Yea
Lieberman (D)                            Yea       Nay       Yea

New Jersey

Bradley (D)                              Yea       Yea       Yea
Lautenberg (D)                           Yea       Yea       Yea

New York

D'Amato (R)                              Nay       Yea       Yea
Moynihan (D)                             Yea       Yea       Yea


KEY: (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Fresh Faces Are Making an Impact on the L.I. Landscape

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL

SECTION: Section 13LI;  Page 42;  Column 1;  Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 918 words


ON the surface, Port Washington is a quintessential Long Island suburb, peopled
by yuppie commuters clutching Starbucks coffee cups and bound for the next train
to Pennsylvania Station.

Its Main Street is so prim that the locals are leery of sharing the sidewalk
with McDonald's, but they have quietly made room for one bodega, two
international money couriers, a Spanish-speaking domestic service and a pay
telephone center where lonely immigrants squeeze into special booths to summon
the sweet voices of home in El Salvador, Honduras and the Dominican Republic.

Off Main Street, its fortresslike stone Roman Catholic church, St. Peter's, is
crowded on Sunday mornings with immigrants from El Salvador -- women who work as
live-in maids for as little as $150 a week and men who struggle to pay rent and
send money home to Central America on a landscaper's pay.

These are the new faces of Long Island, immigrants who made up more than a third
of the people who moved to the island last year while a majority of people
departing were native-born, many of them retirees or former military workers.

The trend is as visible as the restaurants selling pupusa meat pies in
Hempstead, where the concentration of Salvadorans is so large that the Republic
of El Salvador briefly opened a satellite Government office and some residents
have nicknamed the area Little El Salvador.

According to March estimates by the Census Bureau, the net international
immigration to Nassau County was 28,993, and 18,229 to Suffolk County. But
Census experts consider the unofficial growth rate much higher because it does
not count undocumented immigrants.

"We estimate that there are about 100,000 Salvadorans living in Hempstead,
Freeport and Uniondale," said Miguel Ramirez, president of the Centro
Salvadoreno, a Hempstead community organization for Salvadorans. "It's not
growing as dramatically as it was before, mainly because it's more difficult for
undocumented people to get a job. All these myths have been created that we're
stealing jobs from U.S. citizens."

This is the season to spot the latest immigration trends, when the street
corners of communities like Westbury and Franklin Square or Glen Cove and Inwood
fill with immigrant day laborers in search of gritty work as landscapers and
construction workers. Many are so new to the country that they need to use a
special list of basic English expressions provided by a local community group.
The list carefully spells out the phonetic pronunciations: "I want to work on
the books!" and "I have rights, too."

Already, one community organizer, Omar Henriquez of the Workplace Project in
Hempstead, has noticed the early signs of new immigration streams from other
countries. "On some corners, there are more Hondurans now than Salvadorans," he
said."In others, there are more Mexicans. I don't know what's happening in
Honduras, but there must be something going on there with the economy. There's a
lot more coming."

The new Census estimates do not give an ethnic breakdown of the newcomers, but
anecdotal evidence indicates they are mostly Asian and Hispanic. Long Island's
original immigrants were English Protestants, who squeezed out the native
Indians and dominated the area from the colonial period to World War I.

The development of aircraft industries and suburban housing led to a new wave of
immigration after World War II, and an influx of people of mostly Irish,
Italian, Polish, German and Russian backgrounds.

And now, with yet a third wave of immigration, members of some of the earlier
ethnic groups are watching with some dismay as a pattern unfolds that they
experienced themselves. Since 1979, Salvadorans have come searching for the same
kind of low-wage, unskilled jobs that drew Italian immigrants to Glen Cove
decades earlier to work on the great estates of the Gold Coast.

The Salvadoran population was originally small, but in a common pattern of
immigration, the original pioneer scouts invited their relatives. Their numbers
grew through the pull of jobs and the push of the intensifying 12-year civil war
in El Salvador, which ended in 1992. Their numbers grew, through the push of war
and the pull of jobs. Most came from the rural town of Poloros in the province
of La Union, where much of the fighting was concentrated.

Italians remain the largest ethnic group in Glen Cove, but now the Loggia Sons
of Italyshares the main street downtown with a Hispanic grocery store. The rest
of the community also shares a parking lot with a group of immigrant men who
gather early mornings in search of day work. But the arrangement is not always
amicable; typically police enforcement against such offenses as loitering or
disorderly behavior becomes tougher and more unyielding in the months before a
mayoral election.

With the start of the spring landcaping season, the same tensions are already
starting to surface in other communities like Westbury, where the immigrant day
workers and the local police recently met to develop a compromise labor site
after complaints increased about the gathering of the men.

But as long as there is demand for their labor, the corners will not be empty.
"In suburban communities and the rest of the country, you can expect to see more
immigration," said Douglas Massey, a University of Pennsylvania sociology
professor who has studied immigration trends. "Immigration goes where the
low-wage jobs are. And as those jobs shift from the cities to suburbs, they will
be there."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos:
Fariba and Moise Chaolpur
FROM: Iran
LIVE IN: Great Neck
YEARS ON L.I.: 6
OCCUPATIONS: She: Homemaker. He: Salesman in garment district in Manhattan.
FAMILY ON L.I.: Children, Simon, 5,
and Doreen, 3 1/2

Nan Ni Gilbert
FROM: China
LIVES IN: North Bellmore
YEARS ON L.I.: 1 1/2
OCCUPATION: Piano teacher and acupuncture student
FAMILY ON L.I.: Husband

Nila Minkovsky
FROM: Russia
LIVES IN: Glen Cove
YEARS ON L.I.: 7
OCCUPATION: Cardiorespiratory therapist at North Shore Hospital in Glen Cove
FAMILY ON L.I.: Husband, also from Russia. Baby due in August.

Mona Lafointaine
FROM: Canada
LIVES IN: Floral Park
YEARS ON L.I.: 2
OCCUPATION: Teacher
FAMILY ON L.I.: Husband, from El Salvador, and children, Gabriel, 5 1/2, and
Eric, 2

Valentina Bonilla
FROM: El Salvador
LIVES IN: Seaford
YEARS ON L.I.: 10
OCCUPATION: House cleaner
FAMILY ON L.I.: Daughter. Brandy, 4 1/2, sister and brother-in-law

Errol G. Viraswami
FROM: Guyana
LIVES IN: Central Islip
YEARS ON L.I.: 8
OCCUPATION: Accountant, comptroller at N.Y.  Wholistic Health Center, Syosset
FAMILY ON L.I.: Wife, Savitree

Jung S. Yoo
FROM: Korea
LIVES IN: Hicksville
YEARS ON L.I.: 7
OCCUPATION: Manicurist and manager of Pinky Nails in Syosset
FAMILY ON L.I.: Husband and son, 20

Roberto Valenzuela
FROM: Chile
LIVES IN: Syosset
YEARS ON L.I.: 1
OCCUPATION: Facility manager, Wholistic Health Center, Syosset
FAMILY ON L.I.: Former wife and son, 12

(Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times; Linda Covello for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 6, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Tell Their New York Stories

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B;  Page 2;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 711 words


The 10 immigrants who gathered at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum yesterday
spoke of fantastical expectations of New York City: When Rafael Guzman, a
Dominican, arrived as a teen-ager 30 years ago, he expected to land in a plush
skyscraper, like the ones he saw on Christmas cards his cousins had sent home.

They spoke of their quest for freedom: For Maxim Dolgiy, a 17-year-old born in
the Soviet Union, it was the freedom to skateboard.

And they spoke of their disappointments, the jarring clash between the freedom
that America symbolized and the obstacles they encountered when they got here:
An immigrant from St. Lucia, Susan Blanchard, said that "for African-Americans,
it isn't as clear and as easy, because we do meet with prejudice."

In a roundtable discussion and on a tour of the Orchard Street tenement turned
museum, they had come to share their stories of migration to New York. They were
an unlikely assortment of native and foreign-born Americans, most of them from
the Lower East Side, that included a 91-year-old retired garment worker from St.
Lucia, an Irish gay activist, an African-American woman who migrated to New York
to get away from the segregated South, a high school senior who arrived three
years ago from China.

While they may have shared the same subway platforms and trudged through the
same piles of snow, most of them were strangers, united because the Tenement
Museum wanted to know how their experiences as newcomers compared with those in
the city's past.

"It gives us the opportunity to draw a connection between the immigration saga
of the past, which we are interpreting, and the ongoing," said Ruth Abram,
executive director of the museum, which has preserved 97 Orchard Street as it
must have looked to the hundreds of German, Italian and Eastern European
immigrants who called it home between 1863, when it was built, and 1935, when it
was boarded up. According to Ms. Abram, 97 Orchard Street is the first tenement
house in the United States to be transformed into a museum.

Yesterday's roundtable was the second of a two-part conversation on immigration
and ethnicity in the United States -- one of three dozen such conversations
around the country paid for by the National Endowment for the Humanities.

As they walked through the rooms once inhabited by the Gumpertz and Baldizzi and
Rosenthal families, most of those at the museum yesterday said they were struck
by how much things had not changed. Sure, the chamber pots and treadle sewing
machines were anachronistic. A hundred years ago, there were even fewer jobs for
blacks in Manhattan, and Chinese were not allowed to be United States citizens.

But now, as then, they said, New Yorkers -- especially immigrants -- squeezed
two and three families into tiny tenement apartments and sewed other people's
clothes at home to make ends meet. The stories contained in the tenement walls,
Mr. Guzman said, were all too familiar.

"The immigrants of that era had the same issues, the concerns as today in this
modern age," the 45-year-old Mr. Guzman said. "It was no different then from
what it is now. That's why it was very touching when I went upstairs."

Another Dominican, Jose Gil, was astonished to discover that a "fire door"
installed in a dimly lit second-floor apartment simply led to an adjacent
apartment. In case of a fire, Mr. Gil wondered, where were its dwellers to run?

To Mr. Gil, an architect, the so-called fire door was not only bad design but a
metaphor for the immigrant experience, a door, he said, that "leads to nowhere."

"And these are the typical doors we find today," said Mr. Gil, 52, who left his
homeland 30 years ago and settled on the Lower East Side, a stone's throw from
the tenement.

Some of those at the museum were also reminded of the disappointments of coming
to America.  Ms. Blanchard, a rail-thin woman of 91, brought with her a list of
African-American inventors to remind the roundtable participants about black
history. Once, she said, she was a shy young girl who came to New York for an
education. But the prejudice she endured turned her into an activist who marched
against the poll tax and went on strike to demand a 40-hour workweek. "I had to
speak up," she said. "I had to."


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A group of New Yorkers gathered at the Lower East Side Tenement
Museum yesterday to discuss their own story of migration to New York. Susan
Blanchard, right, was among those who shared her experiences. (Steve Hart for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 7, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Profits of Immigration

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 134 words


To the Editor:

Jerry J. Jasinowski's assertion (letter, May 2) that Roy Beck (Op-Ed, April 30)
does a disservice to the immigration issue begs the question: How? Mr. Beck uses
numbers from various surveys to establish his case, whereas Mr. Jasinowski uses
an anecdote to support his contention that immigrants "have no negative effect
on American livelihoods."

As president of the National Association of Manufacturers, Mr. Jasinowski should
have completed his thought by saying that high levels of immigration keep his
members' profits high by depressing American wage levels. How can anyone say
that introducing thousands of workers into the American work force year after
year does not drive up competition for jobs and keep wages flat?

DAVID REIMERTZ
Middletown, N.J., May 4, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 9, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mingling Two Worlds Of Medicine;
Some Doctors Work With Folk Healers In Immigrants' Care

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1881 words


Complaining of stomach pains and headaches, 11-year-old Luis entered the dim
room of wooden icons, coconuts, candles and dolls where the folk healer
practices.

This is where Rigoberto Leonard consults a necklace of coconut shells to
determine if a bad spirit is causing his patient's pain. Then he performs his
healing ritual: chanting, drawing patterns in sand, plucking feathers from live
birds and sometimes killing chickens or goats.

More striking than the ceremony itself, however, was the way Luis ended up at
Mr. Leonard's. He was referred for treatment by his pediatrician, Dr. Luis M.
Estevez, the director of medical affairs at a Lincoln Hospital clinic in the
Bronx. When Luis came to him two or three years ago, Dr. Estevez was unable to
find a medical reason for his claims of illness and suspected they might be
psychosomatic. The boy's mother, a Puerto Rican woman, asked shyly if a folk
healer would help. Dr. Estevez replied, "I can arrange that if you like."

"She looked at me like I had two heads," he said, "but I told her I wasn't
joking. It was the same kind of advice they would get if they were choosing an
ophthalmologist."

As New York City's immigrant population balloons, doctors and hospitals are
regularly faced with patients who also seek treatment from folk healers,
spiritualists or herbalists, a practice transplanted from countries like Mexico,
China, Haiti and Cambodia.

Doctors are used to looking at these healers, who may use pigeon blood, mercury
or animal sacrifices, as purveyors of superstitious quackery, ineffective at
best, dangerous at worst. But some doctors at respected hospitals have begun to
condone their patients' use of both conventional medicine and folk healing, even
to the point of consulting with a healer, referring patients to one or allowing
the healer to come to the hospital. They say it can be healthier for patients
because it encourages them to follow doctors' instructions, keeps them coming in
for treatment, improves their attitude toward their illnesses, and seems to
allay some psychological and possibly some physical symptoms.

"If you make a person choose between traditional Western approaches and folk
cultures, you frequently end up losing out because the pull of the culture is
stronger," said Dr. Maria Oquendo, a psychiatrist at Columbia-Presbyterian
Medical Center. "Those explanations which are frequently considered
quote-unquote primitive may be valid and have some particular benefit to the
patient."

At Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens, a curandero, or Mexican folk healer, was
allowed in to perform a cleansing ceremony for a schizophrenic patient. "It
helped her to comply with the medication," said Dr. Yasmin Collazo, director of
Hispanic inpatient psychiatric services. "She definitely believes that the
healer kind of sanctifies the pills and that makes her take them."

At Columbia-Presbyterian, Dr. Rafael A. Lantigua, the director of general
medicine outpatient services, has many patients in common with a folk healer
named Celeste. Their relationship is cooperative enough that Dr. Lantigua was
recently able to persuade Celeste to stop giving a diabetic patient twice-daily
doses of chicken gallbladder.

"She's not going to go away, and people believe in her," said Dr. Lantigua, who
has even suggested an herbal remedy to some patients who ask for Valium. "I
cannot compete with her, because she will charge them $5, $10. You go to the
emergency room and it's going to be $225 just to touch you. We do the same that
she does. We give remedies to the patient, and sometimes the pain goes away and
sometimes it doesn't."


Seeing One, Then the Other

For many immigrants, healers are seen as ministers of religions like voodoo or
Santeria, which blend African and Catholic beliefs. Some healers are herbalists
who run botanicas, shops that sell plants and potions like snake oil and shark
cartilage.

The idea of mixing conventional medicine and folk healing is clearly
controversial in the medical world. Even some doctors who suspect their patients
see healers do not support combining the two.

"The patient comes to me for something separate," said Dr. E. F. Thebaud, a
psychiatrist at Kings County Hospital Center in Brooklyn, who said a Haitian
healer recently sent him a patient. "Usually, they come to me after they have
seen these people and it hasn't worked."

Dr. Mariano Mederos, an internist in Elmhurst, has patients who see healers,
including Isabel Santana, 75, who said Dr. Mederos treats her for high blood
pressure while Cornelio Santos, a healer in Jackson Heights, treats her leg
problem with snake oil and fig leaves.

"If that's what people believe in, I don't tell them not to," Dr. Mederos said.
"But I certainly wouldn't say go to this guy and have him perform some ceremony
on you."

Doctors who see value in condoning a patient's folk healing say they have to be
careful about openly advocating the practice.

"They have very few people around the hospital with enough vision," said Dr.
Kildare Clarke, associate medical director of Kings County's emergency room.
"Most would think incorporating this is tantamount to malpractice. It has to be
done on the Q.T."

Dr. Daniel Korin, medical director at Lincoln Hospital, who once referred an
epileptic patient at a Bronx clinic to a healer, said: "In a couple of years,
I'm going to start bringing some of the folk healers here to the hospital. But I
have to wait until I'm able to bring them into an environment of respect."

Most doctors said they set careful guidelines. Dr. Estevez, of Lincoln
Hospital's Morrisania Diagnostic and Treatment Center, will recommend a healer
only if a patient asks and he has been unable to treat the problem medically.
Dr. Oquendo and Elmhurst Hospital will not recommend healers but will allow a
patient's healer to come to the hospital.

Many doctors say the more accepting they are of a patient's folk treatment, the
easier it is to persuade the patient to follow medical advice and to stop taking
folk remedies that may be harmful. Some admit discomfort at the lack of control
doctors have over healers' actions, but say that accepting the healing gives
them more influence over what the patient and the healer do.

"It builds trust," Dr. Estevez said. "If it doesn't hurt and can help in some
way, then I'm supportive of it. I think it does have a role in the art of
medicine. So many medical problems are self-delimited anyway."

In Astoria, Queens, Dr. Jose Romero-Bosch, a psychiatrist, found that despite
antipsychotic drugs, a Mexican patient kept insisting that her house was dirty,
a sign of evil spirits. Dr. Romero-Bosch, one of an increasing number of doctors
with some understanding of folk healing culture, asked other patients for a
healer to do a cleansing ceremony at her home. "The first time, it didn't work,"
the doctor said. "Then we got another person. He did it once and she was still
having problems. So he said: 'You have mental problems and you need to have your
medication adjusted.' "

Dr. Romero-Bosch said the woman showed marked improvement.

"If you put this under a microscope in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study,
it would be hard to say what helped her," he said. "Was it the healer or because
I increased the Haldol?"

At Montefiore Family Health Clinic in the Bronx, Joyce Wong, a social worker,
accompanied a Cambodian patient to a ritual by a Buddhist healer called a krou
khmer at a temple the hospital helped set up in a nearby house. Ms. Wong has a
small Buddhist altar in her office and has learned chants. And she recently
acted as intermediary between a patient and doctors at North Central Bronx
Hospital, telling them that a krou khmer had been using herbs and roots to treat
the patient's husband for lung cancer and persuading them to let orange-robed
monks perform a religious rite in the hospital.

Some doctors are trying, gingerly, to forge ties with healers and herbalists to
try to prevent illnesses or catch them early. Doctors at Montefiore Hospital are
hoping to persuade botanicas and healers to limit their clients' use of mercury,
which can be toxic. The New York Task Force on Immigrant Health is trying to get
botanicas to send clients with persistent coughs for tuberculosis screenings.


'I Never Tell a Doctor'

Patients are often reluctant to say they see folk healers, fearing they will be
stigmatized as ignorant and unsophisticated. Some are embarrassed about their
poverty or illegal immigration status, and are likely to seek less visible and
less expensive care from healers, who share their language and culture.

A white-haired woman with work-worn hands, who identified herself only as
Goyita, was treated on Saturday by Mr. Leonard for stomach pain. She took
offerings of fruit and pastry up four flights to the Washington Heights
apartment where Mr. Leonard, 57, a babalawo or high priest, holds office hours.

She sat before Mr. Leonard as he rubbed her with a paper sack of herbs, struck a
wooden pallet with a forked stick and made lines in a bed of sand. Then, in
front of an iron urn representing a saint, Mr. Leonard's assistant wrung the
neck of a rooster and gave Goyita the dead bird to hold by its feet.

Goyita, 76, came from Puerto Rico 50 years ago and is comfortable with American
culture. In fact, two days after her "limpiesa," or cleansing, she had an
appointment with a gastroenterologist. "But I never tell a doctor that I'm
seeing a healer," Goyita said. "It's something I keep very quiet."

Delilah Reyes practices Santeria in her cluttered South Bronx apartment, where
she recently readied eggs, coconut, rum and a white pigeon for a young man who,
she said as though she were a dentist, is "due for a cleaning."

Ms. Reyes, 61, who wears the beads and white clothes of a santera, or healer, is
no stranger to medical care. With arthritis, asthma and high blood pressure, she
is a regular patient at Lincoln Hospital, where, she said, one doctor had sent
her patients. But Ms. Reyes said she told few doctors about her "witchcraft,"
confining it to her home.

"It's almost like a love-hate relationship," said Dr. Michael Diaz, an
oncologist and hematologist who teaches at Mount Sinai Medical Center. "Patients
will use it and at the same time deny they are using it."

Dr. Diaz has had bad experiences with patients who patronized healers. A asthma
patient from China suffered an "acute psychotic reaction" from a Chinatown
herbalist's mushrooms, he said, and a cancer patient deteriorated after each
course of chemotherapy because she would drop cancer medication for a healer's
shark cartilage.

Once, however, a patient with hypertension asked him to talk to her healer. He
was pleasantly surprised by the healer's knowledge of blood pressure and kidneys
and her desire to give herbs that would mix well with Dr. Diaz's medication.

Doctors who interact with healers say that while some are charlatans or
opportunists, others seem to refer serious problems to doctors. Mr. Leonard said
he often sends people to doctors, including a boy Dr. Estevez ended up treating
for hyperactivity.

"They respect me enough to go to a doctor if I say so," Mr. Leonard said. "They
go to the doctor with more confidence, more security."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rigoberto Leonard of Washington Heights treating a woman
identified only as Goyita. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); As New York's
immigrant population grows, doctors are regularly faced with patients who also
rely on folk healers. Delilah Reyes, top, practices Santeria but also seeks
conventional care. She displayed some tools of her healing trade, above. (pg.
B1); Delilah Reyes, 61, practices Santeria in her apartment in the South Bronx.
She prepared cleansing waters in her kitchen, fortifying some with fresh mint,
which is intended to open the mind of the patient. (Photographs by Linda Rosier
for The New York Times) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 12, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Scholarship Restrictions Make Refugee Feel Scorned

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1081 words

DATELINE: EDGAR, Wis., May 9


Vying to attend a prestigious camp for patriotic young Wisconsin scholars, one
student's resume sparkled above the rest: a 16-year-old who earned straight A's,
played violin, spoke French and displayed an interest in government.

But the girl, Pang Thao, a junior at rural Edgar High School, has been rejected
by the camp's sponsor, the American Legion Auxiliary, because she is not a
United States citizen, even though she will become one in a matter of months.

"Rules are rules, and unfortunately she's not a citizen," said Eileen Knox, a
spokeswoman for the Auxiliary. "There are lots of American-born girls who are
still waiting in the wings, hoping they can be chosen."

The rejection of Pang, who immigrated with her parents when she was 2 months
old, follows a similar incident in Texas earlier this spring. The Houston Stock
Show and Rodeo awarded a $10,000 scholarship to a Texas honors student, only to
withdraw the prize after learning the winner was not a United States citizen.

When it comes to anger toward immigrants and their children, a growing sentiment
by almost any measure, Americans usually complain about unskilled and illiterate
newcomers putting a drain on budgets and services.

But the rejection of the two young scholars, immigration advocates say,
illustrates a wellspring of resentment against those who can compete, perhaps
too well.

"On the one hand, we encourage assimilation and achievement," said Lucas
Guttentag, a lawyer who specializes in immigration for the American Civil
Liberties Union, "and we say we want immigrants to learn the values of American
society. But then we turn around and exclude these people from the very
institutions that imbue those values."

The tough immigration bill passed overwhelmingly by the Senate, for example,
would deny college financial aid to legal immigrants who are not citizens.

For Pang, the talk of policy and politics can be reduced to something very
basic. "There are a lot of people out there who don't like me," she said the
other night, while on break from her job as a waitress at her parents'
restaurant. "They don't know me. But they don't like me."

In fact, Mr. and Mrs. Thao were among the thousands of Hmongs driven by
Communist forces from Laos for helping the United States in the Vietnam War.

Pang is an exceedingly polite teen-ager who seems to bend over backwards to
avoid sounding like a complainer. But she hears plenty of the stereotypes about
minorities: "They get more welfare. They don't pay taxes. They're not loyal to
America."

She has found herself saying in a flash of defensive anger: "Man, don't you
understand. I'm here because of you. I'm here because my relatives and my
ancestors helped the Americans in the war."

Her parents, Long, 38, and Chong Thao, 38, delayed starting the citizenship
process until last year. "It is hard to let go when you come from another
country," Mrs. Thao said. "It's a part of you. But over time, we understood.
This is our home country now. We are Americans." They run the Thai Cafe in a
strip mall in Wausau, a city of 37,000 in central Wisconsin with a sizeable
Hmong (pronounced mung) population. Pang works nights and Saturdays.

Mrs. Thao also works full time as a caseworker for the Marathon County Welfare
Department. In addition, the family raises ginseng in the fields around their
farmhouse here, about 20 miles west of Wausau.

The family, with six children, struggles financially. But the parents remember
life in the refugee camp in Thailand. "The refugee camp was hell," Mrs. Thao
said. "Not enough food. Poor sanitation. Hot. A lot of sick children. Many died.
We were lucky."

Pang and her parents have been careful not to criticize the American Legion. And
they have expressed gratitude to the University of Wisconsin at Whitewater,
which recently invited Pang to participate in an international conference there
in June, as a consolation for her rejection at the Legion camp, Badger Girls
State.

Those who defend the citizenship rule noted that favoritism for citizens goes
back to the nation's founders. They point to the constitutional requirement that
the President be born in the United States.

"Citizenship means something," said Mrs. Knox, of the Legion Auxiliary. "On
Election Day, you cannot go to the polls and say, 'Well, I'm going to be a
citizen next week.' "

The disappointment in the Thao family has been keen, although Pang, the oldest
child, bristles at the notion of people feeling sorry for her. "I'm not
complaining," she said. "I'm not whining, and I don't need anyone's pity." More
than anything else about the citizenship issue, she said, she is bothered by the
views of those who believe being born in the United States is a virtue. "I
really dislike this idea of some people being superior over others," she said.
"Most of the people here are just a mix of nationalities from somewhere else.
The difference between me and you is the color of our skin and our background.
And that's it."

At the time of the application for the camp, it appeared the citizenship
approval might be granted in time. But the shutdown of some Government offices
in the Washington budget dispute delayed citizenship applications and doomed
those hopes.

"It's all right, Mom, it's really no big deal," Pang had said, knowing how badly
her mother felt.

The students and teachers at Edgar High School, where minorities can be counted
on the fingers of one hand, have supported Pang, said Mark Lacke, the school
principal.

"She is a very bubbly, smart, popular girl," said Mr. Lacke, who had pressed the
Legion to reconsider. If the Legion would not budge, Mr. Lacke asked if it would
be possible for Pang to attend the camp as an observer, rather than as a
delegate. The principal said he would drive the girl there himself, and the
school would pay her expenses.

"They got back to me and said there was no latitude," he said. "There should
have been some forum for an appeal here."

Pang, who will attend the University of Minnesota after she graduates from high
school next year, plans to study architectural design. "The best schools are in
the East, but they're really expensive," she said.

As Pang helped her harried parents clear tables and deliver orders, she spoke of
the financial pressures at home, vowing to claim a piece of the American dream.

"After college," she said, "I'm going make big bucks, help my little sister get
in to one of those Eastern schools -- one of us has got to."


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pang Thao, 16, of Edgar, Wis., who came to the United States
with her parents, Chong, left, and Long, when she was 2 months old, has been
rejected for a patriotic camp because she is not a citizen. (David Humphreys for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 15, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Former Lucchese Crime Boss Is to Testify on Russian Mob

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 775 words


Two years after defecting with a parcel of underworld secrets, a former Mafia
kingpin is expected to surface publicly for the first time today to testify
about the mob's alliances with Russian organized crime groups in the New York
area.

Anthony S. Casso, the former acting boss of the Lucchese crime family in New
York City, is scheduled to testify in Washington before a United States Senate
Committee about murders and violent conspiracies arranged by American mobsters
with Russian immigrant gangs, committee investigators said yesterday.

While such ties have been known to investigators in the past, Mr. Casso's
testimony is expected to provide a rare glimpse from a leading Mafia figure
about the links between the powerful organized crime groups.

His testimony is part of his bid for a lenient sentence on racketeering and
murder charges to which he pleaded guilty in 1994.

The investigators said that another witness, a turncoat Russian criminal, would
describe attempts by Russian gangsters to extort hundreds of thousands of
dollars from Russian players in the National Hockey League. In the past, league
officials and players' agents said they were concerned that Russian gangsters
were concentrating on Russian athletes. But the only evidence produced thus far
was in March 1994, when a Russian immigrant pleaded guilty to a charge that he
tried to extort $150,000 from Alexander Mogilny, who was then a player for the
Buffalo Sabres.

The Senate panel, the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, is looking into
the emergence in the last decade of Russian immigrant crime groups in the
country, and their ties to other crime groups.

"Casso will tell how the New York mobsters used their muscle to cash in on
schemes and frauds that the Russians developed, especially gasoline tax frauds
and gasoline bootlegging," said a committee investigator who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.

"The Russians supplied the brains and the Mafia supplied the hit men,"

the investigator added.

Senator William V. Roth, a Republican of Delaware, the committee's chairman,
said in a statement yesterday that Mr. Casso will describe violent acts carried
out by the Lucchese family for their Russian confederates and how Lucchese
mobsters killed a Russian partner whom they suspected of disloyalty.

Another Mafia defector, Michael Franzese, who has admitted to being a captain in
the Colombo crime family, is expected to testify about multimillion-dollar
gasoline excise tax frauds engineered by Russian criminals and the Colombos,
investigators said.

The relationships between Russian immigrant gangs and the Colombo and Gambino
crime families were established in the 1980's at Federal trials in New York and
in New Jersey. But Mr. Casso's testimony will shed light for the first time on
the Lucchese faction's ties with its Russian counterparts, investigators said.

Mr. Casso, 56, who was nicknamed Gaspipe, would become the highest-ranking Mafia
defector to provide details of the mob's connections to Russian gangsters.

Federal and state law enforcement officials say that a small group of
Russian-born criminals slipped into the country in the 1970's and early 1980's
among a wave of immigrants from the Soviet Union seeking political and religious
freedom. These criminals, officials say, settled mainly in Brighton Beach and
nearby sections of South Brooklyn and specialized in frauds and extortion of
merchants in protection rackets.

The collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 brought a new and more sophisticated
group of criminals with direct links to organized crime gangs in Russia and in
other countries, the officials say.

According to the authorities, the new groups have established bases in southern
Florida and in Los Angeles, Boston and Philadelphia as well as in the New York
region. They are extensively engaged in international narcotics trafficking and
money laundering, the authorities say.

Before changing sides, Mr. Casso was portrayed by the F.B.I. as one of the
country's most treacherous Mafia leaders.

He was considered a symbol of a new breed of dangerous Mafia gangsters who
emerged in the 1980's to fill power vacuums in the five mob families in the New
York area.

On the run for 32 months, Mr. Casso was captured in January 1993 by the F.B.I.
in a hideout in Mount Olive, N.J. Facing life without parole if convicted, Mr.
Casso sought leniency by becoming a Government witness and entering the Witness
Protection Program.

In March 1994, at a closed hearing in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, he
pleaded guilty to racketeering and murder charges and is awaiting sentencing.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 25, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

City Cancels 26 Contracts For Agencies

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 850 words


The Giuliani administration yesterday canceled more than two dozen city
contracts awarded to agencies to provide services for immigrants and ordered
that the contracts be put out for bid again, citing concerns about how the deals
-- worth a total of $2.5 million -- were made.

The decision came after weeks of criticism by numerous elected officials and
representatives of agencies that were rejected. They charged that the Community
Development Agency had acted improperly in granting the 26 contracts, suggesting
that evaluation scores had been altered and administration officials had
intervened to reward groups for their support of the Mayor.

But in reopening the bidding yesterday, administration officials said they had
acted because of what they termed "technical errors" in the evaluation process,
and they said they had found no significant irregularities. Asked to cite an
example of a technical error, David V. Hind, deputy chief of staff to the
agency's Commissioner, Diane McGrath-McKechnie, said some evaluators had used
pencils instead of pens on the contract bid score sheets, which is considered a
violation of the application process.

"Although it was not concluded that these errors would have affected the final
outcome of the contract awards, the Commissioner is mindful of the public
questions about this contract," Mr. Hind said in a statement. Ms.
McGrath-McKechnie declined to comment.

Agency officials denied that the original selections were tainted by political
favoritism.

The decision to withdraw the grants and start the process from scratch is the
latest contract problem for the administration. Last March, the administration
had to cancel $43 million in welfare reform contracts after it was disclosed
that city officials broke bidding rules in granting the deals to a politically
connected Queens social services agency. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is
conducting a criminal inquiry into how the welfare contracts were awarded and
why.

Concerns about the immigration contracts -- none of which were actually formally
registered or put into effect -- were raised virtually as soon as they were
announced last February. Agencies are scored on the design and cost of the
programs they are proposing.

A number of agencies serving Hispanic immigrants complained that they had been
excluded despite scoring well on the initial rounds of evaluation. Officials
with other agencies noted that the bulk of the largest grants had gone to Jewish
agencies, and they suggested that the administration had sought to reward groups
that back Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.

And then Public Advocate Mark Green's office said it had been contacted by
several current and former employees at the Community Development Agency who
said scores had been ordered changed. Mr. Green obtained copies of scoring
sheets that seemed to indicate a pattern of agencies being given contracts
despite poor ratings early on in the process. Mr. Green has turned the material
over to the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan.

Officials with the city Comptroller's office said yesterday that they had asked
for weeks for the backup material for the contracts, but the documentation was
never provided.

"After months of indignant denials that anything was wrong with these contracts,
the administration is tearing up the contracts, and announcing it on the Friday
before Memorial Day weekend," said Mr. Green. "The public is entitled to an
explanation of what is an obviously suspicious performance by the
administration."

Manuel Matos, executive director of the Northern Manhattan Coalition for
Immigrant Rights, said he found the administration's explanation unacceptable.
The coalition, which Mr. Matos said has helped 10,000 Dominicans to become
citizens in recent years, was initially rejected as a contractor last March. But
after the first burst of controversy, Mr. Matos's agency, which scored highly in
the early rounds of the evaluation, was given a modest contract.

"Apparently, the administration decided it would cost them too much politically
to go ahead with the contracts," Mr. Matos said. "They were unable to keep
things under wraps. But the improprieties were far more serious that they admit.
It's a slap in the face to everyone."

Among the groups awarded contracts in the flawed process were Agudath Israel, an
Orthodox Jewish group that, despite never having been given an immigration
contract before, was to receive the largest grant, a $199,198 to provide free
legal services to immigrants, primarily Russians. The Metropolitan Council on
Jewish Poverty was to receive two contracts. And the Hellenic American
Neighborhood Action Committee, the Queens agency that was given the disputed
welfare contracts, was up for a $65,000 grant despite receiving a poor formal
score on its initial proposal.

Regarding the reopening of the contracts for bids, Guillermo Linares, a City
Councilman who represents Washington Heights in Manhattan, said: "Whatever
explanation they give, I think there is relief. Everyone had questions, everyone
was alarmed."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 26, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Focus on Those Displaced by the Fall of the Soviet Union

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, May 24


With millions of people still displaced or living as refugees almost five years
after the collapse of the Soviet Union, three international agencies will hold a
conference next week in Geneva to address what relief organizations call a
colossal problem largely unnoticed outside the Commonwealth of Independent
States.

Since the Soviet Union was formally dissolved in 1991, officials say, nearly
nine million people have been uprooted, creating one of the largest and most
complex migrations ever faced by international agencies.

At least two million people have fled regional conflicts like those in
Tajikistan and Georgia. Millions more are trying to undo the forced deportations
of the Stalinist era or are seeking to flee ethnic tensions that have erupted
since the fall of Communism. The ecological disasters of the failed Soviet
economy have forced countless others to move in search of clean land and water.
Traffickers in people are luring thousands into illegal immigration.

Often, migrants' paths cross as populations are exchanged.

"It is a complicated set of movements and causes which have to be appreciated
each in their own right in order to formulate appropriate policy responses,"
said Arthur C. Helton, director of migration programs for the Open Society
Institute in New York. "There are no real mechanisms in the region for planning
or preparing for migration or refugee emergencies."

Mr. Helton is among those who are critical of what he describes as the limited
scope of the Geneva conference, which is likely to include discussion of which
principles should apply to the treatment of migrants and refugees but is
expected to stop short of any concrete demands for action. Relief officials say
that Western Europeans are resisting calls for a broader legal definition of
refugees from the region, fearing that this could upset stricter asylum policies
now being introduced.

The conference, to be held on Thursday and Friday, is sponsored by the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organization for
Migration and the human rights division of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe. Up to 50 countries are expected to send delegations to
the conference, which has strong diplomatic and financial support from the
United States.

Russia has been asking for an international meeting on displaced people in the
Commonwealth of Independent States since 1993. But many Russian officials have
been concerned primarily with the fate of ethnic Russians driven from new
nations or barred from citizenship. Russia has also sought money for migrants
returning to the federation from former republics.

Officials of the High Commissioner for Refugees' office in Geneva say that from
its inception, the conference was intended mainly to provide a forum for refugee
issues in the Commonwealth of Independent States and as a spur to better
analysis of regional population movements that could lead to the adoption of
national strategies for dealing with population movements.

Questions of citizenship must be settled by national governments, these
officials say.

John Horekens, director of the European bureau of the High Commissioner for
Refugees, said in an interview today that the meeting could not solve all the
problems of the region, but it could "at least get a dialogue going."

"This will be a long process," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 26, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGBORHOOD REPORT: GARMENT DISTRICT;
Rents Push Morale Down and Koreans Out

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 7;  Column 4;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 458 words


For 15 years, Chalie Chung, a Korean immigrant, ran his hat-and-glove business
out of the same store at 29th Street and Broadway. But rent spiraled until he
could no longer afford the increase he was presented with last year, to $15,000
a month from $10,000. So last summer, he moved his business, Charm Creation,
three crosstown blocks to 28th and Seventh Avenue. His new rent? $5,000 a month.

Still, he feels a loss. "It is like you live in a house for a long time," Mr.
Chung, 48, said. "You have your family there. You see your friends there. It is
hard to leave."

Korean immigrants and Korean-Americans, by far the largest ethnic group in the
Herald Square area, are worrying that a one-two punch of higher rents and a
sluggish local and international economy will drive the remaining Koreans out of
the business district they helped build. For example, as Mr. Chung's rent has
risen, he says, his sales have declined: last year, sales totaled $1.5 million,
down 20 percent from 1994.

Koreans have been opening stores near Herald Square since the early 70's, and
Broadway from 33d Street to 25th became known for the import-export business.
Koreans specialized mainly in costume jewelry, wigs, handbags and hats.

"Landlords are digging their own graves," said Illsoo Kim. "If the Korean
business district fades away, I think it would hurt New York's economy." Mr. Kim
is the author of "New Urban Immigrants: The Korean Community in New York."

The New York Society of Korean Businessmen says there are as many as 500
Korean-owned businesses in the area and that the numbers have fallen by perhaps
two-thirds since the mid-80's.

As in Mr. Chung's case, they sometimes move only a few blocks. But in other
cases, they move to Queens or Long Island and even out of state.

"I don't blame them for moving," said Henry Justin of Justin Management, one of
the largest landlords in the area. "I can't believe how many other landlords
make me look good."

Mr. Justin said, however, that the problem was sour business rather than higher
rents. Rents have gradually risen to about $18 a square foot per month. Because
he has so many Korean-American tenants with sluggish businesses, he said, he has
tried to keep rents at about $14 a square foot.

"When money's flowing like water," he said, "nobody complains about the rent.
Now that money isn't flowing, people notice the rent. The Korean community took
a tremendous hit when the peso went down because Latin Americans are some of
their biggest customers."

Won S. Byun, who has been a wholesaler of sequins and other ornaments since
1971, said, "More and more of us old-timers have to decide whether we stay or
go. But we are getting more and more worried."   ANTHONY RAMIREZ

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chalie Chung, faced with a $5,000 rent increase, moved his
store. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 26, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION VIEW;
When Aliens Start To Look A Lot Like Us

BYLINE: By Jon Pareles

SECTION: Section 2;   Page 26;   Column 2;   Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 999 words


HAVE ALIENS APPEARED ON our planet? It's an open question. But aliens can be
counted on to show up in pop culture at the first hint of an identity crisis
affecting Earth's known population.

Lately, they have been turning up more often on television: as shadowy UFO's on
"The X-Files" and as families in the hit sitcom "Third Rock From the Sun," the
discontinued "Aliens in the Family" and Fox's occasional movie series "Alien
Nation." The durable "Star Trek" franchise continues with "Deep Space Nine" and
"Voyager," not to mention endless reruns.

In their infinite imaginary variety, aliens can embody human hopes, anxieties,
dilemmas and preoccupations. Distorted ears or built-up foreheads can establish
characters not bound by standard expectations. They can be Messianic; they can
be evil; they can be omniscient or petty. Aliens are perfect as instruments of
social criticism or satire; they can represent the malevolent force of
technology, of nature or of current political tendencies taken to extremes. Or
they can be Candides, bemusedly wandering through worlds they never made.

On "The X-Files," aliens hardly figure as characters; along with ghosts and
mutants, they provide pretexts for paranoia and gore. But the regular alien
characters of current television all point to longtime American concerns:
immigration, race and assimilation. Can we get along? Or will basic genetic
differences prove to be insurmountable?

Fictional aliens often arrive at times of upheaval. Seeing the results of the
Industrial Revolution, H. G. Wells envisioned pitiless, mechanized Martians in
"The War of the Worlds." Fear of nuclear war in the 1950's was summed up in the
warnings of the benevolent but powerful alien in "The Day the Earth Stood
Still." Alien-takeover films like "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" reflected
fears of Communist infiltration or, perhaps, of 1950's conformity. Later,
Sigourney Weaver's tormentors in the "Alien" series became a metaphor for the
mindless implacability of AIDS.

But television demanded more approachable aliens, because they would be visiting
every week. Uncle Martin of "My Favorite Martian" and Mork of "Mork and Mindy"
both had unusual powers, but they weren't forbidding, just odd; in the 1970's,
Mork was a belated hippie.

Some movie aliens also grew more likable, as invaders were displaced by
outsiders the audience could identify with. "Star Wars" featured characters
suitable for merchandising as dolls, and Steven Spielberg's cuddly E. T. was
basically a lost child. In a less uplifting way, David Bowie's alien in "The Man
Who Fell to Earth" was also a lost tourist, trapped here by uncomprehending
humans.

The new crop of aliens don't want to go home. They like American creature
comforts and egalitarian ideals, not to mention the companionship. The
characters who have landed on Earth in "Third Rock From the Sun" have been
thoroughly seduced by human pleasures. Having adapted human bodies, they've been
overwhelmed (and mostly delighted) by human lusts; their confusion allows the
show's writers to pile on bawdy double-entendres. Adult aliens, it seems, are
thrilled to act like groping American adolescents. But now that they're getting
used to their new skins, the characters are exploring different aspects of
American identity. In one recent episode, they were trying to figure out what
ethnicity they should belong to. Real Americans, they've gleaned, want to be
members of a minority.

The immigration analogy of "Alien Nation" couldn't be more heavy-handed. The
series is a detective show that teams a human and a "newcomer," a bald,
splotch-headed, slit-eared alien. Like other cop shows, this one explores social
tensions and clashes. The newcomers are ex-slaves -- yes, slaves -- whose ship
landed outside Los Angeles. They're stronger than humans and they have two
hearts. They are earnest, mostly hard-working folks who are officially accepted
but also resented. In the pilot, the leader of a "purist" group said: "It's a
finite world. Whatever they take -- water, food, jobs -- there's that much less
for us."

The alien characters worry about whether they should integrate or form
segregated communities, and whether they should conserve their old culture or
adapt to American ways. They choose integration, despite the friction.

"Star Trek" has a long head start on identity questions. Since the 1960's, when
the Vulcan Spock was part of the international, interracial crew of the original
Enterprise, the creators of "Star Trek" have been adding nonhuman characters and
skewed analogues of human civilizations.

With their ever more elaborate backgrounds, aliens in "Star Trek" can represent
exaggerated human tendencies, like the ultracapitalist Ferengi (the Shylocks of
space) or the enzyme-addicted Jem 'Hadar troops, crackheads in uniform. Or they
can suggest ethnic and political groups. The Bajorans, with their religious
rituals, caste system, pierced ears and newly won freedom from the Cardassian
Empire, might be Indians or Palestinians. The Kazon, with their endlessly
warring sects and hatred for former colonial overseers, could be a more powerful
Somalia or Rwanda.

One staple plot for each generation of "Star Trek" is the divided loyalties of
nonhuman characters. Will Worf, the Klingon raised by humans, ignore Federation
strictures and succumb to his high-testosterone impulses? (Only in small ways.)
Can Odo, the changeling exile from the Dominion, really be trusted? (Yes,
although outsiders keep asking.) "Star Trek" says, tentatively, that all sorts
of creatures can aspire to the all-American, democratic, secular humanist ideas
of the Federation. But nature is always challenging training.

On a recent "Star Trek: Voyager" episode, the ever ebullient Neelix chided
Tuvok, an emotionless Vulcan, for being so dour. "I am who I am," Tuvok
insisted. "It is impossible for me to be more or less like myself." As we watch
the aliens we create, we continue to wonder, Who are we?

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Close to Home Ray Walston in "My Favorite Martian," top, Robin
Williams in "Mork and Mindy," above, and John Lithgow in "Third Rock From the
Sun"--Examples of the alien as the odd but unforbidding next-door neighbor. (ABC
("Mork and Mindy"); CBS ("My Favorite Martian"); NBC)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 884 words



International A3-11

YELTSIN GOES TO CHECHNYA

Shortly after concluding a peace settlement with separatist Chechnya, President
Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia went there to capitalize on the pact for his
campaign. A1

RUSSIAN COMMUNISTS' PROPOSAL

Russian Communists released their economic platform, calling for halting foreign
competition and spending to end the country's decline instead of free-market
reforms. A6

U.S. CLOAK AND DAGGER TALE

The American Ambassador to Croatia recently found out the C.I.A. station chief
there had been spying on him, but the clash was between institutions, not
individuals. A1

WEIGHTY IMMIGRANT VOTE

Russian immigrants make up a large bloc of Israeli voters, and if they use their
vote to express their dissatisfaction, it could hurt the Prime Minister.  A1

ISRAEL READIES FOR ELECTION

Election fever rose in Israel, with a close race predicted and with a
recognition of the enormous importance of the race as a referendum on peace with
the Arabs. A10

U.S. TIES FOR SERB LEADER

The Bosnian Serb leader, under indictment for war crimes, has signed a contract
with an American firm, contrary to American calls to shun the leadership there.
A9

REPRESSIVE MOVE IN ALBANIA

Albania escalated the repressive tactics shown during its weekend election,
which observers said was the worst in Eastern Europe since the end of Communism.
A6

China promised action on any illegal arms deals. A5

A French proposal to replace conscription with civics classes. A7

Paso de Cortes Journal: Debate boils as a volcano simmers. A4

National A12-17, B7-8

GUILTY VERDICT IN LITTLE ROCK

Two of President Clinton's former business partners and his successor as
Governor of Arkansas were convicted of fraud, and the Governor said he would
resign.  A1

A CRIME THEME FOR DOLE

Returning to the subject of crime, Senator Bob Dole sought to portray himself as
tougher than President Clinton and offered several proposals to prove it.  A1

NEW JERSEY BLUE CROSS DEAL

New Jersey Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the largest health insurer in New Jersey,
has agreed to join forces with a big Midwestern company that is one of the
nation's largest health insurers, people with knowledge of the deal said.  A1

DEFYING A CHURCH COURT

Ten Episcopal bishops who brought heresy charges against a bishop for ordaining
a gay man as a deacon said that they rejected a church court's dismissal of the
charges and would take the matter to the church's General Convention.  A12

CONCERNS ABOUT BIRTH CONTROL

New contraceptives are needed, but development of them is being thwarted, a
panel of medical experts said.  A16

BENEFITS AND AGENT ORANGE

President Clinton expanded medical benefits for Vietnam veterans exposed to
Agent Orange, saying soldiers with prostate cancer or peripheral neuropathy, a
nerve disease, were eligible.  A17

A suit claimed racial bias led to clustering of solid-waste sites. A15

Education Page B9

"Dead letters" at City University: courses canceled by budget cuts.

Investors looking to educational companies as the next growth area.

Metro Report B1-6

LESSER CHARGES IN KILLING

A Bronx man implicated in the death last week of a New York City police officer
was indicted on the lesser of two homicide charges that had been filed against
him, leading Mayor Rudolph W. Guiliani to charge, once again, that the Bronx
District Attorney was not aggressively pressing the case.  A1

Business Digest D1

Arts/Entertainment C11-16

David Merrick loses his lawsuit over Tony nominations.  C11

The film captivating the Dominican Republic.  C11

A French master of organ improvisation.  C14

Music: Operas by Verdi and Janacek at Spoleto.  C11

Dance: Cast changes in all-Tchaikovsky program.  C14

Books: "Open Heart," by A. B. Yehoshua.  C15

Television: Assessing Presidential character.  C16

TV Notes C16

The Living Section C1-9

Eating Well: Food heroes or

zealots?  C1

At work with Andrew Selvaggio: Feeding Olympians.  C1

A homemade beer goes

national.  C1

Metropolitan Diary C2

Food Notes C2

Off the Menu C2

Lobster fra diavolo.  C3

Plain and Simple C7

Health Page C9

Personal Health: Cigars are dangerous, too.  C9

Personal Health: Using cold for victims of head injury.  C9

Sports B10-15

Baseball: Rogers loses no-hitter in eighth and game in ninth.  B11

Mets shut out Giants and Gilkey homers twice.  B13

Mookie Wilson graduates.  B11

Basketball: Utah defeats Seattle in overtime.  B11

Columns: Vecsey on Kemp.  B11

Sandomir on Fox and baseball.  B13

Tennis: Graf and Muster win, Capriati loses at French Open.  B13

Obituaries D18

Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19

Editorials

Guilty in Little Rock.

A partial peace in Chechnya.

Reasonable immigration reform.

A stacked deck against NEC.

Letters

Thomas L. Friedman: Bibi and Gennadi.

Frank Rich: Cradle and all.

Edward Humes: Tough justice for juveniles.

Hamilton Jordan: A fragmented war on cancer.

Chronicle B5

Crossword C10

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 1996, Friday

CORRECTION:

An article on Wednesday about the influence of immigrants from Russia on the
elections in Israel referred incorrectly in some editions to the university
affiliation of Sam Lehman-Wilzig. He is a professor at Bar-Ilan University, not
Hebrew University.


TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Dominican Everyman As Unlikely Movie Hero

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section C;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1174 words

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic


For almost a year, they've been lining up outside theaters, often ignoring
tropical downpours, to see the film that has captivated this entire country.
Residents of some isolated peasant villages have even strung up sheets in the
town square and rented projectors so that they, too, can see "Nueba Yol."

But the movie, said to be the most popular in the history of the Dominican
Republic, is as much a New York production as a local one. Shot both here and in
Manhattan, it is the tale of a naive and befuddled Dominican immigrant's
bittersweet experiences in a foreign city, where, he is told, "you can pick up
dollars like heads of lettuce."

For moviegoers here, the sheer novelty of a film that features Dominicans in
sympathetic leading roles and not as criminals, servants or other marginal
figures is perhaps its strongest selling point. Like the Dominican immigrants
who have cheered the film in New York, they are shocked to find one of their own
portrayed as no less heroic than a Sylvester Stallone or an Arnold
Schwarzenegger character.

"People here are not accustomed to seeing themselves in movies, so they feel
that going to see this one is a patriotic act," said Luisito Marti, the popular
Dominican comedian who plays Orodoto Balbuena, the movie's protagonist. "I think
they have taken to it because they feel 'this is ours.' "

The character Mr. Marti plays in "Nueba Yol," which takes its title from the
local mispronunciation of "New York" (noo-AY-bah YOLE) is one of the most
familiar and beloved in this Caribbean nation of 7.5 million people. Since 1982,
Balbuena has been a regular in comedy sketches on a popular television program
called "The Noon Show," always scheming to get to the United States, but
inevitably meeting with frustration at the very last moment.

The prospect of finally seeing Balbuena reach the land of his dreams was
irresistible to his fans here and in New York, where the bulk of the scenes were
filmed. Once word got out about what Mr. Marti and Angel Muniz, who wrote and
directed "Nueba Yol," were up to, Dominican immigrants in Washington Heights
eagerly offered their apartments and their advice.

"The level of enthusiasm was so high that sometimes when we were in New York we
had to stop filming right in the middle of scenes," Mr. Marti said over lunch
here. "Dominicans would be walking by and suddenly get all choked up to see that
Balbuena had finally made it to New York, so they'd barge right into the scene
to embrace me."

Balbuena, Mr. Marti said, is a kind of Dominican everyman, which is precisely
the source of his appeal. "In every barrio of every city in the Dominican
Republic there are Balbuenas," he said. "He's the guy who dreams of bettering
himself but hasn't been given the chance to study, who survives by the grace of
the Holy Spirit and thinks his only chance of not dying in complete poverty is
getting to New York, where he will do any kind of honorable work, no matter how
dirty or demanding, to make a living."

As many as a million Dominicans have made their way to the United States over
the last 30 years. "It's hard to find a Dominican without a relative who lives
in New York," Mr. Marti said. So Balbuena's misadventures, which end with his
returning to a little house here, chastened but unbowed, resonate widely here.

"It's very funny and at the same time very real," said Fabio Fleury, who
recently returned after a sojourn of 14 years in the United States, most of it
spent parking cars at a Manhattan garage. "It captures that feeling of wanting a
better life but ending up in a place that doesn't belong to you, which was
exactly what happened to me."

"Nueba Yol" evolved out of a chance meeting a couple of years ago at Newark
International Airport, which found Mr. Muniz enthusiastically pushing the idea
of a feature film on a doubtful Mr. Marti. ("I thought he was out of his head,"
the comedian admitted.) From the start, both men agreed that the theme had to be
immigration, a subject that had long been on Mr. Muniz's mind and that he knew
from personal experience.

"The first time I left the Dominican Republic, I was 16, and thought I was on my
way to Hollywood to be an actor," said Mr. Muniz, who is 36. But he was stopped
by immigration officials in Puerto Rico and forced to return here, where he
worked as an actor, writer and director for Dominican television.

He eventually made his way to New York, where he discovered that he could not
learn English "because you would go to school for one hour, and then speak
Spanish for 23 hours a day." So he moved to Holland, Mich., where he lived with
a cousin, enrolled in a community college and two months later met his wife,
Dawn, whom he described as "an all-American girl from the Midwest."

Some of the funniest moments in the movie, Mr. Muniz somewhat sheepishly admits,
are based on incidents he recalled from his own days as a newcomer in New York.
In one typical replication of the culture shock that Mr. Muniz went through,
Balbuena hears the buzzing of an apartment intercom, but thinks it is a fire
alarm and flies into a state of panic; another scene shows him almost getting
arrested in a drug raid because of language difficulties.

"A lot of the scenes were autobiography," said Mr. Muniz, who now lives in a
Philadelphia suburb and speaks fluent English. "When I was writing, I went back
to my own experience, my own feeling of dislocation, a lot. So it was really
Balbuena interpreting me."

For his part, Mr. Marti said the success he had long enjoyed as a performer,
first as a percussionist in the orchestra of the merengue star Johnny Ventura
and then as a singer and comedian, meant that "I have been privileged never to
have to abandon my country." But in portraying Balbuena he was able to draw on
the experiences of a sister, various aunts and uncles, cousins and, above all,
his own father.

"I'm from a poor family, and like 99 percent of all Dominicans who leave the
country, my dad wanted to improve our economic condition," Mr. Marti said. "Like
the majority of Dominicans, he also dreamed of coming back here and buying a
little house for himself. But he ended up working at the Taft Hotel for nearly
20 years, and he died in New York."

Using the movie's success in New York, where it had a nine-week run, as a lure,
Mr. Muniz is working on deals to have "Nueba Yol" shown elsewhere: it is now
playing in Miami and New England, and is to open in Phoenix in early June, and
Texas, California and Chicago in the summer.

"I started making this movie for Dominicans, and hoped that if other groups
would go see it, it would turn out to be contagious," he said. The response has
convinced him that he was right, he said, and that he can now make other movies
about immigration.

"In movie terms, this is a subject that has barely been scratched, so I want to
do a trilogy in Spanish before moving on to making movies in English," Mr. Muniz
said. "Just waiting for a bus in Manhattan with someone, you can hear the most
amazing stories."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luisito Marti, wearing a hat, and Raul Carbonell, to his right,
in a Santo Domingo barrio during the filming of "Nueba Yol." (Richard Douglas)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 30, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

MERGING IDENTITY -- A special report.;
New Sense of Race Arises Among Asian-Americans

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2500 words


It was on a late May afternoon in 1969, three months after he had left the
Philippines for New York City, that Peter Bersamin says he began to realize he
was Asian.

Driving up to Cape Cod, he stopped at a cottage with a sign promising vacancies.
But when Mr. Bersamin asked about a room, the keeper looked at him, told him no
and closed the door. "Before I got back to the car, I knew it," he said. "That
was my first experience with racial discrimination and the beginning of my
awareness as being somebody other than white."

Until then, Mr. Bersamin had identified himself only as Filipino. But after
meeting other Asian immigrants in Queens over the years, the 50-year-old
psychologist has come to feel less part of a national or ethnic group and more
part of a racial one. He now felt kinship for the Chinese, whom he had regarded
suspiciously in the Philippines, and for the Japanese, whom his father, a
colonel during World War II, hated so much he refused to stop in Tokyo on a
trans-Pacific flight.

Even as anti-immigrant sentiment attracts attention, including comments hostile
to immigrants from Julia Harrison, the Councilwoman from Flushing,
Asian-Americans are arriving at a crossroad. A generation after large numbers of
Asian immigrants arrived here, many, like Mr. Bersamin, say they have undergone
transformations in how they think of themselves.

Many Asians still feel a strong sense of their separate ethnic identities, and
ethnic clubs still flourish in some cities and colleges. Yet the emerging racial
consciousness is giving birth to many pan-Asian clubs, particularly in Queens,
lower Manhattan, Los Angeles and San Francisco, where only in the last two
decades have Asians of different origins begun to live together.

But if personal experiences and social and political pressures are instilling in
Asian-Americans the American sense of race, the consequences are unclear. They
include more interethnic and interracial marriages.

Will members of the nation's fastest-growing racial group identify themselves as
Chinese-Americans or Filipino-Americans, the way Italian-Americans or
Irish-Americans often designate themselves? With a nod to their ethnic roots but
their feet planted in the mainstream? Or will they end up defining themselves as
Asian-American, a term like black or African-American, with its suggestion of a
separate race?

Talk of Asian-Americans as a distinct racial group grew out of the civil rights
movement. At the University of California at Berkeley and at Los Angeles,
students and faculty members sought to unify Japanese- and Chinese-Americans,
who had remained divided since immigrating a century ago. But starting in 1965,
with the repeal of laws that had sharply restricted immigration from Asia since
the 1920's, the number of Americans of Asian descent rose to a critical mass,
from one million in 1960 to nine million today.

"Now you really have an emergence of the second generation," said Yen Le
Espiritu, a Vietnamese-born ethnic studies professor at the University of
California at San Diego. "They're going to college. You see them not only
identifying with each other. They're also protesting at places like Columbia and
Princeton to create Asian-American studies departments. It's another indication
of their becoming racialized and politicized in the United States context."

Heritages Differ

A Melting Pot For Old Conflicts

In Queens, the county on the East Coast with the highest number of
Asian-Americans, the most recent Asian immigrants remain divided by Asia's
historical conflicts, while the older immigrants and their children mix and
identify racially with one another. It is perhaps surprising these conflicts
have melted in those cases, because their reminders, especially those of
Japanese imperialism, are etched throughout the borough, sometimes subtly and
unexpectedly.

At the Flushing public library, they are hidden on one shelf lined with Japanese
children's books that older Taiwanese immigrants, who grew up under Japanese
rule, read to their grandchildren. They appear on Kissena Boulevard in Flushing
on a Korean-owned store called Tokyo Bakery and in Japanese restaurants in
Queens, almost all owned by Korean immigrants.

In downtown Flushing's western end are shops and restaurants belonging to
Taiwanese immigrants. Their Korean counterparts are clustered along Union
Street, a block east and a world away.

Ryota Waki, 19, whose parents immigrated to Elmhurst, Queens, from Japan, saw
how fresh some wounds can be in a seventh-grade math class when a
Korean-American girl sitting behind him learned of his Japanese ancestry. "She
had this shocked look on her face," Mr. Waki said. "Like, you got to be kidding.
And she told me, 'I don't want to be your friend anymore.' And we didn't talk
after that."

But Mr. Waki said it was an isolated incident. He has fallen among
second-generation Asian-Americans. Two years ago, he left a Japanese-American
church in Manhattan, with few congregants his age, for the Reform Church of
Newton in Elmhurst, where second-generation Taiwanese-Americans attend English
services. Recently, he joined a Korean Christian Fellowship club at New York
University.

For Asian-Americans raised in neighborhoods with many Asians, racial awareness
begins early.

After immigrating to Flushing from Taipei when he was 7, John Lee went to a
public school most of whose students were black and Hispanic. He was teased and
made few friends. But a year later, things changed when he transferred to Public
School 32, with many Asian-American students. He made friends easily, even
though his closest friends turned out not to be Taiwanese or even Chinese, but
Koreans and a Thai.

"It just seemed that they looked like me," said Mr. Lee, 22, a senior at Baruch
College, explaining why he gravitated toward them. "There was a comfort zone.
Everybody was in the same boat, struggling to learn English. We didn't say, 'Oh,
you're Chinese,' or 'You're Korean.' It was one big group."

On college campuses, away from the Asian immigrant neighborhoods of Queens,
ethnic distinctions seem to matter less and less.  Jennifer Bersamin, 19, the
daughter of Peter Bersamin, is a sophomore at the State University at
Binghamton, whose large population of Asian-Americans, she said, is from the New
York area. Because her last name lacks a telltale ethnic root, some of her
Asian-American friends are not aware of her Filipino ancestry.

"They don't ask," she said. "If they do, it's only out of curiosity."

School Ties
When Campus Radicalizes

In a survey of 237 second-generation Korean-American high school students in New
York, Pyong Gap Min, a Korean-born sociologist at Queens College, found that
nearly three-quarters identified themselves as Korean-American, compared with
three-quarters of first-generation immigrants who thought of themselves simply
as Korean. Only a few of the high school students chose the term Asian-American.

But Professor Min said that will change when they go to college, especially on
campuses with Asian-American studies programs. To some extent, there is evidence
that this is happening. At the University of California and at Ivy League
schools, for example, Asian-American clubs are organized increasingly around
race rather than ethnicity. At U.C.L.A., about half of the 65 Asian-American
student organizations are pan-Asian, said Don T. Nakanishi, director of
U.C.L.A.'s Asian American Studies Center.

Dr. Min said this is partly owing to the influence of Asian-American studies
programs, which are concentrated in California and spreading to the East Coast.

"Many of the people who teach Asian-American courses are activists," he said,
adding that Queens College lacks Asian-American studies. "They indoctrinate
students by emphasizing a common destiny. They make them demonstrate for
Asian-American studies.

"If you have an institutional basis, you can do that. It's very important to
shaping students' identities. When they come to college, they may not think of
themselves as Asian-American. They may think of themselves ethnically as Korean,
Chinese or Japanese. But their identities are changed."

Colleges hold a special power in shaping Asian-Americans' identities. Only 3
percent of the country's population, they represented 5.4 percent of the
students in colleges and at universities nationwide in 1994, according to the
United States Department of Education.  It is the only racial group whose
percentage of students was above their proportion of the national population.

Even at New York University, which does not offer Asian-American studies but
which recently held an Asian-American heritage month and Asian athletic games
for the university's Asian-American clubs, social forces can have a powerful
effect.

Chi Truong, whose family left Vietnam in 1975 and settled in Elmhurst, Queens,
said she consciously tried to make non-Asian friends in her freshman year. "I
would see a big group of Asians and think, 'Oh brother, I hope I don't end up
like that,' " she said. "I thought it would cut away your uniqueness, stifle
your growth."

Now a junior, Ms. Truong, 19, said all her close friends are Asian-American, and
her boyfriend is Mr. Waki. She felt she was missing something by not having
friends of other races. But her choice was inevitable, she thought. As a
freshman, she had started going to the university's Korean Christian Fellowship
club, which despite its name had become pan-Asian in the last year. She is now
vice president of the club where she has made all her close friends.

On a recent Wednesday evening, about a third of the 40 students who crammed into
a small room at the student center to worship and sing included students of
Filipino, Taiwanese, Japanese and Vietnamese ancestry. (Last year, the Chinese
Christian Fellowship club changed its name to the Asian-American Christian
Fellowship because so many non-Chinese Americans had joined.)

Edmund Chiang, 19, a freshman from Woodside, Queens, whose parents immigrated
from Taiwan, led the Korean-American fellowship in song. At Stuyvesant High
School, where half the students are of Asian descent, Mr. Chiang said his
identity began shifting from "just being Taiwanese."

"Now," he said, "I first think of myself as a Christian, then Asian and then
Taiwanese."

The Enemy Within
Antagonism Or Assimilation?

Some Asian-Americans say the political climate on campuses is widening and
multiplying the country's racial fissures by producing a generation with an
antagonistic attitude toward white Americans. Just as the Irish, Italians and
Jews encountered hostility at the turn of the century but eventually
assimilated, Asian immigrants and their children can follow the same path if
they try, they say.

Lance T. Izumi, a fellow at Pacific Research Institute in San Francisco who
served as a speechwriter to Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d during the Reagan
Administration, said the climate is delaying the integration of Asian-Americans.
Although Chinese- and Japanese-Americans were excluded until after World War II,
they have assimilated quickly in the last two or three decades, Mr. Izumi said.

He pointed to the high number of marriages between whites and third- and
fourth-generation Japanese- and Chinese-Americans. For Japanese-Americans, about
half of all marriages are now interracial.

"There are many in my generation, and I include myself, who see more of the
commonalities and don't cling on to this idea of Asian-American," said Mr.
Izumi, 37, a third-generation Japanese-American. "But how many of those
third-generation Vietnamese- and Korean-Americans will feel the same as I do now
if they had it beaten into their heads that the majority culture is the enemy?"

Critics like Mr. Izumi say Asian-American advocates, by emphasizing historical
wrongs, promote the idea of victimhood, a label that they say rings false when
Asian Indians are the most educated ethnic group in the nation, Japanese- and
Chinese-Americans earn higher incomes than whites, and two-thirds of all
Asian-Americans were born abroad.

And while advocates stress solidarity with black and Hispanic people, many
Asian-Americans say they think policies like affirmative action hurt them,
especially in college admissions, by favoring black and Hispanic applicants as
well as whites. Asian-American high school seniors have the highest grades and
test scores of any racial group, and usually do not qualify for affirmative
action programs.

Politically, even in areas with concentrations of Asian immigrants, like
Flushing or Los Angeles, Asian-American candidates so far have had little
success in uniting the Asian vote behind them. Because a small percentage of
Asian immigrants register to vote -- and when they do, Japanese-Americans lean
toward Democrats and Chinese- and Korean-Americans favor Republicans --
Asian-American candidates now must discreetly appeal to their core constituency
while being ethnically neutral enough to broaden their appeal.

Second-generation Asian-Americans are likely to become more politically
involved, experts predict. But how their identities take shape over the years
will determine whether they become involved in racial or mainstream politics.

"Which direction they take," said Michael Woo, a Chinese-American who ran
unsuccessfully for mayor of Los Angeles in 1993 and has since taught at Harvard
and U.C.L.A., "will depend on two factors: the level of continuing racism and
discrimination, and whether there is a continuing flow of immigrants
revitalizing the ethnic communities."

Asian-American advocates, who say racism is at the core of American society, say
that Asian-Americans must form a voting bloc. They point to the comments by Mrs.
Harrison, the Councilwoman, who described the arrival of Asian immigrants in
Flushing as an invasion.

"I don't know if they're Korean or Chinese," she said. "I can't tell by the
name." The remarks drew more than 2,000 protesters, mostly Chinese and Korean
immigrants, also backed by other Asian groups, in front of City Hall.

"It's all interest politics," said Mr. Nakanishi of U.C.L.A., adding that
Asian-Americans might become a swing vote in a generation in areas like
California and New York. "It's been played out for decades. The competition 50
years ago, for example, between the ethnic whites and white Anglo-Saxon elites.
It's very much part of the American tradition."

But others, like Dinesh D'Souza, the Indian-born writer, say Asian-Americans are
already assimilating into the mainstream through education and
entrepreneurialism. These efforts provide a quicker ladder to success than
political activism based on promoting an Asian-American racial identity, Mr.
D'Souza said.

"This is a uniquely American phenomenon," he said. "In other parts of the world,
identity is not so fluid. You're born with it, so you have no choice. But here
it's constructed. And if you fail, you feel your life has been a waste."


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Bersamin, a Filipino, says he first experienced racism in
1969, when he was denied a room at a cottage on his way to Cape Cod. That was
"the beginning of my awareness as being somebody other than white," he said. Mr.
Bersamin, 50, a psychologist, lives in Queens with his wife, Auxilium; son
Arthur, 15; daughter, Jennifer, 19, and son Wayne, 17; Korean store signs at
Union Street and Northern Boulevard in Queens. That borough has the highest
number of Asian-Americans of any East Coast county. Many Asians still feel a
strong sense of their separate ethnic identities. (Photographs by Chang W.
Lee/The New York Times) (pg. B6)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Long Service to the City

SECTION: Section A;  Page 24;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 65 words


To the Editor:

Agudath Israel had never, until this year, received an immigration contract from
New York City (news article, May 25). But we have a record of better than half a
century of work on behalf of refugees and have had social-services contracts
from four successive city administrations.

(Rabbi) SHMUEL BLOOM
Exec. V.P., Agudath Israel of America
New York, May 28, 1996

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 3, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 813 words



NEW YORK
An Unraveling Crackdown
The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has recently declared
war on illegal employment in New York City's garment industry. The agency's
raids on garment factories have inspired a stream of news releases heralding the
number of factories hit (86) and workers caught (1,228). But the news releases
do not describe what immigration officials, economists and workers themselves
say happens after the raids. Most of the workers are released the same day and
are usually not deported. Some go back to the very factories where they were
picked up; others move to other factories or to industries in which there is no
crackdown. [Page A1.]

New Accounts of L.I. Beating
A man who was with a New York City police detective accused in the beating of a
young black man outside a nightclub in Westhampton Beach, L.I., said through his
lawyer that there were no other police officers in their group of four, and he
has agreed to testify without immunity before a grand jury. The account of the
man, Austin Offen, veers markedly from what has been depicted as an unprovoked
racial attack. The detective, Constantine Chronis, also contended to a jailhouse
visitor that there were no other police officers among the people he was with
that night. [B1.]

Shane Daniels, the victim in a beating outside a bar in Westhampton Beach,
opened his eyes and began moving his arms and legs. [B3.]

The most eloquent words in Westhampton Beach were silent ones. "God bless Shane
Daniels" read signs in the windows of a dozen shops and stores. [B3.]

Long Trek Through High School
The percentage of New York City high school students graduating on time has
reached a five-year low, according to the Board of Education. And as schools
encourage students not to drop out, there are more 19-, 20- and 21-year-olds in
classrooms.  These students, according to a report from the board, have
confronted a variety of obstacles to finishing high school in four years. [B1.]

From Welfare to a Diploma
Like most people, Kimberli Rothwell has mixed feelings about welfare. She
considers it demeaning, and thinks it fosters dependency and is riddled with
fraud. She also knows something else about welfare. She knows it made it
possible for her to be what she is today: a member of Phi Beta Kappa, winner of
a scholarship for her doctoral studies in sociology, graduating with honors from
Queens College. An exception, absolutely. But in a society debating the future
of public assistance, and in a city where stricter rules are making it more
difficult for welfare recipients to go to college, Ms. Rothwell's experience is
worth pondering. Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick. [B1.]

H & H Bagels Co-Founder Killed
Hector Hernandez was on his way to achieving his American dream when he and his
brother-in-law bought a bagel shop on the Upper West Side in 1972. But Mr.
Hernandez sold his share in H & H Bagels before it grew into one of the city's
best-known bakeries. He had been working as a livery cab driver when he was
killed Saturday in what the police called a hit-and-run accident. [B4.]

Prosecuting Sex-Abuse Cases
New York State legislative leaders have agreed on a bill that would make it
easier to prosecute abusive pedophiles and give their victims more time to bring
charges against them. The legislation would eliminate the requirement that
children in sex-abuse cases remember exact dates of the alleged attacks.
Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco said that that requirement had led to the
dismissals of up to 70 percent of child sex-abuse cases. [B6.]

CONNECTICUT

Landscaping Outrages Town
When Dr. Paul I. Dantzig moved from Utica, N.Y., to Greenwich, Conn., he bought
an $825,000 home, had it torn down and began work on another. Then he tore 95
trees down to make room for his vision of flowering magnolias, fruit trees and
rhododendrons.Dr. Dantzig now knows he should have stopped with the house. The
clear-cutting turned an old New England wood lot into a lunar landscape,
shocking his neighbors and horrifying the town. And as word spread of what he
had done, so many patients stopped coming to his dermatology office that he had
to close his practice. [B1.]

NEW JERSEY

Turbulence Marks Primaries
As New Jersey voters prepare to go to the polls in a primary election, the most
interesting contests in the state are those that have opened up as a result of
the race for the seat of the departing Democratic Senator, Bill Bradley. Two
Congressmen -- a Democrat, Robert G. Torricelli, and a Republican, Dick Zimmer
-- are vying for the seat. All of the state's 13 House seats, in addition to Mr.
Bradley's Senate seat, are up for election. But the most contentious primary
contests are in the two districts being vacated by Mr. Torricelli and Mr.
Zimmer. [B5.]

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 6, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Stabilizing Lefrak City;
Jewish and Muslim Immigrants Help Revive Troubled Complex

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1748 words


Back in Guinea, Mohammed Bolde had heard from those who journeyed to America of
a place called Lefrak City. The promised land was dotted with hardships, but in
Lefrak City the fellowship of Africans made them easier to endure.

Since arriving here six months ago and quickly moving into one of the 20
buildings of Lefrak City, the Queens development, Mr. Bolde has prayed every day
in a two-bedroom, ground-floor apartment that was converted into a mosque two
years ago. In fact, he was surprised to hear that Lefrak City did not always
have a mosque. "After all, we were told that New York had everything," Mr.
Bolde, 31, said in French, after 60 residents prayed together recently.

In another apartment in a nearby building, Bluma Palvanova and two other Jewish
refugees from central Asia were discussing the synagogue they expect to open in
Lefrak City this summer. With as many as 10 Jewish families moving into Lefrak
each month, they decided last year they, too, needed a place to pray.

Two decades ago, racial fears led to the departure of Lefrak City's white middle
class and left it teetering on the edge of collapse. Many believed that crime
and other social problems associated with the poverty of the new residents would
doom the housing experiment that had played a crucial role in developing central
Queens. But in the last few years, an unlikely combination of newcomers has
helped bring new life to Lefrak City: Jewish refugees from the former Soviet
republics of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, and Muslim immigrants from Africa.

While no precise figures are available, the president of the tenants'
association estimates that about 20 percent of the 25,000 people living in
Lefrak's 5,000 units are African or Soviet Jewish immigrants.

The coincidental arrival of the African immigrants and Jewish emigres has
stabilized Lefrak City's population, said Samuel J. LeFrak, the 78-year-old
builder who developed the complex. And the mosque and synagogue underscore the
two groups' deepening roots in a complex whose motto has been from the start
"total facilities for total living."

Meanwhile, some shrewd policies and nearly $1 million in renovations have made
Lefrak's disparate groups, if not closer, at least tolerant of one another.

"We went through the whole cycle of frustrations," said Mr. LeFrak in his office
on Queens Boulevard, a few blocks from the only 1 of his 300 New York-area
developments that bears his name. "It took hard work, blood, sweat and tears.
But it's still there. And high up, you can still see our name on the building.
We didn't remove it. And now we're into the third chapter of the history of
Lefrak City."

Sprawling across 40 acres in Elmhurst, Corona and Rego Park, Lefrak City was
built privately starting in 1960 as an instant neighborhood with retail and
office space -- and 20 18-story balconied buildings of regimented brick, with
names like Peru, Singapore and Rome. A typical two-bedroom apartment now rents
for $865 a month.

For the original residents, most of them Jewish migrants from the South Bronx,
the Lower East Side and Brooklyn, Lefrak City was a step up into apartments with
air-conditioning, a place where they could play tennis, swim, shop and park
their Buicks in garages.

But in the mid-1970's, a Federal housing-discrimination suit accused the Lefrak
Organization of bias against blacks. Lefrak never admitted wrongdoing, but a
consent decree settled the lawsuit, with the company promising to prohibit
discrimination and to give a month's free rent to 50 black families to help them
move into white buildings. The prospect of change set off a near panic among
many longtime residents, and in 1974 and 1975, the Jewish residents virtually
abandoned Lefrak City.

A Decline, Then a Revival

According to Census data, in 1970, whites accounted for 82 percent of Lefrak's
population, and blacks only 8 percent. In 1980, blacks totaled 67 percent,
whites, 25 percent. By 1990, whites made up just 9 percent, with blacks up to 79
percent.

As Lefrak faced rising vacancies, Mr. Lefrak said he had to loosen some of the
strict criteria that had been used in screening tenants -- in particular, by
accepting applicants whose incomes would have been too low to qualify earlier.
Indeed, by 1980, the population was largely poor.

Lefrak was becoming a different place, with rising crime, broken benches,
damaged locks on entrances and graffiti on corridors and in stairwells. In 1989,
the complex suffered another blow with the departure of the Social Security
Administration, Lefrak's largest commercial tenant.

But things began turning around in 1991 as the City Department of Environmental
Protection filled the vacancy, bringing 4,000 employees. Management began
evicting more problem tenants, a policy that Governor Hendley, president of the
tenants' association, said his group had been pressing for years. And the
revival gathered speed four years ago, many tenants said, with a new general
manager, Carl R. Niveyro.

Mr. Niveyro tried to introduce programs that would knit the development's
diverse population into something resembling a community. To keep teen-agers and
younger children busy, Mr. Niveyro said, he built a small soccer field during
the World Cup and a basketball court with bleachers, organizing various sports
leagues. For the retired, he created a vegetable garden. For families, he and
the tenants' association have held summer barbecues.

"After many years in real estate management, you realize that people need these
things," Mr. Niveyro said. "They create a sense of community."

On a recent Friday afternoon, about 60 men from Nigeria, Senegal, Guinea, Mali,
Somalia, Egypt, Tanzania and the Ivory Coast slipped off their shoes and
streamed through a door above which a small sign read, in Arabic and English,
"Masjid." (One young man, unwilling to leave his Nikes on the doorstep, carried
them inside.)

As teen-agers played basketball outside, the men crammed into a large room --
young, old, one infant, most dressed in Western clothes, a few in African robes.
Behind a curtained-off room could be seen the shadows of a solitary woman. Under
the whir of three ceiling fans, the men sat in prayer, white tape on the green
carpet pointing them to Mecca.

Jerry Williams, a Lefrak security guard who used to live in the development,
said he approached the management with the idea of establishing a mosque three
years ago when he noticed African residents trekking to a mosque in Corona. Mr.
Williams, a black American who converted to Islam a decade ago, then went
knocking on each Muslim resident's door, raising enough funds to cover the rent
of about $700.

Word spread quickly.

"When Africans come to New York," said Taiye Siyonbola, 35, a Nigerian who moved
to Lefrak in 1990, "the first thing they want to find out is where they can
worship."

Another draw for Africans is Lefrak's reputation as being safer than Harlem and
the Brooklyn neighborhoods where Africans have concentrated. Because of improved
security and the city's overall drop in crime, little remains of the drug sales
in the courtyards and the nightly gunshots Mohamed Salem witnessed from his
fifth-floor apartment four years ago.

Back then, Mr. Salem, 46, an Egyptian immigrant, said he locked his three
teen-age children in his apartment the minute they returned from school. "We
live in peace now," Mr. Salem, a travel agent, said.

No one knows exactly how many Africans live in Lefrak City, partly because they
come from many countries and speak different languages, though French and
English, legacies from their former colonizers, unify some of them. But on the
playground, in the courtyards, around the entrances, along the surrounding
sidewalks, they are a presence.

Most of the Jewish residents are refugees from the former Soviet Union's Central
Asian republics and call themselves Bukharan Jews. Mrs. Palvanova, who has
become something of a spokeswoman for the new diaspora, said many come from
around her hometown of Kokand in Uzbekistan. About 60 of the 300 families in
Lefrak share some ties with the Palvanova clan, she estimated.

Lefrak's self-contained world helps them sustain their tradition of living with
several generations under one roof.

"We have lived like this for 2,500 years," Mrs. Palvanova, 46, said. "We don't
want to lose our traditions. We want something good from American people. But we
don't want to lose our customs. We don't want to lose our children."

'Together Is Better Than Living Alone'

The journey of Gavrial Kagzakov, 59, seems typical. After arriving in the United
States in September, he stayed with his son in Flushing and waited for a vacancy
in Lefrak City. Mr. Kagzakov recently moved into a three-bedroom apartment with
his wife, mother-in-law, son, daughter-in-law and two granddaughters. His
daughter lives in a nearby building with her husband and daughter.

"Together is better than living alone," he said.

Another tie is their religion, which they practiced secretly in a Communist
nation's predominantly Muslim republics.

On a recent afternoon, Mr. Kagzakov and Mrs. Palvanova, both children of rabbis,
talked of the synagogue coming to the apartment of Esther and George Ackerman.
The Ackermans, one of the few Jewish couples who did not leave in the 1970's,
said Lefrak City had a synagogue when they arrived 26 years ago. It closed a few
years later.

Last year, as more Jewish refugees moved in and many elderly found it difficult
to cross the highway to attend synagogues in Rego Park and Forest Hills, Mrs.
Palvanova and others decided to bring it back.

The Lefrak City Jewish Center has been incorporated and should open in August,
in the basement of a building named Ceylon.

So far, the African immigrants and Jewish refugees say they have mixed little.
Mrs. Palvanova said she hoped they would grow closer once the Jewish Center also
starts offering various classes and tutoring programs for children -- which
would be available to all residents.

Instead of the racial suspicions that tore Lefrak City in the 1970's, the small
encounters between the new groups have reflected the immigrant experience's
unifying force.

When Mrs. Palvanova arrived four years ago, hers was the only Jewish family on a
floor occupied by immigrant families from Africa, the Caribbean and India.

"They helped me. They gave me clothes and furniture," Mrs. Palvanova said. "Now
our children play together. I like that."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A coalition of Muslim and Jewish immigrant groups has brought
new life to Lefrak City. The complex now has a first-floor mosque. (Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B4); About 20 percent of the 25,000 people living
in Lefrak City, in Queens, are African or Soviet Jewish immigrants. Gavrial
Kagzakov, on the balcony, recently moved into a three-bedroom apartment with his
wife and five other family members. Programs at Lefrak City are intended to knit
a diverse community. At age 5, children can learn to play tennis free. Flags
flying at Lefrak City mirror the diverse roots of the residents, many of whom
are immigrants. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B1)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 10, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In the 2000 Census, Immigrants Will Lose

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 213 words


To the Editor:

As a professional demographer, I too am distressed with the plans for the census
in 2000 (news article, June 6) but for a different reason.

Asking the birthplace of one's parents, let alone one's grandparents, did not
survive the politicized process that determines the questions to be included in
the census. Until 1970 this question had been routine, as social planners,
politicians and members of various nativity groups wanted to find out how their
members and their offspring were faring.

After nearly a half-century of low immigration, the Census Bureau dropped this
question -- just as the nation embarked upon its third great wave of newcomers.
Now, in an era of Congressional false economy (each question costs money to ask
and process), demographers cannot get this item restored.

No matter what one's interest in how the characteristics and behavior of
immigrants change in the next generation, the 2000 census as currently drawn up
will not satisfy it. Efforts to develop programs for immigrant groups will be
hamstrung for the ensuing decade, at a minimum. Only Congress can move to
restore these questions.

But be fair to the Census Bureau and increase financing accordingly.

B. MEREDITH BURKE
Palo Alto, Calif., June 6, 1996

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Bringing Goat to the Table;
New York Farmers Try to Widen the Market for Kid, an Immigrant Favorite

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1412 words

DATELINE: RICHFIELD SPRINGS, N.Y.


The land slopes at every turn in this pristine pocket of northern Otsego County.
At times here, where an acre or more often separates neighbors, all that can be
heard is the whisper of the pines or the low-pitched wail of a Holstein. It
appears that little would link this quiet corner to the hurly-burly of immigrant
hubs like Jackson Heights and Elmhurst in Queens, or Atlantic Avenue in downtown
Brooklyn.

But Phillip D. Metzger saw the connection: hollow-horned bovid ruminants. That
is, goats. Or more specifically, goat meat.

To many Americans, eating goat may seem exotic or adventurous, the culinary
equivalent of rafting down the Nile, but goat is the most widely consumed red
meat on the planet, according to the Food and Agricultural Organization, an
international association in Rome. Moreover, goat consumption is at an all-time
high in New York City, thanks to throngs of immigrants, particularly from the
Indian subcontinent, the Caribbean, Africa, and to a lesser extent Eastern
Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and other parts of Asia. Italian- and
Greek-Americans have long dined on kid, especially at holiday feasts.

Yet few New York State farmers raise goats, a missed opportunity as Mr. Metzger
sees it. Thus he is on a mission, proselytizing rural New Yorkers about the
potential profits to be had from goat farming.

So far, he has rallied 25 upstate farmers to his cause, their herds ranging from
10 to 400 head.

How great is the demand? In 1989, the United States imported 86,000 goats and
exported 122,000, according to the Foreign Agriculture Service, an arm of the
Federal Department of Agriculture. In 1994, the country imported 138,500, mainly
from New Zealand and Australia. It exported none. Domestic demand is greatest in
New York. Thirty thousand goats are trucked into the state each month, primarily
from Texas, Tennessee, Missouri and Oklahoma.

"We're six hours away from New York City," said Mr. Metzger, who is the
executive director of the South Central New York Rural Conservation and
Development Project. "We can grow the product right here."

New York farmers can deliver better-quality meat, he asserted, because goats
become stressed during long trips and their health declines.

Among Mr. Metzger's recruits is June Baker, proprietor of the Just Kidding goat
farm here, about 10 miles north of Cooperstown. Ms. Baker has raised dairy goats
for 16 years, but began raising goats for their meat just two years ago.

Ms. Baker, 41, has a variety of goat breeds, including many mixtures, on her
farm.

Any type of goat, including dairy goats, can be eaten. But Spanish, Pygmy, and
most of all, South African Boer goats -- the latter known as "the Cadillac of
meat goats" -- are considered best because they have a higher flesh-to-bone
ratio than typically rangy dairy goats.

Surrounded by goats named Peanut Butter, Ice Cream and Candy, Ms. Baker detailed
the advantages of raising goats for meat. (She does not give names to those that
will end up on the tip of someone's fork.) Raising meat goats is less work, she
said, because dairy goats require twice-daily milkings. And meat goats require
less protein-rich food. Ms. Baker said she has seen "a modest profit" in her
meat operation but declined to provide specifics.

Some in the industry doubt that New York farmers can compete in a business
dominated by Texas and other southern states, which are blessed with better
weather, a longer grazing season and less need for supplemental feed like corn,
soybeans and hay.

But Mr. Metzger is not discouraged. "I appreciate their opinion," he said. "But
our objective is to create an industry. And we plan to compete with Texas." And
not just for the existing immigrant market. Mr. Metzger will tell anyone who
listens about the health benefits of eating goat meat (sometimes marketed as
chevon), which typically costs anywhere from $2.10 to $2.50 a pound.

"It is right up there with venison in terms of being lean and low in saturated
fat," he said. "Goat doesn't have marbled fat like beef. So we'd like to expand
this beyond the ethnic population to upwardly mobile, health-conscious
consumers."

To study the feasibility of producing goats for the downstate market, Mr.
Metzger enlisted a group called the Center for Agricultural Development and
Entrepreneurship, based in Oneonta.

New York farmers are well positioned to supply young goats to Greek and Italian
consumers, who like fresh high-quality kid meat, especially during Christmas and
Easter, said Marty Broccoli, a marketing specialist with the center.

But Muslims buy more than 60 percent of the goat meat sold in the New York City
area, and local farmers are trying to penetrate that market. Muslims prefer
high-quality lean goats younger than 14 months, Mr. Broccoli said. They will
generally only buy goats that are slaughtered and processed in compliance with
religious dietary laws, known as Halal.

People from the Caribbean and West Africa use goat meat for curried stews and
soups, tending to accept packaged cubed meat from poorer-quality older animals,
Mr. Broccoli said. So the Rural Conservation and Development Project, since its
selling point is quality, is not targeting those consumers. But perhaps it
should reconsider.

Caribean and West African immigrants are among those who shop at Halal Custom
Meats, an Egyptian-owned slaughterhouse in Newark, where the meat couldn't be
any fresher. In late May, Joan Williams, a Haitian immigrant, and her husband,
Julian, plucked an unlucky male Spanish goat from the lot for a weekend dinner
party.

"Male goats taste better, smell better and are not as tough as females," said
Mrs. Williams, who didn't know, or care to know, the meaning of Halal. She also
thought the price -- $1.65 a pound -- was a deal. "In West Indian stores it
costs $3 a pound," she said. "And sometimes they give you sheep instead of
goat."

There are five Rural Conservation and Development Projects in the state:
nonprofit organizations whose boards are made up of retired farmers, business
leaders and county legislators. They all have the same dual mission: to promote
rural development and the conservation of natural resources.

Raising goats, Mr. Metzger maintains, will meet both goals. Goat farming -- or
as they say in Texas, goat ranching -- is a land-friendly alternative to crop
production, he said. The hilly landscape of south central New York -- a region
that stretches from Sullivan County to Cayuga County -- is ill-suited for
growing because the slopes cause soil erosion and degradation of the water
supply. "These soils are marginal at best," Mr. Metzger said.

There is certainly no shortage of farmland. Abandoned dairy farms are everywhere
in the region. "Dairy farming is a tough business," Mr. Metzger said. "There's a
lot of competition and the cost of production is high. While milk is sold at
wholesale prices, feed and other products are sold at retail prices."

Douglas Bowne's sprawling goat farm in Little Falls was once a dairy farm,
although Mr. Bowne, 48, was never a dairy farmer. Blessed with flat land, he has
long grown organic vegetables, including lettuce, garlic, onions, potatoes, corn
and broccoli. Four years ago, he started goat farming. He now has more than 200
head.

Mr. Bowne, a Cornell graduate, seems as fascinated by the animals as by the
immigrants who eat them, dispensing facts about both with equal enthusiasm:
"Goats have matrilineal societies. They won't graze in a new area until the
dominant female has approved of the food." Later, he noted that "Koreans won't
eat white goats because they associate white with purity."

Immigrants are bemused by native New Yorkers' interest in their culinary
customs. In early June, Tony Sharma, who emigrated from northern India more than
12 years ago, ordered four pounds of goat meat at the New Mian Grocery on
Broadway in Elmhurst as a Halal wholesaler carted in 12 goat carcasses, their
heads still attached, their eyes still intact.

Eating a Big Mac and fries was an exotic experience for Mr. Sharma when he first
arrived in New York. "I didn't know what I was eating," he said. "When I
finished, my friends said, 'You have just eaten cow.' "

Mr. Metzger hopes to make the transition to American fast food easier for future
immigrants. "Who knows?" he said, his eyes brightening at the prospect. "Maybe
one day you'll be able to pull into a McDonald's and order chevon McNuggets."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 1996, Thursday

CORRECTION:

A picture caption on Saturday with an article about the expanding market for
goat meat in New York misidentified a shop in Elmhurst, Queens, owned by Alamzir
Miah. It is the Shapala Grocery and Halal Meat, not the New Mian Grocery.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alamzir Miah, owner of the New Mian Grocery in Elmhurst,
Queens, trimmed a goat carcass for one of his customers. Carlo Charpentier, the
chef at Micheline's, a Haitian restaurant on West 39th Street in Manhattan,
serves up a platter of curried goat. (Photographs by Phillip Greenberg (left)
and Jose R. Lopez); Douglas Bowne on his goat farm in Little Falls, N.Y. He was
a vegetable farmer until four years ago, when he started to raise the animals.
Now he has a 400-head herd. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg.
21); June Baker cuddles a four-day-old South African Boer kid at her farm in
Richfield Springs, N.Y., while the proud mother looks on. Ms. Baker raised dairy
goats for 16 years before starting to raise goats for their meat. (Michael J.
Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. 22)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              402 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitian Desk

LENGTH: 59 words


An article on Tuesday about a campaign speech by President Clinton in San Diego
misquoted a passage about immigration policy in some editions. Mr. Clinton said:

"For a lot of years people in public life at election time talked tough about
immigration, but didn't do much about it. We tried to change that. We tried to
substitute deeds for words."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              403 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS;
Haitian Militia Leader Is Freed From U.S. Prison

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 4;  Column 5;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico, June 17


A Haitian militia leader accused of killing or maiming hundreds of Haitians has
been freed from a prison in Maryland where he had been fighting deportation, his
lawyer said today.

The leader, Emmanuel Constant, founded the organization known as Fraph, which is
widely held responsible for attacks against thousands of people, mainly
supporters of former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Mr. Constant, who says he was a C.I.A. informant, was released on Friday under a
deal that bars him from disclosing the conditions for his freedom, his attorney,
Susan Bryant, said today in a telephone interview from her office in Miami.

She said that Mr. Constant had dropped suits challenging the constitutionality
of his imprisonment in exchange for his release, and that the deportation order,
issued by an immigration judge in Baltimore last year, "basically is going to be
decided on another day."

Mr. Constant, 39, fled murder charges in Haiti in December and slipped into the
United States on Christmas Eve, soon after United States forces ended three
years of military Government in Haiti.

Embarrassed by Mr. Constant's presence, United States officials immediately
revoked his tourist visa and issued a warrant for his arrest. But it took five
months to track him down and arrest him. Haiti requested his extradition last
year.

A diplomat in Haiti, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Constant is
staying with his mother in New York, under the supervision of the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              404 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

In Perfoormance;
DANCE

BYLINE: By Jennifer Dunning

SECTION: Section C;  Page 16;  Column 1;  Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 281 words



Chinese Immigrants' Story,
From the Gold Rush On
Chen and Dancers
La Mama E.T.C.

It has been nearly two decades since H. T. Chen, a Shanghai-born dancer and
choreographer who trained in Taiwan and the United States, founded a company in
New York City, and his dances have grown sophisticated. Happily, Mr. Chen has
lost little of his interest in the great themes and in his ancestry and in their
expression in choreography that seamlessly blends Asian traditional and Western
modern dance and culture.

In "Transparent Hinges" on Saturday night, Mr. Chen took on nothing less than
the history of Chinese immigrants in America. The full-evening piece, set to a
rich and intensely evocative score by Zhou Long, ranges from mid-19th-century
immigrants' dreams of Gum San, the "Golden Mountain" of California, to mass
detentions early in the 20th century and the Yellow Power movement of the
1960's.

All this is suggested, for the most part clearly, in the large, roiling picture
painted by Mr. Chen as dancers group, spread and surge across the stage with
something of the expressive power of Mary Wigman's group dances. Accents of
traditional dress and customs, most of them embodied in the frail but steely
figure of Dian Dong, are seamlessly woven in, bringing color and biting contrast
to this dark landscape. There are several magical bits of stage business. And
there is a message of hope at the end as families from Mr. Chen's Arts Gate
Center school in Chinatown walk determinedly to the front.

"Transparent Hinges" would benefit from being condensed, but this ambitious new
piece could well become a signature work for Mr. Chen.   JENNIFER DUNNING

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Renouardi Gee, facing the camera, and Hikari Baba in H. T.
Chen's "Transparent Hinges." (Carol Rosegg)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              405 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 28, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

James F. Greene, 80; Helped to Broaden Immigration Service

BYLINE: By J. MICHAEL ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 297 words


James F. Greene Sr., a Deputy Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in the 1970's, died on Sunday at the Vantage House Retirement Center in
Columbia, Md. He was 80.

The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his family said.

Mr. Greene began his career with the immigration service in 1941 as an agent at
a border horse-patrol station at Amado, Ariz. He rose to an administrative rank
in which he oversaw the service as it expanded into new areas of responsibility
with the influx of refugees fleeing Southeast Asia and the havoc spread by the
drug trade.

Before he became an associate commissioner in 1968, he was in charge of the
border patrol enforcement division that watched over immigration from Canada and
Mexico. He was instrumental in stepping up security patrols as well as
streamlining the processing for those people entering the country legally.

He also helped develop anti-smuggling programs during the 1960's and 1970's. He
retired in 1977 but was called back to the service in 1981 to be on a panel
investigating the refugee camps in Southeast Asia, where thousands waited for
legal entry into the United States.

Mr. Greene, who was born in Springfield, Ill., served in the Navy from 1933 to
1939. In early assignments with the immigration service, he worked in upstate
New York and Minnesota before moving to Washington in the early 1950's. On
retirement, he moved from College Park, Md., to Palm Coast, Fla., but he
returned to the Washington area in 1990 and lived in Columbia.

Mr. Greene is survived by his wife of 57 years, Margaret Mary; three sons, James
F. Jr., of Lima, Peru, Stephen H., of Annapolis, Md., and Thomas G., of Silver
Spring, Md.; a sister, Georganne Tiemann of Troy, Ill., and six grandchildren.

NAME: James F. Greene Sr.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              406 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

FILM;
Tom Conti and the Tower of Babel

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

SECTION: Section 2;  Page 19;  Column 1;  Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1310 words

DATELINE: LONDON


BORN IN SCOTLAND OF AN Italian father, Tom Conti recalls his Glasgow childhood
in the 1940's as happy and secure, with none of the difficulties often
associated with immigrant families. He was lucky, Mr. Conti, 54, admits. His
father owned a beauty parlor, and the business did well. "There was money, and
there was comfort," he said. "My father was a kind of middle-class Italian Scot.
Mine was a silver-spoon immigrant life."

So Mr. Conti rather hopes that it was not his Italian surname that won him a
lead role in "Someone Else's America," Goran Paskaljevic's film about foreigners
struggling to make it in Brooklyn. The film, which opens in New York on Friday,
won a prize at last year's Cannes film festival. According to the film's
promotional material, Mr. Conti's background helped him understand the "courage
of immigrants," but he makes no such claim. "Acting is just pretending," he said
recently in London where he is appearing in Neil Simon's "Chapter Two."

Still, while he was learning about the problems of today's immigrants during the
filming of "Someone Else's America," one memory did come back to him. "There was
a club in Glasgow where all the Italians would meet to play cards and gossip,"
he recalled. "When my father was asked why he didn't go there, he always
replied, 'If you want to be Italian, live in Italy.' That tends to be my
approach. If you want to be Iranian, stay in Iran. Otherwise, get on with it and
shut up!"

But, as Mr. Paskaljevic demonstrates in his new film, it is not always easy to
cut emotional ties to the old country. Alonso, a warm-hearted Spanish bar owner
played by Mr. Conti, has made the break. Bayo, an illegal immigrant from the
former Yugoslavia, played by Miki Manojlovic, a veteran Serbian actor, needs
more time. Their elderly mothers, who traveled to New York more as mothers than
as immigrants, dream of returning home.

Weaving its way between old and new worlds, the film's plot focuses on Bayo, who
has left his three children in his mother's care in a mountain village in
Montenegro. He has a miserable job clearing toxic waste from an industrial site
but earns enough to send money home. Alonso rents him a room in exchange for
cleaning the bar. The two men are also buddies, and together they even concoct a
way to convince Alonso's blind mother (played by Maria Casares) that she has
returned to her native village.

But Bayo's letters and money are not reaching his family. Alarmed by the
silence, his mother (played by Mr. Manojlovic's own mother, Zorka) travels with
his three children to the United States via Mexico. As they wade across the Rio
Grande, Bayo's youngest son is swept away. Alonso becomes the family's
protector. The film follows the characters' pursuit of the American dream:
Bayo's son, Luka, marries a Chinese girl, Alonso chases a young Syrian woman,
and Bayo struggles to learn English.

Mr. Conti said the set of "Someone Else's America" itself resembled an immigrant
neighborhood, with the mood of dislocation intensified by the fact that the
Brooklyn scenes were shot in studios in Hamburg. "One day we had people speaking
German, Greek, Serbo-Croatian, French, Spanish, English and Chinese," he said.
"It was the Tower of Babel."

Mr. Paskaljevic, 49, whose recent films include "Time of Miracles" and "Tango
Argentino," said his own peripatetic life helped him identify with Bayo: he left
his hometown, Belgrade, in 1971 for Athens; he later studied film in Prague; he
now lives in Brussels, and soon he will move to Paris.

During research for "Someone Else's America," he and Gordan Mihic, the
screenwriter with whom he has now made five films, spent weeks in immigrant
communities of New York and New Jersey, even meeting a woman who had lost a baby
while crossing the Rio Grande into the United States.

But most of all, Mr. Paskaljevic said, he considered his new film his response
to the "completely stupid war" that has torn apart "my country," the former
Yugoslavia. "Nationalism is the worst thing that can happen to human beings," he
said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles, where he was discussing a new
movie project.

"The film was a kind of escape for me," the director said, "because we worked
with so many nationalities. We had almost 20 nationalities in front and behind
the camera. In the crew, I had a Muslim and a Croatian and this gave me great
pleasure. Even Tom Conti is from an immigrant family."

Yet Mr. Conti recalled that while ever-present, the Bosnian war was rarely
discussed on the set, perhaps because, along with Mr. Paskaljevic, Mr.
Manojlovic, his actress mother and Sergej Trifunovic, who plays Luka, are all
Serbs.

"We tpied to stay off the subject because there was no way of dealing with it,"
Mr. Conti said. "There was nothing to say. You couldn't have a discussion about
it because all the minds were closed."

The actor was first spotted by Mr. Paskaljevic in the movie "Shirley Valentine,"
nonetheless enjoyed making the film. "Bayo and Alonso are both losers, really,"
he said, "but they show such spirit and affection. It's a tragicomedy. The
subject is deadly serious, but it's terribly funny."

The film also allowed the actor to demonstrate both his talent as a guitarist
and his good ear for foreign accents: in "Shirley Valentine," he is Greek; in
"Chapter Two," he is American, and in "Someone Else's America," he comes up with
a melodious Latino accent. His own English has a slight Scottish lilt.

MR. CONTI SAID HE divided his time equally between theater and movies, but he is
better known for his stage work, above all for his award-winning role in Brian
Clark's"Whose Life Is It, Anyway?," which played in the West End and on
Broadway. This year, he has agreed to be a co-producer of and appear in three
plays at the Gielgud Theater, starting with "Chapter Two."

"My original idea was to do four plays in repertory, but the back stage at the
Gielgud isn't big enough to store the sets," he said. "So we're doing a sort of
yearlong season. After 'Chapter Two,' we'll do Tom Dulack's 'Breaking Legs.'
We're still trying to decide the third play."

One reason for this turnover, he said, is that rising British actors will no
longer commit themselves to a long theater run. "They want to keep themselves
free in case television or a movie comes up," he explained.

"They're not brought up in the theater the way my generation was. I still find
it thrilling at my advanced age to do a play in the West End or on Broadway, but
not many younger actors feel that way. They don't understand that if you do a
play every night for three months, it gives you a profile. But a TV movie gives
you one or two nights, then it's gone."

Doing his bit to keep theater alive, Mr. Conti devised a scheme to subvert the
power of London's drama critics. During previews of "Chapter Two," he asked
audiences to judge the production by marking comment cards with four categories.

"Our commitment was to publish the results at the same time as the reviews," he
explained. "We had, more or less, 1,700 'outstanding,' 2,600 'very good,' 200
'average' and 22 'poor.' The critics were far more negative, and it demonstrated
the gulf between what the critics say and what the public likes. It's the first
time this has been done, and everyone is scared to death of it."

But the movie world, he admitted, is even more of a lottery. "The most unlikely
films take off," he said. "Who would have thought 'The Postman' would end up
with an Oscar nomination? 'Someone Else's America' is an art-house picture, but
you never know."

Certainly, Mr. Conti would welcome a lift to his movie career. "Mine is in a
trough," he said. "What I really need is a 'Silence of the Lambs' to kick-start
me again, then everyone will want me -- for another 10 minutes." He laughed
heartily. He did not sound particularly alarmed.

NAME: Tom Conti

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In "Someone Else's America," Mr. Conti and Maria Casares,
above, play a Spanish bar owner and his mother. (October Films) (pg. 19); Mr.
Conti is a co-producer and actor in three plays, including "Chapter Two," at
London's Gielgud Theater. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times) (pg. 25)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              407 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION REVIEW;
CBS News Revisits Migrants 35 Years Later

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section C;  Page 16;  Column 4;  Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 575 words


Thirty-five years ago, when CBS News was known for its documentaries, "CBS
Reports" delivered the memorable "Harvest of Shame," an expose of the harsh
existence of America's migrant workers. David Lowe produced; Edward R. Murrow
narrated. Tonight, "CBS Reports," which was reborn two years ago, returns to the
subject with an hourlong look at how much or little the changes speeded by that
program have done to better the lives of farm workers.

Reported by Dan Rather and Randall Pinkston, "Legacy of Shame" revisits Belle
Glade, Fla., a stop on the earlier investigation too, and travels to fields in
South Carolina, where workers are found still to be in a state approaching
peonage, and to California, where they do their planting and picking in
pesticide-soaked fields.

The reforms of the 1960's turn out to have had mixed results. Conditions have
improved markedly, but the reporters find that regulations go unenforced in many
places, sometimes because they are too stringently framed, more often because
they are winked away by local officials in cahoots with farm owners. Mr. Rather
observes, "There's a certain hypocrisy at work here and, it seems, even the
Government is in on it."

At the root of it all is the nation's reliance on migrant workers, often illegal
immigrants from Latin America, to supply abundant crops at low prices, and the
migrants' dependence on farmers and sometimes unscrupulous middlemen, which
leaves them vulnerable to exploitation.

Tonight's report follows undocumented workers from Chihuahua, Mexico, to El
Paso, where, Mr. Rather notes, outright abuse is rare. But the best the workers
can hope for are low-paid jobs and miserable living conditions. Mr. Pinkston
finds people sleeping in the streets. The United Farm Workers, the union built
by Cesar Chavez, has little power these days. A Federal official says, "People
feel they can't stand up for their rights because they won't have a job the next
day."

Things are much worse in Clarendon County in South Carolina, where workers are
said to be treated to all the alcohol they want, presumably to keep them
pacified if not stupefied. Evidence is offered that a crew leader named Miguel
Flores, one of the contractors who recruit and control workers, runs what
critics call a version of indentured servitude. Witnesses tell of threats and
beatings. Mr. Rather says investigators have been showing more interest in Mr.
Flores (who in his appearance tonight is not likely to strike you as somebody
you'd enjoy working for) as a result of the CBS interest.

"Legacy of Shame" is far less of a shocker than "Harvest of Shame"; conditions
are, thankfully, not what they were 35 years ago. Still, the revisit does good
duty in drawing attention to how hard life continues to be for many of the
workers.

Incidentally, in reminding us of the 1960 program, the 1995 program recalls a
time when "CBS Reports" produced 15 documentaries in one year. In the two years
of its present incarnation, it has turned out only 9. How about a report on what
has happened to the CBS News legacy?


CBS REPORTS
Legacy of Shame
CBS, tonight at 9
(Channel 2 in New York)
Linda Mason, executive producer; Maurice Murad, senior producer and director;
Christina Borjesson, field producer and reporter; Mr. Murad and Dan Rather,
writers; Lori Knight, associate producer; Stephanie Palewski, editor. CBS News
production, with Dan Rather and Randall Pinkston.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Migrant workers in Clarendon County, South Carolina. (CBS News)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              408 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 22, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

As You Light That Cigar Remember the Migrant Farm Workers

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 282 words


To the Editor:

Re your Aug. 13 news article on the comeback of Connecticut's cigar industry:
The vigorous re-emergent market for cigars neglects some of the hidden costs of
cigar-tobacco production -- farm labor. Contrary to your article, the
Connecticut River Valley tobacco farms are heavily dependent on a migrant labor
force.

The migrant worker life expectancy is 48 years, infant mortality is three to
four times higher than the national average, and agriculture ranks first in
rates of occupation-related injury. Workers lack primary or preventive health
services. Estimates of H.I.V. disease are several times that of the general
population, and exposure to tuberculosis is endemic.

Based on our own work, depression and substance abuse, oftenas a consequence of
isolation, are major issues for many workers.

Under the influence of a Government-supported program, this season has witnessed
a shift to a largely Jamaican migrant work force. This program exists to fill a
purported vacuum of domestic workers, one that, according to our research, is
greatly exaggerated. The Jamaicans are less able to protest unfair working and
living conditions compared with their domestic counterparts.

A dangerous precedent is being set for United States labor; as an alternative to
companies relocating to Jamaica, where the labor force is cheap and docile,
growers are importing foreign workers to keep the costs of production low.

The next time President Clinton puffs on his Macanudo, let him inhale the human
implications of its production.

PAUL M. PRONYK, M.D.
Springfield, Mass., Aug. 17, 1995
The writer is director of the Connecticut Valley Migrant Health Network.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              409 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 29, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Easy for Companies To Hire Foreigners

SECTION: Section A;   Page 20;   Column 6;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 155 words


To the Editor:

The claim that the United States Labor Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service see to it that foreign skilled workers get a "prevailing
wage" at or above the free-market rate (letter, March 22) is a joke. A company
that wants to hire a foreign engineer buys inexpensive advertising space in a
technical trade publication. The position is described in detail, with
requirements that mesh with those of the foreign candidate the company has
interviewed. A mediocre salary may be quoted.

Typically, no "qualified" United States citizen with the desired "experience"
comes forward, so the foreign candidate gets the job. The notion of safeguards
that protect United States job candidates is meaningless. This is a case of the
fox watching the chickens, and the fox is way ahead of the game.

DON MENNIE
New York, March 25, 1996

Technical Editor
Illuminating Engineering Society

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              410 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 15, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Is Weighing Overhaul of Job-Visa Program

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1259 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14


In corporate boardrooms, labor-union halls and on Capitol Hill, a fight is under
way over an unlikely group of Polish physical therapists, Indian computer
programmers, French fashion models and thousands of other specialized foreign
workers in this country.

At issue is a work-visa program created in 1990 to allow American companies to
import as many as 65,000 highly skilled foreign workers a year to fill temporary
jobs quickly in fields like computer science, architecture, engineering and
health care. The visas, which are initially issued for up to three years, can be
renewed for another three.

Critics contend that the program has developed into a huge loophole for cheaper
foreign workers with routine skills who undercut the wages of American workers
in some sectors when American companies are shedding hundreds of thousands of
jobs as part of downsizing. With that issue looming as Congress returns on
Monday, the Senate is considering overhauling the program, called the H-1B visa.

The Clinton Administration and labor unions say some companies, particularly job
contractors who recruit H-1B visa holders and hire them out to American
companies at a profit, are bringing in thousands of foreign workers to displace
Americans. In what labor officials say is another sign of abuse, at least three
dozen companies have been ordered to pay $2 million in back wages owed to more
than 400 foreign workers in the last five years.

A confidential draft of an audit by the Labor Department's Inspector General
concludes that the program "does very little to protect the jobs or wage levels
of U.S. workers." The audit, which examined 720 cases in 12 states since April
1995, found that the H-1B visas have become "a probationary tryout employment
program for illegal aliens, foreign students and foreign visitors to determine
if they will be sponsored for permanent status," according to a summary of the
document provided to The New York Times by a Government critic of the program.

The Inspector General's audit recommends scrapping the existing H-1B program and
starting over.

"Originally, the program was intended to provide employers with very highly
skilled, difficult-to-find employees from abroad," Labor Secretary Robert B.
Reich said in an interview. "Now it's become a sham."

But in a counterattack, business leaders, immigration lawyers who represent
American employers and many Republican lawmakers say that these complaints are
exaggerated and that skilled foreign professionals have helped to create more
jobs in the United States. The problems represent isolated incidents, they say.

In a recent study sponsored by Empower America, a pro-business group, an
immigration analyst, Stuart Anderson, says a review of the Labor Department's
own H-1B records from 1991 to 1995 found only seven reported complaints of
companies' replacing American workers with H-1B visa holders.

And those cases involved companies contracting with suppliers who employed
foreign workers, the report said. "The evidence strongly suggests," Mr. Anderson
said, that the layoffs would have occurred "whether or not the contractor
employed individuals on H-1B visas."

Business leaders last month pressured Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming
Republican who is the main author of the Senate's two immigration bills, to drop
all employment-related provisions, including a proposed ban on replacing
American workers with H-1B visa holders. The Judiciary Committee instead adopted
stiffer penalties against violators.

But Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, has promised to offer
amendments to restore the legislation's no-layoff provision when the Senate
begins considering the immigration legislation as early as Monday.

Both sides in the debate rely on anecdotal information and limited statistics to
support their positions. The Justice, State and Labor Departments handle some
aspect of the program. But none keeps detailed statistics on exactly how many
H-1B visa holders are in the country or their occupations. In theory, as many as
390,000 of these workers could be in the country at any one time, or less than
one-tenth of 1 percent of the civilian labor force, but experts say the actual
number is much lower.

Government regulators are handicapped because no law bars employers from laying
off American workers and replacing them with temporary foreign employees.
Companies are required only to pay those foreigners at least the prevailing
wage.

Investigators can act only on complaints, not initiate their own inquiries, and
they are often short-handed. "We have 800 investigators for 6.5 million
workplaces," said Scott Sutherland, a Labor Department spokesman. "We simply
don't have the resources to do a comprehensive investigation of this program."

Scrutiny has centered on foreign professionals who are computer programmers,
with the largest share coming from India and the Philippines. But similar abuses
have plagued the physical and occupational therapy fields, government and
industry experts say. The American Physical Therapists Association estimates
that demand for American-trained therapists outstrips supply by at least 15
percent, with the gap expected to widen as the country's elderly population
grows.

That shortage has opened the door for foreign-trained physical and occupational
therapists -- and, Labor Department officials say, for many unscrupulous
operators who recruit and employ them, then hire them out to hospitals and
nursing homes.

The department has cited 14 cases of employers, mostly contractors, who owed
nearly $2 million in back wages to nearly 400 foreign therapists. The make up
virtually all of the workers who were not paid enough in the last five years by
the three dozen companies that have been ordered make compensation.

One prominent case involved a Michigan-based company, Rehab One, which provided
physical therapists from Poland to work at private health care sites in Texas. A
Labor Department inquiry found that the company owed $460,000 in back wages to
54 therapists, and that it had been paying them as little as $500 a month at
certain times instead of the required $2,800 a month.

Other therapists have come to the United States and languished. "They promised
me a job, but there was no job," said a 23-year-old Filipino physical therapist,
who was sponsored by a Florida recruiting company, but then stranded with no
job. He is trying to find a new sponsor and insisted that he and former employer
not be identified.

The contractors' reputation sank so low that two years ago more than a dozen
recruiters formed the Association of International Healthcare Recruiters and
Employers to set higher standards for their members and, working with the
Federal authorities, to weed out violators.

Congress and the Administration differ on how to remedy the program's problems.
The Administration and many Democrats want to require the no-layoff provision
and make job contractors recruit more Americans. The Senate is divided between
supporters of Senator Kennedy's amendment and the Judiciary Committee's
position, which relies on heavier fines and tighter enforcement, an approach
supported by businesses.

The House of Representatives, in its immigration bill approved last month, would
require companies that dismissed American workers to pay temporary foreign
replacement workers 10 percent more than American workers earned. The House
would also increase civil fines to $5,000 a violation from $1,000, the same as
the Senate proposal.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              411 of 411 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 19, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Therapist Recruiters Aren't Visa Police

SECTION: Section A;  Page 28;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 212 words


To the Editor:

"Senate Is Weighing Overhaul of Job-Visa Program" (news article, April 15), on
the H-1B visa program, got our part of the story half right.

The Association of International Healthcare Recruiters and Employers was created
in part to set high ethical standards for companies that recruit internationally
educated physical and occupational therapists. What we were not created to do
was "weed out violators," as you put it.

This is a complex industry. To characterize it as exploitative or abusive, as
some public officials have done, is to misconstrue the conduct of most companies
in the industry and to oversimplify the role the industry plays vis-a-vis the
American health care system. Most recruiters and employers of foreign therapists
work hard to satisfy the law and the maze of Federal and state regulations.

While we do not and will not position ourselves as a police authority, our
association supports government efforts to enforce the law. We will continue to
make sure that American health care centers and American consumers have needed
access to qualified, foreign-educated physical and occupational therapists.

MARK WRIGHT
Exec. Dir., Assn. of International
Healthcare Recruiters & Employers
Washington, April 16, 1996

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
