
                               1 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 15, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Unit Backs New Identification Form

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14


By a narrow margin, the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy has
voted in favor of recommending some new and more secure method of identification
for citizens and legal aliens, together with penalties for employers hiring
illegal aliens.

The commission, a 16-member advisory panel created by Congress in 1978, will
issue its final report in early March. The vote for a new form of identification
was 8 to 7, with one abstention. The commission did not say whether it supported
cards, a computerized data bank or some other means of verifying identities.

A dispatch by United Press International, published in The New York Times on
Jan. 7, said the select commission had rejected any form of identification
cards. According to U.P.I., the dispatch was based on incorrect information
provided by a spokesman for the panel.

The votes were taken Dec. 6 at a meeting from which the public was excluded. The
initial vote, as reported by commission officials, was 7 to 5 against a new
means of identification. However, three members absent from the meeting later
recorded their votes in favor of a new, more secure method of identification,
making the final tally 8 to 7.

By a vote of 14 to 2, the commission decided to recommend sanctions against
employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. The House of Representatives has
twice passed legislation to establish such sanctions, but the bills died in the
Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 27, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

PANEL ASKS RISE IN IMMIGRATION, WITH TIGHTER LAW ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26


A Federal study commission called today for a ''modest increase'' in legal
immigration, a one-time amnesty for most illegal aliens and strict enforcement
measures, including penalties for employers who hired illegal aliens.

The recommendations were made by the Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy, a 16-member advisory panel, which delivered its final report
today to the President and Congress.

The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame and
chairman of the commission, said in his introduction that ''we recommend closing
the back door to undocumented/illegal migration'' while ''opening the front door
a little more to accommodate legal migration in the interests of this country.''

The commission was created by Congress in 1978 to provide a comprehensive review
of a field frequently said to be

Excerpts from report, page B5.
dominated by confused, conflicting policies and archaic laws. In its 453-page
final report, the panel said that the overall goals of immigration policy should
be ''family reunification, economic growth consistent with protection of the
United States labor market and cultural diversity consistent with national
unity.''

Amnesty Tied to Improvements

The commission said that its proposal for legalizing the status of illegal
aliens was contingent upon improvements in the enforcement of immigration laws
both at the border and inside the United States.  Without such improvements, it
said, the amnesty ''could serve as a stimulus to further illegal entry.''

Reagan Administration officials had no immediate comment on the report. The
executive director of the commission, Dr. Lawrence H.  Fuchs, said the White
House had indicated that President Reagan would not participate in a formal
presentation ceremony that was tentatively scheduled for tomorrow.

Four Cabinet officers from the Carter Administration served on the commission, a
bipartisan group that also included eight members of Congress and four private
citizens appointed by President Carter.

Many of the commission's proposals, including those for additional enforcement,
would cost money, perhaps substantial sums, that were not estimated in the
report and that might be difficult to find at a time when Mr. Reagan is cutting
the budgets of most civilian agencies. Even the Carter Administration, in its
final budget proposals, suggested some cutbacks for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The commission said it did not rule out the possibility of a ''slight
expansion'' of the existing Federal program under which about 30,000 aliens
enter the United States each year as temporary workers. In the Presidential
campaign last year, Mr. Reagan expressed support for a ''guest worker'' program
under which millions of Mexicans could cross the border to accept jobs for
several months at a time.

Report Hailed by Kennedy

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who served on the
commission, said that its report represented ''the most significant and
thoughtful study of American immigration law in three decades.'' That assessment
was shared by many specialists in the field, although hardly anyone agreed with
all the panel's recommendations.

The commission suggested raising the ceiling on ''numerically limited''
immigration to 350,000 a year, from the current 270,000.  The commission would
allow 100,000 more visas in this category for each of the next five years to
clear the backlog of visa applications. These figures do not include either
refugees or the estimated 150,000 aliens who would have automatic rights to
enter the United States as immediate relatives of citizens.

Assuming a normal annual flow of 50,000 refugees, the commission said that under
its program there would be 650,000 people admitted legally as new entrants in
each of the next five years, as against an average of 580,000 a year for the
last five years.

'Mass Asylum Emergencies'

The commission assumed that there would not be a repetition of the sudden,
unexpected migration that brought 125,000 Cubans here last year. It did not say
precisely how it would stop such an exodus in the future. But it did say that
Federal agencies should work together in planning for such ''mass asylum
emergencies.''

The commission said it had concluded that a ''modest increase'' in legal
immigration would advance the interests of the United States without harming
domestic workers. To allow flexibility in the admission of refugees and
immediate relatives, the commission said there should be ''no total cap or
ceiling'' on the total number of immigrants.

The panel repeatedly expressed its belief in the value of immigration as a force
for economic growth and cultural enrichment, stating that 30 percent of the
United States' Nobel laureates were immigrants. The commission said that ''some
immigrants do compete with United States workers for jobs, particularly in times
of high unemployment,'' but this was a secondary theme of the report.

In a study for the commission, the Census Bureau estimated that there were 3.5
million to six million illegal aliens in the United States. The number who might
come forward to take advantage of the proposed amnesty would probably depend on
conditions to be specified by Congress, such as a requirement for continuous
residence in the United States for a certain period. Dr. Fuchs said that one
million to four million illegal aliens might come forward, but he acknowledged
that in other countries ''amnesties have been notoriously unsuccessful.''

Ending Legal Inconsistency

The commission saw an anomaly in the fact that, under current law, illegal
aliens could be arrested and deported but the employers who knowingly hired them
could not be punished, except under a special law that covers only farm labor
contractors. To end this inconsistency, the commission said that employers
hiring undocumented workers should be subject to civil and criminal penalties
such as administrative citations, fines and court injunctions.

By a vote of 8 to 7, with one abstention, the commission said that penalties
against employer should be coupled with ''some system of more secure
identification.'' The panel, however, did not say whether the system should use
a ''counterfeit-resistant'' Social Security card or a computer that employers
could call, in the same way retailers now verify a person's credit card number.

Commissioners who opposed a new, more secure means of identification said that
it could be abused by Government agencies and posed a potential threat to civil
liberties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

WHITE HOUSE ASKS A LAW TO BAR JOBS FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


The Reagan Administration announced its long-awaited immigration policy today,
asking Congress to outlaw the employment of illegal aliens and fine employers
for violations, and suggesting an experimental program admitting ''guest
workers'' from Mexico.

President Reagan and Attorney General William French Smith said that the
admission of 50,000 Mexicans a year in a

Statement by Reagan, page A12.
two-year experiment would not exacerbate unemployment in this country if the
aliens were guided into states and industries where their labor was needed.

At the same time, the Administration vowed to halt the waves of Haitian refugees
arriving in Florida.

'Lost Control of Borders'

''We have lost control of our borders,'' Mr. Smith declared. ''We have pursued
unrealistic policies. We have failed to enforce our laws effectively.''

The heart of the Administration's program is a request for a new law that would
prohibit employers from knowingly hiring illegal aliens. The statute would
impose civil fines of $500 to $1,000 for each illegal alien hired. The Justice
Department could seek court injunctions against employers who showed a ''pattern
or practice'' of hiring illegal aliens.

The proposed penalties, known as employer sanctions, are designed to neutralize
the magnet that attracts so many illegal migrants to this country. Under
President Reagan's proposals, the penalties would not apply to businesses with
three or fewer employees.

Legal Status as Aliens

The Administration also asked Congress to ''recognize reality'' and grant legal
status to some of the estimated three million to six million illegal aliens
living in the United States before Jan. 1, 1980. But there would be two highly
restrictive conditions: All aliens except Haitians and Cubans would have to
reside here 10 years before attaining permanent resident status and during that
period they could not bring their spouses or children under the age of 18 to
this country. For Haitians and Cubans the waiting period would be five years.
Under existing law, Cubans can apply after a one-year waiting period. Permanent
residents are eligible to apply for citizenship after living here five years.

''Last year,'' Mr. Smith said, ''the number of immigrants legally and illegally
entering the United States reached a total possibly greater than any year in our
history.'' The total was more than 800,000. Government statistics show that
immigration exceeded a million in several years early in the century, when laws
were less restrictive.

The Administration has been searching for ways to deal with the immigration
problem since President Reagan took office six months ago. But not wanting to
divert attention from its economic recovery program, the Administration delayed
on announcement of its immigration policy.

The new policy also includes these elements:

- Mr. Smith said that the Coast Guard would soon begin intercepting boats full
of Haitians on the open seas so they could be returned to Haiti. He said there
were ''no fixed procedures'' for ruling on the Haitians' asylum claims.

- The Administration wants Congress to approve $40 million for new enforcement
measures, including additional Border Patrol agents, and $35 million for the
construction of detention facilities where the Federal Government could detain
aliens arriving without visas.

- The Administration wants Congress to double the quota for legal immigration
from Mexico and Canada. The quota is now 20,000 per country. But Canada does not
use all of its current allotment. The effective ceiling for Mexico would
probably rise to 60,000 because Mexicans could use the visas unclaimed by
Canadians.

- The Administration wants to create an expedited procedure for deciding whether
illegal aliens should be expelled or given asylum.  Mr. Smith said there had
been a sharp increase in asylum applications, from 3,800 in 1978 to 19,500 last
year. That does not include 140,000 applications from Cubans and Haitians, he
said.

'Identity Card' Ruled Out

In a statement issued by the White House, President Reagan said today that any
steps taken to deter illegal migration must be ''consistent with our values of
individual privacy and freedom.'' Accordingly, Mr. Smith said, ''The
Administration is explicitly opposed to the creation of a national identity
card.''

The chief problem with the use of employer sanctions has always been finding a
reliable method by which employers could distinguish illegal aliens from
citizens and legal aliens.

The Administration said that employers could meet their legal responsibility in
this respect by examining any two of the following documents: a birth
certificate, a driver's license, a Social Security card or a draft registration
certificate issued by the Selective Service System.

In addition, the new employee would have to sign a form certifying that he was
either a citizen, a lawful permanent resident alien or a foreign worker
participating in an authorized program. The employer would have to certify, in
writing, that he had no reason to doubt the employee's representations.

No 'Discriminatory Judgments'

''Since employers may rely on existing documents and will not be required to
make judgments about the authenticity of the documents,'' the Attorney General
said, ''they would have no occasion to make subjective and possibly
discriminatory judgments about persons who may appear to be foreign.''

Hispanic-American groups criticized the proposal for a 10-year waiting period
for Mexicans and most other aliens now in the country to gain legal status. Tony
Bonilla, national president of the League of United Latin American Citizens,
said it was tantamount to ''Government-sanctioned serfdom'' for the affected
aliens. Vilma Martinez, president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said it was ''the most disturbing and repressive feature'' of
the Administration program.

Under the Reagan proposal, aliens waiting for legalization would pay Social
Security, income and other taxes but would not have access to welfare, federally
assisted housing, food stamps or unemployment insurance.

Illegal aliens are subject to deportation if they are caught. They often lead
shadowy, clandestine lives and are sometimes exploited by employers who know
they are afraid to demand improvements in wages or working conditions.

Congressional Reaction Varies

Members of Congress praised the Administration for tackling a tough issue, but
saw weaknesses in many of the specific proposals.  Representative Dan Lungren,
Republican of California, said, ''This is the first Administration that has had
the guts to come forward with a comprehensive plan, and for that I congratulate
you.''

Senator Walter D. Huddleston, Democrat of Kentucky, faulted the Administration
for not proposing a limit on total immigration. ''You marched right up to the
problem, turned around and marched away again,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW WAYS TO CURB ILLEGAL ALIENS ARE ADVANCED BY 2 CONGRESSMEN

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, June 21


Senior Congressional leaders on immigration policy said here this weekend that a
consensus was emerging in both houses on the legislation needed to restrict the
flow of illegal immigrants into the United States.

Speaking at a national conference on immigration, Senator Alan K.  Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky, chairmen of the subcommittees on immigration in their respective
legislative bodies, said that the package would probably include these measures:

- Establishment of some type of citizenship identity card, perhaps a redesigned
''counterfeit-proof'' Social Security card.

- Penalties against employers who hire illegal aliens.

- Expansion of the United States Border Patrol.

- A ''guest worker'' program allowing aliens to take jobs temporarily in this
country. It would be similar to the ''Bracero Program'' that was suspended in
1964, but it contains provisions to prevent exploitation of workers.

- Amnesty for many or all of the more than six million aliens believed to be
living in this country illegally.

Legislators Expect Opposition

A Reagan Administration group examining immigration policy is expected to
release a report shortly recommending many of the same provisions.

Senator Simpson and Representative Mazzoli, who appeared separately before the
conference, held by The City Club of San Diego, said that they expected
resistance to some proposals. They said that the ''guest worker'' program would
probably be opposed by organized labor and the Hispanic community; sanctions
against employers, by business, and the proposed national identity card, by
civil libertarians.

But they predicted that agreement could be reached on a workable plan, declaring
that all the provisions were needed to make the program effective and that
strong bipartisan support was developing in Congress to reduce the entry of
illegal aliens, as well as legally admitted refugees.

''The House and Senate committees both believe the time is now,'' Senator
Simpson said. ''The current flow of immigration is out of control; the United
States is taking in more legal immigrants for permanent residence than the rest
of the world combined.''

''People are not writing hate mail about this,'' he said, ''they are writing
frustrating mail; it boils down to, 'What are you boobs going to do?' ''

Divisions in Nation Predicted

Senator Simpson said that 85 percent of those who immigrate into this country
this year would be Spanish-speaking; that 80 percent of the babies born in Los
Angeles County hospitals would be delivered by mothers who were illegal aliens,
and that Spanish-speaking immigrants were assimilating into the mainstream of
society at a substantially slower rate than past groups of immigrants.

If these patterns continued, he contended, they could lead to a nation with two
cultures and two languages. This division, he said, could lead to serious
economic and social divisions.

The Senator said he believed that the country should reduce the total number of
legal immigrants (last year's total was about 808,000); set a limit for
refugees; maintain limits on total immigration from individual countries;
substantially limit the ability of legal immigrants to sponsor the entry of
large extended families from abroad, and develop a point system that gives
preference to applications for immigration based on such things as vocational
skills and the ability to speak English.

Law Called 'Unenforceable'

Representative Mazzoli said that ''today's immigration law is really no law at
all; it is unenforceable.'' Illegal aliens, he asserted, were already driving up
the taxes of American citizens to pay for social services and were taking jobs
that could be filled by citizens. But, he said, given the rate of migration and
the high birth rate of many immigrant groups, the most serious repercussions
from today's largely unrestricted immigration would be in the future.

Another speaker, Art Torres, a California State Assemblyman who is a
Mexican-American, denounced assertions that aliens were taking jobs away from
Americans and burdening social services and bitterly attacked most of the
proposals outlined by the Congressmen.

Proposals Are Assailed

Mr. Torres said that the ''guest worker'' program, sanctions against employers
and the proposed identity card would lead to discrimination against Hispanic
Americans.

He defended Spanish-English bilingual education and the efforts of Hispanic
migrants to retain their language and culture. America, he said, is a
''pluralistic culture'' that has always thrived on diversity.

Referring to immigrants from the third world, he said: ''People are still going
to come to this country because here is where dreams are made.''

Gov. Richard D. Lamm of Colorado said that his state was adding about 20,000
Southeast Asian refugees to its welfare rolls each month. He endorsed many of
the proposals in the consensus plan outlined by the two legislators.

''America cannot be the home of last resort for all of the dispossessed of the
world,'' he said. ''The single most effective thing that could be done to deal
with illegal immigration. is to make it illegal to hire an illegal immigrant.''

Michael Teitelbaum, a Ford Foundation demographer, said that the influx of
illegal aliens to America was now ''out of control'' and that the situation
could get worse unless action was taken.The third world's population, he said,
was expected to grow by 1.6 billion between now and the year 2000, and the
result would be mounting pressure on the industrialized world to accept
immigrants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 21, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Bad Advice on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words


The Cabinet has muffed President Reagan's assignment to help him shape a
comprehensive immigration policy. No system for deciding which aliens enter and
stay in the United States can be cohesive, or even coherent, that fails to
address the question of worker identification.

Unless employers have a sure way of knowing which applicants are legally
eligible to work in the United States, they cannot reasonably be held
accountable for hiring illegal aliens. And if employers cannot be required to
police the effort, there is no reasonable hope of controlling illegal
immigration. It just won't matter how many migrants the Government decides it
wants to admit; without job controls, the nation will be burdened by hundreds of
thousands more than the law allows.

This simple proposition has eluded the Cabinet. It wants the President to
recommend penalties for anyone hiring illegals but to leave the identification
issue up in the air. If Mr. Reagan forwards these incomplete ideas to Congress,
he simply cannot expect to be taken seriously.

This is not, alas, the first evasion of the issue. The Select Commission on
Immigration studied the problem for two years but only a slender majority of its
members faced up to the need for foolproof identification techniques.

Fortunately, the key legislators are familiar with the commission's best
thinking. Senator Alan Simpson, who heads the Senate's immigration subcommittee,
served on the commission and has seen the value of a secure,
counterfeit-resistant permit for all workers. A worthy alternative would be a
labor force communications system by which employers could quickly check the
eligibility of applicants.

Exaggerated concern about privacy adds to the problem. Some fear that a
foolproof identification document would become an all-purpose domestic passport.
That would indeed be unfortunate. But all that is needed is a Social Security
card that cannot be forged.

What frightens the Reagan Cabinet, apparently, is another red herring - the
possibility of excessive Government surveillance of employers. But with a
reliable identification system, Government could enforce the law with minimal
intrusion; it need only inquire whether the employer demanded satisfactory proof
of a worker's eligibility.

The Cabinet's half-measure is actually the most dangerous possible approach. To
make employers culpable for hiring illegals without giving them a reliable means
of checking would encourage them to turn away deserving applicants on a hunch.
Some would shun Hispanics and other minorities altogether. And some would use
concern about identification as a pretext for discrimination.

Mr. Reagan should not endorse, and Congress should not approve, a program so
flawed at the core.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 8, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ISSUE AND DEBATE IDENTITY CARDS WEIGHED FOR ALL WORKERS IN U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1375 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 7


The Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, a 16-member Federal
study group, is considering a proposal to require identification cards for all
workers, citizens and aliens alike at the same time that it is considering a
proposal to penalize employers who hire illegal aliens.

The card under discussion would be a counterfeit-resistant Social Security card
with the owner's photograph and some personal data, probably not including home
address. The system could be phased in by issuing work authorization cards to
everyone who changes jobs or enters the labor force.

The cards would be part of a system designed to control illegal immigration. No
one knows how many illegal aliens reside in the United States; since 1973,
estimates by immigration officials have ranged from slightly more than a million
to as high as 12 million.  Census Bureau experts, in a study for the commission
this year, said that the total was ''almost certainly below 6 million and may be
substantially less, possibly only 3.5 to 5 million.''

3 Million Aliens Seized

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has apprehended slightly more than a
million illegal aliens in each of the last three years, approximately twice the
number of legally admitted immigrants.

One of the few points on which analysts agree is that illegal aliens come to the
United States for jobs. To curb the flow, many experts would outlaw the
employment of illegal aliens, but they say that a reliable method of
identification would then become necessary so employers could distinguish
illegal aliens from people legally authorized to work.

Almost all such proposals would also provide amnesty for illegal aliens already
here on the ground that mass expulsions would be inhumane and impractical.

The proposal for an identification system raises the question whether American
citizens would have to change their way of life as part of a national effort to
deal with the problem of illegal aliens. The system, which could be in operation
by 1984, raises Orwellian fears of government control. But officials do not want
wholesale violations of the immigration law to continue.

The Background

Identity cards have long been common in parts of Europe. France has a carte
d'identite nationale; in West Germany it is known as Personalausweis. Belgium,
Italy and Luxembourg also have identity cards.

Switzerland, Rumania and South Africa have identity documents.  Britain, Canada
and Japan do not. In Europe, passports may be issued for the purpose of
identification even when not needed for travel, and conversely many European
countries admit citizens of neighboring states with nothing more than identity
cards.

The majority of illegal aliens in the United States entered the country
surreptitiously. Ten to 15 percent entered legally, as temporary visitors,
tourists or foreign students, but violated the terms of their admission by
overstaying their time or taking jobs.

When the Social Security program was enacted in 1935, Social Security numbers
were devised to keep track of wages paid to workers by various employers.
Retirement, disability and survivor benefits are based on taxable wages earned
by a worker over his or her lifetime.

'Personal Identifier'

Despite an executive order by President Roosevelt encouraging its use, the
Social Security number was rarely used by Federal agencies in the 1940's and
1950's for other than the originally intended purpose. In 1962, the Internal
Revenue Service decided to adopt the number for taxpayer identification.

In response to the demands of computerized record-keeping, Federal agencies,
state and local governments, banks, credit bureaus, hospitals and educational
institutions have increasingly used Social Security numbers as ''personal
identifiers.'' But until 1972, a person applying for a Social Security number
was not asked to produce proof of identity.

Previous studies - by a Social Security Administration panel in 1971, the
Advisory Committee on Automated Personal Data Systems in 1973 and the Federal
Advisory Committee on False Identification in 1976 - discouraged the idea of a
national identification system.

House Bills Died in Senate

The Privacy Protection Study Commission, in its 1977 report, said that the
Government should not consider taking any action to foster development of a
''standard universal label for individuals'' until privacy safeguards were in
place.

The House of Representatives in 1972 and 1973 passed legislation to penalize
employers for hiring illegal aliens, but the bills died when the Senate did not
act. When President Carter asked Congress to enact similar penalities in 1977,
he said that ''no steps would be taken to make the Social Security card, or any
other card, a national identification document.''

It is not a crime to hire illegal aliens, but employers may be prosecuted for
harboring or smuggling them and for violating wage and hour laws.

For Identification Cards

Supporters say that cards, together with penalties for the hiring of illegal
aliens, would open up jobs for American citizens and legal aliens. They also say
that illegal aliens depress wages and working conditions.

Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall has said that illegal aliens ''work both scared
and hard,'' are reluctant to complain or assert their rights and are fast
becoming ''a permanent underclass, outside the protection of our laws.''

Economic disparaties between the United States and other countries are likely to
increase the pressures of illegal immigration, particularly from the Caribbean,
and many experts have concluded that the problem is serious enough to justify
the inconvenience of identification cards. Otherwise, they say, there could be a
backlash against minorities and aliens that would pose more danger to civil
liberties than the cards would pose.

Backers include the chairman of the immigration commission, the Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame, and the American Federation
of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations.

Against the Cards

Critics say that the cards would be inconsistent with America's tradition of
civil liberties, would be a first step toward an internal passport and would
facilitate social control and the exchange of information by government
agencies.

Officials of Hispanic American organizations oppose the system because they
believe it would be used in a discriminatory manner, with workers of foreign
accent or foreign appearance being asked to show their documents most often.

Employer organizations say that they should not have to function as immigration
officers and do not want the additional burden of having to check workers'
credentials.

The Federal Government, critics say, has not done everything in its power to
enforce existing immigration, tax and labor laws against illegal aliens, so the
need for a new law requiring citizens to carry identification cards for the
first time in the nation's history is unproved.

A worker identification system, according to critics, might drive illegal aliens
further underground, giving them new incentives to seek fraudulent documents and
jobs outside the system.

The Outlook

The technology is available to manufacture cards that could not easily be
counterfeited, but the fast-growing Hispanic minority and business lobbyists
would raise formidable political opposition.

Alan F. Westin, professor of public law and government at Columbia University,
has proposed a constitutional amendment to regulate the use of data systems, and
critics would consider identification cards only in the context of such
safeguards.

If the proposal for cards becomes politically untenable, supporters may
recommend instead a cardless system with a computerized data bank. Employers
would have to get clearance from the computer before hiring a worker just as
retail clerks must get authorization for a credit-card purchase.

In the absence of better information about the illegal alien problem, it seems
unlikely that a compulsory identification system will be adopted soon. In the
long run, officials say privately, there seems to be an inexorable trend toward
use of Social Security numbers for personal identification.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NOMINEE FOR ALIEN AGENCY BACKS IDENTIFICATION CARDS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30


Matt W. Garcia, President Carter's nominee for Commissioner of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, says he would support sanctions against employers
who hire illegal aliens and also the use of identification cards for all workers
if their privacy and civil rights could be protected.

A Federal commission studying immigration and refugee policy is considering the
combination of employer penalties and employee identification to reduce the flow
of illegal aliens into the United States.

Mr. Garcia, a 52-year-old Democratic member of the Texas House of
Representatives, encountered sometimes hostile questioning, especially from
Senator Thad Cochran, a Mississippi Republican, at his confirmation hearing
before the Senate Judiciary Committee last Wednesday. Mr. Garcia acknowledged
that he had filed his Federal tax returns late each year from 1970 through 1978,
that disgruntled clients had filed 39 complaints against him with the Texas
state bar and that he had little experience in immigration law and no experience
managing a large organization.

Says He Can Motivate

He said, however, that he was qualified for the job of commissioner because he
knew how to motivate people and would select deputies with the managerial skills
that he lacked. Members of Congress and independent auditors have repeatedly
found waste, inefficiency and low morale in the agency, which has been under the
direction of a temporary appointee since the last commissioner, Leonel J.
Castillo, resigned 11 months ago.

The committee intends to leave the record open for additional testimony and may
hold another day of hearings on Mr. Garcia, whose nomination has been endorsed
by officials of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the
League of United Latin American Citizens.

He said that if confirmed by the full Senate he would take office immediately.
However, in response to a question, he said he would step aside if Ronald
Reagan, the Republican nominee, won the Presidential election and wanted someone
else to head the agency.

Asked if he favored identification cards for workers, Mr. Garcia said,
''Assuming that all of the privacy matters, all of the constitutional rights,
assuming that they could all be addressed, recognized and safeguarded, I would
have no problem.''

Identification for All

The proposal developed for the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee
Policy envisions some type of identification for United States citizens and for
aliens authorized to work in this country.

Mr. Garcia said he favored an amnesty to legalize the status of illegal aliens,
especially those who had been here for some years and ''built up equity'' in the
United States. He promised to enforce the immigration laws vigorously.

He said that he specialized in criminal, domestic relations and personal-injury
law, three fields where clients were quick to complain if they were not
satisfied with a lawyer's services. He said that most of the complaints against
him had been dismissed by the state bar, that none resulted in disciplinary
action and that many of the complainants were still his clients.

He said that his firm had had 10 lawyers before he suffered a ''severe'' heart
attack in 1970. Now, he said, he has two associates, two secretaries and one
p@a@r@a@l@e@g@a@l..

Senator Cochran asked, ''What other kind of managerial or administrative
experience have you had?'' Mr. Garcia replied, ''None.''

No Special Expertise

The Senator then asked, ''Have you, in your legal training or experience,
developed any special knowledge or expertise or understanding of our immigration
policy and laws and regulations?'' Mr. Garcia answered, ''I have not.''

Ruben Bonilla Jr., president of the League of United Latin American citizens,
described Mr. Garcia as ''fully fit for the job.'' Noting that the new Secretary
of Education, Shirley M.  Hufstedler, had been a Federal judge with no
particular experience as the head of an agency, Mr. Bonilla said, ''The standard
for Matt Garcia should not be different than that which has been utilized for
other Americans.''

When Mr. Garcia said he felt that the immigration service had done a
''respectable'' job of finding Iranian students in the United States, Senator
Cochran disagreed, saying:

''I worry about your being head of I.N.S. if you think that the job the I.N.S.
is doing now is respectable. I think it needs to be improved. I think it is
mismanaged. That place is a disaster area over there. We need somebody with
leadership ability to shake it up.''

Mr. Garcia concurred, saying the agency was ''in a very bad state.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Garcia

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 8, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FEDERAL COMMISSION SUPPORTS AMNESTY FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7


A Federal commission studying immigration policy voted over the weekend to
recommend an amnesty for illegal aliens already in the United States and
penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens in the future, but the panel did
not adopt a staff proposal for issuing work permits to all Americans.

No clear overall mandate emerged from the two-day meeting of the Select
Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, an advisory committee required to
submit its final recommendations to the President and Congress by March 1. On
several major issues, the 16-member commission was deeply divided.

Commission officials said that, at a closed meeting in the Capitol yesterday, a
clear majority of the commission was in favor of imposing penalties on employers
who hire illegal aliens, especially those who demonstrate a ''pattern or
practice'' of such hiring. Civil penalties would be available along with
criminal penalties for the most serious cases.
Work Permits Rejected

The commission agreed that employers should use existing means of
identification, such as birth certificates and high school diplomas, to
establish whether job applicants were legally entitled to work in the United
States.

Along the Mexican border there is known to be a brisk trade in bogus documents
of every kind, from passports to Social Security cards, drivers' licenses and
baptismal certificates. Birth certificates are available for as little as $50.

Despite this, the commission did not endorse the use of work permits,
identification cards or a computerized data b ank to verify the status of
citizens and aliens authorized to work in this country.Members voted 7 to 5
against requiring any ne w means of identification.

The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame and
chairman of the commission, said that all votes were tentative, however, and
were subject to revision. The final recommendations of the commissi on will also
be subject to review and possible chan ge after President-elect Ronald Reagan
takes office nextmonth.

Potential for 'Wrongful Use'

The commission staff had said in its report to the commission that the measures
it recommended would virtually eliminate future illegal immigration over a
10-year period. Those measures included a system of ''counterfeit-resistant''
work authorization cards as an essential part of a package including employer
sanctions.

And Father Hesburgh warned that ''employer sanctions don't work very well
without identification.'' But Patricia Roberts Harris, the Secretary of Health
and Human Services, said that she was ''unalterably opposed'' to identification
cards because of the potential for ''wrongful use.'' Mrs. Harris, one of four
Cabinet officers on the commission, said that adopting a nationwide system of
identification cards to deal, at most, with six million illegal aliens would be
''a historic redirection of Government policy.''

The size of the illegal alien population is not known, but the most frequently
cited estimates range from three million to six million.  Census Bureau
researchers have told the commission that Mexicans account for a smaller portion
of the total than is popularly believed because many of the Mexicans who enter
the United States illegally later return home.

Representative Elizabeth Holtzman, Democrat of Brooklyn, one of eight members of
Congress on the commission, said today that she had ''grave reservations'' about
employer sanctions because, she said, they might lead employers to discriminate
against citizens and legal aliens who spoke English with a foreign accent.

Another member of the commission, Cruz Reynoso, a state judge in California,
said that 90 percent of the undocumented aliens would probably not seek
legalization of their status because they would fear being deported if they
tried to take advantage of the amnesty program.

However, other members of the commission were much more optimistic about the
program, noting that the legal grounds for excluding and deporting aliens would
probably be revised. The commission endorsed some kind of change in the existing
scheme of 33 exclusions after hearing testimony that many of the categories were
archaic and arbitrary, but there was no vote on any specific changes.

Family Goal Is Reiterated

The commission agreed to continue and intensify the current emphasis on family
reunification as a goal of United States immigration policy. The panel decided
that only unmarried brothers and sisters of adult citizens should be given
preference in entering the country.

The commission favors the admission of spouses and minor children - in effect,
reunification of the ''nuclear family'' -at the expense of married siblings. But
it voted to ease the entry requirements for grandparents of citizens and for
elderly parents of legal resident aliens.

The panel also recommended creation of a separate category for ''independent
immigrants,'' to encourage the migration of people with ''special merit and
ability'' but no close family ties to American citizens.

Favors Increase in Immigration

The commission voted in favor of a moderate increase in the basic number of
immigrants, to 350,000 from the current level of 270,000.  Neither number
includes refugees, who are subject to separate limits, or immediate relatives of
American citizens, who are exempt from numerical limits.

Lawrence H. Fuchs, executive director of the commission, said that 75,000 to
100,000 aliens could be admitted as ''independent immigrants,'' with the
remainder of the 350,000 places alloted to family reunification cases. In
addition, the commission recommended admission of 100,000 immigrants a year for
five years to accommodate relatives of newly legalized aliens and those who have
been waiting abroad for years under the current system.

The commission urged the Labor Department to streamline the current program for
admitting temporary alien workers and did not rule out a slight expansion of the
program, but said that no industry should depend on a constant supply of such
workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

To Turn the Illegal Tide

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words


At last, the country seems to be getting somewhere in the tormenting effort to
reduce illegal immigration.

To some people, the numbers are so alarming they are ready to close the Golden
Door with a slam. Others, for whom immigration means infusions of energy, resist
closing it at all, even to illegal migrants. Still others, and we count
ourselves among them, advocate keeping the Golden Door open - while shutting the
back door.

Whatever one's view, the debate so far has been sterile. How can one seriously
argue whether to increase legal immigration by 80,000 or 250,000 when maybe 6
million illegal aliens are already here and thousands more are coming daily?
There can be no sensible policy without the means to enforce it.

The good news is that last week, after 19 months of work, a blueribbon Federal
commission took two final votes that, taken together, will vitalize the debate.
If Congress goes along, a humane and consistent immigration policy will not be
far behind.

In the first, more important decision, the Select Commission on Immigration
voted 14 to 2 for something called employer sanctions.  It was, in simpler
language, a resounding vote against hypocrisy.

At present, the United States says to the Immigration Service: patrol the
border, conduct sweeping raids - keep the illegals out.  But the message to
employers is a big wink: even if we catch illegals working for you, they're
culpable, not you. So the economic magnet continues to draw thousands. The
Border Patrol, understaffed by budget-cutters and undermined by employers, is
dispirited, and small wonder. If Congress now in fact makes employers culpable
for hiring illegal aliens, that alone would be a strong deterrent.

The second commission vote, concerning the emotional question of identification,
was disappointing.  Employers cannot be held accountable if they can't readily
tell which aliens are illegal. Since forged papers are cheap, the answer is some
form of secure identification. One proposal is to require job applicants to
identify themselves with several pieces of I.D. and to swear that they are legal
residents. Another idea is a call-in data bank, permitting employers to check an
applicant's truthfulness, the way retail clerks verify credit-card purchases.

The most effective method would probably be forgery-proof Social Security cards.
That arouses fears of internal passports and police statism. But all workers
must now supply their number when they start a job, or a bank account; it's hard
to see what freedom is at issue, beyond the freedom to give a false number.

Which method did the commission choose? None; it ducked. By the narrowest
imaginable vote, 8 to 7 with one pass, it voted for some kind of more secure
identification without specifying. Commissions are meant to lead opinion and
absorb criticism. That hair-thin vote is not likely to inspire Congressional
courage.

Two things have been missing from the debate.  First, technical information; for
years, people in Congress have been saying, yessir, we need to clean up the
immigration mess, but it's complicated and needs further study. The Select
Commission has provided that study and nullified that excuse. What has been
missing, second, is the will to enforce sound immigration rules once they're in
place. The commission has expressed that will. The rest is up to Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

To Turn the Illegal Tide

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words


At last, the country seems to be getting somewhere in the tormenting effort to
reduce illegal immigration.

To some people, the numbers are so alarming they are ready to close the Golden
Door with a slam. Others, for whom immigration means infusions of energy, resist
closing it at all, even to illegal migrants. Still others, and we count
ourselves among them, advocate keeping the Golden Door open - while shutting the
back door.

Whatever one's view, the debate so far has been sterile. How can one seriously
argue whether to increase legal immigration by 80,000 or 250,000 when maybe 6
million illegal aliens are already here and thousands more are coming daily?
There can be no sensible policy without the means to enforce it.

The good news is that last week, after 19 months of work, a blueribbon Federal
commission took two final votes that, taken together, will vitalize the debate.
If Congress goes along, a humane and consistent immigration policy will not be
far behind.

In the first, more important decision, the Select Commission on Immigration
voted 14 to 2 for something called employer sanctions.  It was, in simpler
language, a resounding vote against hypocrisy.

At present, the United States says to the Immigration Service: patrol the
border, conduct sweeping raids - keep the illegals out.  But the message to
employers is a big wink: even if we catch illegals working for you, they're
culpable, not you. So the economic magnet continues to draw thousands. The
Border Patrol, understaffed by budget-cutters and undermined by employers, is
dispirited, and small wonder. If Congress now in fact makes employers culpable
for hiring illegal aliens, that alone would be a strong deterrent.

The second commission vote, concerning the emotional question of identification,
was disappointing.  Employers cannot be held accountable if they can't readily
tell which aliens are illegal. Since forged papers are cheap, the answer is some
form of secure identification. One proposal is to require job applicants to
identify themselves with several pieces of I.D. and to swear that they are legal
residents. Another idea is a call-in data bank, permitting employers to check an
applicant's truthfulness, the way retail clerks verify credit-card purchases.

The most effective method would probably be forgery-proof Social Security cards.
That arouses fears of internal passports and police statism. But all workers
must now supply their number when they start a job, or a bank account; it's hard
to see what freedom is at issue, beyond the freedom to give a false number.

Which method did the commission choose? None; it ducked. By the narrowest
imaginable vote, 8 to 7 with one pass, it voted for some kind of more secure
identification without specifying. Commissions are meant to lead opinion and
absorb criticism. That hair-thin vote is not likely to inspire Congressional
courage.

Two things have been missing from the debate.  First, technical information; for
years, people in Congress have been saying, yessir, we need to clean up the
immigration mess, but it's complicated and needs further study. The Select
Commission has provided that study and nullified that excuse. What has been
missing, second, is the will to enforce sound immigration rules once they're in
place. The commission has expressed that will. The rest is up to Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 22, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Border Patrol's Searches For Aliens Are Resuming

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Jan. 21


Almost a year after the United States Border Patrol was ordered to stop its
searches of camps for alien farm workers because the searches might complicate
the 1980 census, two-man teams are again searching for illegal aliens.

The ban, imposed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service last March, was
lifted last week by the Attorney General's office. In the fiscal year 1980,
which ended Sept. 30, the number of aliens apprehended in the Chula Vista
sector, including San Diego County and parts of Riverside and Orange Counties,
was down by 50,000. In three days this week, 203 illegal aliens were found on
ranches and farms.

Unsanitary conditions in the aliens' camps were disclosed before the searches
were stopped. Federal officials said they feared that undocumented aliens might
be counted in the census more than once.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 27, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

EXCERPTS FROM FINAL REPORT OF COMMISSION ON IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times POLICY

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1626 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26


Following are excerpts from ''U.S.  Immigration Policy and the National
Interest,'' the final report of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee
Policy:

The number of undocumented/illegal residents in the United States remains
uncertain. Census Bureau researchers, in a report for the select commission that
was based on a review of existing studies, offered the following cautious
speculation:

The total number of illegal residents in the United States for some recent year,
such as 1978, is almost certainly below six million, and may be substantially
less, possibly only 3.5 to 5.0 million.

According to this report, Mexican nationals probably account for less than half
of the undocumented/illegal population. Other large numbers come from Jamaica,
the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Haiti, South America and various Asian
countries.

All studies indicate that undocumented/illegal aliens are attracted to this
country by U.S. employment opportunities. Most come from countries that have
high rates of under-@ and unemployment.

'Pernicious Effects' Indicated

Although the research findings and theoretical arguments with regard to the
impact of undocumented/illegal immigration upon the U.S. economy and social
services are inconclusive, there is evidence that shows that the toleration of
large-scale undocumented/illegal immigration can have pernicious effects on U.S.
society.

This illegal flow, encouraged by employers who provide jobs, has created an
underclass of workers who fear apprehension and deportation.
Undocumented/illegal migrants, at the mercy of unscrupulous employers and
coyotes who smuggle them across the border, cannot or will not avail themselves
of the protection of U.S. laws. Not only do they suffer, but so too does U.S.
society.

Most serious is the fact that illegality breeds illegality. The presence of a
substantial number of undocumented/ illegal aliens in the United States has
resulted not only in a disregard for immigration law but in the breaking of
minimum wage and occupational safety laws, and statutes against smuggling as
well. As long as undocumented migration flouts U.S. immigration law, its most
devastating impact may be the disregard it breeds for other U.S.  laws.

The select commission favors immediate action to reduce the flow of
undocumented/illlegal migration. To take no action will result in a worsening of
the problem. Migrants will continue to enter the United States illegally, U.S.
workers will continue to face competition from this source of inexpensive labor
and the disregard for U.S. law will continue to strain the fabric of society.

No Temporary Work Program

The commission has carefully weighed these arguments. Most commissioners have
concluded that the commission should not recommend the introduction of a
large-scale temporary worker program.

The commission proposes a three-part program to address this problem:

- Better border and interior controls;

- Economic deterrents in the workplace; and

- Once new enforcement measures have been instituted, legalization of certain
undocumented/illegal aliens who are already in this country.

The select commission recommends that Border Patrol funding levels be raised to
provide for a substantial increase in the numbers and training of personnel,
replacement sensor systems, additional light planes and helicopters and other
needed equipment.

During the past 10 years, the number of undocumented/illegal migrants, as
measured by apprehensions, has increased much more rapidly than the personnel
and funding levels of the Border Patrol.

At any given hour no more than 450 Border Patrol agents are directly engaged in
activities to stop persons attempting to enter the United States without
inspection. Lack of funds has also stretched the replacement schedule for sensor
systems - introduced during the last 10 years to aid the Border Patrol in
detecting movement in isolated areas of the borders - to seven years, at least
two years longer than the expected operating life of the systems.

Regional Enforcement Posts

The select commission recommends that regional border enforcement posts be
established to coordinate the work of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the U.S. Customs Service, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the
U.S. Coast Guard in the interdiction of both undocumented/illegal migrants and
illicit goods, specifically narcotics.

The select commission recommends that the law be firmly and consistently
enforced against U.S. citizens who aid aliens who do not have valid visas to
enter the country. Recent U.S. experience with the Cuban push-out and the
resulting ''freedom flotilla'' in which private U.S. citizens transported
persons who did not have valid visas to the United States has been a cause for
concern. Though the commission recognizes the good will behind this and other
such actions on the part of U.S. citizens, U.S. law is clear with regard to
aiding the entry of aliens who do not have valid visas - such assistance is
illegal.

The select commission recommends that investigations of overstays and student
visa abuses be maintained regardless of other investigative priorities.

The select commission recommends that a fully automated system of nonimmigrant
document control should be established in the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to allow prompt tracking of aliens and to verify their departure. U.S.
consular posts of visa issuance should be informed of nondepartures. No adequate
system now exists to check whether nonimmigrants leave the country in compliance
with limitations on authorized stay or whether foreign students and other
nonimmigrants are in status.

High Priority for Training

The select commission recommends high priority be given to the training of
Immigration and Naturalization Service officers to familiarize them with the
rights of aliens and U.S. citizens and to help them deal with persons of other
cultural backgrounds. Further, to protect the rights of those who have entered
the United States legally, the commission also recommends that immigration laws
not be selectively enforced in the interior on the basis of race, religion, sex
or national origin.

The select commission recommends that legislation be passed making it illegal
for employers to hire undocumented workers. Current Federal law provides no
basis for the prosecution of employers who knowingly hire undocumented/illegal
aliens. Even if an employer is found to be employing undocumented workers, the
penalty is merely the cost of finding and training replacements. Furthermore,
the employer is free to hire still more undocumented/ illegal aliens without
incurring any additional penalties.

Although sanctions should apply to all employers, many commission members
believe that small businesses employing only a few persons should not be the
target of employer sanctions enforcement efforts.

The select commission recommends that a program to legalize undocumented/illegal
aliens now in the United States be adopted.

'Enormous' Costs to Society

The select commission holds the view that the existence of a large
undocumented/illegal migrant population should not be tolerated. The costs to
society of permitting a large group of persons to live in illegal, second-class
status are enormous. Society is harmed every time an undocumented alien is
afraid to testify as a witness in a legal proceeding, to report an illness that
many constitute a public health hazard or disclose a violation of U.S. labor
laws.

As continuing to employ existing enforcement techniques merely assures the
continuation of current problems, the commission holds the view that
legalization is a realistic response to the problem of resident
undocumented/illegal aliens. It is of the opinion that legalization - following
the institution of new, more effective enforcement measures - would be in the
national interest of the United States for many reasons:

- Qualified aliens would be able to contribute more to U.S. society once they
came into the open. Most undocumented/illegal aliens are hard working,
productive individuals who already pay taxes and contribute their labor to this
country.

- Legalized aliens would no longer contribute to the depression of U.S. labor
standards and wages.

- For the first time, the United States would have reliable information about
the sources (specific towns, villages and provinces) of undocumented/illegal
migration and the characteristics of undocumented/illegal aliens.

The select commission recommends that legalization begin when appropriate
enforcement mechanisms have been instituted.  The commission believes that a
legalization program is a necessary part of enforcement, but it does not believe
that the United States should begin the process of legalization until new
enforcement measures have been instituted to make it clear that the United
States is determined to curtail new flows of undocumented/illegal aliens.

The select commission recommends that those who are ineligible for a
legalization program be subject to the penalties of the Immigration and
Nationality Act if they come to the attention of immigration authorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh

TYPE: text

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 28, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

FIRST REVIEWS ON IMMIGRATION PROPOSALS: ENCOURAGING WORDS, UNCERTAIN PROSPECTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7,; National Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27


A nearly unbroken chorus of favorable comments greeted the final report of the
Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy today, but the initial
public reactions might be deceptive.

The commission has galvanized interest in immigration, but it is not clear what
the Reagan Administration's reaction to the report will be. Moreover, no
consensus has been forged in Congress to support its key proposals: penalities
against employers who hire illegal aliens, an amnesty for most illegal aliens
already in the United States, a modest increase in legal immigration and
stricter enforcement measures, especially along the Mexican border.

The focus of attention shifts now from the commission to Congress.
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat who serves as chairman of
the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said the report, issued
yesterday, was ''the opening salvo of a very serious re-examination of this
nation's immigration and refugee policies.''

Served on Commission

Mr. Mazzoli's counterpart in the Senate, Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
and the ranking Republican on Mr. Mazzoli's subcommittee, Hamilton Fish Jr. of
upstate New York, served on the 16-member commission headed by the Rev. Theodore
M. Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame. So they are prepared for
the task of rewriting the nation's immigration laws, which are unmatched in
complexity by any Federal statutes except perhaps the tax code.

''There is a very strong disposition in the House among my colleagues for
passage of some kind of measure,'' Mr. Mazzoli said.  ''This gives us an
outline, a matrix in which we can then find the politically feasible elements.''

The House majority leader, Jim Wright of Texas, and Strom Thurmond, the South
Carolina Republican who is president pro tem of the Senate and chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, both said that dealing with immigration policy should have
a high priority, but the momentum built up by such comments is fragile at best.
In the absence of some public response by the Reagan Administration, the
commission and its work could disappear into a vacuum.

Cabinet Members to Confer

President Reagan created a Cabinet-level committee today to review the Hesburgh
commission proposals. It consists of the Attorney General, William French Smith,
who was designated as chairman, and the Secretaries of State, Labor, and Health
and Human Services.

Edwin J. Gray, director of the White House Office of Policy Development, said he
was familiar with the main points of the Hesburgh commission report, but he
declined to discuss its merits.  ''This was not a report put together by any of
President Reagan's appointees,'' he said in a brief interview. ''It's a result
of efforts by others. We will take it under advisement.''

Several themes of the report appear to run counter to broad policies already
formulated by the Reagan Administration. A statute establishing penalties for
employers who hired illegal aliens would increase Federal regulation of the
workplace at a time when Mr.  Reagan says he has a mandate to reduce Government
regulation.

The executive director of the commission, Dr. Lawrence H. Fuchs, said that its
proposals for improved enforcement along the Mexican border would cost $43
million. He acknowledged that such an expenditure was ''totally out of sync''
with the cost-cutting austerity advocated by the Office of Management and
Budget.

Long-Term Costs Cited

Commission members said, however, that if such ''relatively small'' expenditures
were not made to curtail illegal immigration, the long-term social and economic
costs could be great.

In its thinking on immigration, the Reagan Administration is less subject to the
influence of organized labor and more interested in the revival of a
guest-worker program than was the Carter Administration. Reagan Administration
officials are also acutely sensitive to the needs of the South and West, where
most illegal immigrants from Latin America have settled.

The League of United Latin American Citizens, which describes itself as the
country's largest Hispanic organization, said that the commission had offered
''politically expedient solutions'' overemphasizing enforcement.

''Immigration is a cultural phenomenon with worldwide patterns and
implications,'' said Ruben Bonilla Jr., president of the league.  ''It's much
too complex to be resolved by the simple Band-Aid approaches reflected in many
sections of the commission's report.''

Attention to Causes Urged

Likewise, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund said that the
United States, instead of stressing enforcement at the border, should pay more
attention to the economic causes of immigration from Mexico.

In an effort to encourage public debate on immigration, representatives of 18
organizations announced today that they were starting a ''national forum'' in
which to conduct research and share opinions. The list of members, reflecting
the diversity of interests concerned about immigration, includes the American
Jewish Committee, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Lawyers' Committee for
Civil Rights Under Law, Zero Population Growth, the United States Conference of
Mayors and the National Association of Counties.

Dale Frederick Swartz of the Lawyers' Committee said: ''Many of us have strong
objections to the commission's recommendations and analysis, but we are, in
effect, holding our fire. We want to study it very carefully, and where we
disagree, we want to offer well reasoned alternatives.''

Some of the commission's other proposals, overshadowed by its principal
recommendations, may prove just as important in the long run. The panel, for
example, suggested a Federal program of ''impact aid'' for local governments
that resettle refugees; punitive fines for schools that fail to keep track of
their foreign students, and creation of a special court to handle all
deportation cases.

The commission also said that there should be somewhat greater supervision of
State Department consular officers, who now have almost absolute authority in
deciding whether to grant visa applications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 1, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NOW UP FOR DEBATE, A CHAIN OF PROPOSALS ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illegal aliens regularly scamper across the United States-Mexican border,
140,000 Cubans and Haitians swamped south Florida last year, and more than 7
million Americans are out of work. Yet a Federal study commission called last
week for a ''modest increase'' in the number of visas granted to immigrants.

Readers of its report could be pardoned for thinking that the Select Commission
on Immigration and Refugee Policy, a 16-member advisory panel, was out of touch
with reality. But in fact many of its recommendations, taken together, made some
sense. And they illustrate both the strengths and weaknesses of blue-ribbon
commissions, an instrument of Government used with great frequency in recent
years.

The immigration study commission, headed by the Rev. Theodore M.  Hesburgh,
president of the University of Notre Dame, differed from many similar bodies in
that it was created by Congress, not the President, and half its members came
from Congress. Four members served in President Carter's Cabinet and four were
private citizens.

The large proportion of high level Federal officials meant that the panel had
the resources and expertise of the Government at its disposal. Although there
were many public hearings and ''consultations'' with experts, the commission was
so high-powered that its members had time for only seven formal business
meetings.  Some of the members, instead of wrestling with the issues firsthand,
delegated their duties to aides. Participation by top Federal officials insured
that the recommendations would be politically acceptable; at least they would
have been acceptable to the Carter Administration and to lawmakers who held
power over immigration bills in the last Congress.

But on some questions, the presence of politicians may have made the select
commission overly cautious. Most members saw a need to revise the long list of
''immoral'' acts and politically unpopular beliefs for which aliens must be kept
out of the country, but they refused to recommend specific changes, for fear of
the public reaction. A totally independent commission might also have been
harsher in its criticism of some agencies, such as the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, but it was difficult for Carter Cabinet appointees to
denounce the performance of their own agencies.

When Democrats controlled the Senate, Edward M. Kennedy presided over Judiciary
Committee hearings on immigration, and he consistently emphasized the need to
assist refugees, generally welcoming them and other aliens. Now, however,
Senator Alan K.  Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, will set the tone, as chairman
of a new subcommittee on immigration and refugee policy. His more cautious
approach reflects concerns that appear to be shared by many Americans. In
comments at the end of the select commission report, Mr. Simpson said that there
should be an ''absolute annual ceiling'' on the number of immigrants, an idea
opposed by a majority. He said that Spanish-speaking aliens seemed to adopt the
English language and other aspects of United States culture less completely than
other immigrants, and he worried that ''linguistic and cultural separatism''
might erode ''the unity and political stability of the nation.''

Senator Simpson joined more liberal members of the commission in endorsing its
key recommendations: a one-time amnesty for illegal aliens coupled with strict
enforcement measures, including the imposition of penalties upon employers who
make a practice of hiring illegal aliens. By a vote of 8 to 7, the commission
recommended a more secure method of identification for citizens and legal aliens
- not necessarily a national identification card system - so employers could
distinguish those who have a right to work from those who don't.

Looking Beyond the Short Term

The Hesburgh commission's proposals have a certain internal logic as a total
package. But any one element taken by itself - for example, the increase in
legal immigration -might look silly. At present, the United States' immigration
policy is, basically, no policy at all; there has been a conscious decision to
keep a mishmash of old laws and practices. Although hardly anyone defends the
present system, it does have some virtues. The United States and Mexico have
apparently worked out a modus vivendi on the border, which serves the short-term
interests of impoverished aliens and their employers in states of the South and
West.

But the purpose of a Federal study commission is to look beyond the short term,
to help shape a consensus for the future. Thomas R.  Wolanin, a Congressional
aide who has written a book about Presidential advisory commissions, found that
there were 99 established between 1945 and 1972. He found that panels formed in
response to crises, such as the Kerner commission, which studied the urban
riots, often had little direct effect on Government policies.

However, contrary to the common belief, Mr. Wolanin said, commissions are not a
means for avoiding issues, and most commission reports have not been ignored.
Two out of three commissions saw substantial action taken upon some of their
recommendations, he said.

Despite intense public concern about illegal immigration, the Hesburgh
commission found that the proportion of foreign-born people in the United States
at the end of the 1970's was ''actually lower than at any previous point since
1850, when statistics were first kept.'' Census Bureau researchers estimated
that there are now 3.5 million to 6 million illegal aliens in the country, but
the commission had no reliable data on where these people live or what they do.
And the panel did not hire scholars to do extensive research on the illegal
aliens because, according to Dr. Lawrence H. Fuchs, the executive director, ''it
would only fuel emotional arguments based on prejudice.''

Vilma S. Martinez, president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, cited the lack of this important information as a reason for
her disappointment with the commission. The panel, she said, recommended strict
enforcement measures to abate illegal immigration even while conceding that the
economic effects of immigration on domestic workers were largely unknown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of illegal aliens

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 2, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. RETURNS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WHO ARE FLEEING SALVADOR WAR

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2237 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 1


Refugees from the fighting in El Salvador are streaming into the United States
in ever-greater numbers, in many cases having sold all they own to finance the
difficult, expensive and illegal journey from their Central American homeland.
But they are being sent home again nearly as fast as they are captured, to what
many of them fear may be mistreatment or death.

Lawyers working in behalf of the Salvadorans say that, in an effort to keep them
from clogging the overloaded immigration system, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service sometimes does not tell the refugees that they have the
right to have a deportation hearing or to seek political asylum, or it
intimidates them into forgoing these procedures.

One Mexican immigration official in Tijuana said last month that some of the
Salvadorans apprehended in this country had simply been sent back across the
border by American officers.

Response of Immigration Service

A spokesman for the United States immigration service, Verne Jervis, said that
this practice would be illegal but denied that it was going on. Mr. Jervis said
that while there ''might be some violations'' by local offices of the service,
he was unaware of widespread trampling on the Salvadorans' rights.

In the fiscal year that ended in September, 11,792 Salvadorans were apprehended
by the immigration service, up from 7,890 four years before. Border Patrol
Agents estimate that for every illegal alien they catch, from two to five others
manage to evade detection, which would place the number of new arrivals at
25,000 to 60,000 a year.

The Salvadorans are only one small group among the uncounted people entering the
United States illegally south of the border. But they are the only ones for whom
church groups and others are seeking a temporary haven in this country. Unlike
the hundreds of thousands of Mexicans who commute here each year to work, the
Salvadorans are driven not by poverty but by war, and for them the prospect of
returning home holds far more anguish.

In January, alarmed by an unconfirmed report that some refugees sent home in
December had been murdered by right-wing ''death squads'' shortly after they
arrived in San Salvador on Christmas morning, 42 Salvadorans at the immigration
service's detention facility in El Centro, Calif., 150 miles southeast of here,
released a statement saying they had begun a hunger strike to underline their
appeal for asylum from ''the political situation which presently exists'' in El
Salvador.

The report of the Christmas murders, which has gained currency among Salvadoran
exiles in this country, remains unconfirmed. But many of those knowledgable
about conditions in El Salvador say there is little doubt that some number of
those sent home by the immigration service have been killed, as victims of
random violence if not as specific targets of the left or right.

''It just stands to reason,'' said Millard Arnold, who was deputy assistant
Secretary of State for human rights in the Carter Administration. ''The odds are
some of them are going to be killed.''

Prof. Blase Bonpane, a sociologist and Latin American expert at California State
University here, went further. ''There is no doubt in my mind that somewhere
between 5 and 10 percent of those who are returned are executed, because the
Government had something on them, a member of a union or something,'' he said.

Some of the refugees, among them teachers and trade unionists, say their names
have appeared on what purport to be ''death lists'' circulated by various
right-wing ''terror squads.'' But United States immigration officials say most
of those they apprehend seem to be associated with no political faction.
''They've seen the fighting,'' said one, ''but they're generally uninvolved in
it. They're just frightened.''

Whatever their reasons for leaving, the identities of those who are caught once
they arrive here are made known to the Salvadoran Government. Before they can be
''repatriated,'' at a cost to the Federal Government of about $300 apiece,
officials of the immigration service said, the refugees are interviewed by the
Salvadoran Consul General in Los Angeles to confirm their nationality. When they
arrive home, according to Professor Bonpane, they are interviewed again and
asked ''to give some kind of explanation'' for having left the country. He said
he had seen films of such interviews, adding that ''the level of abuse is
frightening.''

A spokesman for the United States Embassy in San Salvador said that he had heard
many reports of mistreatment or killing of Salvadorans returned from the United
States, but that he had no evidence that any of the reports were true. But Mr.
Arnold said the State Department had repeatedly asked the embassy whether it
could confirm or disprove the reports and was told, ''No one really knows, the
situation is so chaotic.''

Reports of People Missing or Dead

Among the Salvadorans in this country, it seems, almost everyone knows, or has
heard of, someone who has been sent back and is now missing or dead. Mario
Vasquez, a Los Angeles lawyer representing a 27-year-old Salvadoran mechanic who
has been awaiting deportation at El Centro for 13 months, said his client had
received a letter from his mother reporting that two friends sent back to El
Salvador a few weeks earlier had been killed.

Such reports are spread mainly through the mail and by word of mouth, but there
are also occasional telephone calls from home. It was such a call to a refugee
at El Centro, from someone who had been detained there whom he knew only as
''Carlos,'' that provided the Salvadorans with their first account of the
rumored Christmas massacre.

The rumor swept through the camp and was passed on to a reporter for El Diario,
the Spanish-language newspaper in New York City, which published a brief account
Jan. 4. It was later picked up by other Spanish-language newspapers, but none of
the published reports have contained any confirmation.

Documents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service made available to The
New York Times showed that a group of 25 Salvadorans left here Dec. 24 aboard
Western Airlines Flight 746, spent the night at the Mexico City airport and
arrived in San Salvador on Christmas morning aboard a Costa Rican airliner.
Twelve of the Salvadorans were returning under orders of deportation and the
rest as ''voluntary returnees.''

Bodies Along the Road

''Carlos,'' the man who telephoned El Centro with news of the incident, was said
to have been among those aboard the plane who somehow escaped death, and the
list of passengers includes three persons with that first name. The man
reportedly said he had returned to the airport the morning after his arrival and
had recognized the bodies of some of his fellow passengers lying along the road.

The immigration service rejected a request by The New York Times, made under the
Freedom of Information Act, for the home addresses of those who returned on
Christmas Day, saying it was concerned that any inquiries in El Salvador about
their well-being might jeopardize their lives.

As is true of all illegal aliens, no one knows how many Salvadorans are living
in the United States. Community services officials here estimate that there are
100,000 to 300,000 in the Los Angeles area alone, and there are also sizable
Salvadoran communities in San Francisco and the District of Columbia.

Deaths of 13 in Arizona Desert

The flow of refugees abated somewhat last summer, after the deaths from
dehydration of 13 Salvadorans who had crossed the border into Arizona without
sufficient water, a case that was widely reported in El Salvador. But
immigration officials say the refugees are once again arriving at a rapid pace.

The route they follow leads through Guatemala and Mexico, which as a result are
now confronted with illegal immigration problems of their own, and the journey
is an expensive one. Rings that specialize in smuggling Salvadorans charge from
$1,000 to $1,700 for passage to Los Angeles and $500 more for a trip to the East
Coast. Because they come with the intention of remaining here until the
Salvadoran conflict is resolved, many of the refugees sell their houses and
personal possessions to pay their way. If they are captured and returned home,
there is often nowhere for them to go.

Not many of the refugees appear to be applying for political asylum, which
requires a showing that the applicant has a specific reason to fear that he will
be harmed upon returning home, for example because of membership in a particular
political group. The immigration service has no reliable figures, but some
estimates place the total number of applicants as low as 400.

Even though there may be more who could meet the criteria for asylum, the great
majority of the refugees are probably not qualified under a strict
interpretation of the rules requiring a threat of political persecution. ''They
say they left because they don't want to take sides,'' said John Weis, an El
Centro lawyer who has many refugees among his clients. ''But they're caught in
the middle, and they feel that they're in real danger.''

Status of Temporary Refuge

United States law also provides, however, for giving temporary refuge to aliens
unable to return home because of ''civil war or catastrophic circumstances.''
Such status has been conferred at different times on citizens of Vietnam, Laos,
Uganda and, most recently, on Nicaraguans after the fall of the Government of
President Anastasio Somoza Debayle. Last fall, President Carter ordered the
admission of more than 150,000 Cubans and Haitians who had landed in Florida in
boats.

A coalition of Congressmen, religious organizations and other groups, among them
the National Council of Churches, the United States Catholic Conference and the
American Civil Liberties Union, has been urging the State Department to follow
the same policy in admitting the Salvadoran refugees. In a letter to Secretary
of State Edmund S. Muskie in January, the coalition quoted Phillip Sargisson,
the Central American representative of the United Nations High Commission on
Refugees, as having declared that ''anyone who comes out of El Salvador today
deserves refugee status.''

When the Carter Administration left office, according to Millard Arnold, the
former State Department official, it was ''very, very close to working out a
compromise'' that would have allowed the Salvadorans to remain here temporarily,
not through any official action but simply by not sending them home.

The plan was endorsed, he said, by the department's human rights bureau, after
reports that more than 10,000 people of El Salvador's 4.5 million people had
been killed there last year, a figure Mr.  Arnold termed ''an enormous number of
deaths in a country that size.'' But he said that it was rejected by other State
Department officials concerned that it might suggest that the United States,
which had been pushing for a political settlement of the Salvadoran conflict,
''did not have faith in the ability of the Salvadorans to resolve their own
problems.''

Concern of Drawing More Refugees

There were also concerns, he said, that such a policy might lead to a still
greater influx of refugees, and that the arrangement would be ''difficult to
police'' since it might be impossible to distinguish Salvadoran citizens from
other Central and South Americans.

Of the nearly 12,000 Salvadorans arrested last year, only 2,378 were formally
deported, suggesting that a large number were returned through what the
immigration service calls ''voluntary departure,'' an agreement by an illegal
alien to return home without demanding the deportation hearing, with its
expensive and time-consuming appeals process, to which he is entitled. Without a
large number of voluntary returns, immigration experts agree, the overloaded
adjudication system would quickly collapse.

The immigration service is required to provide all those it arrests with a
written notice of rights, including the right to free legal counsel. But lawyers
working with the Salvadorans say they are convinced that the options are not
being fully explained by immigration officials.

Reasons for Returning Questioned

''I.N.S. would like people to return voluntarily without going through the
system,'' said Mr. Weis, the El Centro lawyer. Another lawyer, William H.
Steiner of Los Angeles, questioned why so many Salvadorans were agreeing to
return home voluntarily ''when they've risked their lives and spent their life
savings to go 2,500 miles to get here.''

''It's a safe assumption,'' he said, ''that they were forced back.'' Mr. Steiner
said he had seen some voluntary departure agreements signed with an ''X'' by
Salvadorans who could neither write nor read what they were signing. In
''practically every case,'' Mr. Weis said, his clients withdrew their agreements
to return home after being told of the available alternatives.

There are also accounts of instances in which the advice of rights has been
followed by what what Mr. Steiner termed ''mental coercion.'' ''They're told if
they want a hearing or asylum they'll have to stay in jail, or that their
relatives will be arrested,'' he said.

''You'll get an overzealous border guard who says, 'You either go back or we'll
lock you away for the rest of your life,' '' Mr. Arnold said. ''So the poor
fellow elects to go back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of refugees (Page A14)

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 31, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation In Summary;
Mexican Workers: Second Thoughts

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron, Michael Wright and Don Wycliff

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 6; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 286 words


Last fall, candidate Ronald Reagan said he favored an open-ended program to
allow Mexicans into the United States as temporary workers. Last week, an
advisory panel said that President Reagan should be content with a two-year
experiment limited to 50,000 workers a year.

The panel, headed by the Attorney General, was established in February to help
the Administration decide who should be admitted into the United States legally
and what should be done about aliens who have already slipped in. Mr. Reagan
won't formally receive its recommendations until mid-June, after the scheduled
visit of the President of Mexico, Jose Lopez Portillo.

A commission headed by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the
University of Notre Dame, recommended earlier this year an amnesty for most of
the estimated 3.5 million to 6 million illegal aliens already in the country.
White House officials were noncommittal on the recommendations because the
Hesburgh commission had been a creation of the Carter Administration.

Last week, in the final draft of its report, the Reagan panel concluded that 1.2
million aliens, who have lived here for five years, should be eligible for
immediate amnesty, although 1.5 million might later qualify. The panel also
called for stricter enforcement of immigration laws, a ''moderate increase'' in
the enforcement budget of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Caroline Rand Herron, Michael Wright and Don Wycliff

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 1, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FUTURE UNCLEAR FOR REAGAN'S BOLD IMMIGRATION PLAN;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1277 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 31


With reports that a Cabinet-level advisory committee has completed its charter
for restructuring this country's immigration policy, the Reagan Administration
has taken a critical and long-awaited first step toward resolving a problem
that, after decades of inattention, is fast assuming the proportions of a
national crisis.

The problem may be stated briefly: To what extent is the United States prepared
to permit or at least to tolerate the continued immigration of impoverished and
oppressed refugees and aliens, legal and illegal, and with them the enhanced
potential for social conflict inherent in a permanently multilingual,
multicultural society?

Whatever the answer, the dimensions of the crisis are now clear.  The
committee's report said that, given current rates of fertility and immigration,
in just 50 years a fifth of the country's projected population of 300 million
would be made up of immigrants who had arrived here since the report or their
descendants, many of whom will speak little or no English and will be competing
against one another and the indigenous poor for jobs, housing and social
services.

The Reagan plan has its bolder elements, going far beyond anything proposed by
preceding administrations. It would eventually transform nearly 3 million
illegal aliens already living here into legal residents, while allowing others
to enter the United States legally as temporary workers for limited periods.
Both steps will certainly reduce the magnitude of illegal immigration, if only
by definition.

Reinforcement of Border Patrols

As a counterweight, the plan would provide more than a token reinforcement of
patrols along the Mexican border in the hope of keeping out more uninvited
foreigners. It would also remove the chief incentive for illegal immigration by
making it unlawful for an employer to hire anyone who does not have permission
to live or work in this country.

The plan recognizes that there is no way, short of turning the country into a
police state, to deport those foreigners already living here illegally. The
Census Bureau estimates their numbers at 3 million to 6 million, and other
estimates have put the figure as high as 12 million.

It also takes account of what President Reagan has termed the special
relationship that exists among the three nations of North America by doubling
the number of immigrant visas available to citizens of Mexico and Canada, now
limited to the ceiling of 20,000 annually applied to all other countries.

But like price controls, gasoline rationing and other public policy concepts
that work well on paper, the Administration's ambitious proposals on amnesty and
temporary workers may prove more than a bit difficult to implement even if they
are approved by Congress.

Admitting Additional Mexicans

Though critics are certain to protest that even a limited amnesty amounts to a
reward for having broken the law, the most controversial proposal is likely to
be the Administration's recommendation to admit 100,000 additional Mexicans over
the next two years as temporary workers to fill jobs that Americans do not want.

Organized labor and its supporters in Congress, mainly big-city Democrats in the
House of Representatives, are sure to oppose such a plan, partly out of fears
that employers might reduce wages until American workers are driven off,
replacing them with Mexicans willing to work for the minimum wage.

Another concern is whether the ''guest workers,'' as the Administration says it
wants them to be known, will overstay their welcome, as has been the case in
West Germany, Switzerland and other Northern European countries that imported
millions of workers from Southern Europe two decades ago and now find that they
do not want to leave.

Finally, the Reagan proposals would admit as guest workers barely a tenth of the
half million or so aliens estimated to settle here illegally each year. This
number is not likely to get smaller unless economic and political pressures for
migration abate throughout Mexico, Central America and the Far East, which they
show no signs of doing.

Questions About Enforcing Law

The Reagan Administration reportedly plans to ask Congress for a new Federal law
that would prohibit the employment of anyone except citizens, legal resident
aliens and guest workers. No such statute now exists.

There are serious questions about the Federal Government's ability to enforce
such a law, however. Employers, particularly smaller ones, are bound to protest
that they will have no way of determining which prospective workers are here
legally. This complaint will take on added force in view of the Administration's
decision not to issue a new national identity card for employable citizens and
residents, advocating instead a ''counterfeit-resistant'' Social Security card
that would be issued only to newly hired workers.

It remains to be seen whether the clandestine network of document forgers along
the Mexican border can be thwarted by that card. A veteran Border Patrol Agent
remarked, ''There's not a document in the world that can't be counterfeited.''

The amnesty envisioned by the plan presents other logistical problems, the major
one arising from the fact that the amnesty will not be unconditional.

Qualifying for Amnesty

Only certain classes of illegal aliens will be eligible, the primary requirement
being continuous residence in the United States for either three or five years
before Jan. 1, 1980.

Officials estimate that about 2.7 million illegal aliens will qualify, but the
process is likely to be neither simple nor speedy, with tens of thousands or
perhaps hundreds of thousands of claims, some of them disputable and others
simply bogus, being presented for adjudication.

Many who are fully qualified for such an amnesty will have trouble establishing
the fact. Agricultural workers, for example, often have no fixed place of
residence, moving from employer to employer several times a year, receiving pay
in cash at the end of the week. As a result, they will have no rent receipts,
payroll vouchers or similar documents to show to the authorities.

Even those aliens residing in cities and working at service and manufacturing
jobs, as more and more of them are these days, frequently pool their cash to pay
rent and other living expenses.  Most illegal aliens do not have checking
accounts or pay property or income taxes, and while they may carry Social
Security cards and drivers' licenses, these documents are often not authentic.

For its success, the Reagan plan will depend largely on the Federal Government's
ability to deter future illegal immigration.  Although the figures are subject
to change, the task force reportedly recommended a 13 percent increase in the
overall budget of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that would support
the addition of some 1,600 enforcement personnel.

The Administration, according to the committee's report, expects the additional
personnel to result in nearly 400,000 more apprehensions of aliens a year, the
bulk of them along the Mexican border. But as one senior official of the
immigration service pointed out, more border guards might simply mean that some
aliens were caught and returned to Mexico more often before making a successful
entry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 27, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

THE TWO KINDS OF 'FOREIGNERS' AMONG

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 408 words


USTo the Editor:

Gov. Richard D. Lamm of Colorado errs; he's fallen into the trap.  In his July
12 Op-Ed article, ''America Needs Fewer Immigrants,'' he eloquently sets forth
the frustration all of us have with the weaknesses in American immigration
policy and its implementation, but in his frustration he overgeneralizes and
clouds the issue.v.hile it is true that in local American communities immigrants
look like refugees who look like entrants who look like illegal aliens, there
are in fact important differences. Immigrants and refugees are here by our
choice and arrive in accordance with procedures set forth by our Government.
This is not true of entrants or illegal aliens.

We choose to admit immigrants and refugees for humanitarian reasons and because
it is in the best interests of the United States to do so. This is obviously not
true with entrants or illegal aliens.

There is one additional critical difference. The fact that immigrants and
refugees come here in accordance with our law makes their numbers eminently
controllable. It is, in Governor Lamm's frustration, easy for him to lump all
''foreigners'' into one pile, even though the numbers of legal arrivals
represent the smaller percentage of current total migration into the United
States.

Yes, it is important for the U.S. to rethink its immigration policy in today's
terms. Yes, there does need to be a relationship between conditions here in
America and the numbers of immigrants and refugees admitted each year. No, these
principles do not mean that this country needs to compromise its historic
commitment to a flexible and humane immigration policy or to being the major
haven of those who are truly persecuted.

These issues are too important -life or death for some - for simple answers. Let
us rethink our immigration policy and then enforce compliance with the choices
we've made. But let us be sure that our policy continues to provide a flexible
receptivity to those who would come here in compliance with our laws,
particularly refugees, for whom immigration means liberty.  ROGER P. WINTER
Director United States Committee for Refugees New York, July 15, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

PLAN ON IMMIGRATION immigration policy;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1334 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 30


President Reagan's new immigration proposals would lead to three things:
citizenship for several million foreigners now living in this country illegally,
the admission of 100,000 Mexicans to this country over two years to work at jobs
for which domestic labor is in short supply, and the first Federal law
prohibiting the hiring of illegal aliens by all employers except for the very
smallest concerns.

But one element that is missing, and whose absence could be critical, is some
way by which future illegal aliens can be distinguished from citizens and legal
resident aliens. And some questions emerge about the ultimate viability of the
immigration proposals.

At the basis of the Administration proposals on employer sanctions, temporary
workers and stricter enforcement of the immigration laws is the widely shared
concern that illegal aliens who come here to work will take jobs from Americans
if they are allowed free access to the labor market.

Issue of Displacing Americans

To some degree they do. Last fall, illegal aliens were found to be earning
average salaries of $9,000 a year in some blue-collar suburbs of Chicago in
which unemployment was running at more than 10 percent. But such workers are in
the minority, and the Reagan plan appears to ignore two facts: workers, even
illegal ones, are also consumers and their demand for goods and services creates
more jobs than would otherwise exist, and many of the jobs now held by illegal
aliens would not otherwise exist, at least not at the wage offered.

The call for a new law containing employer sanctions also appears to ignore the
fact that a dozen states have had such laws on the books for years and that they
have proved ineffective. In one such state, California, there are probably more
illegal alien workers than in any other state in the country. Nor has there ever
been any serious attempt to enforce the existing Federal statute that makes it
illegal for farm labor contractors to hire illegal alien workers.

Although the Administration has given assurances that a new law is intended for
use only against concerns that employ significant numbers of illegal aliens, its
passage would put every employer, large and small, in the position of acting as
a kind of immigration officer.

How is an employer to determine whether a job applicant is in this country
legally or not? The Federal Government, by rejecting proposals for a national
worker identity card, or a Social Security card more difficult to counterfeit,
is seeking to impose the burden of the law on the employer without giving him
much assistance, critics accuse.

Problem of Counterfeit Documents

The Administration proposes that the applicant produce such documentation as a
birth certificate and a driver's license. But counterfeit versions of both are
easily obtained all along the Mexican border, and it could be argued that any
law satisfied by such docments would be no law at all.

Testifying Before a joint Congressional committee today, Attorney General
William French Smith said proposals for a national identity card had been
rejected, not out of any distaste for more Government regulation, but because
the cost might have reached $2 billion. The social cost of not developing a new
credential may prove to be even higher, since countless Hispanic and Asian
Americans are now threatened with being required to prove their citizenship to
each prospective employer.

The legal admission of foreign workers is not a new idea, and though the program
put forth by Mr. Reagan is severely limited in scope, there may be lessons for
the United States in the experience of other nations that have tried it. The
countries of Northern Europe began in the early 1960's to import badly needed
factory laborers from Italy, Spain, Algeria and other relatively poor countries
to the south. At the beginning the workers were welcomed as a cheap, highly
mobile labor force.

Now that they are no longer needed, however, it is proving difficult to persuade
them to return home. An estimated 12 million such workers are still in Northern
Europe, and many have clouded their immigration status by marrying local
residents. The lesson of that experience is that guests tend to overstay their
welcome.

Fears of Hispanic Americans

The idea of a temporary worker program angers Hispanic-American and labor
leaders, who fear some constituents may be displaced in the job market. Even
some of the President's supporters wonder whether the limited gains are worth
the political cost.

Though Mexico, where population and unemployment are straining against available
resources, endorses the guest-worker principle as a badly needed economic safety
valve, specialists in the field say the Administration program may prove too
timid in scope to make much real difference to either country.

Nor, they say, will the proposed increase in the number of legal immigrants from
Mexico from 20,000 a year to perhaps 70,000 do much to stem the flow of illegal
aliens. By the Administration's own estimate, two and a half million such aliens
are now entering this country each year, and half a million of them establish
residence here.

Problem at Borders

In his Congressional testimony today, Attorney General Smith acknowledged
something that Administrations have been reluctant to admit: that the United
States had lost control of its borders. He was referring principally to the
nation's southern border with Mexico, but the longer and even more sparsely
patrolled Canadian border is increasingly becoming an entry point for illegal
aliens from Hong Kong, the West Indies and some South American countries.

The cure proposed, at a time when the Administration is cutting the budgets of
many other Federal agencies, is to allocate $75 million more a year for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and its subagency, the Border Patrol.

Whether more money can do much remains to be seen. It can be argued that more
troops should make some difference, since now there are only 350 Border Patrol
agents guarding the Mexican border at any one time, about the average number of
New York City transit police officers on duty at one time. But this question can
also be posed: Will more border guards not mean that the same illegal aliens are
apprehended more often before making a successful entry?

As some critics of immigration policy have pointed out, to make the Border
Patrol an effective deterrent would require about 2.5 million more officers,
enough to stand shoulder to shoulder in a 2,000-milelong line from Brownsville,
Tex., to San Ysidro, Calif. But in the end, the question of more border guards
and detention centers appears to ignore the evidence that half a million
foreigners a year enter this country legally with valid tourist, business, or
other visas, then stay on with little fear of detection.

The President's proposal for an amnesty that puts three to five million illegal
aliens on the long road to resident alien status and eventual United States
citizenship - five years for most Cubans and Haitians, 10 years for everybody
else - recognizes that it would be physically impossible, short of police-state
methods, to round up and deport the six to 10 million aliens here illegally.

It also takes account of the fact that many of those foreigners have made a
significant contribution to American society over the years, working and paying
taxes, putting their children through school, in some cases owning property and
even small businesses, and that they feel they have earned the right to a legal
share of the American dream.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Attorney General William French Smith
announcing new

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 1, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CRITICS ATTACK REAGAN ON IMMIGRATION REFORM

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 31


The Reagan Administration's proposed reforms of the nation's immigration policy
came under attack today from a broad spectrum of critics. They asserted that
elements of the plan were either too large in scope or too small, were unfair to
illegal aliens and native Americans alike, and contained both too little
provision for enforcement and too much.

There were indications today that opposition to the Administration's plan would
come mainly from Hispanic rights and farmworker organizations.

But the attitude among officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
was cautiously hopeful.  At the Immigration Counseling Center here, a private
organization that provides assistance to undocumented aliens, ''the phones have
been ringing off the walls,'' according to Rose Lopez,

New York City officials generally praised the proposed immigration policy, but
city groups aiding illegal aliens said the proposals fell far short of a general
amnesty. Page 27.
the center's director. ''Everybody wants to know if they can apply for residence
now. They say they've been here five years, seven years, 10 years. All we can
tell them is to hold on, that it has to be passed into law.''

'Intense' Backlash Predicted

''There's going to be a very intense backlash against the program on all
grounds,'' said Tim Barker, a lawyer with the National Center for Immigrants'
Rights in Los Angeles.

Tony Bonilla, president of the League of United Latin American Citizens, the
nation's largest Hispanic American group, called the requirement that most
immigrants live here 10 years before becoming permanent residents ''tantamount
to establishing serfdom.'' The 3 million to 5 million aliens who may become
eligible for amnesty would be required to pay taxes but denied most forms of
public assistance.

Debate over the temporary worker program centered on its size.  Senator Edward
M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, a member of the Judiciary Committee,
questioned the justification for admitting tens of thousands of Mexican workers
when even larger numbers of Americans were unemployed.

But Senator Harrison Schmitt, Republican of New Mexico, asserted that there were
at least a million jobs that Americans could or would not fill.

Program Seen as Hindering Unions

Mr. Barker and others involved in migrant rights also expressed the concern that
the President's proposed temporary worker program might be used by growers,
particularly in Texas and Arizona, to thwart union organizing efforts.

Several immigration officials along the Mexican border and in Washington
expressed cautious enthusiasm about the Reagan plan.  The officials welcomed in
particular the Administration's proposal to spend some $35 million for a new
holding center for illegal aliens. But some suggested that the proposed addition
of 230 Border Patrol agents might be offset by increased responsibilities that
might arise if a new law were to prohibit most employers from hiring illegal
aliens.

Roger Conner, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, who is one of the most vocal critics of the program, pointed out that
the extra guards did not represent a net increase but only restored the
positions cut by the Carter Administration last year.

May Compel New Hiring Policies

Other immigration officials said they would welcome the hiring provision as
likely to give them a legal ''lever'' over those businesses, of which there are
many in the Southwest, that habitually employ illegal aliens.

One executive of a major canning company that employs up to 1,200 unskilled
laborers in certain months of the year said he did not think his operation would
be hampered if employers were held responsible for determining that a worker was
in the country legally.

The proposed law would exempt businesses with fewer than five employees from
civil responsibility. Critics noted that many of these could be the small farms,
restaurants, shops, and janitorial painting contractors that have customarily
employed illegal aliens.

The Reagan Administration has suggested how employers might meet their
responsibilities under the proposed law. It said they could examine any two
pieces of identification offered by a applicant, including a Social Security
card, a driver's license, a birth certificate or a draft registration
certificate. To this, counterfeiters on the Mexican side of the border have
reacted quickly.

''We just arrested a guy yesterday coming across the bridge with 900 phony
Social Security cards,'' said a senior Border Patrol official in south Texas.
''In Chula Vista, it's drivers' licenses.  They're all geared up for it.''
Packages of documents, including an American driver's license, birth certificate
and Social Security card, were selling for $200 in Mexico, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 2, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

'We've Lost Control of Our Borders'

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 599 words


After several false starts, President Reagan has finally proposed his
immigration reform. But the package is so disappointing one wonders what took so
long. Key features are seriously flawed, almost ludicrously in the matter of
regulating immigrant labor. Congress will not find it helpful in drafting
legislation. And it displays an Administration so irresolute that it raises
doubts about whether whatever Congress enacts will be fairly and vigorously
enforced.

Some facts are faced squarely. We have, as Attorney General Smith concedes,
''lost control of our borders.'' Uncounted millions cross our porous borders in
search of a better life. Like prior immigrants, many enrich our land with
industry. But their numbers are so great that they also strain community
resources and threaten the jobs and well-being of those who preceded them.

Another bow to reality is Mr. Smith's concession that millions of illegals are
here to stay and that some system has to be found to legitimize and integrate
them.

But if the borders can't be closed, the key to control is jobs. A law that
prohibits the employment of illegal aliens is a recognized necessity. But it
will be a new mockery if Congress, like the Administration, flees from
sufficient punishment for violators and from a realistic, fair way to detect
violations.

Employers cannot be held accountable for whom they hire without a reliable way
of verifying the immigration status - whether that be a forgery-proof Social
Security card or some less expensive tool. An expert immigration commission
recognized that fact, as did a White House task force. But for diverse reasons,
including a misplaced concern over this extra measure of business regulation,
the

Reagan Cabinet rejected the idea.  The emptiness of the proposed sanctions
against employers is further betrayed by the proposed maximum penalty of $1,000
for each illegal hire - a mild cost of acquiring workers at many thousands below
scale. Moreover, Mr. Smith would let employers avoid penalty altogether if they
merely ask for such easily forged instruments as a driver's license and paper
Social Security card.
By posing a costly and ominous-sounding ''national identity card'' as the only
alternative, the Administration stacks the deck. Less expensive techniques are
available, including a computer system of telephone verification. The
President's concern for

''our values of individual privacy and freedom'' is welcome, but out of context.
Forgery-proof identification need not invade privacy; but the lack of it could
cost legal aliens their livelihoods.  Cynical employers can easily mask their
discrimination against

Hispanics and other minorities by claiming uncertainty about immigration status.
Some sympathy is warranted for anyone who must wrestle with this vexing problem.
All the issues - the nature and strength of border patrols, the intercepting of
unwanted immigrants at sea, the standards for choosing refugees, the utility of
an ''experiment'' in temporary guest worker employment - are mined with
controversy and expense.

But it is hard to sympathize with an effort that failed so clearly on a central
point. And if a dozen Cabinet officials can't reach accord on sound
recom-mendations, what hope for 500 members of Congress?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 24, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION REFORM

BYLINE: By William French Smith

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Administration this week submitted to Congress a comprehensive package of
legislation to reform our nation's immigration laws. Reform of some kind, all
would agree, is long overdue. Earlier policies and practices were unrealistic,
and have failed.

The Administration's recently announced policy would permit the United States to
assert control over its borders. We propose to increase the law-enforcement
resources of the Immigration and Naturalization Service; to reform and expedite
our procedures to return persons who come here illegally; to penalize those who
knowingly hire illegal aliens; and to deal realistically and humanely with
illegal aliens who are now here, by granting them a legal status.

It is timely then to clear up certain misconceptions that have muddied the
waters.  No question has been more muddied than the role of identification cards
in enforcing the immigration laws.  The immigration problem, at bottom, is how
to stop illegal aliens from coming to the United States. It is commonly and
correctly assumed that illegal aliens come here to work. It is for this reason
that the Administration has proposed that it be made unlawful for them to do so
and for employers to hire them.

This proposed law is the centerprice of the program, and without it illegal
immigration will not be stopped or even slowed. To enforce this prohibition
simply and without discrimination against Americans, employers need a means of
distinguishing illegal aliens from persons authorized to work. Hence, the
identification-card controversy.

Americans already have I.D. cards. We have Social Security cards, driver's
licenses, birth certificates, Selective Service cards, and on and on. These
documents, used for various purposes, could be shown to employers as evidence of
legal residence by persons who could be hired under the new law. This is
precisely what the Administration proposes.

Some critics think that we need to create yet another I.D. card.  The new card
would be given to persons here legally and would, it is said, be
''counterfeit-resistant.'' The critics' point is that some illegal aliens have
or could obtain fraudulent identification cards of the existing varieties. Thus,
at least one critic has applauded the intention of the Agriculture Department to
issue identification cards bearing photos to between two million and three
million foodstamp recipients in selected large cities where fraud in that
program is rife.

If these critics have not mixed apples and oranges, they have at least mixed
apples and orchards. Take their favorite alternative - reissuing a ''more
secure'' Social Security card to all Americans.  This would cost taxpayers, it
is estimated, between $800 million and $2 billion - more than 100 times the
price tag of the food-stamp identification-card program.

It is not likely that such new cards could be made secure against counterfeiting
and fraud. How would a person get one? By showing an old Security Security card,
driver's license, birth certificate, and on and on. Billions should not be spent
so lightly these days.

The Congress and the American people must grapple with a large and complicated
problem that demands a vigorous, comprehensive response.  The Administration has
submitted its legislative proposals, and they are comprehensive.

Preoccupation with this single mechanical detail only serves to divert attention
from proposals designed to solve a very serious problem. It would be regrettable
to miss the forest for the I.D.'s.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
William French Smith is Attorney General of the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: op-ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 4, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN'S MOVE TO CONTROL IMMIGRATION;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3


The Reagan Administration's plans to control illegal immigration include several
little-noticed legislative proposals designed to restrict the power of the
Federal courts in immigration and asylum cases.

Administration officials, and some members of both parties in Congress, have
promoted such measures as part of a program to simplify and expedite an
elaborate system of administrative and judicial appeals in immigration cases
that has become plagued by long delays.

They also complain that some Federal judges have been too willing to
second-guess the expert judgment of immigration officers on such issues as
whether an alien qualifies for political asylum.

But the proposals have generated opposition from lawyers and groups who say they
do not trust the Administration or the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
be fair in evaluating applications for asylum from Haitians, Cubans, Salvadorans
and others.

The proposals seek in particular to strip the courts of most or all of their
jurisdiction to review the executive branch's treatment of ''undocumented''
aliens, those with no visas or other papers giving them a right to enter the
United States, who are caught on or near the nation's coasts or borders.

Little or No Access to Lawyers

These include Haitians and Cubans who arrive in Florida in small boats, Mexicans
and Salvadorans who seek to cross the Mexican border, and other aliens caught in
seaports or airports.

Under the proposals, such aliens would have no right to administrative review of
immigration officials' decisions to deny them political asylum and deport them,
and little or no access to lawyers and the courts.

Aliens who got past the borders and established residence in the United States
illegally, on the other hand, would continue to have access to administrative
and judicial review to protect them against possible prejudice, abuse or error
by immigration officials.

Conform to High Court Actions

The proposals for more summary treatment of aliens caught at the borders appear
to be tailored to fit within constitutional rulings of the Supreme Court. The
Court has long held that aliens in the United States are constitutionally
entitled to ''due process of law'' in deportation proceedings even if they
entered illegally, but that Congress has a free hand in setting procedures to
exclude those who seek to enter.

The proposed legislation would also limit judicial review of Administration
decisions to jail Cubans and Haitians while their applications for admission
were pending. It would also limit review, in an ''immigration emergency''
declared by the President, of decisions to jail undocumented aliens from
countries designated by the President.

These proposals, sent to Congress last month, follow a series of Federal court
rulings in which various judges have found treatment of Haitian and some Cuban
refugees by the Carter and Reagan Administrations to be unfair, inhumane and
illegal.

Attorney General William French Smith, in a letter to Congress last month,
complained that the present procedures allowed an illegal alien to remain in the
United States for long periods ''while his asylum request winds its way through
the labyrinth of administrative and judicial channels.''

Move for Mass Deportations Seen

However, critics, including the American Civil Liberties Union and lawyers who
represent aliens, say the Administration's apparent purpose is to clear the way
so that it can detain and deport Haitians and other unwanted aliens en masse,
without a fair hearing on claims for status as political refugees or other legal
bases for admission.

''What they want is uninhibited executive power,'' David Carliner, chairman of
an American Bar Association committee on immigration law, said today. ''It's in
line with Smith's approach the other day of trying to eliminate the role of the
courts in deciding very fundamental questions under the Constitution.''

He referred to a speech last week in which the Attorney General accused the
Federal courts of ''constitutionally dubious and unwise'' intrusions upon the
powers of the elected branches of Government, and vowed to urge the courts to
use greater restraint on a wide range of constitutional issues.

Steps Taken on Haitians

The Administration has already moved to cut off the access of Haitian refugees
to lawyers and judges in the United States by assigning the Coast Guard to
intercept their boats in international waters, and return them to Haiti as soon
as immigration officers have determined that they do not qualify for political
asylum.

Haitians and other ''undocumented'' aliens who have made it to the beaches and
borders of the United States would also, under the Administration's proposals,
be dealt with in brief, unrecorded oral interviews by immigration officials and
special ''asylum officers.''

''In most cases involving undocumented aliens, the examining officer would make
an immediate decision to exclude the alien,'' Mr.  Smith said in his letter to
Congress. ''The removal or return of the alien to his home country would be
accomplished as soon as possible.''

The proposed legislation states that, in cases involving undocumented aliens
caught near borders or beaches, ''the decision of the immigration officer shall
be final, and not subject to further agency review or to judicial review.''

Such aliens might still be constitutionally entitled to ask a Federal District
Court for a writ of habeas corpus, according to Justice Department officials.
But they said the proposed legislation would limit the courts' role to
determining whether immigation officials had complied with the procedures set by
Congress. Mr.  Carliner termed this ''an empty right to bring a lawsuit'' that
the alien would almost surely lose.

Among the court decisions involving Haitians and Cubans is one in July 1980 in
which Federal District Judge James Lawrence King of Miami found that the
Immigration Service had illegally engaged in ''a systematic program designed to
deport'' Haitians without regard to ''the merits of their asylum claims.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 28, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CURB URGED ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27


The United States needs a strong enforcement program to stem illegal
immigration, says the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy.

In its second semiannual report to Congress, released by the Senate Judiciary
Committee on Wednesday, the commission said the immigration situation in the
United States was out of control.

In a letter with the report, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the
University of Notre Dame, said: ''In recent months we have received a large
number of letters from people who complain that immigration policy is out of
control. They are right.''

Father Hesburgh said, ''We will continue to be a nation which welcomes
immigrants, but we must enforce our laws consistently and fairly, even when that
means not letting some people in and deporting others.''

The commission said it was exploring ways to legalize the status of undocumented
aliens. It said such a program ''must be accompanied by a strong, new program of
enforcement which will curtail new flows of undocumented, illegal aliens to the
United States.''

The report noted the United States had benefited from immigration.  But it said:
''The days of unlimited immigration are over.  Immigration policy must be
determined in the light of American national interest.''

In his letter, Father Hesburgh said the United States could not be the single
refuge for everyone fleeing persecution.  A final report must be made to the
President and Congress by March 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 3, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IT'S TIME FOR IMMIGRATION LAW REFORM--OR IS IT?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1540 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Despite the sporadic, intense focus on specific groups of foreigners who seek
the American dream - Hungarians, Mexicans, ''boat people,'' and now Haitians -
the historical record suggests that only once in a generation does Congress deal
comprehensively with the issue of immigration. The last sweeping revision, the
McCarran-Walter Act, was passed in 1952 and many of its provisions are still on
the books. The Reagan Administration thus had every reason to hope for the best
when it proposed ''omnibus'' legislation designed to control the flow of aliens
across the nation's borders.

But immigration is one of those issues, like criminal code revision and welfare
reform, that are so complex that they tax the institutional capabilities of
Congress. Typically, by the time a subcommittee has mastered the subject, it is
usually too late in the session to pass comprehensive legislation.

President Ford had a Domestic Council Committee on Illegal Aliens which examined
the problems of illegal immigration. After a similar Cabinet-level study,
President Carter sent Capitol Hill a comprehensive set of immigration proposals
in August 1977, but they did not go far. In 1978, Congress established the
Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, which included eight
members of Congress and four members of Mr. Carter's Cabinet. By the time the
panel completed its work, Ronald Reagan was President, and he appointed an
interagency Task Force on Immigration and Refugee Policy to study the issue yet
again.

The studies agree on the problem - the United States has lost control of its
borders. The proposed solutions are permutations of several components: improved
enforcement of existing laws; penalties against employers hiring illegal aliens;
some type of amnesty for illegal aliens already in the country; an improved
method of identification for job applicants.

The urgency of the problem became apparent again last week when Haitians at a
detention camp in Miami staged a hunger strike.  Authorities said that 100
Haitians escaped from the camp last Sunday when 300 members of Miami's Haitian
exile community stormed the facility, throwing stones and bottles at security
guards. More than 2,100 Haitians are still being detained at various places,
including 588 at the camp in Miami.

Attorney Ge neral William French Smith outlined the Reagan Administratio n's
policy last July. Detailed legislative proposals were not offe red until late
October. Subcommittees in both houses of Congress, und er Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representativ e Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat
of Kentucky, have completed exh austive reviews of the subject. Senator Simpson
and his staff have be gun drafting legislation, with some indications that
Mr.Mazzoli will introduce a similar proposal in the House.

Emergency Powers?

Optimists at the Justice Department, like David D. Hiller, a special assistant
to the Attorney General, see a consensus emerging in Congress in support of
proposals very similar to Mr. Reagan's.  But Mr. Mazzoli, in an interview,
sounded uncertain about the contents of any legislation and his strategy for
gaining its approval. ''My own personal feelings are pretty amorphous,'' he
said. ''I'm trying my best to halfway understand the subject matter.''

The comments of Mr. Simpson, Mr. Mazzoli and their aides suggest that President
Reagan's proposals, if enacted at all, will be substantially modified. Senator
Simpson appears to favor more severe employer sanctions than were recommended by
the President and freemarket economists on the White House staff. The penalty
suggested by the President - a $500 fine for each illegal alien employee on the
first offense, $1,000 per alien for subsequent violations - is seen on Capitol
Hill as just a tax, and not a very high one. Testimony at Congressional hearings
strongly suggested that the President's proposed procedure for legalizing the
status of illegal aliens would be cumbersome to administer and unattractive to
the intended beneficiaries. After coming forward to identify themselves, the
illegal aliens would have to live here continuously for 10 years before becoming
eligible for permanent resident status, which carries most of the rights of
citizenship. During that decade, the aliens could accept emp loyment but could
not bring t heir spouses and children. Congress is looking for a simpler,
shorter method of legalization.

Many members of Congress share the President's conviction that the Government
needs additional authority to deal with an ''immigration emergency'' such as the
boatlift that brought 125,000 Cubans to Florida in 1980. But some influential
members say they would grant only a small portion of the vast powers requested
by the Administration.

The President wants to be able to restrict travel and shut down harbors,
airports and roads when he determines that the country is threatened with a
massive, unauthorized influx of aliens. Without waiting for Congress to act, the
Administration has already curtailed the flow of Haitians by deploying Coast
Guard vessels to intercept Haitian boats in international waters.

There is likewise support for the Reagan Administration's effort to streamline
the convoluted sequence of administrative and judicial appeals available to an
alien ordered out of the country. But members of Congress who have studied the
issue would not go so far as the President wants to go in curtailing the courts'
power to review decisions on an alien's admissibility.

With the unemployment rate at its highest point in six years, Congressional
aides say it would be exceedingly difficult for the Administration to win
approval of its proposal to admit Mexicans as temporary guest workers. Under the
Reagan proposal, Mexicans would go only into states and industries where state
officials had certified a need. But labor unions contend that such needs often
exist because employers are unwilling to pay high wages.

Continued high unemployment may, however, stimulate support for those parts of
the Reagan program that seek to control and restrict immigration. If members of
Congress clamp down on illegal aliens and illegal immigration next year, they
can tell their constituents that they have taken steps to preserve jobs for
Americans. But even if it passed restrictive new laws, Congress probably could
not find the money to insure aggressive enforcement at a time when fiscal
austerity limits the operations of existing law-enforcement agencies.

President Reagan has asked Congress to enact a package of immigration
legislation including these elements: Emergency Interdiction Act. The President
could order the Coast Guard to intercept foreign vessels bringing illegal aliens
to the United States. Refugees would be eligible for asylum, but other aliens
would be returned to their homeland. Unauthorized Entry and Transportation Act.

Anyone who transported illegal aliens into the United States would be subject to
a fine of $10,000 and a prison sentence of up to five years. Immigration
Emergency Act. After declaring an emergency, the President could close harbors,
airports and roads that might be used by aliens to enter the United States.
Appeal, Asylum and Exclusion Act. The Government would expedite proceedings for
aliens who want to enter the United States, while curtailing rights that they
have under current law. Temporary Resident Status for Illegal Aliens.  Illegal
ali ens who were in this country before Jan. 1, 1980, could apply for new status
as ''temporary residents'' and could become permanent res idents after living
here continuously for 10 years.  Such temporar y residents could take jobs, but
they could not bring their familie s and would not be eligible for welfare or
food stamps. Cuban-Haitian Temporary Resident Act.

Cubans and Haitians who arrived before Jan. 1, 1981, could become permanent
residents after living in the United States for five years. Employer Sanctions
(Unlawful Employment of Aliens Act). An employer who knowingly hired illegal
aliens could be fined $500 for the first offense and $1,000 for each subsequent
violation. The Reagan Administration opposes creation of a national identity
card recommended by some studies. Instead, job applicants are supposed to
''attest'' that they are citizens or legal aliens.  Temporary Mexican Workers
Act. The

United States would admit 50,000 Mexican citizens each year as ''guest workers''
in an experimental program scheduled to last two years. Each state would
determine its need for Mexican labor. Mexican workers would not be permitted to
bring their families.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitians at Christmas Eve mass in Miami

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PROGRAM ON ALIENS OFFERED TO REAGAN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23


A Cabinet-level advisory committee has tentatively decided to recommend that
President Reagan back a program of amnesty for about one million illegal aliens
along with improving enforcement of the immigration laws, penalizing employers
for hiring illegal aliens and permitting a limited number of Mexicans to work
legally in the United States under an experimental program.

Aides to the President's Task Force on Immigration and Refugee Policy said
yesterday that the panel agreed Thursday to include those proposals in a plan to
be submitted to Mr. Reagan next week.

Attorney General William French Smith is chairman of the panel, which includes
seven other Cabinet members and the director of the Office of Management and
Budget. The President established the panel Feb. 27 to help develop an
immigration policy for the Administration. White House officials said this week
that Mr. Reagan had not made any decisions on the subject.

'Two-Tier' Program Planned

The advisory panel was said by its staff to have agreed on this ''two-tier''
program for legalizing the status of illegal aliens:

- Those who were present in the United States before Jan. 1, 1980, and who have
been ''continually resident'' in the United States for at least five years,
could apply to the Government to become permanent resident aliens. The panel
estimated that there were 1.2 million people in this category, although the
estimate, like most counts of illegal aliens, had a large margin of error.

- Illegal aliens who have resided in the United States for three to five years
would be eligible for temporary worker status. They could legally work in this
country and could convert their status to that of permanent resident aliens
after living here for five years. It was estimated that there were 1.5 million
aliens in this class.

Census Bureau researchers have estimated that there are 3.5 million to 6 million
illegal aliens in the United States. Most studies suggest that Mexicans account
for no more than half the total.

The amnesty proposal envisioned by the advisory panel resembles proposals made
by President Carter in 1977 and by another study group, the Select Commission on
Immigration and Refugee Policy, headed by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
president of the University of Notre Dame, in its final report last February.
However, the residence requirements in the proposal being submitted to Mr.
Reagan appear more stringent than those in the earlier plans.

Congressional Approval Needed

The legalization of illegal aliens, sanctions against employers' hiring
undocumented workers and a guest-worker program would need the approval of
Congress. The Immigration and Naturalization Service itself could step up
enforcement at the border and inside the country, assuming that Congress would
grant additional money and manpower for existing programs.

After much debate, the task force reportedly agreed to recommend a two-year
''pilot program'' under which 50,000 Mexicans could come to the United States as
temporary workers.

As a Presidential candidate, Mr. Reagan expressed support for a much larger
guest-worker program. Since taking office, he has reaffirmed his interest in the
idea, emphasizing the need to provide a ''safety valve'' for the Mexican
economy. The subject is likely to be on the agenda when Mr. Reagan meets
President Jose Lopez Portillo of Mexico, who is scheduled to visit Washington
June 8 and 9.

In its report to President Reagan, the advisory panel plans to list a
large-scale guest-worker program as one option, although not the preferred
option. Under such a program, the United States might admit 500,000 to 750,000
Mexicans a year.

Workers Would Be Documented

Details of the guest-worker proposal are not definite, but the basic idea is
that Mexicans would receive visas to enter the United States and look for jobs.
Under this program, such workers would be documented, giving the Government a
way to keep track of them.

Some Hispanic Americans have suggested that Mexicans might still prefer to work
here as illegal aliens, but advocates of the program say that many Mexicans
would participate because they would gain protection under American labor laws
and would not have to fear arrest.

Administration officials said that, under the panel's proposals, employers who
made a practice of hiring illegal aliens would be subject to a graduated series
of civil and criminal penalties.  Citizens and aliens alike, when applying for
jobs, would have to show some identification, but the panel is not recommending
the use of a data bank or a nationwide system of identification cards. Civil
libertarians have objected to these proposals as a threat to privacy.

Recent comments by some members of Congress suggest that they favor a more
enforcement-oriented, restrictionist immigration policy than seems to have been
endorsed by the Reagan panel.

Some Conditions to Amnesty

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is chairman of a Senate
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, has said that he would not grant an
amnesty to illegal aliens until a system of stronger enforcement, employer
sanctions and worker identification was in place. Members of the Reagan panel
did not attach such a condition to their proposals.

Nor did they favor putting a ceiling on the total number of immigrants and
refugees who could be admitted to the United States each year. Senator Walter D.
Huddleston, Democrat of Kentucky, has introduced legislation to limit total
immigration, including refugees, to 350,000 people a year.

More than 800,000 people were admitted to the United States last year as legal
immigrants. In each of the two preceding years, more than 500,000 were admitted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 25, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

OF ALIENS' CHILDREN, EDUCATION AND HYPOCRISY

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 323 words


To the Editor:

Your recent editorial on the education of alien children (Oct. 13) ignored two
main points on this issue which I have emphasized repeatedly.

First, the immigration laws are Federal, not state laws. The failure of the
Federal Government to enforce Federal laws is the genesis of the problem of
illegal aliens and their families in our state.

I fail to see why the taxpayers of Texas should be forced to shoulder the burden
of educating such children when, contrary to statements made by The Times, our
education dollars already are stretched thin trying to provide bilingual
programs and a quality education for the children of Spanish-speaking Americans
who reside legally in the state.

I am not opposed to educating children from any background.  However, I believe
that American citizens have first call on the services of our education system.
It is the height of hypocrisy for the Federal Government to fail to enforce the
immigration laws which prevent illegal entry of alien workers and then refuse to
bear the expense of educating the children of such undocumented workers.

Second, it is even more hypocritical for the Federal Government to insist that
Texas finance a free education for the children of illegal aliens and refuse on
the other hand to provide those aliens any Federal benefits or social services,
such as unemployment insurance, Social Security, food stamps, Medicaid,
Medicare, education grants, rent subsidies, school-lunch funds, energy
assistance, day care and legal services.

Your philosophy, carried to its logical conclusion, would have Texas subsidize
all those benefits which the Federal Government deliberately denies to those
whom it chooses to exclude from its programs.

I suggest in the future that you do more research before editorializing on a
subject about which you obviously do not have all the facts.
MARK WHITE, Attorney General of Texas, Austin, Tex., Nov. 6, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. DELAYS RENEWED ACTION AGAINST ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 1


Immigration officials said today that they would postpone for another month, and
perhaps indefinitely, any crackdown on illegal aliens.

The officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said that they would
continue a policy severely restricting raids to seize illegal aliens. The
restraints were imposed three months ago in an effort to foster cooperation with
the 1980 census among Hispanic Americans.

Under the policy, immigration investigators cannot go into a residence or place
of employment to apprehend illegal aliens unless the investigators had a search
warrant or court order or already knew the aliens' names. Also, investigators
may not pursue leads, such as anonymous tips, unless the source is willing to
testify or there is documentary evidence that could be introduced in court.

In practice, the restrictions were misinterpreted by many immigration officers
as a complete moratorium on enforcement.  Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that the restrictions, scheduled to
end today, would be continued through July 31 at the request of the Census
Bureau. Other immigration officials said that they expected similar restraints
to be adopted as a permanent policy after July 31.

Extension Is Welcomed

Daniel B. Levine, deputy director of the Census Bureau, said that his agency
welcomed, but had not formally requested, the one-month extension. He said that
although the population count, which includes illegal aliens, was nearly
complete, follow-up field activities were still being conducted.

Mr. Jervis said that apprehensions of illegal aliens by immigration
investigators was 10,000 in April, as against 14,000 in April 1979, in part
because of the restrictions.

Reaction to the new policy has been mixed.  Ruben Bonilla, national president of
the League of United Latin American Citizens, praised the restraints and said
they should be extended indefinitely because most Federal searches for illegal
aliens violated the Fourth Amendment ban on unreasonable searches.

Concern for Aliens' Rights

Immigration officials said that the restrictions guaranteed respect for aliens'
rights and protected investigators from allegations of brutality and false
arrest.

But John C. Hambrick, spokesman for a union representing immigration service
employees, said the restraints on enforcement ''appear to be a political
reaction to pressures by special interest groups such as the Hispanic
community.''

Sidney B. Rawitz, a lawyer who worked for the immigration service for 30 years,
including five as chief immigration judge, said that the current policy
represented ''an abdication of enforcement responsibilities'' by officials who
were ''willfully and negligently'' disregarding requirements of the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NUMBER OF ALIEN ARRESTS FALLS AS BORDER PATROL IS SRETCHED THIN

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1457 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 6


Despite fears that Mexico's worst harvest in three decades is propelling record
numbers of aliens northward in search of work, immigration officers have been
apprehending fewer illegal entrants this year than last year.

But officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service say that the lower
figures on captures are no indication that the predicted influx is not under
way. Rather, they say, the data reflect the fact that the nation's border
defenses have been stretched thinner than at any time in recent years.

The service's personnel and operating funds have been seriously strained in
recent months by the unanticipated need to register tens of thousands of Iranian
students and to process more than a hundred thousand Cuban refugees.

Further, the service has been ordered to restrict some searching for illegal
aliens as a way of helping the Census Bureau overcome its problems in counting
them. And a more mundate concern, the big increases in gasoline prices, has also
had a serious impact on its operations.

Numbers of Arrests

In the first four months of this year, the latest period for which figures are
available, 302,300 aliens, most of them from Mexico, were arrested after
entering the United States illegally. That figure is 25,000 fewer than were
captured in the same period last year, and fewer even than in the same period in
1978. Illegal immigration from Mexico increases sharply in February and begins
to decline again in October, as aliens return to their families for the
Christmas holidays.

Because of the unusual demands placed on the immigration service, officials
said, it was impossible to say whether the anticipated sharp increase in illegal
immigration was taking place. The lower number of apprehensions, they said,
might simply have resulted from fewer officers patrolling the border in recent
months.

The capture data are the only actual numbers the Government has that reflect,
however imprecisely, the scale of illegal migration across the border.

''Had we had operations as usual, we might have been able to establish some kind
of a trend,'' said Herb Walsh, the chief of the United States Border Patrol's
Tucson sector, which is responsible for a 265-mile stretch of border. But Mr.
Walsh said he had noted that ''the bulk of the people we're apprehending here
are coming from the interior of Mexico and not from the border states.''

Other Nations Feed the Flow

Mr. Walsh added that an increasing number of aliens flowing across the border
were what the Border Patrol calls ''OTM's,'' for ''other than Mexican.'' These
tend to come from the ''troubled triangle'' - the countries of Nicaragua,
Guatemala and El Salvador, all of which have undergone recent political upheaval
- and generally enter the country with the aid of one of the burgeoning number
of illicit organizations engaged in the criminal smuggling of aliens, he said.

Today, officials in Arizona reported that at least 13 in a group of Salvadorans
brought across the border by smugglers had perished in 110-degree heat after
they were abandoned without water in the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument,
near Ajo, Ariz., a favorite crossing point for illegal aliens.

The disastrous harvest, the result of an unusually dry fall and an early frost,
hit hardest at small subsistence farmers in central and northwest Mexico whose
croplands lacked irrigation.

Wayne Cornelius, a professor of political science at the University of
California's San Diego campus and a leading expert on Mexican migration, has
called the drought ''a classic short-term subsistence crisis'' and warned that
the affected farmers, who in normal times would probably not become illegal
immigrants, were ''not going to sit in their villages and starve.''

Mr. Cornelius said last January that many of the anticipated new arrivals were
likely to seek out jobs in urban service industries, such as hotels and
restaurants, rather than try for one of a declining number of agricultural jobs
in the South and West.

New Requirement of Warrant

Because of the census, however, the immigration service has been restricted
since April in its efforts to search for illegal aliens at homes and places of
business. The new requirement that the service obtain a warrant for such
searches was extended earlier this week until July 30, to the further dismay of
many Border Patrol officers.

''It's policy, but it hurts,'' said a senior Border Patrol official in El Paso.
Mr. Walsh asserted that the policy had ''created a sanctuary for the illegal
alien once he penetrates the border.'' It often is impossible to obtain
traditional search warrants for raids of homes and businesses, he said,
''because so much of our information comes in anonymously.''

Foremost among the other difficulties that have beset the immigration service
over the past six months are two special undertakings for which no extra funds
were budgeted.

Immigration officials said that checking the student status of some 50,000
Iranians had tied up investigators in Texas, California and other parts of the
country for months. ''While the investigators were working on the Iranian
project,'' one said, ''they weren't out arresting people.''

The second major drain on the service's resources, officials said, came when
scores of Border Patrol agents from Texas and Arizona were reassigned to Florida
in April, May and June to help process the Cubans.

The Border Patrol's strength in the Southwest was reduced by about one-fifth,
and its budget was depleted to the point where patrol vehicles were going
unrepaired and the utility bills unpaid.  ''There's no question that all this
has strained our resources,'' said Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration
service in Washington.

In addition, the rising price of gasoline was not anticipated in the service's
budget. Along some parts of the border, gasoline was limited to three gallons
for each vehicle over an eight-hour shift.  ''If you have less fuel to transport
people and to transport officers to their areas, you're just not going to make
as many apprehensions,'' Mr. Jervis said. ''When the sheriff calls and says, 'I
have a dozen people here,' we can't come and pick them up.''

El Paso, which, after San Ysidro, Calif., is the second busiest international
port of entry in the world, lost 50 of its 350 Border Patrol officers to Florida
during the Cuban influx, and officials at El Paso said that another 20 officers
had been taken from patrol duty to replace immigration inspectors who had also
been detailed to Florida.

With little gasoline, the shortage of personnel and the restrictions on searches
of businesses, an El Paso officer said, ''we were forced to re-evaluate our
priorities.''

Largely out of desperation, the El Paso sector adopted a ''high profile
deterrent strategy'' of placing its remaining officers in more or less
stationary positions along the north bank of the Rio Grande in hopes that
potential border crossers would be dissuaded by a show of force.

But Mr. Jervis said there were serious questions about how effective the high
profile strategy had been.  The Border Patrol believes that it has long been
denied the manpower and machinery, such as rough-terrain vehicles and
helicopters, it needs to perform with any success its mission of halting illegal
immigration.

But there is a growing conviction in Washington, reflected in the Carter
Administration's budget for the 1981 fiscal year, which begins next Oct. 1, that
the addition of more border guards is not the solution to the problem of illegal
immigration.

The Administration is not prepared to commit more resources to defending the
border, officials said, until it sees the results of a White House-directed
management study of the agency that is now under way.

The immigration service's budget of $347 million for the fiscal year 1981,
contains an increase of less than 4 percent. Given an inflation rate hovering in
the double-digit range, the increase amounts to a substantial decrease in real
terms.

A recent survey of senior Border Patrol officers found an overwhelming opinion
that the 2,000-mile-long border with Mexico could be virtually sealed with the
addition of another 3,500 border patrolmen. The patrol's uniformed strength
nationwide is 2,081 officers, down from 2,213 at this time last year, of which
95 percent are stationed along the Mexican border.

''Give them a million men,'' one immigration official said the other day, ''and
they'd want a million-five.' Among other considerations, the official said,
addition of more officers might simply mean that the same aliens would be
apprehended more frequently before they finally evaded detection and
successfully entered the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 14, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PANEL FINDS FLAWS IN IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13


The United States Commission on Civil Rights, in a report to be issued next
week, says that immigration laws, as written by Congress and enforced by the
Justice Department, are riddled with discrimination that deprives many aliens of
their constitutional rights.

''The current Immigration and Nationality Act still contains discriminatory
provisions,'' says the 158-page report. ''The current practices and procedures
for the enforcement of that statute result in the denial of rights to American
citizens and to documented and undocumented aliens.''

The commission, an independent, bipartisan body, said that raids conducted by
Federal agents in pursuit of illegal aliens sometimes resulted in
''unconstitutional searches and seizures''; that some local police departments,
in attempting to enforce the immigration laws, had violated the constitutional
rights of American citizens and permanent resident aliens; and that,
''notwithstanding the consequences of the penalty of deportation, aliens subject
to deportation hearings receive less due process protection than defendants in
criminal proceedings.''

Three of the five commissioners who participated in the development of the
report said they opposed the creation of a compulsory national identification
card, the use of compulsory work permits or the enactment of a statute to
penalize employers who hire illegal aliens. A separate Federal commission is
considering such proposals, including the issuance of identity cards to all
citizens and aliens authorized to work in the United States.

Warning on Penalizing Employers

However, the Commission on Civil Rights said, ''A national identity card would
provide a tool that could be used to violate the right to privacy of the
individual.''

Moreover, a majority of the commissioners, including the chairman, Arthur S.
Flemming, warned that a law penalizing employers who hire illegal aliens ''would
have the undesired effect of causing employers to discriminate against easily
identifiable minority groups whose members, although legally in the United
States, might be mistaken for undocumented aliens.''

Two members of the commission issued separate dissenting statements on this
question. In support of an employer sanctions law, one commissioner, Frankie M.
Freeman, said that the Federal Government should make it ''more difficult for
persons entering illegally to secure employment'' by developing an
identification system ''which will minimize or effectively prevent
discrimination against persons legally here.''

Another commissioner, Stephen Horn, president of California State University at
Long Beach, said that he supported an employer sanctions law if it was
accompanied by the creation of a ''secure and counterfeit-proof social security
card'' which would be used by employers to prevent the inadvertent employment of
illegal aliens.

The chairman of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, the
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame, has
endorsed the idea of a worker identification system and employer sanctions.
Father Hesburgh is a former chairman of the Civil Rights Commission.

Panel's Recommendations

To remedy the problems arising from ''discriminatory'' immigration laws, the
commission made these recommendations:

- Congress should amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate
limitations on the number of immigrants who may come to the United States from
each foreign country. Instead, the commission said, immigrants should be
admitted on a first-come, first-served basis, in accordance with the six
preference categories listed in current law.

- The Immigration and Naturalization Service, a part of the Justice Department,
should immediately cease all ''area control operations'' - that is, neighborhood
raids in search of illegal aliens - ''to prevent the continued violation of the
constitutional and civil rights of individuals.''

- Congress should create a border management agency within the Treasury
Department and transfer the enforcement functions of the immigration service to
the new agency. The immigration service would remain responsible for and could
concentrate all its resources on helping people who wish to come to the United
States, become naturalized citizens or bring close relatives to this country.

- Congress should amend the immigration law to establish an immigration court
that is independent of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in order to
remove the inference that deportation proceedings are unfair to aliens. Lawyers
have often said that the immigration judges who preside over deportation
hearings are subject to undue influence exerted by the immigration service.

- Congress should protect the legal rights of aliens by requiring that the
Government notify them of their right to counsel ''at all crucial stages of the
deportation process.''

- Congress should authorize the Secretary of State to create a board of visa
appeals to hear appeals of visa denials in which the actions of consular
officers are alleged to be ''arbitrary, capricious and an abuse of discretion or
otherwise not in accordance with law.''

Report Is Due Monday

The report, to be issued on Monday, is titled ''The Tarnished Golden Door: Civil
Rights Issues in Immigration.'' The title is an allusion to a poem by Emma
Lazarus, ''The New Colossus,'' which contains these lines: ''Give me your tired,
your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free ... I lift my lamp
beside the golden door!''

Copies of the report are available from the Civil Rights Commission at 1121
Vermont Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20425.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 5, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

LEGALIZED STATUS FOR MOST ALIENS IN U.S. PROPOSED

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Speci al to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1323 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Dec. 4


The staff of a Federal select commission on immigration policy has recommended
that virtually all illegal aliens now in the United States eventually be made
eligible for citizenship. At the same time, the staff recommended issuing work
permits to all Americans and laws forbidding the employment of anyone lacking
one.

In a 400-page report, the commission's staff said that issuing permits and other
stiff measures that it recommended could all but eliminate illegal immigration
in 10 years. The consideration of such permits has evoked concern among civil
libertarians, who say they fear that the documents might, in time, become a
national identity card.

The 16-member panel, which was established by Congress and is known officially
as the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, will meet Saturday
in Warrenton, Va., to vote on the recommendations. Nina Solarz, a commission
spokesman, said that while all the recommendations might not be approved ''in
every detail,'' she believed that the commissioners agreed with most of them.

She expressed surprise that the staff report, which she said was being kept
''under lock and key'' until Saturday's meeting, had been made public
prematurely. The report, the result of 18 months of study and public hearings,
was made available here by the San Diego-based Committee on Chicano Rights,
which would not say how it had been obtained.

'Guest Worker' Plan Opposed

In its report, the commission's staff also recommended against an expanded
''guest worker'' program that would allow foreign nationals to fill agricultural
or other vacant jobs on a temporary basis, an idea that has gained currency
among businessmen and conservative legislators in recent years. Labor unions
have generally opposed the concept, but President-elect Ronald Reagan said in
his election campaign that he generally favored this approach to allow Mexican
laborers to work in the United States.

Nearly all of the major recommendations would require new legislation, and it is
unclear how Republican control of the Senate in the next Congress will affect
the reception the report gets there. In addition, the Reagan Administration will
have an opportunity to amend the commission's findings in January before they
are delivered to the House and Senate.

In Washington, Loren A. Smith, a senior member of the Reagan transition staff,
said that he was planning to attend the immigration commission meeting this
weekend. He would not comment on the substance of the recommendations, but said
the Reagan administration would consider them seriously.

The report contains some 50 recommendations, touching on nearly every aspect of
immigration and refugee policy. These are among the major ones:

- A strengthening of efforts to enforce existing immigration laws, including
additional funds for the United States Border Patrol, more immigration
inspectors at ports of entry, more airplanes and helicopters for patrolling the
border and replacement of the aging sensors that are designed to detect illegal
entrants.

- An upgrading of the operations of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
which the report said had acquired an image as ''an inbred, mismanaged and, at
times, corrupt agency,'' by improving the training of its employees,
establishing a code of ethics and vigorously investigating allegations of
''malfeasance'' and corruption.

- The appointment, with the consent of the Senate, of the commissioner of
immigration for a term of seven years, something the report said might help
reduce the ''managerial weakness'' of the immigration service.

- The establishment of a Federal interagency body to handle ''mass asylum
emergencies,'' such as the arrival last spring of tens of thousands of Cuban and
Haitian refugees in Florida.

The commission has estimated that there are 3.5 million to 6 million illegal
aliens in the United States, most of them employed taxpayers who receive
''minimal welfare benefits'' and who in some instances enable low-paying
businesses, such as garment manufacturers, to successfully compete with foreign
firms.

To continue such individuals in their curre nt illegal status, the report said,
would simply perpetuate as a ''f ugitive underclass'' those who, in many cases,
were making a posit ive contribution to the American economy.

Roundup Called Destructive

The only alternative to giving them legal status, the report said, was to
attempt to round up all illegal aliens and expel them in a mass deportation that
would be ''destructive'' to the civil liberties of Americans and, in the end,
probably unsuccessful as well.

The report acknowledged that legalization might encourage further unlawful
immigration and might convince some aliens who would otherwise have returned
home to remain here. It nonetheless proposed the granting of permanent resident
status to aliens who had resided in the United States for two or three years
before the enabling legislation was passed.

Those aliens not eligible under this criteria would be given ''conditional
entrant status'' leading to permanent residence after five years, provided that
they had been employed in the United States for four of the five years. After
another five years, a permanent resident alien could petition to become a
naturalized citizen.

The proposal is similar to the so-called amnesty program sent to Congress by the
Carter Administration more than three years ago that failed to win approval.

In rejecting the concept of a guest worker program similar to the exchange of
workers among Common Market countries, the report noted the concern of the State
Department that, ''based on past history,'' such a program ''has much potential
for complicating or even damaging our relationships with Mexico.''

About 30,000 foreign agricultural workers are now admitted to the United States
each year, most of them residents of the British West Indies.

Under what the staff report termed an ''employer responsibility program,''
prospective employees would be required to demonstrate their eligibility to work
in this country before being hired, with the responsibility for ascertaining
that eligibility falling to the employer.

Citizens and resident aliens found eligible for employment, it said, would be
issued cards by a Government agency. The cards would include name, date of
birth, sex, a photograph and ''an identifying number unique to that
individual.''

Job applicants would be required to show the cards to employers, who would
report their names and numbers to Washington. Employers who failed to make such
reports would be liable for administrative citations, fines of up to $1,000 for
each ineligible worker employed and, after repeated violations, criminal
prosecutions and jail sentences. Aliens found working without permission would
be ''promptly deported.'' There is now no Federal statute that prohibits the
employment of illegal aliens.

Many Americans, the report said, might resent carrying such a card ''as both an
intrusion on their freedom and as an irritant,'' and it acknowledged that the
document could eventually turn into a national identity card ''despite initial
legislative prohibition.''

But the staff estimated that the system, which might cost as much as $230
million a year to administer, could reduce illegal immigration in this country
by 30 percent in the first year of operation and by 95 percent in the 10th or
11th year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 28, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MAJOR IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 346 words


John M. Crewdson, a New York Times correspondent based in Houston, has examined
the problems of immigration into the United States for the past year. These are
his central findings:

- For years, corruption, mismanagement, negligence and rock-bottom morale in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service have all but handcuffed that agency,
according to past and present immigration officers, Justice Department lawyers
and others familiar with it. In recent months, as these problems have come to
public attention, the agency has strengthened its internal investigations unit
and has begun to reorganize its auditing, purchasing and other crucial aspects
of its operations.

- Feelings of frustration and helplessness among immigration officers have led
to civil rights abuses and violence against aliens. In the past, the service
seemed eager to keep its agents' misdeeds hidden and, when it could not, was
reluctant to administer more than token punishments. Reforms this year led to
the first convictions of Border Patrol agents charged with abusing illegal
aliens.

- Thousands of illegal aliens each year find themselves being forced to work off
debts to employers or otherwise held illegally in servitude. Dozens of
immigration officials, migrant aid lawyers, social workers and others said that
they believed the practice, while not yet common, was growing.

- Illegal aliens are increasingly bypassing farms and ranches for better-paying
jobs in construction, manufacturing and service industries in the cities. There
also is increasing evidence that many employers prefer foreign workers, not
simply because they work for less money, but because they are among the most
reliable and enthusiastic of employees.

- After a decade in which the United States has absorbed more new residents,
legal and illegal, than in any decade in its history, there are signs of growing
public disenchantment with the current situation and indications that Congress
may move toward reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 20, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SLAVERY IN TEXAS:ILLEGAL ALIENS,SEAFOOD AND COVOTES

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 18


One late September afternoon, Ramiro Avila Ocegueda, a chauffeur for the Mexican
consul in Brownsville, Tex., telephoned the Immigration and Naturalization
Service office there.  His brother Francisco, Mr. Avila Ocegueda told the
investigator who took the call, had been smuggled into the United States and was
being held against his will by the owner of an oyster processing plant at Smith
Point, Tex., on Galveston Bay.

Kenneth Lynch, an immigration investigator from Houston, was dispatched to Smith
Point, where, according to an affidavit he later filed in Federal court here, he
saw eight men ''who, from their dress and mannerisms, appeared to be illegal
aliens working on the premises of Jeri's Seafood Inc.''

The immigration service investigation, the affidavit said, determined that there
were at least 14 illegal aliens, including Francisco Avila Ocegueda, employed at
Jeri's, 10 of them from Mexico and four from El Salvador. They had been brought
to Smith Point from Houston by a coyote, or smuggler of aliens, who charged the
owner of Jeri's, Benjamin Harrison Nelson, $100 for each worker, the affidavit
said. Mr. Nelson allegedly forced some of the workers to shuck oysters until the
smuggling fees were repaid, with the result that they left with only a few
dollars for several days' work, according to the affidavit.

Francisco Avila Ocegueda, the affidavit said, ''had left once but had been
brought back by a man carrying a carbine.'' Edelmino Tomez Leal, another worker,
told the immigration service that he had been forced by Mr. Nelson to work for
15 days in September to repay the $100 fee, taking with him only $10 in wages
when he was allowed to leave.

Father and Son Charged

Mr. Nelson and his son Walter were arrested earlier this month and charged by
Federal agents with peonage, the first anti-slavery case in Texas in recent
memory and the first filed by the Government since the immigration service began
a renewed search for such crimes a few weeks ago. Immigration agents also
removed 11 of Mr. Nelson's workers, all illegal aliens.

Mr. Nelson, reached by telephone at his processing plant, was eager to talk
about the economics of oyster shucking and the circumstances that had led to his
arrest.

His plant was capable, Mr. Nelson said, of processing 200,000 oysters a day ''if
I got the help.'' But it was becoming increasingly difficult to find workers
willing to perform the tedious task of opening oysters ''day in, day out, in
wet, damp, humid conditions.'' A good shucker, he said, could make $7 an hour.
''That's not bad, but it's all manual.''

''I would rather have American citizens working for me,'' Mr.  Nelson said,
''but oyster opening is something people don't want to get into,'' especially in
a bleak locale like Smith Point, where ''we don't have no beer joints.''

He continued: ''I had seven families of Vietnamese working for me, but when they
got to the point where they had made enough money that they could go out and
better their way of life, they went on. That's the American way, and I'm happy
for them. But right now I could probably use 25 openers, and I got four.''

Mr. Nelson said he had ''gone all through Louisiana'' looking for openers and
had even offered to provide jobs for some of the recent Cuban refugees, but with
no success. So when the coyotes came by and asked, '' 'Do you need any help, do
you have any openings?' I'd say, 'Yes, sir, I have openings,' '' Mr. Nelson
said. ''I don't care where you're from if you want to work.''

'These People Need Jobs'

The Mexicans and Salvadorans, he said, are good workers. ''These boys that come
in here have got to work and want to work, if people would give them the right
to work. If they took all the illegal aliens out of the United States right now,
I believe our economy would go bankrupt. These people got families and need
jobs. You ever been to Mexico? Have you been to the border and looked at the
people sitting right there, starving to death?''

Asked about the Government's allegations that he had paid the smugglers $100 for
each worker, Mr. Nelson replied, ''These people are not like you and me, able to
catch a bus. When they come across the border, some coyote picks them up. I'm
not going to say I didn't pay somebody to bring a man here. If I get to your
house and I say, 'I owe this man here $200 for taxi fare,' if you want me to
work bad enough, you'll find the $200.''

In essence, he said, he had lent the workers the money to repay the smugglers
and had expected the workers to repay him. ''If I was to borrow $100 from you,
you'd want your money back,'' he said.  ''Wouldn't this be the legitimate and
honest way of conducting business?''

Mr. Nelson declined to discuss the charge that he had forced some of his workers
to work off the debt against their will, or that his son, Walter, had brought
Francisco Avila Ocegueda back to his job at gunpoint. ''That's something I don't
want to get into,'' he said. But he added, ''I've had a lot of these people come
here to me and say, 'Sir, my family is sick, I've got to go and I owe you money.
And they've left, owing me money.' ''

Nor was he alone, Mr. Nelson said, in his inability to find workers. ''My
brother's got a restaurant over here, and he's closing it because he can't get
no help.'' But Mr. Nelson nevertheless hopes to stay open, ''one way or
another.''

''I got a business,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 13, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FLORIDA GROWER ACCUSED IN ALIEN SMUGGLING RING

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Nov. 12


A Federal grand jury here has charged a Florida tomato grower, his son and five
other persons with having operated what immigration agents described as one of
the largest alien smuggling rings ever uncovered in this country.

According to a 20-count indictment returned today, the farmer, Raul Saldivar,
and his son, Raul Jr., a labor contractor, arranged over a three-year period
beginning in March 1977 for the clandestine transportation of thousands of farm
workers, most of them Mexican citizens, from Arizona to south-central Florida.

Michael D. Hawkins, the United States Attorney here, said that, if the
information given to the grand jury was accurate, the case was characterized by
''treatment of undocumented workers as bad as I have ever seen.''

In a prepared statement accompanying the indictment, Mr. Hawkins referred to a
civil lawsuit brought against the Saldivars by seven former workers who charged
the two with holding them under ''subhuman conditions'' at a tomato farm in
Bonita Springs, Fla., while paying them only a few dollars a week.

Charged With Transporting Aliens

The Saldivars were charged today with conspiring to transport illegal aliens, a
felony. Immigration agents familiar with the 18-month investigation that led to
today's indictment had previously said that the Saldivars might also be charged
with peonage, forcing an individual to work off a real or imagined debt. But Mr.
Hawkins said today that he had not invoked the peonage statute because of
Justice Department policy ''that it be used sparingly in these kinds of
incidents.''

One immigration agent described the elder Mr. Saldivar as ''the biggest''
importer of illegal alien workers to Florida. He said the ring, working through
recruiters, five of whom were also indicted today, had smuggled 3,000 to 4,000
workers a year from Arizona to Florida.

Some of the workers were used to harvest the Saldivars' crops, the agent said,
while others were provided, for a fee, to other farmers as field hands. At
times, the agent said, as many as 500 workers were quartered in a 60-acre labor
camp adjacent to the Saldivar farm.

Witnesses before the grand jury included several of the Mexican workers who had
previously given depositions in the civil suit mentioned by Mr. Hawkins. The
workers said in the depositions that it was not until after they reached Florida
that they were told they would have to work off a debt of $450 for their
transportation from Arizona - $100 more than first-class air fare between
Phoenix and Tampa - before they could leave the farm. All seven said that they
eventually fled.

Jackson L. Boughner, the Saldivars' attorney, dismissed the allegations in the
civil lawsuit as unwarranted. He said the seven plaintiffs were being
manipulated by Florida Rural Legal Assistance in an effort ''to unionize
Florida.''

All of the workers at the Saldivars' labor camp, he said, ''could leave any time
they wanted to,'' whether or not their transportation fees had been fully
repaid. He also said that the Saldivars had ''never asked anyone to transport
workers interstate'' to their farm.

Esteban Guerrero, a plaintiff, said in a deposition that he left Arizona for
Florida to earn some money to send home to his family in Mexico. But when he
arrived in Bonita Springs, he discovered that all of his earnings, except for $5
a week, would go for food and to repay his transportation debt to the Saldivars.

Carmen Zuniga, a worker who testified in support of the plaintiffs, said he was
told that ''the least one would earn here was $70 per day'' and that it would
cost him only $20 to go there. But for his first six-day week, he said, he was
paid only $170, of which he kept $20.

Neither Santos Martinez nor Miguel Ramos was told in advance that he would be
required to work off the cost of passage, they said. The first week, according
to the depositions, Mr. Ramos earned $190 and got back $5, and Mr. Martinez
earned $166 and got nothing. It all went, he said, ''to the payment of the man
who brought us from over there'' in Arizona.

Like many of those who have testified in the civil case, as well as before the
grand jury, Maximiliano Aguilar was picking lemons in Arizona when a stranger
approached him and offered better work in Florida. Only after he and the others
arrived at the Saldivar farm, he said, did they learn ''that we couldn't put a
foot out of the place.''

It is not illegal for a grower to charge workers for their transportation to his
farm. But forcing a laborer to work off such a debt is criminal peonage under
Federal law. Migrant farmworkers also must be given a written statement, in
advance, of terms and conditions of their employment, including any deductions
to be made.  Federal law also makes it illegal for a registered labor contractor
to transport or employ illegal aliens.

In a recent interview, Felipe Flores, a plaintiff in the civil case, said that
Raul Saldivar Jr. had made it clear to him and the other workers that ''until we
paid the $450 we could not get out.'' Meliton Zuniga said in a deposition that
once when he and a companion were on their way to visit someone, Raul Saldivar
sighted them and ''told us that we could even lose our lives if he caught us
around there again.''

Mr. Flores said a foreman had told him ''that if he saw somebody who would try
to take us out of the camp, that he could kill that person.'' Lupe Sanchez, an
official of the Arizona Farmworkers Union, said that, when he visited the
Saldivar camp to see conditions there for himself, ''they told me they would
kill me.''

Harsh Treatment Alleged

''He treated us like dogs,'' said Remijo Saldana of Raul Saldivar Jr., who he
said paid him $20 for four weeks' work. ''They did not want us to rest while we
were working,'' added Pedro de Santiago, who said that ''we had to work
continuously.''

When the water in the camp ran out, said Esteban Guerrero, the workers were
forced to drink either beer, which they bought from the Saldivars at 75 cents a
can, or what one worker described as the ''yellowish'' water from the canal.
There were no electric lights in the living quarters, said Juan Martinez, so the
workers spent some of their few precious dollars on a flashlight ''to make our
tortillas.''

Seven men lived in one room with only three beds, so they took turns sleeping on
the floor. There was no lavatory, so they relieved themselves in the woods.
''The snakes were the most dangerous of all,'' said Mr. Zuniga. ''They would
attack us at night while we were sleeping.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

The City;
4 Charged in Effort To Smuggle Aliens

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 107 words


Four men have been indicted on Federal charges of violating immigration laws in
connection with the Feb. 2 seizure of a trailer truck carrying 84 aliens in the
South Bronx.

Those indicted were Jose Abreu, 24 years old, and Cesar Victorino, 35, -both
citizens of the Dominican Republic - and two Bronx men, Efraine Vega, 39, and
Roopnarine Singh, 22, a citizen of Guyana, who allegedly were driving the truck.

The four men, each of whom is being held in $200,000 bail, were accused of
violations involving transportation of 43 of the aliens cross-country and
harboring them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 8, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Immigration Panel Modifies Opposition to Identity Cards

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7


A Federal immigration commission today retracted its earlier outright opposition
to issuing identification cards for American workers, and said it favored the
idea when coupled with penalties for hiring illegal aliens.

A spokesman for the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy
announced earlier that the 16-member panel had rejected the identification card
proposal by a vote of 9 to 6, with one abstention.

Later, reacting to published reports of the announcement, Elaine Daniels, a
spokesman for the panel, ''clarified'' the vote. She said that the commissioners
voted, 8 to 7, in favor of the I.D. proposal when provisions to sanction
employers for hiring undocumented workers were included. One commissioner
abstained from voting.

The spokesman said the 9-to-6 vote simply favored the continued use of birth
certificates, drivers' licenses, immigration cards and other forms of
identification to keep track of illegal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 11, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

PLAN WOULD LET MEXICANS WORK AS U.S. GUESTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 10


Despite opposition from organized labor and many Mexican Americans, the Reagan
Administration is considering the institution of a large guest-worker program as
a means of improving United States-Mexican relations and curbing illegal
migration.

Campaigning in Texas last September, Mr. Reagan called for a policy that would
permit hundreds of thousands of Mexicans to enter this country and work on a
temporary basis. In a television interview March 3, the President said he was
''very intrigued'' with a proposal to legalize the illegal migration from Mexico
by granting visas to those who wanted to go back and forth across the border
while holding jobs in this country. Mr. Reagan said he wanted to discuss the
idea with Mexico's President, Jose Lopez Portillo, who is scheduled to visit
Washington June 8 and 9.

The White House staff has developed a detailed proposal for a guest-worker
program. Although the President has not yet reviewed it or received advice from
his Cabinet, he is widely believed to favor such a program. ''On this
question,'' one official said Friday, ''there is a strong tidal force that stems
straight out of the Oval Office.''

A 'North American Accord'

White House officials said that a guest-worker program would facilitate natural,
mutually beneficial patterns of labor migration between Mexico and the United
States. President Reagan has repeatedly vowed to improve relations with Mexico
as part of what he calls a ''North American accord.''

Any proposal for a temporary worker program inevitably revives memories of the
''bracero'' program, which brought four million to five million Mexican
agricultural workers to the United States from 1942 to 1964. Most studies of
that program say that it stimulated illegal immigration, did little to end the
exploitation of Mexican workers and had an adverse effect on the wages and
working conditions of domestic agricultural workers.

Joseph Ghougassian, a senior policy adviser at the White House, has recommended
a temporary worker program as the best way to deal with ''the massive illegal
migration from Mexico.''

In a confidential memorandum to his superiors, Mr. Ghougassian said that the
bracero program, though defective in many respects, was ''nonetheless a workable
solution to the uncontrolled and mismanaged inflow of Mexican aliens.'' He noted
that the program had been discontinued in 1964 under ''pressure from Democrats
and labor unions.'' He said that ''a sound public relations program could deal
effectively with any initial opposition'' to another guest-worker program.

Documenting 'the Undocumented'

If the border cannot be sealed and if the influx of illegal aliens cannot be
curbed, Mr. Ghougassian wrote, then ''it is best to document the undocumented
entrants.''

President Reagan has expressed particular interest in the type of program
proposed by Gov. William Clements of Texas. That proposal would not tie Mexican
workers to specific employers, as the bracero program did. Instead, it would
permit Mexicans to move freely into industries where they were needed. In this
respect, it resembles the program favored by Senators Harrison Schmitt of New
Mexico and Barry Goldwater of Arizona, both Republicans.

A large guest-worker program would probably require Congressional approval,
whether it was established by treaty or by executive agreement between the
Presidents of Mexico and the United States.

Thomas O. Enders, President Reagan's nominee for Assistant Secretary of State
for inter-American affairs, discussed the possibility of a guest-worker program
when he visited Mexico City last Monday. He met with the Foreign Minister, Jorge
Castaneda, and the Labor Minister, Pedro Ojeda Paullada, to advise them of the
Reagan Administration's preliminary efforts to develop a new immigration policy.


Closer Consultation Sought

Reagan aides say they are determined to consult more closely with Mexico than
the Carter Administration did. In August 1977, when President Carter announced a
series of proposals on immigration, Mexican officials complained that they had
not been consulted.

In a meeting at the Justice Department on April 18 and in a meeting at the White
House Thursday, various special interests warned the Administration that there
would be intense opposition to a guestworker program.

''It would be politically naive in the extreme for the Administration to float
this program,'' said Msgr. George C. Higgins, a Roman Catholic priest who has
been working on labor issues here for 40 years. ''The Administration will find
absolutely universal opposition to a temporary worker program from every group
that has an interest in the subject from the point of view of the welfare of
workers.''

The National Committee for Full Employment, a coalition of church, civil-rights,
Hispanic-American and labor groups, said that ''it makes no sense to bring
additional workers to the United States when there are eight million
unemployed'' already.

Others in Opposition

Equally firm in their opposition were Thomas R. Donahue, secretarytreasurer of
the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; Arnoldo S. Torres, representing the League of United Latin
American Citizens, and Antonia Hernandez of the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund. They said that guest workers were likely to become a
permanent subclass of employees, subject to exploitation.

Switzerland, Germany, France, Sweden and other European countries have had
guest-worker programs. The temporary workers tend to become permanent, according
to a Library of Congress study, because they develop social and economic ties to
the host countries.

In its final report last February, a Federal advisory panel, the Select
Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy opposed any significant expansion
of the existing program under which 20,000 to 30,000 aliens enter the country as
temporary workers each year. The commission said that no industry should depend
on a constant supply of foreign workers.

The National Council of Agricultural Employers has been the main group
advocating expansion of the temporary worker program. Perry R.  Ellsworth,
executive vice president of the council, said that additional workers were
almost always needed to harvest certain crops.

The Government of Mexico has not taken an official position on the guest-worker
proposals. In a speech several years ago, the Mexican Ambassador here, Hugo B.
Margain, expressed his ''personal opinion'' that there should be a ''bilateral
temporary migration program similar to the one in existence from 1942 to 1964.''
Such a program, he said, would curtail the ''human rights abuses'' often
suffered by Mexicans working in this country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 10, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS ARE BYPASSING FARMS FOR HIGHER PAY OF JOBS IN THE CITIES

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 3309 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Illegal aliens are increasingly bypassing the nation's farms and ranches, their
usual sources of employment, for betterpaying jobs in construction,
manufacturing and service industries. In many cases they receive the same
salaries and benefits, such as employer-sponsored health care and union
membership, as the American workers they are sometimes displacing.

Figures compiled by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which arrests
tens of thousands of illegal workers each year, show that for the last two years
fewer than half of those arrested were working in agricultural jobs and that
three out of five were earning more than the minimum wage. In Chicago, aliens
seized in recent months were found to have average earnings of more than $9,000
a year while working for plastics and electronics companies, foundries,
meat-packing plants, rubber products manufacturers, snack food and candy
producers and the like.

''There is a vigorous market for, and in some instances active recruitment of,
undocumented workers,'' said Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, who expressed
concern over the displacement of American workers by illegal aliens. ''They make
desirable employees and normally have no difficulty in finding the work they
seek.''

The trend among aliens to settle in urban industrial areas of the North and East
seems certain to intensify the debate whether burgeoning illegal immigration
represents an economic windfall or a serious contributor to unemployment among
resident American workers, especially young people and members of minority
groups.

A Single, Crucial Decision

In effect, the debate is likely to come down to a single, crucial choice: Should
the United States in effect concede its lower-paid, less attractive jobs to
those immigrants who are eager to take them and legitimize their presence with a
''guest worker'' program along the lines of the existing worker exchanges
between member nations of the European Economic Community? Or should it enact
stringent laws that prohibit the employment of illegal aliens?

If the choice is the latter, experts agree, the enforcement capability of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service would have to be bolstered, because it
has conceded that it is now almost powerless because of new regulations and
severe shortages of money and manpower.

Some economists argue that the country is faced with what they call a
''voluntary withdrawal'' of American workers from jobs that offer low wages and
difficult working conditions and that the resulting vacuum can only be filled by
illegal aliens for whom such jobs are worthwhile. In the case of agriculture,
garment manufacturing and electronics, they say, illegal aliens offer employers
their only means of remaining in business, especially in the face of determined
foreign competition.

But there is also increasing evidence that foreign workers are preferred by a
wide range of employers, not simply because they work for less money than
Americans but also because, as business executives and immigration officials
contend, they are among the most reliable and enthusiastic of employees. And as
their reputation as ''superworkers'' spreads, the aliens are filling skilled and
semiskilled jobs that have previously been held by American citizens.

So sought after are the illegal workers, in fact, that some larger concerns,
such as construction companies and national hotel and restaurant chains, have
set up their own networks to recruit workers in Mexico and smuggle them into the
United States, a practice that the immigration service has recently begun
investigating.

Praise for Alien Workers

''They like to work,'' said the personnel manager of a Chicagoarea manufacturing
plant, who, like other business executives interviewed, asked that neither he
nor his company be identified.  ''They work hard and they show up on time, they
work overtime, they don't get into fights and they're relatively docile.''

''The citizen will gripe about working conditions,'' an immigration service
official said. ''The citizen will demand workmen's compensation, will demand
retirement. The alien is tickled to death to go in there and work 10 hours a
day. And he knows if he doesn't show up there's another alien standing in line
to take his job.''

By all accounts, the aliens are not only hardworking but also willing to endure
considerable deprivation in return for the privilege, to live a dozen to a room,
to sleep in shifts on wall-towall mattresses - in short to do whatever they must
do to stretch the precious dollars they send home to relatives in Mexico.

''There's a lot of things they have to undergo to work here,'' one Chicago
employer said, with not a little admiration in his voice.  Mr. Marshall
maintained that the continuing influx of illegal aliens was an important
contributor to the nation's level of unemployment. And the Secretary argued
that, while the aliens work hard, they also work ''scared,'' leaving themselves
open to exploitation, such as denial of overtime pay.

Underpayments of Workers Found

A recent Labor Department effort to seek out violations of the wage and hour
laws found that 1,600 employers in industries with heavy concentrations of
illegal alien employees had underpaid their workers by nearly $5 million,
principally in uncompensated overtime.

But it is far from clear whether the alien workers, who often pay smugglers
hundreds of dollars to bring them across the border and drive them to northern
industrial centers, see themselves as the victims of exploitation. In a single
hour in an American factory, even an unskilled alien who can command no more
than the minimum wage can earn the equivalent of a day's pay back in Mexico.

While the illegal workers include increasing numbers from South America, the
Middle East, the Far East and the impoverished island nations of the Caribbean,
the great majority of those who come are Mexicans. According to immigration
officials, the Mexicans tend to cross the border with assistance from paid
smugglers, or ''coyotes,'' while those from other countries are more likely to
enter the United States legally with tourist or student visas and to stay on
after their visas expire.

No one knows for certain how many illegal aliens are in the United States or how
fast they are coming. Edwin P. Reubens, an economist with the City University of
New York, estimated that about four million illegal workers were now living
permanently in the United States and that, barring any change in immigration or
enforcement patterns, the number would reach 10 million by the end of this
decade.

'A Lot of Uncertainty'

But all such estimates are questionable. ''There's no definitive study being
done,'' said Vernon Briggs, a Cornell University economist, ''and in my
estimation there never will be one. There's a lot of uncertainty on both
sides.''

Lawrence Fuchs, the director of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee
Policy, put it more bluntly: ''You cannot count illegal aliens accurately, let
alone determine their impact.  All you ever get is the subsample you have
chosen.''

But Professor Briggs said that it was still his ''strong predilection'' that
significant numbers of American workers were being displaced by illegal aliens,
and Professor Fuchs, who is on leave from Brandeis University, said that he
expected the Select Commission to recommend, in its final report to Congress and
the President at the end of the year, the passage of a Federal law prohibiting
the employment of illegal aliens.

Though it is by no means a scientific one, the largest data sample available on
illegal alien workers is that compiled by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service from arrest reports, which includes this information:

- In 1978, 45.6 percent of the employed aliens apprehended were working in
agriculture and 54.4 percent in manufacturing, construction and service
industries. In the first 11 months of the Federal fiscal year that ended Sept.
31, the number of agricultural workers had dropped to 43 percent.

- Among the 351 alien workers arrested at factories and businesses in the
Chicago area in the past three months, the average annual income was $9,360,
nearly twice the Federal Government's povertylevel income.

- In August, the latest month for which figures were available, well over half
the employed illegal aliens arrested in New York City, Los Angeles and San
Francisco were working in manufacturing alone, and more than three-quarters were
earning more than the minimum wage.

''There's not a business or industry of any type here that does not have
undocumented workers,'' said Joseph Howerton, head of the Los Angeles office of
the immigration service. ''If we were to pick up every illegal alien in this
area, we would close down not just 90 percent of the restaurants and the car
washes, but many of the light industries.''

Said another immigration official: ''Years ago, we could walk into a factory and
find maybe two or three illegal aliens. Now, 60 or 70 percent of the workers in
the place are illegal.''

Several economists emphasize that it is not necessarily a matter of only a
finite number of jobs being divided among a growing number of workers. ''People
not only take jobs, they make jobs,'' said Julian Simon, a professor of
economics at the University of Illinois. Over the long run, he said, the
expenditure by illegal workers of their salaries generates demand for goods and
services, creating greater employment opportunities for everyone. In the short
run, however, some displacement is inevitable.

The question, however, is precisely who is being displaced. As the undocumented
workers continue their movement to the large industrial cities, the displacement
of some American workers is bound to increase, with the first effects being felt
by the young and members of minorities, groups most associated with
minimum-wage, entry-level jobs.

Those groups of Americans are also experiencing the highest rates of
unemployment in the nation. National figures for October, which were made public
Friday, showed unemployment at 18.4 percent for teen-agers, at 14.3 percent for
blacks and at 10.9 percent for Hispanic Americans, as against an overall rate of
7.6 percent. For black teen-agers, the rate was 39.3 percent.

''They're taking jobs from young people, those that are just starting out, from
blacks and from other aliens who have gone through the proper immigration
process in this country,'' said Ted Georgetti, the chief immigration
investigator in Chicago.

George Montoya, his counterpart in New York City, agreed. ''There are many black
teen-agers who would like to have some of the jobs these illegal aliens are
taking,'' he said.

Tips From Displaced Workers

Perhaps significantly, Hispanic Americans and blacks, angry at having lost their
jobs, have provided many of the tips that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service has received about companies that employ illegal workers. But as Edwin
Reubens noted, there are a number of options for American citizens and legal
resident aliens that may prompt them to refuse to accept jobs at the salaries at
or just above the minimum wage. ''They can either go on unemployment insurance
or welfare,'' he said, ''or to say it bluntly, they can go in for various forms
of crime.''

Most experts agree that there is little displacement of American workers by
illegal aliens in agriculture, where the work is arduous and the wages
relatively low.

Many of the Mexicans now moving into industry first came to the United States as
what Mr. Georgetti of the Chicago immigration office termed ''relatively
unsophisticated'' aliens eager to pick crops in the fields of Texas and
California. ''Once they acquire a veneer of sophistication,'' he said, ''once
they learn their way around, once they learn the language, it's only human
nature that they'll seek a better job.''

Unlike their opposite numbers in agriculture, who are likely to return home at
the end of a harvest season, those who move on to work in industry tend to stay
until they are apprehended. A random immigration service sampling of aliens
arrested in Los Angeles in the last three months showed that they averaged 2.4
years on the job and earned $5.25 an hour.

One had worked for three years as a mechanic earning $700 a week, another as an
upholsterer earning $12 an hour. A roofer earned $11.81 an hour, an electrician
$11, a plumber $500 a week, a butcher $6.50 an hour, a machinist $7. Few were
found working in the occupations usually associated with illegal aliens; there
was only a handful of gardeners, a few seamstresses, two agricultural workers,
one busboy and one maid.

Many of those who argue that illegal aliens are not displacing American workers
refer to a 1975 study that reported that about 2,000 menial jobs vacated by
illegal aliens in the San Diego area had not been filled by jobless Americans,
principally because most of the jobs paid less than the minimum wage. But in the
suburbs of Chicago, where both wages and unemployment are running considerably
higher than they were in San Diego five years ago, the Illinois Department of
Labor has had no trouble filling openings left after immigration service raids
on factories and businesses.

''Every time we get them, we fill them,'' said Walter Tupy, a state labor
official. ''We've seen situations where Immigration is coming in one door and
people are applying at the other,'' said Jim Marino, another official. ''How
they hear about it is beyond us.''

One morning last summer, Mr. Marino recalls, immigration service agents raided a
foundry in nearby Elgin, a predominantly white, bluecollar town with an
unemployment rate of about 10 percent. The agents arrested 69 illegal aliens
earning from $4.50 to 3 an hour.  In hours, hundreds of local residents had
applied for the jobs, and within three days, all of them were filled.

Employers Say Screening Difficult

For their part, employers maintain that they are not law enforcement officers
and should not be saddled with the responsibility for screening job applicants,
a task that many say is made virtually impossible by Federal equal opportunity
employment regulations that limit the kind of information they can seek.

''We can ask them if they have a legal right to be in the U.S.,'' said the
personnel manager of a Los Angeles company that manufactures baby furniture.
''But once they say yes, we're stuck.'' Under Federal law, he said, he could
only ask for proof of legal residence if the same request was made of all
employees, something he deemed distasteful and impractical as well. ''Anyway,''
he said, ''80 percent of the documents they have are forged.''

The proliferation of bogus documents, chiefly resident alien identity cards,
birth certificates and Social Security cards, is a major problem, according to
employers and immigration officials. Most Hispanic areas of larger cities have a
flourishing trade in such documents, immigration officials say. In Los Angeles,
a forged Social Security card can be purchased on the street for as little as
$25, a resident alien certificate, known as a ''green card,'' for $100.

The immigration service acknowledges that it has no way of guarding against the
use of the same alien registration number by more than one person, and because
of backlogs at the Social Security Administration it frequently takes nine
months to a year to identify a false Social Security number. But under a program
called ''Operation Cooperation,'' the immigration service will advise
subscribing employers whether job applicants are in the country legally. In
Chicago, 57 large employers have joined the program, though in many cases
reluctantly and only after raids by immigration agents had decimated their work
forces.

An Unspectactular Start

Neither the immigration service nor the employers would argue that the program
was working well, and each side blamed the other's lack of interest. ''We just
don't get many calls,'' said Mr. Howerton, the immigration service director in
Los Angeles. The personnel manager of a large Chicago confection company said
she had submitted 25 names to the immigration service for clearance in the last
month and had received responses on only three of them.

Despite being publicly opposed to continued illegal immigration, some labor
unions seem indifferent to the legal status of their members. Asked about the
level of labor union cooperation here, Mr.  Georgetti said, ''They're more
concerned with membership than with immigration status.'' The manager of a
unionized plastic bottle factory agreed. ''With the union, it doesn't make any
difference about their status,'' he said.

Until recently, the risk of a raid by immigration agents was something of a
deterrent to employers tempted by illegal labor. But in the last year,
enforcement of the immigration laws has fallen greatly.

In August 1979, more than 21,000 aliens were apprehended in raids on workplaces
across the country. Last August, the number was about 7,000. In Los Angeles,
investigators have raided only two factories so far this year. The two were Mode
O'Day, a garment manufacturer where eight aliens were arrested, and Strollee of
California, a maker of children's furniture which spends approximately $100 a
month to provide health care benefits for each of its employees. Sixty-nine
aliens were seized there. There have been only five such raids in Philadelphia
and none at all in New York City.

Many Reasons for Decline

There are several reasons for the dropoff, including the diversion of
immigration personnel to handle the expulsion of Iranian students from the
United States and the arrival of 125,000 Cuban refugees in Florida. But the
trend has occurred mainly because of a Justice Department regulation that
severely limited raids on homes and businesses so that census takers could more
accurately count illegal aliens residing in this country.

Before the regulation was imposed last April, Mr. Georgetti said, immigration
service investigators in Chicago were apprehending about 1,000 illegal aliens a
month, most of them at places where they worked. The number of apprehensions has
since dropped to one-tenth that number, although at any one time, he said, his
office has information on the whereabouts of some 46,000 aliens.

''Three years ago we had 40 or 50 investigators a day on the streets,'' said Mr.
Smith, the immigration investigations chief in Los Angeles. ''Now we're lucky if
we've got eight.'' He added that most of those were kept busy picking up illegal
aliens arrested by local police on other criminal charges.

''We have a very token enforcement,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We don't have the
capability. We are no longer a threat to any employer here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of suspected illegal aliens

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

JOBS FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS STIRS SAME OPPOSITION AS IN '77 GALLUP POLL

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 390 words


Americans are as opposed to the entry and employment of illegal aliens as they
were three years ago, according to the latest Gallup Poll. Its findings indicate
that Americans have neither softened nor hardened their views despite
controversy over illegal immigration from Mexico, Central and South America and
the arrival of refugees from Southeast Asia and Cuba.

Seventy-six percent of the public believe that it should ''be against the law to
employ a person who has come into the United States without proper papers,'' the
survey showed.

In October 1977, a similar poll showed that the 72 percent of the public felt
that way. Given a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points,
which both surveys had, those two figures are substantially the same.

Seventy-seven percent of the whites interviewed and 67 percent of the nonwhites
favored such a law.

Educational Levels Vary

The employment curb was favored by 80 percent of those interviewed who had a
college education, 67 percent of those who had a high school education and 64
percent of those who not gone beyond grade school.

The difference in opinions between whites and nonwhites was marked on the issue
of amnesty. The survey asked, ''It has been proposed that illegal aliens who
have been in the United States for seven years be allowed to remain in the
United States. Do you favor or oppose this proposal?''

Thirty-six percent of the whites favored the proposal, as against 45 percent of
the nonwhites. On the national average, 37 percent favored it, 52 percent
opposed it and 11 percent had no opinion.

The survey also asked, ''Do you believe everyone in the United States should be
required to carry an identification card such as a Social Security card, or
not?''

On the national average, 62 percent favored the requirement, 33 percent opposed
it and 5 percent had no opinion.  Only 44 percent of those with a college
education said there should be such a law; 68 percent of those with a high
school education said there should be, and 75 percent of those who attended only
grade school favored it.

The poll, based on interviews made in person around the country, was conducted
Nov. 7 to 10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 30, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

RISE IN IMMIGRATION URGED FROM MEXICO AND CANADA

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29


A Cabinet-level advisory committee has decided to recommend that President
Reagan ask Congress to double the annual limit on legal immigration from Mexico
and Canada.

There is now a limit of 20,000 immigrants a year for natives of any foreign
country. The advisory panel, in a report scheduled for submission to the
President in the next few weeks, suggests increasing the limit to 40,000 each
for Mexico and Canada.

This proposal, according to the report, ''recognizes the unique relationship
with our neighbors'' and ''provides a means for reducing pressures for illegal
immigration from Mexico.''

The recommendation is one of many being made by the President's Task Force on
Immigration and Refugee Policy. Attorney General William French Smith is
chairman of the panel, which includes seven other Cabinet members. In a
memorandum last week to all members of the group, David D. Hiller, a special
assistant to the Attorney General, said that the proposals were ''the component
parts of a final draft report to the President.''

Border Patrol Rise Urged

In its final draft, the panel also recommends a ''moderate increase'' in the
enforcement budget of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to provide
additional Border Patrol agents, investigators and other personnel.

The report also gives additional details of these proposals, including penalties
for employers hiring illegal aliens; an experimental program to admit Mexicans
as ''guest workers,'' and an amnesty for about one million illegal aliens.

''Increased enforcement resources and employer sanctions,'' the report says,
''in combination with a pilot temporary worker program, will reduce
substantially illegal immigration by expanding the opportunity for Mexican
nationals to work lawfully in the United States and by prohibiting employers
from hiring Mexicans outside of that program.''

In recent years, Mexico has used its quota of 20,000 visas, while Canada has
used only 12,000 to 16,000 of its allotted share. Under the panel's proposal,
any visas unused by Canada could be used by Mexico. The likely effect, if
migration patterns continue unchanged, would be to make 40,000 additional
immigrant visas available to Mexicans.

The panel estimated that its proposals would cost $256 million to $286 million a
year. Much of the cost, it said, could be offset by increasing the fees charged
by the Government for providing various immigration benefits to aliens.

Delays in Issuing Report

The report was originally to have been submitted to the President in the first
week of May. Then officials said that May 25 was the target date. Mr. Smith, at
a breakfast meeting with reporters yesterday, said that the study would probably
not be submitted until after Mr. Reagan meets here with President Jose Lopez
Portillo of Mexico on June 8 and 9. A copy of the draft report was obtained by
The New York Times from an official of one of the Federal agencies that
contributed to the report.

The report makes these recommendations:

- Brothers and sisters of adult citizens should no longer receive preference in
the allocation of visas. About 65,000 visas a year go to aliens in this
category. The special treatment for brothers and sisters, according to the
report, causes an exponential growth in visa applications.

- Congress should ''enact legislation prohibiting employers of four or more
employees from knowingly and willfully hiring illegal aliens.'' Employers
violating the law should be subject to civil fines of $500 to $1,000 for each
illegal alien they hire. The Justice Department should seek injunctions to halt
a ''pattern or practice'' of violations.

- Job applicants should be required to show identification, including a new,
counterfeit-resistant Social Security card, to establish that they are eligible
to work in the United States. This requirement would apply to citizens and
aliens alike. For a person to make ''knowing and willful'' use of false
identification papers in obtaining a job would be illegal.

- President Reagan should ask Congress to establish an experimental ''guest
worker'' program with Mexico. In each of the next two years, 50,000 Mexicans a
year would be allowed to enter the United States to search for employment. The
Mexican workers would be allowed to bring their spouses and their children under
the age of 18. They would have access to public schools and health care but not
to welfare, food stamps or unemployment insurance.

- There should be an amnesty for illegal aliens who were present in the United
States before Jan. 1, 1980, and who have been ''continually resident'' in the
country for at least five years. The estimated 1.2 million aliens in this
category could apply for status as lawful permanent residents.

The panel said that there was a net influx of 500,000 illegal aliens each year
and that its recommendations, if accepted, might reduce the flow to 100,000 a
year.

The report emphasizes demographic projections much more than similar studies
have in the past. The panel predicted that with the recommendations of the
report in effect the population of the United States would grow from the current
226 million to 267 million in the year 2030. The panel said that its
recommendations were a ''middle course'' between a very restrictive and a very
liberal immigration policy.

Under these assumptions, the Hispanic portion of the population would rise from
its present level of 6.5 percent to 10.4 percent in 2030. If illegal immigration
continued at current levels, it was estimated, Hispanic-Americans would account
for 15 percent of the population in 2030.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN WORKER PROGRAMS ARE EASIER TO START THAN CONTROL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 921 words


WASHINGTON WHEN President Jose Lopez Portillo of Mexico arrives to confer with
President Reagan this week, their agenda is likely to include discussion of a
''guest worker'' program that would legalize the flow of migrant labor through
issuance of visas to at least some of the Mexicans who want jobs in this
country.

Such proposals revive memories of the bracero program which brought 4 million to
5 million Mexican agricultural workers to the United States between 1942 and
1964. That program, like more recent temporary worker programs in Western
Europe, has been extensively studied by historians and economists. Although
disagreeing in many respects, they tend to agree on some key points.

One lesson is that a guest-worker program may have far-reaching diplomatic,
economic, social and political implications that were unforeseen when the
program was started as a short-term expedient. In general, analysts say, if a
guest-worker program is big enough to cut deeply into illegal immigration, it is
also likely to have adverse effects on wages and working conditions of United
States citizens.

In a study for the Senate Judiciary Committee, Joyce Vialet of Congressional
Research Service writes: ''History appears to indicate that the bracero program
only served to reduce illegal migration when it was combined with both a massive
law enforcement effort (Operation Wetback) and an expansion of the farm labor
program to the point where it almost certainly had an adverse impact on the
wages and working conditions of domestic workers'' in certain areas and
occupations. At first, the program apparently did little to stem the flow of
illegal aliens. A historian, Otey M. Scruggs, in a study covering the years 1942
to 1947, said that ''the bracero program, instead of diverting the flow of
wetbacks into legal channels, as Mexican officials had hoped, actually
stimulated unlawful emigration.''
Pilot Program of 50,000 Proposed

However, some analysts believe that a differently structured program would have
a better chance of success. One recommendation is to avoid pre-arranged
contracts between United States employers and alien workers. Such contracts, by
tying the alien to a particular employer, create a danger of exploitation.
Proposals under study by the Reagan Administration and favored by the governors
of several Southwestern states would give Mexicans a significant degree of
mobility within the labor market. They would not be bound to a single employer.

The bracero program began during World War II, when replacements were needed for
workers who had entered the Armed Forces or left the farms for better-paying
jobs in defense industries. Mexico and the United States viewed the program as a
vital contribution to the war effort and an alternative to illegal immigration.
The workers' transportation and living expenses were initially paid by the
United States Government, which was reimbursed by farmer employers. Later, the
employers were expected to pay directly for housing, meals and transportation.

A 1951 law required the Secretary of Labor to certify that farmers had made
''reasonable efforts'' to locate domestic workers before hiring Mexicans. The
law also said that Mexicans could not be recruited unless the Labor Department
found that their presence would not harm the wages and working conditions of
domestic farm workers.  Although the Labor Department was in charge, crucial
decisions were made on the local level, where employers exerted strong
influence.  Critics assert that Federal and local officials were too ready to
accept the employers' definition of labor shortages and prevailing wage rates.
Braceros worked in at least 38 states in the 1950's, but 94 percent were
employed in Texas, California, Arkansas, Arizona and New Mexico. They picked
cotton, sugar beets, fruit and vegetables.  The number of Mexicans admitted as
temporary workers rose above 100,000 for the first time in 1949 and increased
rapidly during the 1950's, reaching a peak of 445,000 in 1956. The number then
decreased steadily, to 178,000 in 1964.

President Reagan's Task Force on Immigration and Refugee Policy, which includes
eight Cabinet officers, has recommended a two-year experiment under which 50,000
Mexicans a year would be allowed to work legally in this country. Several White
House aides, remembering Mr. Reagan's campaign speeches in support of a generous
guest-worker program, say that a small ''pilot program'' would be ''insulting''
to Mexico. Advisers who share Mr. Reagan's commitment to free-market economic
principles also favor a fairly large program.

Any kind of guest-worker program would need approval from Congress. Organized
labor, church groups and several Hispanic organizations have vowed to lobby
against it.

In France, Switzerland and West Germany, many of the ''temporary'' workers have
become permanent residents. This apparently did not often occur in the bracero
program because the workers were doing seasonal farm labor. But it could become
an issue if Mexicans were allowed to take jobs in cities, in the construction
industry and in factories, where growing numbers of illegal aliens have found
work in recent years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Graph of Mexico's foreign trade

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS ARRIVE IN BROOKLYN AND LAKE PLACID

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 692 words


Federal officials over the weekend began moving several hundred Haitians to
detention centers around the country, including an immigration center in
Brooklyn and a Federal prison near Lake Placid, N.Y., in an effort to ease
serious overcrowding at a Miami camp.

The Haitians, illegal aliens who have been fleeing their country in boats for
several years, are being relocated to Federal prisons and to detention centers
run by the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, a spokesman for the
Justice Department said.

Fifty men and 36 women were taken Saturday to a decrepit, fivestory red brick
building across from the Brooklyn Navy Yard in a rundown section of Fort Greene.
Private security guards who were armed supplemented Immigration and
Naturalization officers, none of whom would permit reporters to visit the
Haitians.

''We have an emergency condition here with the overcrowding,'' said Michael
Trominski, an immigration officer at the Krome Avenue North Refugee Camp, west
of Miami. A former Army missile base, the makeshift tent and barrack encampment
with a capacity for 550 people now houses nearly 1,200 refugees, Mr. Trominski
said.

10 More to Lake Placid

Immigration officials transferred 90 Haitians from the overcrowded Miami camp
yesterday, sending 50 refugees to a Federal facility in West Virginia and 40
more to a new Federal prison in Lake Placid.  Twenty more Haitians will be flown
out today, 10 to Texas and 10 to Lake Placid.

In addition to the 86 Haitians who were brought to Brooklyn on Saturday, 176
were flown to a minimum security Federal prison camp in Big Spring, Tex. Last
week, 58 children who escaped to this country from Haiti without their parents
were taken to Dutchess County in upstate New York for adoption.

The transfers of the Haitians, which according to Mr. Trominski were ordered by
William French Smith, the United States Attorney General, came on the heels of a
suit filed by Bob Graham, the Governor of Florida, who is seeking to force the
Federal Government to reduce the refugee population at the Krome Avenue camp by
1,000 by Friday. The Justice Department is continuing its search for space in
Federal detention facilities but there are no firm plans for future transfers,
Mr. Trominski said.

Mr. Trominski also said that the Governor of Puerto Rico had endorsed a plan by
Federal officials to use an empty Navy facility there to house Haitian refugees.
Puerto Rican officials had been opposed to the use of the facility until now.

Deportation Hearings Halted

Deportations of Haitians were halted last month following charges by attorneys
for the refugees that the Haitians were being denied due process of law. They
said deportation hearings were held in locked courtrooms, from which private
lawyers and spectators were barred.  The Immigration and Naturalization Service
suspended deportation proceedings pending a review of its procedures.

Severe overcrowding at the Miami camp has caused serious sanitation problems,
including the contamination of the camp's drinking water, Mr. Trominski said.

Between 1,000 and 1,500 Haitians arrive by boat every month, said Thomas M.
Stewart, a spokesman for the Justice Department.  ''It's an enormous
bureaucratic problem keeping tabs on all of them,'' Mr. Stewart said. ''There
are more than 15,000 who are in exclusion or deportation proceedings right
now.'' Many of the Haitians not held at the camp have been sponsored by
voluntary agencies in Miami communities, and are being taken care of by private
families.

During the transfers, 50 riot-equipped Border Patrol officers flown in from
Texas to Miami surrounded the buses carrying the refugees to the airport. But
the Haitians filed quietly onto the chartered passenger jet.

At the Federal prison facilities in Texas, West Virginia and Lake Placid, the
refugees will be segregated from the general prison population, Mr. Stewart
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 24, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

14 Are Indicted by U.S.  In Alien-Smuggling Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., June 23


A sophisticated smuggling ring that charged hundreds of Mexicans as much as $750
to be spirited into the United States has been cracked with the indictment of 14
persons, United States immigration officials said today.

''I would say this was one of the major rings operating in New Mexico,'' said
H.C. Murphy, criminal investigator with the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Albuquerque.

Aliens were given fake ''green cards'' that only an expert could distinguish
from legitimate alien work permits, the authorities said.  Indictments were
handed up last week by a Federal grand jury in El Paso, Tex., naming 14
residents of Albuquerque, Juarez, Mexico, and El Paso in the smuggling
operation. The sealed indictments were made public today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 7, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

BEFORE WE INVITE 'GUEST WORKERS'

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words


To the Editor:

Slashed Federal social programs will have a particularly severe im-pact on
Puerto Rico. According to a news article published on July 25, we can expect a
''huge new wave of migration to the mainland'' as a result. Puerto Rican
officials assert that the only safeguard against ''possibly hundreds of
thousands'' of immigrants would be to restore benefit programs.

Meantime, the Congress (Senators Hayakawa, Schmidt and others) and the Reagan
Administration are proposing various ''guest worker'' programs. Many thousands
of Mexicans and perhaps others would be imported to work in American factories
and farms.

Is there a contradiction? If the workers are genuinely needed - unemployment
rates notwithstanding - and the American taxpayer is required to smooth the way
for the newcomers, shouldn't we opt to help our fellow nationals from Puerto
Rico ''to relocate''?
B.A. RITTERSPORN JR., New York, July 30, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 22, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FRAUD TIED TO RISING VISA ABUSE BY VISITORS TO U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2415 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Showing visas obtained with bribes or fraudulent documents, hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants are openly entering the United States each year,
posing as tourists, business executives or other visitors and then simply taking
up residence in the ethnic neighborhoods of the nation's big cities.

The number of ''overstayers,'' as such illegal aliens are called, is growing,
though no one knows precisely how fast. Figures compiled by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which concedes that it would not have the resources to
expel the unwanted visitors even if it knew where they were, suggest that their
ranks may be increasing by several hundred thousand each year, about the same
number estimated to cross the border surreptitiously.

The key problem lies not in the immigration service but in the State Department,
whose officers issue visas at United States embassies and consulates abroad. By
law, such visas are reserved for those who can produce convincing evidence that
they are likely to return home - a good job, a house or a substantial bank
account.

But as visa abuses increase, some difficult questions are being asked in
Congress and at the State Department about shortcomings of the visa process and
the necessity for the visa requirement itself.

The shortcomings, according to officials of the State Department and the
immigration service, include the mounting demands placed on overworked,
inexperienced junior consular officers who are confronted with ever-larger
numbers of foreigners seeking to visit the United States. Of equal concern,
however, is the department's acknowledgement that it is investigating at least
five cases of alleged sales of visas by American diplomats overseas and 30 cases
involving local employees of several United States embassies.

Three cases of what the State Department calls ''visa malfeasance'' by career
Foreign Service officers were recently referred to the Justice Department for
prosecution, according to James Webb Jr., a spokesman for the department's
Bureau of Consular Affairs. Mr. Webb refused to name the officers or give any
details.

The State Department first charged an officer with visa fraud in 1977, and there
has been only one such indictment since then. In the first case, Carolyn J.
King, a vice consul posted to Haiti, was convicted. In the second, Steven
Vitale, a consul in the Bahamas, was acquitted.

A third concern is what some inside the State Department term the department's
attitude that its officers, because of their education and dedication, are
beyond temptation or reproach. One result, some officials say, is a reluctance
to pursue cases in which a career diplomat is suspected of visa fraud. Another
result, they say, is frustration among the department's small corps of criminal
investigators.

'Heat for Looking the Other Way'

''We've taken some heat for looking the other way,'' a senior official conceded.
Mr. Webb did acknowledge that one State Department official, whom he would not
name, was recently allowed to resign ''in lieu of prosecution.'' But he said,
''Since Watergate there has been an increased sensitivity to fraud. We don't
have any qualms about seeking it out.''

Because the State Department lacks the resources to investigate the backgrounds
of all but the most suspect visa applicants, visa officers must rely on a
cursory scan of letters from employers and other documents in assessing the odds
that a person will return when his visa expires.

Bogus documents are readily obtainable throughout Latin America, however, and
consular officials concede that most visas are granted or denied according to
the officer's instincts as much as anything else.

The United States is one of the few large countries in the world that requires a
visa of anyone arriving for any purpose. Earlier this month the Select
Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, noting the resulting ''heavy
strain'' on many United States embassies and consulates, suggested that the visa
requirement be waived altogether for visitors from such countries as Great
Britain and Japan, whose citizens rarely abuse the terms of their admission.

Automated Visa System Urged

The commission also urged the adoption of an automated system, which the
Government does not now have, to ''allow the prompt tracking of aliens'' who
overstay their visas.

Many of the visas issued to overstayers come from consuls who are careless or
too harried to assess applications accurately. Because of the demand at some
embassies, a decision must be made after an interview of a minute or less, and
the demand is increasing by the month.

At the United States Embassy in Buenos Aires, some 60,000 visas were issued in
June 1979, more than double the total for the same month a year before. Next
July the embassy in Mexico City, where the average visa interview lasts 80
seconds, expects to issue 87,000 visas, one-third more than it issued last July.

The problems of overwork and fraud do not seem to be unrelated.  ''We have found
a direct correlation,'' said Barbara Watson, Assistant Secretary of State for
consular affairs in the Carter Administration, ''between cases in which we have
not detected fraud as early as we should have and extreme work pressures.''

Of the 11 million foreigners who entered the country last year with nonimmigrant
visas, immigration service records show that fewer than 10 million left. The
figures are not precise, because airlines do not always collect the forms that
are supposed to be surrendered by departing visitors, and there is no effort to
count those who leave the country by crossing the border into Canada or Mexico.
But, even allowing for slippage in record-keeping, those who overstay their
visas could number 200,000 or 300,000 a year, as high as the estimated number of
illegal aliens who enter the country by slipping across the border.

Tourists and Business Travelers

With the decline of the dollar abroad, the United States has become a favored
stopping place for travelers from Europe and the Orient, who are estimated to
have spent some $10 billion here in 1979. State Department officials concede
that, in view of concerns over the balance of payments, policies regarding the
issuing of nonimmigrant visas are more liberal than they might otherwise be.

More than 6.5 million tourist visas were issued in 1978, as against just over
two million a decade before, and the number of business travelers has risen at
about the same rate. At the same time, political and economic pressures for
emigration in less developed countries have increased the number of foreigners
willing to pay for a temporary visa they can use to emigrate here illegally.

Asked whether the 35 current visa fraud investigations suggested that there was
more fraud than before, or simply that more was being uncovered, one senior
State Department official replied, ''The answer is both.'' Among the current
inquiries, he said, were ''particularly serious'' ones in the Dominican Republic
and Colombia.

''The basic feeling,'' said Mr. Webb, the spokesman for the Bureau of Consular
Affairs, ''is that these 35 cases are a result of a more activist sensitivity on
the department's part.'' But another State Department official said some of the
35 cases were not being fully investigated because of a shortage of personnel in
the department's Office of Security. No one from that office would speak for
attribution about visa fraud.

In assessing the possible reasons for such malfeasance, several diplomats
suggested that efforts to ''democratize'' the Foreign Service in recent years
had lowered the caliber of the younger officers most likely to be assigned to
consular work. ''We've taken in people with a greater propensity for fraud,''
one diplomat said.  Another said, ''You've got lots of people who come from
backgrounds where they've never had anything and then you send them to Santo
Domingo.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, now the ranking minority
member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, asked the State Department more than a
year ago for details of visa fraud being investigated because he was concerned
by reports of what an aide described as ''serious breaches of consular
procedures in Latin America.''

Mrs. Watson, who then headed the Bureau of Consular Affairs, replied that 13
such inquiries completed in the first half of 1979, all of them in Latin America
and the Caribbean, had resulted in the dismissal of eight local employees,
including seven from the United States Embassy in Buenos Aires. ''No American
employees were implicated in the investigation,'' Mrs. Watson's letter said.

But some State Department investigators asserted that some of Mrs.  Watson's
assurances were unfounded. The investigators said that several American
diplomats had been ''implicated'' in investigations in Colombia, Argentina,
Bolivia and Paraguay, and that other American personnel were ''highly
suspected.''

The number of visa fraud investigations now under way was cited by some State
Department officials as evidence that suspected wrongdoing by American diplomats
was not being ''swept beneath the rug,'' as one put it, to preserve the
department's reputation, as Foreign Service rumor says has happened in the past.

One official disputed such assertions, however, maintaining that the State
Department was now ''looking for it more than we used to'' only because ''we
totally ignored it in the past,'' and that there had been a particular upsurge
in such investigations in the last month. Even so, he said, ''They only catch
the obvious cases. The really good frauds they never catch.''

The principal problem, he said, is that the State Department, burdened with what
he called a ''pin-striped suit mentality,'' is reluctant to acknowledge that its
personnel are susceptible to corruption. As a result, he said, some inquiries
are not ardently pursued.

''We never get a conviction because of the way we do the investigation,'' the
man said. ''They don't come out and say you can't do it, they just make your job
so hard you can't do it. When you send off a lead to Washington, they just sit
on it. You open a case, you do what you can, then you close it because you don't
have the resources or authority to do it right.''

Another longtime department official agreed. ''We can't seem to get a mandate to
go out and do it,'' he said. ''The Foreign Service is a good old boy club where
everybody takes care of everybody.'' But he acknowledged that over the last year
or so the State Department had been ''pushing a little more'' on visa fraud. ''I
don't think the department was looking into it at all 10 years ago,'' he said.

Issue of 'Third-Country Nationals'

Two of the recently completed investigations, other officials said, involved
visas issued to ''third-country nationals,'' citizens of Korea and Taiwan, by
American consuls in Argentina and Paraguay. A third case under scrutiny involves
Iraqi Christians who say they are fleeing religious and political persecution in
their homeland.

Given the difficulty of weighing the applications of home-country nationals, it
is next to impossible for a visa officer to check the credentials of, say, an
Iraqi citizen who applies for a visitor's visa at the United States Embassy in
Mexico City. For that reason, a longtime consular officer said, any case
involving a third-country national is an automatic ''red-flag situation.''

''You're going to want to see some pretty good proof,'' the officer said.
Though visas in cases of fraud are most often secured with money, one
investigator told of an American diplomat in an African nation, the subject of a
recent inquiry, who had been sexually compromised by an Arab woman and then
blackmailed into supplying visas to Lebanese citizens. Asked what action the
State Department had taken, the investigator said the consul had been
transferred ''to some other garden spot.''

Two other officials recalled an American diplomat in a Latin American country
who, by one estimate, made $1 million selling visas before he left the State
Department two years ago. ''They just let the guy retire,'' one of the officers
said, adding that the diplomat had been ''quite literally advertising himself''
as one who could provide visas for a price.

Possibility of Doubling Income

Consuls assigned to visa work are generally younger officers on their first
assignment. They earn as little as $17,000 a year but are nevertheless expected
to dress well and to move easily through the upper levels of local society. One
official calculated that a junior consular officer could double his income by
selling fewer than 20 visas a year at the going rate of $1,000 to $1,500 each.

''We are trying, through training incoming consular officers, to get more
sensitivity to fraud and malfeasance problems,'' said Mr.  Webb, the department
spokesman.

Other officials said, however, that the department's Office of Security had no
intelligence network and no funds earmarked for making undercover purchases of
visas from suspected consuls in the way that narcotics agents buy drugs from
suspected peddlers. The State Department, another official said, remains the
only major Federal department whose Inspector General's office has no statutory
authority to conduct internal investigations.

The first official estimated that 20,000 to 50,000 visas were sold by American
diplomats or local employees every year, but that only 5 or 10 percent of the
cases were uncovered because of the State Department's limited investigative
resources and restrictive policies. With the necessary resources, he estimated,
20 to 50 dormant cases of visa fraud could profitably be reopened.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photos of aliens at Kennedy International Airport (page
50)

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 28, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

REPORT ON REFUGEES URGES A CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27


Reagan Administration officials have tentatively decided to recommend a series
of tough enforcement measures designed to deter illegal immigration of Haitians
and Cubans to the United States.

Members and staff of the President's Task Force on Immigration and Refugee
Policy said today that the Cabinet-level body would probably advise the
President within the next two weeks to pursue a policy combining two or more of
these elements:

- Legislation authorizing the Coast Guard to intercept boats carrying Haitians
to the United States so that the Haitians could be returned to their homeland or
taken to some other country. The boats might be stopped in international waters.

- Legislation to expedite deportation and exclusion proceedings so that claims
for asylum could be disposed of more quickly, with fewer levels of appeal and
review.

- Detention of any additional Haitians or Cubans who arrive in southern Florida
without visas. This would prevent the aliens from disappearing inside the
country while awaiting deportation or official action on claims for asylum.

- Legislation to legalize the status of at least some of the Cuban and Haitian
''boat people'' already here so that they could remain indefinitely.

David D. Hiller, a special assistant to Attorney General William French Smith,
confirmed that the proposals were under study, but he said that nothing had been
sent to the President. The Attorney General is chairman of the task force, which
includes the secretaries of seven other Cabinet departments.

The panel was to submit its report to the President May 4, but it may require
another week to complete its work. Frank S.M. Hodsoll, a Presidential aide who
is also a member of the task force, said today he doubted that the report would
be made public.

The panel was established by Mr. Reagan on Feb. 27 to review the proposals of
another study group, the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy,
headed by the Rev. Theodore M.  Hesburgh. The work of the select commission
reflected to some extent the policies of President Carter, who had appointed 8
of its 16 members.

The Hesburgh commission recommended a one-time amnesty for most illegal aliens,
an increase in Border Patrol strength along the Mexican border and civil and
criminal penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens in the future.

The boldest step being studied by the Reagan Administration is the interdiction
of Haitian vessels on the high seas, probably in the strait between Haiti and
the Bahamas. The Haitians have been arriving in south Florida at a rate of more
than 1,000 a month since January 1980.

Boats Would Be Searched

Under this proposal, boats would be stopped and searched for evidence of intent
to violate United States immigration laws.  Refugee claims would be adjudicated
aboard a Coast Guard vessel.  Those not eligible to enter the United States
would be returned to Haiti, assuming the Haitian Government would accept its
citizens, as it has in the past.

In a formal opinion for the Attorney General, the Justice Department's Office of
Legal Counsel has said that although there was no precedent for such an
operation the President had the necessary power, arising in part from his
authority in the field of foreign affairs.

However, Justice Department lawyers said the President's hand would be
strengthened if he had an explicit mandate from Congress. The department has
thus prepared a first draft of legislation that would permit Federal authorities
to enforce the immigration laws beyond the territorial limits of the United
States, with respect to aliens coming to this country.

Transportation Department officials have privately expressed reservations about
such an operation, contending that it might divert Coast Guard resources from
drug enforcement, search-and-rescue missions and other activities. The
interdiction program would cost at least $10 million to $15 million a year,
according to Coast Guard estimates.

A Bad Example for Others

In addition, some officials say that if the United States turned away Haitian
''boat people'' it would set a bad example for countries in Southeast Asia. The
United States has repeatedly urged those nations to live up to their obligations
as countries of ''first asylum'' by accepting Indochinese refugees arriving by
boat.

Haitians account for less than 2 percent of all illegal immigration to the
United States, according to Justice Department estimates. The President's task
force has apparently not made firm decisions about how to deal with the other
sources of illegal immigration.

The State Department maintains that the vast majority of the Haitian emigres are
not eligible for asylum because they left their island for economic rather than
political reasons. Haiti is the poorest country in the hemisphere, with a per
capita income of less than $300 a year.

The State Department rejects the contention of most Haitians that they would
face persecution if sent home. Under the Refugee Act of 1980, the legal test for
asylum is whether an alien has a ''wellfounded fear of persecution'' upon return
to the homeland.

Old Practice Is Reconsidered

Another step being studied by the task force is detention of illegal aliens who
arrive in southern Florida. This would resume a practice discontinued in
November 1977. Since then, boat people arriving without visas have been released
into the community and given work permits while awaiting official action on
their asylum claims. Federal officials note that the influx of illegal aliens
has increased substantially since 1977.

The task force directed the Attorney General to make an inventory of sites
available for use as refugee camps or detention facilities.  Justice Department
officials acknowledged that a large-scale effort to detain and deport Haitians
might risk a repetition of Government practices that were condemned by a Federal
judge in July. Judge James Lawrence King of Miami ruled that thousands of
Haitians seeking political asylum had been denied due process of law because of
a selective, discriminatory policy followed by Federal immigration officials in
1978 and 1979. He ordered the Government to reprocess all the asylum claims. The
Government has appealed his decision.

Judge Tells of Persecution

Judge King said in his 179-page opinion that many of the people expelled from
the United States were ''imprisoned and persecuted'' when they were returned to
Haiti.

In a meeting April 15 at the White House, the task force also agreed to
recommend legislation giving the Cubans and Haitians legal status as permanent
residents after they have lived here for two years.

Task force officials said that such legislation was necessary as a practical
matter because most of the Cubans and Haitians had already been resettled. But
they expressed concern that it might encourage further illegal migration and
could be seen as inequitable to other aliens such as the Mexicans, Nicaraguans
and Salvadorans.

48 Refugees Reach Florida

RIVERIA BEACH, Fla., April 27 (AP) - Forty-eight Haitian refugees packed into a
small sailboat arrived today at the Customs Service dock at the Port of Palm
Beach, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 25, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

BILLS IN CONGRESS SEEK SHARP REDUCTION IN IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24


Senator Walter D. Huddleston and several other members of Congress today
introduced a comprehensive bill that would reduce immigration to the United
States and more than double the size of the Border Patrol.

The proposal reflects what appears to be a growing restrictionist sentiment on
Capitol Hill. The bill would require employers to verify that all the people
they hired were either citizens or aliens legally authorized to work in the
country. It would establish civil and criminal penalties for hiring illegal
aliens.

The bill would also require the Government to develop contingency plans to cope
with another heavy influx of aliens like the boatlift that brought 125,000
Cubans into this country last year.

''The immigration policies of this country have virtually gone out of control,''
Senator Huddleston, a Kentucky Democrat, said at a news conference in his
office. ''Fidel Castro and leaders of maybe a dozen other countries really have
more to say about how many people we bring to this country, who they are and
when they come than does the Congress of the United States or even the executive
branch.''

Identical Bill in House

Senators Lawton Chiles, Democrat of Florida, and Thad Cochran, Republican of
Mississippi, were among eight co-sponsors in the Senate. Representative Robin L.
Beard, Republican of Tennessee, introduced an identical bill in the House.

The most significant feature of the bill is a proposal to limit total
immigration to 350,000 aliens a year. Refugees and immediate relatives of
citizens would come under that ceiling, which is substantially lower than the
immigration levels of recent years.

Gross immigration last year exceeded 800,000, and in each of the two preceding
years, it was more than 500,000.  The Huddleston bill appears to refelect some
of the views of key Republican Senators, including Strom Thurmond of South
Carolina and Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming. However, they did not sign the bill as
co-sponsors, presumably because they are waiting for the Reagan Administration
to formulate and announce its immigration policy.

Panel Offers Proposals

Senator Simpson served on a 16-member Federal commission that studied
immigration and refugee policy. The commission recommended a moderate increase
in legal immigration, a secure means of worker identification and penalties for
those who employ illegal aliens.

Senator Simpson endorsed an ''absolute annual ceiling'' on immigration, although
the panel did not favor such rigid limits.  Under the Huddleston proposal, the
President could admit aliens above the established ceiling only by ''borrowing''
from future years.

The bill introduced today would require expansion of the Border Patrol to 6,000
officers and would give them authority to buy the best available equipment.
There are now 2,260 officers, nearly 2,000 of whom are stationed at the Mexican
border, according to a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Senator Huddleston estimated that his proposal for strengthening the Border
Patrol would increase current spending by $200 million a year.

In its proposed budget for the fiscal year 1982, which begins next Oct. 1, the
Reagan Administration requested $363 million for the entire immigration service,
of which the Border Patrol is a part. The request was $21.6 million less than
the Carter Administration had sought. However, Attorney General William French
Smith said earlier this month that the Reagan budget might permit a slight
increase in the strength of the Border Patrol is a part.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

COMPLAINTS OF BIAS ON BORDER CONTROL UNDER INQUIRY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., May 2


Complaints of widespread discrimination among white Border Patrol agents here,
affecting both Hispanic-American patrol officers and illegal aliens, are under
investigation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

A spokesman for the service refused to comment on the investigations, but senior
Border Patrol officers at the Tucson station and its headquarters sector office
say that most of the charges can be disproved by checking time sheets, tapes of
radio conversations and other internal documents.

As a result of the controversy, however, Edward J. Kohn, the object of many of
the bias complaints, was transferred in March from his position as agent in
charge of the Tucson station to a supervisory role at the smaller Douglas
station, 120 miles southeast of Tucson.  To protest the transfer, most of the
Tucson border patrolmen staged a two-day ''sick-out.''

According to formal written complaints and interviews with officers at the
Tucson station, the Hispanic-American agents assert that they have been
discriminated against in assignments, promotions and in job evaluations by their
superiors. Two of them contend they have been ''repeatedly harassed, badgered,
cornered, bullied'' by white agents. One of those agents, and a third, say their
lives have been threatened by fellow officers.

Comments 'All the Time'

''I see and hear racial and racist comments all the time,'' said Victor C.
Ochoa, 34 years old, one of seven Hispanic Americans currently assigned to the
33-agent Tucson sector. Another described a white officer who often bragged of
his antiblack and anti-Mexican feelings while the two were on detail together.

In another incident being investigated by the service's Office of Professional
Responsibility, an agent, John A. Quirindongo, 25, accused a fellow agent,
Marvin Foust, of hitting him with ''a backhanded swing with a closed fist''
while driving an agency vehicle. The incident was dismissed as ''frivolous'' by
local Border Patrol officials, and an assault charge Mr. Quirindongo filed with
the Tucson police was dropped for ''insufficient evidence.''

Hispanic-American agents have also accused other officers of abusive treatment
of aliens who lack legal dolcuments. Cited among the abuses are refusing to give
water to aliens after apprehension in the desert, taking items from aliens for
personal use, and filling vehicles with aliens far beyond capacity. On one
occasion, Mr. Ochoa said, eight Mexicans were crammed into the back seat of a
patrol cruiser so tightly that ''their faces were pressed up against the screen
with the meaty part bulging through. I got chewed out for calling a van,'' he
said.

Humiliation of Central American

In another case a Border Patrol agent allegedly forced an undocumented alien to
stand naked atop a table in the write-up room.  The alien, said to be crying in
humiliation, turned out to be a Central American, who required a formal
deportation hearing. The border patrolman who apprehended him was said to have
made the alien a ''quick Mexican'' and put him on the next busload of Mexicans
to be repatriated on the border at Nogales 60 miles south.

''Until two years ago this office had no trouble of this sort whatsoever,'' Mr.
Kohn said of the complaints recently. ''But this whole thing has brought on
bigotry and hatred.''

According to Ruben Salazar, a Mexican-American agent: ''Allegations of racism
are unfounded here. There is no discrimination in this station.''

The investigation of the Hispanic Americans' charges was spurred by the office
of Senator Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of Arizona, after the agents expressed
dissatisfaction with the results of going through normal channels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

PUTTING IMMIGRATION INTO PROPER FOCUS;
* To the Editor:$


SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 190 words


Your May 27 editorial ''Multiple Choice on Immigration'' calls for swift action
to stop the flow of illegal immigrants across the Mexican border. You indicate
that our Border Patrol doesn't have the men or vehicles to function, and you
predict that new funds will not be forthcoming in this budget-cutting climate.

here is, of course, one simple way to respond to this crisis: use servicemen to
bolster the Border Patrol. One way might be to create several small
basic-training centers along the border and make border patrol part of recruit
training.

This, I suggest, would have many benefits: It would immediately end illegal
immigration across that border; it would not raise taxes; it would demonstrate
to all nations that our Federal laws are enforceable, and it would give many
Americans a feeling that this Administration is, at long last, capable of
responding to the national will and exercising the minimal requirement of
national sovereignty.  WILLIAM MULVIHILL Glen Cove, L.I., May 28, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 10, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SALVADORAN REFUGEES PURSUING NEW LIVES

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 954 words


In the last year and a half, thousands of Salvadorans have settled in the New
York metropolitan area, most of them illegal aliens who consider themselves
political refugees from the violence of their native land.

The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service does not know how many
Salvadorans are in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, but community officials
and church groups estimate that between 24,000 and 70,000 have arrived since
January 1980.

Lydia Savoyka, supervisor of the Immigration Counseling Services of the United
States Catholic Conference, estimates that more than 3,500 Salvadorans arrive in
New York City each month. Others are settling in large numbers in Chicago, Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Miami and Washington.

Caution and Anonymity

Because of their illegal status, most live ''underground'' in Hispanic
communities, burying themselves as domestics or anonymous factory workers. When
asked their names by strangers, many give assumed names and say they are Puerto
Ricans, citizens of the United States.

They make few friends outside their inner circle of relatives. An illegal alien
with a lot of acquaintances, said a 19-year-old former Salvadoran student now
working as a part-time gardener in Stamford, Conn., has a lot of potential
betrayers.

While trying to adapt to life in the United States, their thoughts are with
their homeland. One woman who lives in the Bronx pretends that the clothes she
pleats and presses in a Manhattan garment factory are those of her daughter and
two sons, whom she left with their grandmother in El Salvador.

And Graciela Guadron, a 43-year-old widow living in the Bushwick section of
Brooklyn, cannot help remembering her four-bedroom house in San Salvador, with
its lush gardens and a three-car garage. She and her four children now share two
beds in a rundown tenement apartment with falling plaster in the bathroom and no
sink or showerhead. Their only possessions are the beds and a fake-fur loveseat;
the kitchen table was lent by relatives.

Her husband was shot to death before her eyes 10 months ago in their supermarket
in San Salvador, and the family has moved four times since then, dodging
assailants real and imagined, before obtaining visas six months ago and coming
to New York.

''Sometimes I cannot believe we are safe,'' she said softly. Her 8-year-old
daughter, Cleo, still cannot - she squeezes her eyes shut and dives to the floor
whenever a police or fire siren wails outside or there is a noise from the
apartment overhead.

Such reminders of home are everywhere - on the nightly television news, in the
crinkled photographs of loved ones dead or left behind.  Communications from
home detail each decapitation by machete, dismemberment by hand grenade, the
merciful shot in the dark.  Particularly dreaded are the phone calls - bad news,
the immigrants say, travels faster than good.

A Reminder of Slogans

The part-time gardener in Stamford said he felt ''terror'' when he first saw
graffiti-scarred buildings and subway cars because they reminded him of
political slogans scrawled by leftist guerrillas at home. He was amazed by the
congestion on the streets, the casual strolling, laughing, running.

''You have to be careful on the streets in San Salvador,'' he said. ''You cannot
run, or they will think you are a terrorist and shoot you.''

Salvadorans give three main reasons for emigrating: ''tranquilidad, seguridad,
protecion'' - peace, safety, protection.  ''Nothing is important to me,'' said a
19-year-old former secretarial student who now works in a cookie factory in
Union City, N.J. ''Only my life.''

Between 12,000 and 16,000 Salvadorans have been reported killed in the civil war
since January 1980, and it is the fear that they will be next that has propelled
the new wave of immigrants. Most bypass the neighboring Central American
countries, with their own varieties of political violence, and head straight for
the United States.

Many come by bus, either alone or with the aid of ''coyotes'' who smuggle them
in for $800 to $2,000 a head.  The few with temporary visas - either from an
American consulate or acquired through bribery - can leave El Salvador legally
and dare to bring luggage. The others just lock their front doors one day and
start walking to the nearest bus or border. Some reportedly have walked through
Central America and then crossed into Texas.

Once settled in New York, they live in constant fear of immigration
investigators. In the eight months that ended May 30, a total of 475 illegal
Salvadoran aliens were apprehended in New York City, 171 in New Jersey and fewer
than five in Connecticut.

Thousands have applied in vain for political asylum. The United States Catholic
Conference, for example, has received more than 6,000 such applications for
processing since January from the 100 to 250 Salvadorans who visit its Manhattan
office every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.

None has been granted. In mid-April, the State Department's Bureau of Human
Rights and Humanitarian Affairs advised against blanket amnesty for Salvadorans,
maintaining that the majority are motivated by economic deprivation rather than
the ''well-founded fear of persecution'' that is the legal prerequisite for
political asylum.

While their cases are being individually processed, the Salvadorans are in
limbo. One of them, Jorge Guadron, a 20-year-old former student, was told he
could not attend Hunter College until his case was decided.

''I was a student in my country, and here I am a busboy,'' he said in halting
English. ''My boss says that I am a very good worker. He said: 'God be willing,
you will be a waiter.' But I always wanted to be a professional, an engineer.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Gracieia Guadron photo of Gracieia Gaudron and
her children, william, Jorge, Alejandrina

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 16, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

THE HAITIANS AND WALRUS COURTS

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words


How can America continue to be a haven for refugees fleeing genuine persecution
without also inviting a flood of illegal aliens looking for better jobs?

This refugee quandary beset the Carter Administration; any day now, the Reagan
Administration will disclose its answer. The Cabinet, which has met four times
on this and other immigration questions, is said to be ready to propose several
steps. Some are astounding - like the creation of what sound like kangaroo
courts - and would risk making America an embarrassing spectacle. But there is
also a much more important proposal: to make it harder for illegals to find
jobs. There may yet be hope that the Administration will abandon the ludicrous
and concentrate on the essential.

The law says that people with a well-founded fear of persecution are admissible
as refugees; people seeking economic opportunity who enter without papers are
excludable as illegal aliens. Historically, it has not been hard to distinguish
the two. But recently, the question has come to a much sharper point. Consider
the Haitians.

Some 15,000 a year are pouring into south Florida, fleeing a land of legendary
political oppression. But Haiti's poverty is also legendary. A 23-year-old
tailor who can earn only $35 in a good month needs no other motivation to leave.
But he may also be genuinely afraid of persecution. How should American
authorities determine that? And how can they deter the gate-crashers, those
whose only motivation is economic?

Probably the only fair way to determine refugee status is with individual
hearings. But to some in the Administration, that provides insufficient
deter-rence. No more half-measures like mass hearings, they say. Let's do it
right. First, order the Coast Guard to intercept the Haitians out at sea. To
pacify the queasy, hold a kind of preliminary hearing on board to detect illegal
migrants.  Second, round up the Haitians who make it to shore and put them in
detention camps pending their hearings, even if that takes months. At least that
will take some burden off south Florida.

The interdiction idea sounds impractical. Worse, it invites ridicule and
disgust. (Is the nautical equivalent of a kangaroo court a walrus court?) It may
send some small deterrent message back to Haiti, but it would send another
message resonating around the world: behold America, land of liberty, trying to
persuade Asian countries not to push away the boat people - and look what it's
doing at home.  Detention camps are even more repugnant, especially because a
much more effective solution is at hand. It is called ''employer sanctions.''

The aim of discouraging migrants who come here illegally to work is valid. The
key is work. If job applicants had to prove their legal status, with, say, a
forgery-resistant Social Security card, employers could be made culpable if they
hired illegals. That would obviously make it much harder for illegals to get
jobs - and would quickly broadcast the right message, not just to Haitians but
to potential illegal migrants everywhere.

We don't share the qualms some people have about such cards; the only right it
would obviously diminish is the right to use a forgery. But even those with
qualms should now recognize the alternatives that the refugee quandary has
driven Government to consider. Detention camps. Walrus courts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 1, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

OFFICIALS IN CITY GENERALLY BACK POLICY ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 532 words


New York City officials generally praised yesterday portions of President
Reagan's proposed immigration policy, which would establish a legal status and a
waiting period for full citizenship for many of the city's 750,000 undocumented
aliens.

But they said that they would have to study the proposal further to see if it
addressed the peculiarities of the city's illegal-alien problem.

Groups in the city who aid illegal aliens criticized the proposals as falling
far short of a general amnesty. They predicted that few would accept the
restrictions of the ''second-class status'' that they said was implied by the
five-and 10-year waiting periods for full citizenship for those who would be
registered under the President's plan.

Auxiliary Bishop Anthony J. Bevilacqua of the Diocese of Brooklyn, the director
of the diocese's migration and refugee office, called the restrictions
''unrealistic and inhumane.'' Among other things, he said, they would prevent
aliens from bringing their families to this country during the waiting period.

Union Official Is Critical

''In a country that concerns itself with the sanctity of the family,'' said Jay
Mazur, an official of a Chinatown local of the International Ladies Garment
Workers Union, ''this provides no provision for family reunification.''

Mayor Koch praised the proposed new status for the illegal aliens as an
improvement over their present situation, which he said forces them to live in
an atmosphere of fear and ''underground.'' The proposal would allow them to come
''above ground and pay taxes for the services they receive,'' he said. He
pointed out that many now do not seek needed medical care or send their children
to school for fear of discovery.

Koch Concerned About Costs

The Mayor has said repeatedly that any change in Federal policy that affects the
cost of providing services for the aliens should be accompanied by Federal
financing, to cover the increased cost. Aides said that they would study the
prohibition of welfare, housing, food stamps and unemployment assistance for
those awaiting full citizenship, to determine the effect on the city budget.

''I would hope that if the Federal Government regularizes their status, they
will make it possible for the locality to pay for the services they are entitled
to,'' the Mayor said. ''But if they don't, we will provide the services
anyway.''

Employer groups were also concerned about how the proposals addressed the
''economic realities'' of New York, said Kurt Barnard, executive director of the
Federated Apparel Manufacturers, and about proposed civil fines against
employers hiring illegal immigrants. Mr. Barnard said that the legal admission
of foreigners for jobs would not be advisable in New York, where unemployment is
high. He also said that the provision to fine employers who hired illegal
aliens, and the requirement that employers verify the status of job applicants,
was unworkable ''without a foolproof'' identification system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

13 INDICTED FOR SMUGGLING 4,000 ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 29


Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced today that they
had broken a smuggling operation that they said had transported 4,000 illegal
aliens from Tijuana and Baja California, Mexico.

Brian R. Perryman, who coordinated the undercover operation, said that late
yesterday a Federal grand jury indicted 13 people in the ring, which, he said,
helped aliens cross the border and stop in Southern California before continuing
on to Chicago.

''We found out about the operation and actually had an undercover agent smuggled
from Tijuana to Chicago,'' Mr. Perryman said.  The 13 were charged with
conspiracy to smuggle, transport and harbor about 4,000 illegal aliens into the
United States from Oct. 6, 1976, to Aug. 6, 1981. Federal District Judge Frank
McGarr issued bench warrants and set bonds ranging from $10,000 to $1 million.

Couple Charged as Leaders

The indictment charged Agustin Castillo, 50 years old, of Los Angeles, and his
wife, Carmen Valencia de Castillo, 50, with setting up the operation. The
Castillos were accused of using their daughter, Maria Carmen Castillo de Gudino,
27, and her husband, Nicolas, of Chicago, to coordinate the settling of aliens
in Chicago and the collection of money.

The smugglers charged $550 to transport an adult and $350 to transport a child,
the authorities said.  ''To ensure the aliens' successful illegal entry into the
U.S.,'' Mr. Perryman said, ''the Castillos employed guides in Mexico who would
lead the aliens across the border, take them to safehouses in Oceanside, Calif.,
and then move them through the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton, Calif., by
using Marine Cpl. Santiago Arana, base resident Grace Ochaoa and others to
transport the illegals.''

Checkpoint Avoided

By going through the base, the illegal aliens avoided the immigration checkpoint
at San Clemente, Calif., he said.  ''Once past the checkpoint, they were taken
by other runners to the Castillo residence in Los Angeles,'' he said. ''After
staying there, they would be taken by the Castillos to the Amtrak station and
put on a train bound for Chicago.''

The aliens got off the train at either Joliet or Streator, Ill., where they were
met by members of the ring sent by the Castillos' daughter and son-in-law, Mr.
Perryman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 28, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CONFLICT OVER RIGHTS OF ALIENS LIES AT SUPREME COURT'S DOOR

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 2236 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Veronica Palacios, smiling shyly in her navy blue dress, reading softly from her
third-grade social studies book, is 8 years old.

She is also an illegal alien. For this reason the state of Texas wants to deny
her a free public education.  It has asked the Supreme Court to uphold its
constitutional power to do so in a case that affects more than 11,000
''undocumented'' foreign-born children in Texas and raises some of the most
difficult constitutional, political and moral issues the Justices will face in
the term beginning next week.

A Conflict of Interests

Underlying the case is a growing conflict between the interests of
Mexican-Americans and other recent immigrant groups that have already gained a
foothold and their countrymen who are flooding in illegally behind them,
competing for scarce public benefits and straining the nation's willingness to
live up to its ideal of equal opportunity for all.

Lawyers working on the case in the Supreme Court expect that its outcome will be
close, so close that it might depend on the vote of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor,
who was just sworn in.

Sitting in her family's living room in Houston, Veronica said that she wanted
''to learn'' and liked school ''very much.'' But she recalled that when she was
very little, she couldn't go to school. '' ''I didn't undertstand why,'' she
said.

It was explained to her that the peop le in charge in Texas do not want to pay f
or her to go to school because she was born in Mexico and brought a cross the
border without immigration papers by her mother, unlik e her 13-year-old
stepsister, Sylvia Garza, who was bornin the United States and is a citizen.

A hint of amusement at such a distinction dances in Veronica's dark eyes.
''That's dumb,'' she said.  Three lower Federal courts arrived at the same
conclusion, somewhat less succinctly.

1975 Law Struck Down

They struck down as unconstitutional discrimination a 1975 Texas law that would
effectively bar almost all illegal aliens from public school by denying state
funds for their education and authorizing local school districts to exclude them
or charge them tuition. No other state has such a law.

Federal District Judges William Wayne Justice of Tyler and Woodrow Seals of
Houston found in separate decisions that the law would condemn thousands of
children to live in a perma nent underclass of illiteracy, poverty and
exploitation without significantly deterring illegal immigration or easing
educational bur dens enough to justify such results.

Most illegal alien children in Texas will become permanent residents of the
United States, and without education many of them would become ''wards of
society'' at ''an enormous public cost, both financial and social,'' Judge Seals
found in July 1980 after a long trial of 17 consolidated lawsuits.

Judge Seals and the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit agreed
with the Carter Administration's argument (recently abandoned by the Reagan
Administration) that the Texas law was tainted by racism and designed to ''harm
a vulnerable and unpopular group in an irrational, invidious manner.''

But it does not look that simple to Raul A. Besteiro, superintendent of schools
in Brownsville, Tex., on the Rio Grande, or to Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. of
the Supreme Court.

Brownsville is where the United States looks across a shallow river at the
encroaching misery of the third world.

Millions Have Already Crossed

Millions of Mexicans have already crossed illegally to escape poverty,
unemployment and explosive population growth. Millions more yearn to.

Lawyers for Mr. Besteiro's school district and four others along the Mexican
border have asked the Supreme Court to uphold the Texas law. ''Down in the
trenches,'' they wrote, ''one must face and prepare for the awesome effects on
this side of the Rio Grande of a demographic disaster next door.''

Mr. Besteiro says the taxpayers in Brownsville, ''who are mainly
Mexican-American'' and mainly poor or near poor, don't want to pay to build
schools for the illegal newcomers.

''Why should people be able to come across the border with no papers, totally
illegal, and register for school?'' he asked.  ''I was born and raised here in
Brownsville,'' Mr. Besteiro said.  ''I am a Mexican-American and I'm proud of
it. But I've always considered myself an American.

''I have an overcrowded school district because of people coming in from Mexico.
They're looking for a better life. You can't blame them for trying.

''We have no animosity towards these people but they are diluting what we
have.'' More than 90 percent of the 28,850 students in Brownsville's public
schools are of Mexican descent, and close to 900 illegal aliens enrolled in
Brownsville last year after Justice Powell ordered the state to comply with the
lower court decisions while appealing them.  This ruling suspended enforcement
of the 1975 law, which had kept Veronica Palacios and almost all other illegal
alien children out.

In issuing his ruling last September, Justice Powell said that it would be
''difficult'' to predict whether a majority of the Court would eventually decide
the law to be unconstitutional.

He noted that illegal immigration presented a ''pressing'' national problem and
that the Court had never squarely decided the central legal issues on which the
case turns. Those Justice Powell identified as whether illegal aliens may invoke
the 14th Amendment guarantee of ''equal protection of the laws'' and whether
there is any ''fundamental right under the Constitution to minimal education.''

Court Must Decide the Issue

The Supreme Court does not have the luxury of saying, as the Justice Department
said in a brief earlier this month, that it need not take sides in the case
because it has no legal ''interest'' in the resolution of what many lawyers con
sider one of the more significant c ivil rights issues to come before the Court
in recent years.

The department's abandonment of the Carter Administration's position that the
law was unconstitutional came after extensive discussions between Attorney
General William French Smith and Texas's Republican Governor, William P.
Clements Jr.

The Justices must choose sides between Governor Clements and Victoria Palacios.
They must clarify the legal rights of illegal aliens at a time when the elected
branches of government are groping for political solutions and when estimates of
the number of illegal aliens range above 10 million. The number is so large
because the length of the border, the flow of aliens and the scant resources
dedicated to the effort to keep them out mean that the laws are little enforced.
No Federal law makes it unlawful to hire an illegal alien.
14th Amendment Protects Them

It is clear that illegal aliens have some legal rights. The Supreme Court has
repeatedly ruled, for example, that they are protected by the provision of the
14th Amendment that bars states from depriving ''any person of life, liberty or
property, wi thout due process of law.'' That provision entitles illegal aliens
to fair procedures in criminal, deportation and other legal proceed ings.

But they are excluded from participation in Federal benefit programs including
food stamps, welfare, unemployment compensation, medicaid and medicare, even
though they pay Social Security, income taxes and state taxes.

The Supreme Court has upheld the power of Congress to deny such public benefits
to illegal aliens. Texas has urged the Court to allow the states to do the same
and to rule that illegal aliens are not covered by the 14th Amendment's
provision that no state may ''deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws.''

''The grant of equal protection rights to illegal aliens would ignore the
significance of our national borders and reward persons for violating the
Federal law,'' Attorney General Mark White said in the state's brief. He also
said such a ruling would be a ''judicial intrusion'' into political matters.

They Foresee Other Claims

Conservative legal groups also argue that such a ruling might open the door to
legal claims by illegal aliens for social benefits.  The state also argues that
even if illegal aliens are covered by the equal protection clause, it has
sufficient justification to support the constitutionality of its law.
''Reservation of the state's resources for the education of its lawful residents
and the elimination of an inducement for illegal immigration are sufficient
basis for the statute,'' Mr. White's brief argued.

He said the ''influx'' of illegal aliens had ''seriously affected the quality of
education,'' overcrowding classrooms and disrupting bilingual education
programs. He cited evidence that it costs more to educate Spanish-speaking
illegal aliens than American-born children.

Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr. of the appeals court, the author of many pioneering
civil rights decisions, was unimpressed.  In striking down the Texas law last
October, he accepted Judge Justice's conclusions that ''excluding undocumented
children from public schools would not necessarily improve the quality of
education'' and would be ''an ineffectual means'' of discouraging illegal
immigrants because most come looking for work and do not bring children.

He also noted testimony that ''the plight of an uneducated, illegal alien
approaches a state of serfdom'' and stressed that Texas had made no effort to
discourage illegal immigration by prohibiting employers from taking advantage of
the cheap labor supply that it provides.

Part of 'Invidious' Discrimination

The Carter Administration had argued that the Texas law should be viewed as part
of ''the history of invidious discrimination against Mexican-Americans which has
occurred both in Texas and throughout the Southwestern United States.''

One Houston oilman, explaining his own doubts about educating illegal aliens,
said that those who came to work ''agree to be exploited for a price they're
willing to accept.'' But he said he feared that educating them would be a step
toward letting them vote and that they would vote ''Democratic and Mexican'' and
eventually pose a threat to him and his friends.

Federico Albavara of Houston is one of the millions of men who came from Mexico
eager to work for wages most Americans would not accept.  Unlike most of them,
he later sent for his wife, Tomasita, and the seven children. They are crammed
into a ramshackle three-bedroom house.

All nine Albavaras are illegal aliens. The two oldest child ren havegraduated
fro m high school and hope to go to college, despite a halting comma nd of
English. The five youngest were not allowed to attend public school before the
Texas law.

They are poor for Houston but much better off than they were in Mexico, proud of
19-year-old Delia's educational accomplishments. Mr. Albavara, who speaks no
English, holds two jobs cleaning offices and apartments. So does his oldest son,
Ricardo. The three teenage boys also work, and 10-year-old Hector helps his
older brothers with their paper route.

Isaias Torres, attorney for the Albavaras as well as Veronica Palacios's family,
said that both families were willing let their names be used because they felt
that any effort to deport them thereafter would evoke a community outcry.

Mr. Albavara said in Spanish that he wanted his children to go to school ''so
they can have better jobs, so they can live better.'' He said, ''We work and we
pay taxes and they should be able to go to school.'' He said he could not
support his family in Mexico and did nothing wrong by coming to Houston to work.

Georg e H. Hanna, principal of Houston's DeZ avala Elementary School,where 99
percent of the students are of Mexic an descent and 20 percent are illegal
aliens, says he thinks th ey should all be able togo to school.

''These people have a tremendous drive for education,'' he said.  ''For us
they're tremendously supportive. This is their land of opportunity.''

The state does not deny this in its Supreme Court brief. Rather, it quotes
testimony that the days in which this country could live up to the promise the
Statue of Liberty held out for the tired, the poor and the huddled masses
yearning to breathe free ''are finished.''

''That's over with,'' the witness quoted by the state says. ''We have arrived at
a point in American history where we can no longer sustain that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of children in Houston (Page A17)

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 30, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN ORDERS ALIENS STOPPED ON THE HIGH SEA

BYLINE: By United Press International

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29


President Reagan issued an executive order today directing the Coast Guard for
the first time to intercept and turn around ships on the high seas that are
suspected of carrying illegal immigrants.

Although the order did not name any country, officials indicated that it was
aimed at Haitians.  ''It's an agreement worked out with Haiti and the U.S.,'' a
White House spokesman said, explaining that the Coast Guard could previously
challenge vessels suspected of carrying illegal aliens only after they entered
United States territorial waters, not on the high seas.

Not Aimed at Cubans

A spokesman in the office of Senator Paula Hawkins, Republican of Florida, said
the measure ''is aimed at the Haitians'' because ''Cubans aren't coming in.''

The President said in the White House proclamation: ''The entry of undocumented
aliens from the high seas is hereby suspended and shall be prevented by the
interdiction of certain vessels carrying such aliens.''

A Justice Department spokesman said the new Coast Guard authority included
permission to fire weapons if a Haitian vessel did not respond to a call to halt
for inspection. But a spokesman, Thomas Stewart, said it was doubtful the
weapons would be needed.

A White House official said no ''refugees'' fleeing political persecution in
their homelands would be turned back on the high seas. The Coast Guard is
directed by the President's order to ask the Haitians whether they are political
refugees and examine any documents they may have.

Details to Come Later

A State Department spokesman was unable to identify what type of document a
refugee could give the Coast Guard to establish that he was fleeing the country
for political reasons. He said a news briefing was scheduled tomorrow to explain
details of the order.

The Presidential proclamation said that the orders had been released ''in
accordance with cooperative arrangements with certain foreign governments.'' It
said that the Government was issuing the order after finding that ''the entry of
undocumented aliens arriving at the borders of the United States from the high
seas is detrimental to the interests of the United States.''

White House and Justice Department officials have been negotiating for months
with the Haitian Government to curb the flow of illegal immigrants into Florida.

Mr. Stewart said at the Justice Department hearing that one Coast Guard cutter
would be stationed near Haiti at all times. Two Immigration officers will be on
board, along with two interpreters who can speak the Haitian Creole dialect.
Most Said to Want Jobs

''We have discovered by talking to thousands of Haitians that they are very
frank in saying they want to come to the U.S. to get a job,'' Mr. Stewart said.
''It's a very rare one who says he's coming because he wants to escape the
Government of Haiti.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation in Summary;
Watch at Sea For Haitians

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron and Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 6; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 220 words


The Bahamas channel is the sea lane sailed by most of the 60,000 Haitians who
since 1972 have fled the Western Hemisphere's poorest country for the American
dream. Starting this week, the Reagan Administration announced, more than
tropical storms or the refugees' leaky boats will turn the voyage perilous.

Under an exchange of notes with the Government of Jean-Claude (Baby Doc)
Duvalier, an American Coast Guard cutter, and later possibly more than one, will
patrol the waters off the island's northwest corner. Its assignment to is to
intercept and turn back ships suspected of carrying illegal immigrants - 1,000
to 1,500 of whom are still coming to the shores of Florida each month, and most
of whom are now held in American detention centers awaiting deportation
proceedings.

What makes almost all these immigrants illegal is that, by Washington's
definition, they are fleeing economic conditions, not political repression.
According to the White House, the Coast Guard is directed to ask the Haitians
whether they are political refugees; if they are, they won't be turned back.
Under the protocol, Haitian naval officers will ride the Coast Guard cutters;
whether they will be present during the interviews of the refugees is not clear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitian refugees arriving in Florida

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 5, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FOR HAITIANS: LITTLE CHOICE;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By REGINALD STUART, Speci al to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

DATELINE: PORT


AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 1 - It was damned if you do, damned if you don't. The
veiled ultimatum put to Haiti was: Stop the illegal migration of Haitians to
America or risk further economic distress by being bypassed by

American companies in search of places in the Caribbean to build factories or
grow crops where there is cheap nonunion labor. That was the crux of what
American officials said to the Government of Haiti and the pressure led this
week to an agreement to work together to halt the flow of Haitians seeking a
higher standard of living.

Gov. Bob Graham of Florida, whose state has become the haven in recent months
for most Haitians leaving their country illegally, repeatedly brandished the
economic stick in a two-day visit here that ended today. While here, he and his
party met with Jean-Claude Duvalier, President for life of this tiny Caribbean
nation of blacks.

In their meetings yesterday, which President Duvalier characterized as
''extremely positive,'' the Americans offered nothing solid beyond a commitment
by Governor Graham to send a trade mission here to explore what can be done to
help stimulate the sick economy, with particular attention to agriculture, which
employs 79 percent of all Haitians and is one of the strongest industries in
Florida.

Economic Problems

Governor Graham is a moderate Democrat who insists that Haitians are leaving
their country solely for economic reasons, a point with whic h not everyone
agrees. The Governor says much can be done throughthe private sector to help
Haiti; Republicans are pushing that platform hard these days in the United
States .

Haiti is an impoverished nation whose economy has long been heavily influenced
by the United States. About 70 percent of all exports are sold to the United
States and nearly 53 percent of all imports come from the United States,
according to American Government studies. There are many here who earn little
more than a dollar a day, if that much, and Government statistics put per capita
income at less than $200 a year. The nation of 5.74 million people is the oldest
republic in the Western Hemisphere after the United States but it is estimated
that less than 20 percent of the people are literate.

Governor Graham told President Duvalier that one way Haitian officials could
revive the confidence of the American investor would be ''to demonstrate that
Haiti is a law-abiding country.''

President Duvalier may be in the corner now, but the promises that Governor
Graham made, and, to a lesser extent, those made by the American Ambassador,
Ernest H. Preeg, make it likely that they be the next to be cornered.

Governor Graham may have begun to stop the expenditure of state dollars to care
for illegal Haitian refugees. But he has assumed a leadership role in a
difficult task, that of delivering the economic stimulus to the Haitian people
that other well-intentioned outsiders have been unable to muster in decades of
effort.

Wait-and-See Attitude

And Haitians who heard of his promises through the press and on the streets are
eager to see the results.  Through his chairmanship of Caribbean Central
American Action, a group focusing on this region, Governor Graham promises the
same kind of attention for a well-behaved Haiti that has been afforded such
places as Jamaica and Puerto Rico, where business projects have been
successfully begun.

At the American Embassy here, officials working in the financially pressed
Agency for International Development, welcome Governor Graham's approach, noting
that it complements the Reagan outline for dealing with Haiti in the future. Mr.
Reagan has frowned upon the idea of keeping the agency strong financially and
the Graham step may emerge as a blessing.

The activity around these developments will step up in a few days.  Patrolling
of the high seas by the Coast Guard in search of fleeing Haitians is to begin.
And the Florida trade mission is to arrive by November.

Possible Impact on Haitians

But it could be months before these developments have any effect upon the
thinking of Haitians who have had enough of poverty, unemployment and living
conditions that most Americans would find intolerable.

These Haitians will determine whether the long-desired and nowpromised changes
will be enough to keep them at home or whether fleeing at the risk of their
lives is preferable.

If unimpressed, they may continue to test the American principle that those who
seek a better life may look to America as a place to settle and work.

Despite American officials' assertion, migration of Haitians will not be purely
for economic reasons. When one asks Haitians to assess the new relationship
between the two Governments, one hears apologetic explanations about the risk of
even discussing such things. To Haitians, there is no line between economics and
politics. Governor Graham will need to learn that as he seeks to help their
nation to protect his own state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 10, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

VESSEL BEGINS VIGIL FOR ALIENS TODAY ,

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 9


The Coast Guard cutter Hamilton tomorrow will begin intercepting boats suspected
of transporting il legal aliens, officials here announced today.

The patrol will put into effect a new policy of the Reagan Administration to
stem the flow of refugees, principally those fleeing the impoverished Caribbean
nation of Haiti, who enter the United States by boat.

Petty Officer Dan Walbschmidt, a Coast Guard spokesman, said the Hamilton was
sailing today from the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince to refuel at the United
States Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. She is to begin its patrol tomorrow
afternoon.

Mr. Walbschmidt said the timetable for the Hamilton's patrol was announced after
Coast Guard and United States Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
met with representatives of the Haitian Government.

The Administration's policy, announced Sept. 29, has been criticized as racist
by leaders of Miami's Haitian refugee community, who have said the policy is
intended to exclude the Caribbean refugees because they are black.

The Hamilton has been ordered to move to a patrol position in the Windward
Passage between Haiti and Cuba and to stop and board boats suspected of
transporting illegal aliens, Mr. Walbschmidt said.
Plan to Board Vessels

A boarding party from the cutter will question the people on board, determine
where they are going and, if they do not have visas to enter the United States,
tell them to return to their homeland.

The United States Justice Department has said that those refugees who persuade
immigration officials that they are fleeing persecution will be taken to Miami
for a formal political asylum hearing.

Mr. Walbschmidt said the cutter was equipped with various weapons but it was
unlikely they would have to be used. Only four vessels have been fired at by the
Coast Guard since 1973, he said, and ''no one was injured.''

The Boston-based, 378-foot cutter will be accompanied on the interdiction patrol
by a search plane and two helicopters. A doctor will be aboard the vessel, along
with two immigration officials and two interpreters who speak Haitian Creole,
the language of almost all the estimated 50,000 Haitians who have landed on
Florida shores since 1970.

Meanwhile, Richard Gullage, deputy district director of the immigration service,
said only 21 Haitians arrived in South Florida this week. He said the new
arrivals landed Wednesday. Mr. Gullage said there were 1,100 refugees, mostly
Haitians, at a processing center west of Miami.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 24, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Letter: On Illegal Immigrants;
The Threat of Alien Entitlements

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words


To the Editor:

In your Oct. 13 editorial advocating ''The Education of Alien Children,'' you
present the issue before the Supreme Court as though it were whether the State
of Texas can afford to provide free public education to illegal aliens.
Unfortunately, the import of the case is much more far-reaching than that.

New York State and City, for example, currently forbid illegal immigrants from
receiving a number of public benefits and from participating in several public
welfare programs. If the arguments of the appellees are accepted by the Supreme
Court, Federal courts could require the state and city to provide illegal
immigrants with every benefit and welfare program given to citizens. Illegal
aliens could be entitled to food stamps, public housing, free higher education,
employ-ment (and unemployment compensation), the right to keep and bear arms,
drivers' licenses - and a host of other rights and programs.

Any distinction made by a state or city between citizens and foreigners
illegally in the United States could be considered unconstitutional
discrimination. As one amicus brief in the case states, ''Since the statutory
classification of undocumented aliens will inevitably burden racial and ethnic
minorities, it should be subjected to heightened judicial scrutiny ....''

In other words, the whole line of court decisions and laws which protect
American minorities against discrimination in public programs should guarantee
American benefits to anyone in the world who reaches our shores.

It is hard to believe that The Times would support such a conclusion. As the
Federation for American Immi-gration Reform said in its brief supporting the
State of Texas, ''No one wishes to deny these claimants an education for their
children. But lines must be drawn to secure respect for the law, because
otherwise the opportunity for the country to respond effectively to (illegal
immigrants) can be critically handicapped at precisely the moment when national
leadership needs the flexibility to fashion policies appropriate to the times
... At stake in this case is the power of the United States to control
immigration and therefore its borders, and, in a larger sense, its future. A
decision which would at once dilute this power and encourage lawless behavior is
at odds with the fundamental character of our government.'' ROGER CONNER
Executive Director, Federation for American Immigration Reform Washington, Oct.
15, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 16, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Reagan Aid Defends Detention of Hatians

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 228 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15


Attorney General William French Smith today defended the Reagan Administration's
detention of Haitian refugees, saying: ''Anytime a Haitian being detained wants
to walk out the front door, he can do it. As a matter of fact, we'd welcome it,
as long as he wants to go home.''

The Attorney General told a news conference that the policy of detaining
Haitians refugees of stationing a Coast Guard cutter off the Haitian coast to
turn back other would-be refugees was ''working remarkably well.''

He said that 47 Haitians were caught entering the country last month, as opposed
to 1,021 in November 1980.  The Attorney General also disputed critics who have
charged that the Administration was singling out Haitians for exclusion because
they are black.

''We're treating them exactly as we're treating illegal immigrants everywhere
else,'' Mr. Smith said ''It's often overlooked that on the southwest border, we
detain illegals and always have.''

The Attorney General said that the Administration refused to consider Haitians
as political refugees ''except in very rare cases.''

He also rejected criticism of conditions in the centers where some 2,700
Haitians are being kept while their attorneys try to persuade judges to treat
them as political refugees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 18, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

A Haitian Freeze

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 406 words


A Christmas plum to Attorney General William French Smith. His Justice
Department has not abandoned the idea of sending illegal immigrants who have
fled Haiti to detention at icy Fort Drum, N.Y.  But now it says it won't do so,
at least not during the dead of winter.

To hold poor, desperate people from the tropics in a camp near the Canadian
border, where the temperature yesterday morning was 12 degrees, would be
callous. ''Siberia,'' some people say. So we're all for Mr. Smith's conclusion,
even though we don't exactly follow his logic.

The Attorney General observes that 1,021 illegal Haitian migrants were caught
entering the country in November 1980, while in November of this year the number
was only 47. That, he says, shows that the Administration's policy of
intercepting and detaining Haitians is ''working remarkably well.'' And it means
existing detention camps in Florida and elsewhere can handle all the Haitian
illegals; the Fort Drum plan can be deferred.

But the numbers can also be read another way -not as a sign that the fear of
freezing deters migration but that illegal Haitian entrants are struggling much
harder to avoid capture. If they were caught in November 1980, nothing awful
happened. They were allowed to stay, even work, pending a hearing on whether
they were legitimately entitled to refugee status. Now everyone who is caught is
put in a detention camp.

There is another set of relevant new numbers. They show that in fiscal 1981 503
Haitians applied for asylum, as refugees. Compare that with 36,296 Cubans, 7,138
Iranians, 4,111 Nicaraguans, 1,670 Poles, 992 Ethiopians. All told, 63,202
foreigners asked for asylum.

Why make such a fuss over only a few hundred black Haitians, especially when
doing so is sure to engender accusations of racism?  There are two answers. One
is technical: most of the Haitians got here illegally and, when caught, are
detained for fear of encouraging more illegals. Most of the asylum applicants
from other countries came in legally, as students or visitors, but overstayed.
That is a lesser transgression than sneaking in; they need not be detained.

Pending remedial action by Congress, there is another, less technical answer:
make less of a fuss over the Haitians. The interim decision on Fort Drum is a
welcome step in that direction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

DO ALIENS FILL NEED OR CROWD JOD FIELD;
DALLAS

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section 12; Special Section Page 45; Page 45, Column 1; Carreers
Supplement Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words


WHEN 29-year old Dock Green lost his job on the management-training squad at a
fried-chicken franchise here, the first telephone call he made was to the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''I realized I was in trouble right from the start when I saw that I was the
only one there who spoke English. Everyone else spoke only Spanish,'' Mr. Green
said. ''I kept complaining to my boss that all these people were illegal aliens,
and he didn't want to do anything about it.

''I have nothing against those people, but every day we had people coming in
asking about jobs, and it's a pitiful shame to have people who are born and
raised here be out of work, and have these illegal aliens taking their job. To
me, the law means what it says, and if those people are illegal, then the law
should be obeyed.''

Mr. Green is not alone in his frustration. Illegal aliens are playing an
increasingly visible role in the job market, a role subjected to rising
criticism at a time of relatively high unemployment of Americans.

But Hispanic leaders and many academics insist the impact of those workers is
essentially benign. They say Mexican workers who cross the 1,300-mile border
into the United States do the menial jobs Americans don't want, are essential
for the harvesting of crops, and use very few municipal services while filling
the lowest niches in the job market.

Ruben Bonilla, president of the 100,000-member League of United Latin-American
Citizens, said undocumented workers, in addition to playing a positive role in
the economy, actually increase tax revenues by paying for Social Security
service they seldom use. He said any crackdown on Mexican immigration would have
a much more harmful effect than any displacement of Americans from available
jobs that goes on now.

''If we close the border, I feel that Mexico would literally burst at the
seams,'' he said. ''When you look at Mexico's 30 percent inflation and crippling
unemployment, it's clear these people have nowhere else to go. If they couldn't
leave, I think social conditions in Mexico could become so bad there would be
the loss of the democratic republic in Mexico as we know it. I don't think
America would want a Socialist or Communistic nation any closer than Cuba.''

Most experts would agree with Mr. Bonilla that Mexicans and other aliens fill
manual tasks that are the least desirable in the job market. But many of those
same experts also would agree with Mr.  Green that there is no shortage of
Americans competing for many of those jobs.

Proposals to deal with the flood of illegal aliens in the job market have ranged
from tighter border patrols, to sanctions against employers who hire illegal
aliens, to temporary work visas that would allow a limited number of aliens to
work here legally. Even those calling for one policy or another concede there is
no way to be sure how many illegal aliens are in the work force or what their
effects have been.

''I don't have any hard data and I don't know anyone who does,'' said Dr. Vernon
Briggs, a labor economist at Cornell University, who has studied illegal
immigration since the mid-1960's. ''But it can't be in the best interests of
this country to have a whole population of people who are without rights, people
who can't vote, people who have to live in constant fear of detection. It's
becoming a problem we can't ignore any longer even if we wanted to.''

Estimates on the number of illegal aliens vary from 6 million to 12 million, but
despite the lack of hard figures, some trends are clear. The vast majority live
and work in three states, California, Texas and Florida, and two cities, New
York and Chicago. Most of them come here for one reason: to work.

Most illegal aliens work in agriculture, restaurants, or hotels.  Mexico, which
sends an estimated 500,000 illegal aliens into this country every year, is the
biggest source. Other aliens come from Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Hong
Kong, the Philippines and dozens of other nations, but experts estimate 60
percent of illegal aliens in the country are Mexican.

Dr. Briggs, who became interested in illegal aliens after trying to help
organize farm workers in south Texas in the 1960's, said his research shows
illegal aliens compete with Americans for jobs in all industries in which they
are represented, at the same time depressing wages and blunting moves toward
unionization or improvement of working conditions.

''The studies that have been done show the employment patterns of illegal aliens
in the Southwest are very similar to those of other Chicanos in terms of
geography and occupation. We've built this whole phantom labor source into the
labor market and someone must show what they do if not compete with the
available labor force.''

One matter that is not in question is the conditions under which illegal aliens
live. Francisco Barba, a San Francisco lawyer who has defended hundreds of
illegal aliens, told the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, a
group created almost two years ago to study immigration policies, that
''immigration labor today is America's neo-slavery institution.'' Federal
investigators in recent years have documented hundreds of cases of abuse of
illegal aliens. A Federal Department of Labor strike force investigating
treatment of illegal aliens in Houston, Dallas and Fort Worth this year
uncovered $1.2 million in underpayments owed 4,470 employees, most of them
illegal Mexican aliens. Officials said the investigation involved only a tiny
percentage of illegal aliens in the area.

In 1977, President Carter asked Congress to pass legislation allowing the
Government to fine employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. The legislation,
and others like it, was rejected, but another bill calling for employer
sanctions is pending before the Senate Judiciary Committee and may be considered
by the entire Senate later this year.

Supporters say sanctions are the most effective way to keep aliens out of the
labor market. Some opponents say sanctions would make employers do the job of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  Others say aliens are essential in
some industries -primarily farm work - where there is not an adequate supply of
Americans who will do the work. And Hispanic leaders say sanctions would prompt
employers to discriminate against all Hispanics.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Peter Applebome contributes regularly to The Times from Dallas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo Photo

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 1, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

FLASH FIRES OF RUMOR KEEP HAITIAN CAMP ON EDGE

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 31


A snake, sometimes merely a searing bite from a deer fly, can spark a stampede
in a cattle holding pen. Something unfamiliar brought into a henhouse - a pipe
elbow or a hank of rope are enough to do the trick - will spook chickens into
riot. The flashpoint is even lower at a detention facility for illegal aliens
here: a rumor is enough to drive people wild.

The Krome Avenue Detention Facility, named for the nearest thoroughfare, which
years and years ago was named for a nearby farmer, has no more amenities than a
place for cows or domestic fowl. Its administrators, the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service, are not proud of it. Seeking shelter as
well as a place for processing the waves of Cubans that hit here in 1980, the
Federal authorities settled on Krome, a closed missile base on the eastern edge
of the Everglades. It was to be a temporary expedient.

It is still in use. The Cuban crush diminished, but the flood of Haitian
refugees continued well into this year. Krome, a hangar an d atent holding camp
with an ''emergency'' capacity of 859 people, by midsummer was housing 1,500. To
relieve the overcrowding, the service was ' 'sponsoring out'' 50 Haitians a day
to relatives or volunteer org anizations. Miami, inundated by 125,000 Cubans the
year before, seein g approaching Haitian boats on the seascape every day,
screamed to t he Federal Government for relief.
'In a Detention Posture'

The resulting threat of Coast Guard interdiction on the high seas, the threat of
a permanent detention facility somewhere in the coldest part of this country and
the end of ''sponsoring out'' have stopped the tide of Haitians. As the year
ends, the naturalization service is in what it calls a ''detention posture.''
And a Haitian named Milus, the father of 10 children, is in his seventh month at
Krome.

''We get up and we eat,'' he said through a translator the other day. ''Then
they put us in the yard. The sun boils us. At midday they send us to eat again.
Then after we eat they send us inside. Then we lay on our beds. I have a Bible
but I cannot read. Some words I understand.''

Milus continued: ''I hold it and I look at it and sometimes I find a little word
that I understand and it stops me from going mad. There is a policeman at the
door and you cannot go out. You have no freedom. Later you can go out and if you
can find some water you can bathe. When I was in Haiti I thought I could work
much more here and support my children. Everywhere in Haiti they speak of
Miami.''

'I Will Carry Your Garbage'

Finally: ''If they would release me, even if there is no work outside, I will
find work. In Haiti you put your head upset down trying to find ways to get
money for your family. Can I clean your car? I will carry your garbage.
Anything.''

Milus (the naturalization service will not permit the use of the detainees' full
names) is one of 650 men still being held at Krome while civil liberties groups'
suits for Haitian rights inch their way through the courts. There are 50 Haitian
women now at the camp. Some detainees have been there as long as 10 months. One
of these, Lucian, believes that rumors drive the people madder than the long
days without a thing to do.

''All the time there are rumors in the yard,'' Lucian said. ''All the time. I
warn the people they talk too much. They listen to stupidities. They have crazy
things they say. People are losing their minds. Prison does that. It makes them
think and say crazy things. It is so crazy you cannot remember. You cannot hold
on to crazy things said to you.''

Start of Hunger Strike

False word of the death of a detainee can burn through the camp like a dynamite
fuse. It happened Nov. 6, putting Krome on edge for days. When someone falls ill
the suspicion is nearly always that he was poisoned. Anyone transferred is
always transferred to a hell much worse than Krome. On Christmas Eve, according
to the detainees, the message with no known origin was, ''Don't eat and they'll
let you out.''

A hunger strike began. On Sunday, 300 demonstrators f rom Miami's Haitian
community, having heard the detainees were fainting from hunger -and this, too,
a rumor - stormed the gate at Krome. Stones and bottles were thrown at guards.
The guards retaliated with tear gas. The demonstrators set small fires in the
sawgrass outside the camp. In the bald yard inside, 150 Haitian me n made a
break. Lucian says it was because the people in the yard sa w the smoke, heard
the commotion and bolted.

They scaled the 10-foot chain link fence at the back of the yard, grabbing the
strands of barbed wire on top and leaving behind little shreds of flesh.

Milus said the guards rushed back to stop the escapes with tear gas. ''A lot of
them were afraid because they had never been gassed before,'' he said, adding
that he had been through disturbances and tear gas at Krome before. ''The gas is
terrible because our eyes burn and our mouths burn and we can't breathe.''

''They don't have gas on La Gonave,'' he said, referring to the island in the
bay of Port-au-Prince from whence he came.
He Believes They Are in Montana

Milus said the gas stopped him from making it over the fence. A hundred men made
it. Milus does not know that. He and the others in the yard think they were
caught outside and taken to a prison in Montana, where they are freezing today.
(For a time, the service considered establishing a detention facility in
Glasgow, Montana, but the idea was abandoned.)

The Haitian said everyone was locked inside Sunday night. He said that on Monday
the immigration officials told them to stop the hunger strike and there would
not be any trouble. So they started eating, he said, giving an esentially
accurate account.

Now they are all back standing in the bright sun. A man named Escanej is telli
ng the latest story. He borrowed $800 from a money lender named Samson in
Port-au-Prince to pay for having himself smuggled to M iami on a plane. He was
supposed to pay it back at $300 a month for a year, such was the interest. But
he was picked up immediately, and has not made a single payment to his cousin,
who wassupposed to t urn the payments over to Samson. His cousin, the father of
six childr en, has since been found beaten to death in a cemetery. Tongues cluck
, and the story flies across the monotonous morning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photos of Haitian refugees

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 19, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

2 EXILE COMMUNITIES PROTEST IN MIAMI

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 18


Protest has at times seemed the lifeblood of Miami's Latin community, which now
makes up 58 percent of the city's population, but until this weekend no protest
had been marked by violence, nor, according to participants in a Saturday night
demonstration, had there been such a sense of personal loss.

About 3,000 Cubans turned out to protest the deportation of a Cuban stowaway
last week, the first time in the years of local Cuban gains that the United
States has shipped a Cuban refugee to Havana.  At the same time, another
volatile and growing ethnic presence in Miami, the 20,000-strong Haitian
community, was on the streets because it, too, had suffered a loss: A tiny,
locally launched attempt to overthrow the Haitian Government had failed
miserably, and most of its participants were under Federal arrest.

Failed to Prove His Case

In the Cuban case, the State Department found last week that Andres Rodriguez
Hernandez, a 20-year-old Cuban discovered aboard a Panamanian freighter in
Miami, had failed to prove a ''well-founded fear of persecution,'' the criterion
under which political asylum is granted or denied under present immigration
policy. Mr. Hernandez was deported to Havana Friday. He was the first Cuban sent
back since Fidel Castro took power in 1959.

The deportation had two effects locally. It defused a legal argument by Haitian
advocates that the United States was discriminating against refugees from
nations that are friendly, such as Haiti, while going to great lengths to
accommodate refugees from unfriendly nations, such as Cuba. The other effect was
to put the flame to a fuse in the Cuban community, which saw the decision as
barring friends and relatives who might try to flee here.

About 3,000 demonstrators began the protest on Calle Ocho, or Eighth Street,
Saturday night. At the end, stones, bottles and tear gas canisters were flying,
34 persons were arrested and charges of police brutality were made. At a special
meeting of the five-member Miami City Commission Sunday, the police said the
violence began after the protesters, who did not have a permit for a
demonstration, were told to disperse. Participants said the demonstration had
been peaceful until police officers moved against them with tear gas.

They Vote to Write Reagan

The commission, of which three members are Hispanic, voted to write the White
House condemning the deportation of the Cuban and to ask the Justice Department
to investigate to see whether the police used undue force. The city's only black
commissioner, Miller Dawkins, explained to the protesters that the Federal
Government ''cannot allow the Cubans to stay while it sends all the Haitians
back.'' ''That is why they sent this man back,'' he said.

A local columnist, Roberto Fabricio, observ ed in his weekly column in The Miami
Herald this morning: ''Cubans ha ve grown accustomed to seeing Miami and the
rest of the United State s as the lifeboat they have traditionally climbed
aboard. The deport ation of Rodriguez Hernandez is symbolic of the end of an
era. B itterness bordering on despair is a mild description of the resultin g
feeling.''

Among Haitians, who number 20,000, the feeling was not dissimilar, according to
leaders. A hapless coup attempt ended last week and 25 of the invaders, picked
up from a sinking boat, were brought back to Miami Sunday by the Coast Guard.

He Had Leaflets Dropped

For months, Bernard Sansaricq, a Haitian and an operator of a Shell service
station in Broward County, north of Miami, had been talking about the invasion.
In October, Mr. Sansaricq has acknowledged, he had a plane fly over
Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital, dropping leaflets denouncing President
Jean-Claude Duvalier and announcing a coming invasion.

Earlier this month rumors flew that t he invasion was imminent, and Mr.
Sansaricq , who came to this country after participating in an abortive atte mpt
to overthrow the Haitian regime in 1963, went to theisland of Sou th Caicos, 90
miles north of Haiti, to prepare for the strike. On Su nday, Jan. 10, the
37-year-old revolutionary left the island in a 3 5-foot boat with 24 followers.
The day before, at least nine other Sa nsaricq followers went by seaplane to the
island of Tortuga, off Haiti's northwest coast, where they were captured.

On Tuesday, Jan. 12, the Haitian Government announced that three of the nine had
''succumbed to their wounds.'' Last Wednesday, the Sansaricq vessel, a sloop
called the Caicos Cloud, was intercepted by the Coast Guard cutter Gallatin,
which had picked up radio distress calls. The vessel was leaking and her engine
was stalled. A Coast Guard spokesman said they had been ''floating around
seasick for a couple of days.''

Two Others Also Charged

Sunday Mr. Sansaricq was brought back to Miami charged with violating the United
States Neutrality Act for leading an expedition against another nation.
Conviction carries a maximum penalty of three years in prison and a $3,000 fine.
Two of his followers were also charged with violating the Neutrality Act, and
the others were being held as material witnesses.

About 200 Haitians demonstrated outside the Coast Guard base here Sunday,
shouting words of praise for Mr. Sansaricq. As he was brought in for an initial
appearance before a magistrate this morning, another throng of Haitian
supporters gathered. Some participants at these and other demonstrations said
many of Miami's Haitians had worked themselves into a state of unrealistic
optimism, to the point that they believed success was at hand.

Mr. Sansaricq was ordered released on a personal bond of $400,000, and Milo
Gousse, a 37-year-old geography instructor in Montreal, and Phillipe Carre, a
32-year-old employee of a security system in Montreal, were ordered released on
$100,000 signature bonds, pending trial.
----

Murder Count Dropped in '80 Riots

MIAMI, Jan. 18 (AP) - The state dropped murder charges today against William
Paul Hembree, the only white accused of killing a black in the race riots here
in May 1980.

Defense attorneys said they convinced the state that it was a case of mistaken
identity. Assistant State Attorney Leonard Glick, who was to prosecute Mr.
Hembree in the killing of 38-year-old Lugene Brown, said, ''We cannot in good
faith proceed to trial.''

Mr. Hembree, 35, remained in the Dade County Jail on charges of parole
violation. He was arrested last August after the police were told that he had
boasted of shooting a black man in Liberty City on May 18, 1980.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Miami police arresting demonstrators

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 3, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

OFFICE IN BRONX SEIZE 84 PERSONS AS ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By PETER KIHSS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 747 words


Eighty-four suspected illegal aliens, many of them crowded into a
tractor-trailer truck, were seized in the South Bronx yesterday after shots were
fired without warning at two police officers responding to a report that
''suspicious persons'' were getting out of the truck.

Fifty-one of those arrested, including 14 women, were still in the truck, in
which all 84 had allegedly traveled for nearly three days.  Henry S. Dogin,
district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said two men -
identified as Roopnarine Singh, a resident alien from Guyana, and Efrain Vega, a
United States citizen from Puerto Rico - were arrested on charges of unlawful
transportation of illegal aliens in the United States.

Said to Be From Mexico

Mr. Dogin said the 83 Dominicans and one Guatemalan seized in the roundup were
reported to have entered El Paso from Mexico late last Friday or early Saturday
and to have packed into the trailer for the trip to New York.

It was 6:30 A.M. yesterday when two police radio cars were directed to check a
report that seven ''suspicious persons'' were getting out of a trailer.

Officers James McCormack and Frank Califano of the Alexander Avenue station
found a trailer at East 156th Street and Cauldwell Avenue, in the Melrose
section of the Bronx, that was parked outside an egg factory on legitimate
business.

Another Truck Is Halted

Officer Califano then spotted another trailer truck down Cauldwell Avenue and
closer to Westchester Avenue. The two officers halted the vehicle as it started
to leave. Officer McCormack said the driver asserted that he had lettuce from
California in the trailer that he was taking to the Hunts Point Market.

Asked to open the truck, the driver said his brother had the keys, and pointed
toward a fourth-floor apartment at 647 Cauldwell Avenue.  The officers started
upstairs and got to the third floor.

''A female, about 35, saw us, and ran into an apartment and slammed the door,''
Officer McCormack said. ''Then shots came from the fourth floor, five of them,
five holes in the wall.''

''Me and Frank,'' he said, ''ran downstairs to get ourselves together. The
driver ran up to the fourth floor.'' About 20 officers responded to a radio call
for reinforcements.  Officers McCormack and Califano, who had both been wearing
their bulletproof vests, went up to the fourth floor.

23 People in One Apartment

''A lady opened the door,'' Officer McCormack said. ''We couldn't see anybody
inside. 'Mind if we take a look?' we asked. The bedroom was jammed. People were
sitting on the floor and in chairs. There were seven in the bedroom, a total of
23 people in the apartment.''

One was the driver, he said.  In a second-floor apartment, the police found 11
more persons.  There were six women among the group in the apartments, Mr. Dogin
of the Immigration Service said.

Officer McCormack said a search found more than $10,000 in cash hidden in the
fourth-floor gas oven-broiler, with the money in denominations of $50 and $100.
He said there was a report that a driver could ''clear $500'' for each person
transported in such an operation.

According to the office of District Attorney Mario Merola of the Bronx,
investigators found a .25-caliber automatic revolver in a closet in the
fourth-floor apartment but could not immediately determine who was the owner of
the weapon or whether it had been fired.

51 Found Huddled in Trailer

Members of the police emergency service unit cut the padlocks on the
tractor-trailer and found 51 people huddled inside. Officer McCormack said that
apparently seven persons at a time were unloaded into the apartment building.

An assistant United States attorney, Robert J. Costello, who ordered the arrest
of Mr. Singh and Mr. Vega as drivers of the tractor-trailer, said the interior
of the vehicle was filthy and pockmarked with foodstuffs and garbage.

The aliens were to be held at the immigration detention center at the former
Brooklyn Navy Yard, pending a hearing before a Federal immigration judge.

Mr. Dogin said the roundup was believed to be ''the largest seizure in smuggling
in the New York district, certainly in the last seven years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 4, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS TERM 2,000 MILES IN LOCKED TRUCK 'HELL'

BYLINE: By PETER KIHSS

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 707 words


It was ''like a hell'' on the nonstop 2,000-mile trip for 85 men and women
locked into a truck for nearly three days on a trip from El Paso to New York,
Manuel Roberto Mejia said yesterday. Mr. Mejia, who was one of the people in the
truck, spoke Spanish, using the word ''infierno'' to describe conditions on the
long ride.

At the end, all 85 were rounded up by New York police officers Monday morning
and turned over to Immigration and Naturalization Service officials for hearings
and likely deportation as aliens entering the United States illegally.

Mr. Mejia, a 24-year-old university student majoring in history in the Dominican
Republic for the last two years, and five of his companions agreed to interviews
yesterday while in custody at the immigration processing center at 136 Flushing
Avenue, Brooklyn. They said none of the six could speak English.

''We came to the United States,'' Mr. Mejia said, clad in blue detention
fatigues, ''because the economic situation for Dominicans is too precarious. It
is very difficult.''

Minimum Wage $100 a Month

''It is almost impossible to buy necessities - the minimum wage is 125 pesos a
month,'' he went on. Prospero Ayala said this meant about $100 in American
money.

''Unemployment in the country is too great, calculated that we have one million
persons unemployed in a country so small,'' Mr.  Mejia said. He added that the
Government had just announced that it was going to lay off 30,000 public
employees.

Mr. Ayala, 33, said he was a diesel mechanic and married to an American woman
from Puerto Rico, Jovita Rodriguez Ayala, now in Chicago. Ever since they were
married in Santo Domingo in May 1975, he said he had been trying to get a visa
to come to the United States.

He got to Mexico on his own two months ago, he said, having sold an old car for
$700, and made his way from one place to another - Mexico City, Monterey,
Chihuahua - until he learned of the group heading for New York.

In Washington, the Immigration Service said the quota for the Dominican Republic
allowed a maximum of 20,000 immigrants a year, not counting parents, spouses and
children of United States citizens who also should be able to enter. In 1979, it
reported only 17,519 legal entrants from the island.

Papers Sought Were Unavailable

Mr. Ayala said he was continually asked by the United States consulate for
papers he could not get, for instance, ''a baptismal certificate - my family is
Evangelical.''

Manuel Medina, 28, said he graduated from the University of Santo Domingo with a
master's degree in social work in 1978, but had never been able to get a job in
his profession. He left his daughter, 8, and son, 4, and their mother in Santo
Domingo to come here for ''whatever work I could get.''

Mr. Medina said that visa applicants had to show property, for example, ''an
account of $5,000 on deposit in a bank for one year.'' Mr. Ayala, who comes from
Bani, said he had met a Dominican who said he could arrange for a trip to New
York by way of Mexico for 500 pesos, with $500 or $1,000 more to be paid after
getting jobs, which they would have to find. Usually they borrowed the initial
payment.

Plane Taken to Mexico

The people from the truck said they were flown in a commercial plane to Mexico
City last Wednesday, and taken by bus to ''the desert outside Ciudad Juarez.''
Last Friday, all 85 walked across the border. That night, they were crammed into
a tractor-trailer.

Men and women jammed together. They had food and soda, but no place to dispose
of refuse. They had to relieve themselves in plastic containers.

Two men, Roopnarine Singh, a Guayana native, and Efraine Vega, were held in
$200,000 bail Monday night by United States Magistrate Leonard Bernikow as
having illegally transported the aliens in the United States. Assistant United
States Attorney Robert J. Costello said the penalty of five years and $2,000
fine for each case, if convicted, could confront them each with 425 years in
prison and $175,000 fines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of aliens

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 28, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PLAN ON ILLEGAL ALIENS TO BE DISCLOSED SOON BY THE ADMINISTRATION

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 31, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS, Fla., June 27


The Reagan Administration will soon announce a program to deal with thousands of
illegal immigrants in Florida and the Southwest, Attorney General William French
Smith said today.

''We have lost control of our own borders,'' Mr. Smith said in a speech to the
annual meeting of the Florida Bar Association. ''We have lost control of not
only the number, but also the type of persons who enter the country.''

Mr. Smith made the announcement in a news conference before the speech. He said
that the Administration wanted to ''streamline and speed up'' the process of
deporting illegal aliens but he would not specify any possible changes in
immigration laws.

''We do intend in the next few days,'' he said, ''to announce a program which
will deal with the Cuban-Haitian situation in Florida.'' He said the proposals
would be a product of a cabinetlevel study group he heads.

In his speech, the Attorney General said that there were three million to six
million illegal aliens in the United States and that the number was growing by
about 500,000 a year.

Mr. Smith said the study group had considered various options, such as stopping
and turning back boats loaded with Haitians or dealing more harshly with people
who traffic in illegal aliens.

''As of right now, our hands are tied to a certain extent by a temporary
restraining order issued by the courts,'' the Attorney General said.

The order Mr. Smith referred to was issued by a Federal judge in Miami earlier
this month after lawyers representing Haitians complained that their clients
could not understand deportation proceedings and were being denied due process.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 28, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AUTOPSIES CALLED 'HARD EVIDENCE' THAT SMUGGLERS ASSISTED HAITIANS

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1504 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 27


A medical examiner said today that the bodies of 33 drowning victims amounted to
''good, hard evidence'' that many of the thousands of illegal Haitian immigrants
who have made it to these shores have been helped by smugglers.

Dr. Ronald Wright of Broward County performed autopsies on the Haitians who
drowned yesterday morning when their homemade boat capsized within sight of the
expensive condominiums of Hillsboro Beach, a resort town 10 miles north of Fort
Lauderdale.

The medical examiner said his examinations showed that those who died had
consumed large, cooked meals less than two hours before they drowned. The meal
could not have been cooked aboard the overcrowded 30-foot boat and the food was
fresh, so Dr. Wright concluded that it must have been served on a ''mother
ship'' or freighter operated by smugglers.

U.S. Prosecution Seen Possible

He said he also thought that by pinpointing the time of consumption he might
have established that the Haitians were dropped off in choppy waters that lie
within the jurisdiction of the United States, and the State of Florida, and thus
that the smugglers could be prosecuted if caught.

Top officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said privately that
they believed the medical examiner's findings and that they tended to put stock
in his conclusions.

However, at a news conference this morning at the Federal detention facility for
illegal aliens, two of the 30 survivors of yesterday's accident said they had
made the trip from Haiti unassisted and that their last meal consisted only of
beans, consumed two or three days before their boat capsized.

Reliance on Smugglers Stressed

Dr. Wright, as well as civil libertarians who have worked in the Haitians'
behalf, contend that the Haitians' reliance on the smugglers - to bring them
back again if they are deported; to bring their families here if they are
allowed to remain - is the largest reason for the conflicting accounts.

Leonard E. Rowland, assistant district director for the immigration service,
said: ''The individuals who explained it are saying what they had to eat or
didn't have to eat. The medical examiner has other information. I'm sure you can
draw your own conclusion.''

There are no figures, and no very good estimates, on how many Haitians come here
under their own power and how many are smuggled.  On Sunday night another vessel
- a sinking 30-foot boat with 57 Haitians -was intercepted 123 miles northwest
of Port-au-Prince. The intercepted craft was bound for the United States,
according to the Haitians, who were taken back to Port-au-Prince aboard the
Coast Guard cutter Chase.

The interception suggests that many of the 44,000 Haitians who have come here in
the last few years have made it on their own. But Haitians in Haiti have told
American journalists they have sold all their possessions to pay from $1,000 to
$2,000 for passage on a smuggler's ship to America.

A Coast Guard spokesman in Washington, John Sproat, said that news reports of
''mother ships'' sounded ''plausible.'' He said that the Coast Guard, and the
Haitian Government, had been concerned that Haitians were being forced to pay
''exorbitant'' prices and to serve as indentured servants by the smugglers.

''I like to call them vermin,'' Dr. Wright, the medical examiner, said of the
smugglers.

Death Toll Raised

In the autopsies, he said, he found two fetuses he thinks could have survived
outside the womb, and so he has increased the death count to 35. He also found
that ''not more than an hour or two before they died they had a very heavy,
cooked meal.'' He found chicken, rice, pork, potatoes and celery.

If the survivors' stories that they sailed for nine days unassisted from the
Bahamas were true, he said, the meat would have spoiled and he could have
detected it.

Further, Dr. Wright contends that the rickety boat that capsized could not have
traveled 12 miles in two hours, and that since he has fixed the time of the meal
consumption at less than two hours before they drowned, it would be right to
assume the meal was eaten on board a freighter that was in the territorial
jurisdiction of the United States and the State of Florida.

''I'm quite excited here about the prospect of prosecuting for third degree
murder,'' he said, ''and I hope we can find the people who did this.''

No Search Being Conducted

The trouble is that no one is looking for the people smugglers. A spokesman for
the Coast Guard in Miami, Chief Petty Officer Mario Toscano, said the Coast
Guard was not searching. ''I can say that if there was such a mother ship,'' he
said, ''that ship would probably be miles and miles away by now.'' Law
enforcement authorities in Broward County, where the drownings occurred, said
they were not looking for the ship, and state law enforcement authorities said
the same.

However, they and Federal authorities are looking for names. So far, the
survivors have said there was no mother ship. They have, though, said that a
captain, named Charles Joseph, and three mates swam to shore from the small boat
an hour before it capsized, admonishing the Haitians to stay put while they went
to arrange transportation to the beach. They did not come back, nor have they
been found.

At the news conference this morning,the two survivors, Frank Jean, 24 years old,
and Lucot Pierre, 20 - the only two who would talk at all, according to the
immigration service - said there was no mother ship, and that the last meal
anyone had was beans three days before the accident. The Haitians said through
an interpreter that they left Haiti Aug. 26 on the boat that eventually
capsized. They said they had spent about a month on uninhabited islands in the
Bahamas, catching crabs and licking rainfall water off leaves, and set sail for
this county Oct. 18.

Future Need for Smugglers

Dr. Wright thinks he knows the reasons for the contradictions between his
findings and the Haitians account. ''The service provided by the people who do
the people smuggling will be needed again,'' he said. From his experience with
earlier Haitian arrivals, he said, he knows that those deported will try to come
back, and those who are successful in staying will use their earnings to hire
the people smugglers to bring their families ''here to paradise, relatively
speaking.'' He said that reliance, coupled with superstitions that betraying the
smugglers might ''elicit supernatural retribution'' has in the past led the
Haitians to insist they sailed the 700 miles unassisted - even, in one instance,
when some came by plane, landed in Broward County, and one among them walked
into the propeller. ''I mean, when you talk to a bleeding man in the middle of
an airfield,'' said Dr. Wright, ''and he says he got here by boat, it's kind of
hard to believe.''

The best known smuggling case, and one of the rare ones successfully prosecuted
here, happened on Aug. 13, 1979. That night, in the water off South Palm Beach,
the spotlight of a police vessel fell on a 28-foot Chris Craft. The captain,
Jeffrey Hastings, eventually was convicted of forcing 18 Haitians into the water
at gunpoint, six of whom drowned. He was sentenced to 180 years in prison on six
counts of manslaughter.

''These vermin,'' Dr. Wright said of the smugglers, ''consider them to be some
sort of expendable cargo.''

----

N.A.A.C.P. Assails Reagan Order

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People called on the
Reagan Administration yesterday to end ''a barbaric assault on human freedom''
by rescinding the interdiction order against Haitian boats loaded with illegal
aliens bound for the United States.

At a news conference in the N.A.A.C.P.'s headquarters in New York City, the Rev.
Charles H. Smith, deputy executive director, also called for a Congressional
inquiry into the plight of the Haitian refugees and said his organization would
prepare a case for submission to the United Nations.

He said the association would seek to determine ''if there are violations of
international law taking place, as we believe there must be when the human
rights of a people are so brazenly ignored.''

Mr. Smith said a three-man association team, including himself, would leave
immediately for Miami on a fact-finding mission into the Haitian refugee
situation, including Monday's drownings.

But, the association official stressed, the ''first and immediate step should be
the rescission'' by the Reagan Administration ''of the interdiction order and a
reinterpretation of the status of Haitian refugees so that they are recognized
as political refugees.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Jean Frank (page A24)

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CAREY SEEKS AID ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By GLENN FOWLER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 257 words


Governor Carey called upon President Carter yesterday to provide Federal funds
for essential services for the more than one million illegal aliens believed to
be living in New York State, as the President has promised for the recent flood
of Cuban and Haitian refugees.

''We're not talking about amnesty'' for the illegal aliens, Mr.  Carey said, but
about recognizing their presence and dealing with their needs. He noted, as he
and Mayor Koch have repeatedly contended in the past, that most undocumented
immigrants are not counted in the census, depriving the state and city of per
capita assistance under many Federal programs.

In an interview on the CBS-TV ''Newsmakers'' program and in remarks afterward,
the Governor said he had proposed to Mr. Carter that ''we have the same
treatment accorded to the economic refugees in New York'' as to the newer
immigrants.

He praised the Administration's announced intention to provide Federal funds to
help localities furnish health care, shelter, education and other essential
services to the Cuban and Haitian refugees, and to permit them to qualify for
citizenship in two years instead of the normal five years.

If such a program were applied to all illegal aliens, the Governor said, ''it
could take care of the major part of New York City's billion-dollar budget
gap.''

A spokesman for the Governor said that a formal request to Washington was being
prepared, asking that eligibility for Federal assistance for welfare and other
essential services be extended to all illegal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Identity Papers

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words


A recent law school graduate we know offers an entrancing short course in
American constitutional law. Regardless of the specific issue, she says, the
argument always ends up the same. One side says, ''That idea would lead straight
down the slippery slope.'' The other side says, ''No, it won't.'' There's a
moral here for an issue, involving both immigration and personal freedom, that
could hardly be more appropriate to a July Fourth weekend.

The issue is how to stem the tide of illegal immigrants crossing the border from
Mexico. The proposed solution is to give all Americans a forgery-resistant
Social Security card and require that it be shown to employers in order to get a
job. That would discourage illegal migrants. In this case, the slippery slopers
recognize the merit of controlling immigration. But they recoil from use of such
a card. It would, they fear, lead to national identity papers and police
statism. We're inclined to think, ''No, it won't.'' But what we're interested in
most of all is ways to traverse the mountain without losing balance.

Not even a new electronic fence has made it possible to control the flow of
illegal Mexican workers; for them, even exploitative wages in the Southwest are
high. The answer is not a fence but worker identification and it is now being
explored for the Government by a blue-ribbon commission on immigration. The
Social Security card would be convenient identification, but the present card is
a cinch to counterfeit. The answer to that is to make it forgery resistant. It
might include a photograph, or fingerprint, or signature. For maybe $5, a card
could be secure enough to defeat anyone outside the KGB.  What's wrong with
that? Nothing - except the slippery slope.

Some people think that the balance between spontaneity and social control in
America is already awry. Robert Ellis Smith, an authority on privacy, worries
about a ''European mentality of submitting to inspectors who tell you that 'Your
papers are in order.' '' John

Shattuck of the American Civil Liberties Union fears that worker identification
cards would be ''tantamount to a form of domestic passport.'' Such concerns are
made more acute by the knowledge that memories of

Watergate are fading; that Americans no longer seem so concerned about the
dangers of a police state; that they would rather be searched at airports than
hijacked in the air.

An improved Social Security card would not, of itself, present any new threat.
Less easily forgeable ones would not create any new information. Social Security
numbers are already used for bank accounts, and taxes, and medical benefits for
psychiatric treatment or venereal disease. Some slippery slope fears arise
because of the very reliability of the new card. The more reliable it is, the
more agencies will wish to use it. And using it for this non-Social Security
purpose might well make Congress more willing to let it then be used for others.
The F.B.I., for instance, might wish authority to ask people for their cards in
the course of trailing fugitives. In the wake of an assassination, say, or a
shocking terrorist episode, could Congress resist yielding such authority?

Such fears are rational. The question is, what should society do about them? It
is no more sensible to reject the identification idea because of potential
problems than to ban telephones because they can be tapped. The immigration
commission should proceed with its study of a worker-identification system. One
is needed. Meanwhile, let the rest of us address the larger questions. If
Congress pledges to permit this use for a new card and no other, can it be
trusted? If not, what about the idea of Prof. Alan Westin of Columbia for a
protective constitutional amendment? One way or another, it is possible to grope
toward protections against potential abuses. The slope may be slippery but
society does not have to slip.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 25, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

3 AGENTS OF BORDER PATROL CHARGED WITH BEATING 8

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 24


Three agents of the United States Border Patrol were charged by a Federal grand
jury here today with beating several illegal aliens and at least one American
citizen at the patrol's highway checkpoint 60 miles north of here.

The three agents are J. Gillespie Wood, a senior official, and Jose Martin
Barker and Lester M. Fullen.  At least eight persons, including a 15-year-old
boy who is an American citizen, and two undercover agents of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service were alleged to have been beaten by Mr. Wood and Mr.
Barker in an interrogation.

Both agents were charged with 17 counts of depriving people of their civil
rights and assaulting a Federal officer. Mr. Barker and Mr. Fullen, who
allegedly observed the beatings but did not participate, were also charged with
committing perjury before the grand jury that returned the 37-page indictment.

2 Undercover Agents Assigned

The multiple-count indictment disclosed that the immigration agency, after
receiving a number of allegations of beatings by border patrolmen at the
checkpoint in San Clemente, Calif., assigned two Hispanic agents three months
ago to pose as illegal aliens in an effort to gather evidence of the beatings.

The agents, dressed as Mexican workers, were put on a bus destined to pass
through the highway checkpoint, where they were taken off, arrested and
questioned by the three patrolmen indicted today.

The indictment alleges that Javier Dibene, one of the undercover agents, was
assaulted by Mr. Barker with a metal chair, and that Mr.  Dibene's partner, Juan
Espinal, had been beaten by Mr. Wood with a metal flashlight.

In a statement accompanying the release of the indictment, the Justice
Department said that ''at no time'' did the undercover agents ''attempt to
provoke an incident'' at the checkpoint, which is on heavily traveled Interstate
5.

Justice Department lawyers familiar with the investigation said it began after

Federal officials say illegal aliens have been victimized by hundreds of New
Jersey employers. Page B2.
the 15-year-old boy complained to the authorities that he had been beaten by
border patrolmen while passing through the checkpoint. The department's
statement said that after the beating, the boy had ''confessed'' being a Mexican
citizen and was returned to Mexico.

Today's indictment marks the second time that a group of border patrolmen have
been charged with violations of civil rights and other misdemeanors by the
United States Attorney's office here.

Last year four agents stationed in San Ysidro, Calif., across the border from
Tijuana, were charged with having beaten a number of Mexicans they apprehended
while trying to cross the border illegally.

Two of those agents, Jeffery Otherson and Bruce Brown, were convicted early this
year of misdemeanor violations of Federal civil rights statutes. The third
resigned and the fourth was acquitted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 27, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BY TOM FERRELL AND MARGOT SLADE;
IDEAS AND TRENDS;
Can't Penalize the Young, Judge Says In Illegal Alien Case

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1476 words


No one in Texas disputes the incalculable social cost of not educating the
children of illegal immigrants - social unrest among Hispanic Americans. Still,
Texas has refused the task, claiming that since undocumented workers are not
protected by constitutional guarantees, the state is not required to extend the
benefits of social services, including a public school education, to their
children. That argument did not persuade Federal District Court Judge Woodrow
Seals. Last week in Houston, he declared unconstitutional a 1975 Texas law that
effectively barred illegal aliens from attending public schools.

The law guarantees free public school education only to United States citizens
and legally admitted aliens. It allows school districts to charge tuition -
Houston has been charging $162 per month - to illegal immigrants who want to
enroll their children.

Judge Seals dismissed the state's plea that it lacks the financial resources to
educate between 20,000 and 100,000 illegal alien children, at what state
witnesses estimated could cost as much as $200 million a year. He discounted
arguments that bilingual programs were short on staff and funds, or that a
decision opening up the schools for free would set a precedent for extending
other state social services to illegal aliens. Citing the Constitution's
guarantees of due process and equal protection, Judge Seals ordered the state
not to exclude students from public school ''on account of their status under
United States immigration law,'' not to deny them participation in bilingual
programs, and not to charge tuition.  Attorneys for the state have asked for a
stay of the order and plan to appeal Judge Seals' decision.

Other states with large populations of illegal aliens, such as California and
Florida, admit the children to school.

Cable TV Gets Big Extension Cord

For several years, the Federal Communications Commission has been one of the
nation's most active deregulatory bodies. Last week, the commission, by a 4-3
vote, ended two regulations that have sharply limited the kinds and numbers of
programs that cable television systems could bring to their viewers.

The commission will no longer regulate the import of ''distant'' broadcasts into
the area served by a cable system. (Signals are defined as ''distant'' if they
come from more than 35 miles away from a large metropolitan market or more than
55 miles from a smaller market.) Nor will the commission any longer allow
broadcasters to have a cable signal blacked out if the cable program is also
available on local television stations, unless the two transmissions are
simultaneous. The deregulation will leave cable operators free, under the 1976
copyright law, to provide their customers with other people's programs. As
payment, they need only turn over a small percentage of their revenues to a
central fund administered by a copyright tribunal which has yet to determine
just how to reward the owners of the programs.

Reaction to the deregulation, which is already being challenged in the courts,
was divided along predictable lines; the National Association of Broadcasters
called the decision ''irresponsible,'' while Thomas Wheeler, president of the
National Cable Television Association, said cable, especially in nonmetropolitan
areas, could now ''offer their viewers what citizens in major markets have had
for years.''

According to Paul Kagan, an industry analyst and publisher of cable-television
newsletters, the ruling came as no surprise and much recent expansion of cable
systems has been taken in anticipation of it. In the New York metropolitan area,
according to Mr. Kagan's figures, about 750,000 households, or about 15 percent,
are now cable subscribers.

A.M.A. Delegates Heal Themselves

Accepting a second opinion, the American Medical Association last week discarded
its 23-year-old code of medical ethics - an object of dissaffection and
expensive lawsuits - and adopted a new code. It emphasizes patients' rights,
permits doctors to advertise their fees and sanctions referrals to
chiropractors.

The wounds of the old code have been festering for years.  Chiropractors charged
that its language prevented physicians from referring patients to or accepting
referrals from them, on grounds that they did not practice ''a method of healing
founded on a scientific basis.'' A Federal Trade Commission ruling, still under
appeal, found the ban on soliciting patients a restraint of competition among
doctors. The association has spent $1 million yearly defending itself.

Meanwhile, regular dues-paying membership has shrunk from 168,226 in 1970 to
151,376 last year, and as a percentage of the nation's physicians, from 50 to 33
percent. The decline reflects a number of new realities - a rise in membership
fees to the present high of $250 - particularly onerous to young, debt-burdened
doctors, competition from professional organizations for specialists that cater
directly to members' needs, and a sense among many doctors that the A.M.A. has
lost touch with changes in methods of practice, medical education and political
and social attitudes.

Also at the meeting in Chicago, members cut short procedural delays and
proclaimed that physicians should not participate in the execution of prisoners.
Four states now authorize executions by lethal injection.

Copenhagen Hears Politics as Usual

The United Nations conference on women has prompted the realization among many
of the more than 1,500 delegates meeting in Copenhagen that, worldwide, women
may have little in common except being female. Yet as the conference enters its
third week tomorrow, with political speeches and strategies evoking more passion
than programs for health care or illiteracy, one unifying effort has emerged
-''networking.'' Delegates to the conference, and to its unofficial cousin (the
''Forum''), meeting down the road at Copenhagen University, have begun
organizing an international web of contacts that may transcend political and
cultural differences.

Last week, however, it was sexually undifferentiated political disagreements, as
usual. A predominantly Arab conference committee adopted a strong resolution
calling for the Palestine Liberation Organization to be given a central role in
helping Palestinian women in Israeli-occupied territories. United States
delegates are working to block its consideration.

Natalia Malakhovskaya, one of three Russian feminist writers expelled from the
Soviet Union last weekend, arrived in Copenhagen in time to attend the
conference. With no official government accreditation, she was not be allowed to
speak. So she held a news conference outside and reported that ''women in the
Soviet Union work at least four times harder than men.''

Splicing Genes, Producing Insulin

For 60 years, insulin - a hormone essential to the body's metabolism of sugar -
has been used in the treatment of diabetics.  All that insulin has been
extracted from the pancreases of animals, usually pigs or cows. Last week, the
first tests in humans began of insulin manufactured by bacteria genetically
altered by so-called gene splicing techniques to produce human insulin. The
tests are being carried on at Guy's Hospital in London, using insulin provided
by Eli Lilly & Co., the American pharmaceutical firm.

Animal insulin, though similar enough to work fairly well, is not identical to
human insulin. Bacterially produced insulin is chemically identical, according
to Lilly, and one of the purposes of the test is to see whether the new insulin
is identical in its effects. In addition, a minority of diabetic patients
develop allergic reactions to animal insulin, just as they might with any other
alien protein.

The supply of animal insulin is determined by the supply of meat animals, and
does not respond to the demands of diabetics, who are an increasing portion of
the population. If biologically manufactured insulin passes testing in humans,
it could help avert a shortage of insulin that some authorities anticipate in
the mid-1980's.

(More Ideas & Trends, page 22.)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Tom Ferrell and Margot Slade

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 2, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Paying the Price for Alien Children

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 402 words


Picture a ramshackle apartment in which a semi-literate immigrant child
struggles to master the three R's from worn and borrowed books. No, not New
York's Lower East Side in 1890 but the city of Dallas in 1980. How come? The
Mexican-born children of illegal aliens have been kept out of school in 17
districts of Texas through prohibitive tuition charges. No other state
discriminates in this fashion. Now a Federal judge, properly, has stopped the
practice in Texas, too.

The number of alien children kept out of Texas schools is estimated at between
40,000 and 110,000. The state's excuse for excluding them was financial
necessity. Besides, Texans asked, why should they pay for immigrant children
whose presence is the result of lax Federal immigration enforcement?

Federal Judge Woodrow Seals has answered these contentions forcefully. Texas, he
ruled, can well afford the added burden of educating these children. And in any
case, the state cannot deprive alien children of the equal protection of the
law. It may be proper to discourage illegal immigration by denying welfare and
medical benefits to adults. But, he argued, children cannot be victimized for
decisions over which they have no control.

The judge might, in addition, have invoked some highly practical arguments. The
porous border with Mexico serves the economic interests of the border states and
their businesses as much as it serves the diplomatic interests of the United
States. Illegal aliens are anything but freeloaders. A 1978 report by a House
committee showed that the typical illegal alien worker in San Diego County paid
17 percent of his wages in taxes, a much larger share than was paid by citizens
earning the minimum wage.

The Federal Government does indeed owe some states and cities more support.
Washington is at least partly responsible for illegal immigrants, as it is for
urban concentrations of welfare recipients.  But communities that benefit from
immigrant labor should not also profit from its social neglect. Besides, as
Bishop John McCarthy testified in the Texas case, ''Whether it be right now in
the form of modest increases ... in public school operating cost, or ... in
terms of social cost ... fifteen years from now, we will pay this bill.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 14, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

LIST OF AMERICANS IN CUBA PRISONS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13


Following is a State Department list of 28 of the 33 American-born United States
citizens held in prison by Cuba and the charges against them. The State
Department said the other five asked that their names not be made public.
Melvin Bailey, Newport News, Va., arrested May 27, 1979, illegal entry and
''pamphleteering.'' Charles Bartos, Pompano, Fla., arrested Nov. 12, 1979,
illegal entry and narcotics.  Robert Bennett, Miami, Fla., arrested Feb. 21,
1979, immigration violation.  Anthony Bryant, San Bernadino, Calif., arrested
March 6, 1969, assault, robbery and hijacking.  Melvin Cale, Detroit, arrested
Nov. 12, 1972, hijacking.  Walter Clark, North Miami Beach, arrested March 1,
1979, immigration violation.  Dean Codgen Jr., Albuquerque, N.M., arrested Nov.
20, 1978, immigration violation and narcotics trafficking.  Mark Contino, Miami,
arrested July 7, 1979, drugs and immigration violation.  John Dacus, Jonesboro,
Ark., arrested April 28, 1979, drugs and immigration violation.  William Dawson,
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., arrested July 16, 1979, drugs and immigration violation.
Paul Fekete, Livonia, Mich., arrested Dec. 7, 1979, drugs, immigration violation
and attempted murder.  Raymond Fitzgerald, Newark, Del., arrested April 11,
1978, drugs and illegal entry.  Lance Fyfe, Miami, arrested June 7, 1978, drugs
and illegal entry.  Jon Gaynor, Carver, Mass., arrested Dec. 5, 1979, drugs and
illegal entry.  Charles Hill, home town unavailable, July 7, 1979, currency
violation.  Austin Householder, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., arrested July 16, 1979,
immigration violation and narcotics.  Henry Jackson, Detroit, arrested Nov. 12,
1972, hijacking and other offenses.  Edward King, Augusta, Me., arrested Jan. 4,
1980, illegal entry and narcotics violation. Lorenzo Maulden, Ozark. Ala.,
arrested Nov. 13, 1979, drugs and immigration violation.  Douglas Miklos, Boca
Raton, Fla., arrested July 16, 1979, drugs and immigration violation.  Louis
Moore, Detroit, arrested Nov. 12, 1972, hijacker.  William Nelson, Adrian,
Mich., arrested Dec. 7, 1979, illegal entry, drugs and attempted murder.  Mark
Schierbaum, Newark, Del., arrested Dec. 12, 1979, immigration violation, drugs
and attempted murder.  Michael Seitler, Glen Cove, N.Y., arrested May 13, 1979,
narcotics trafficking and illegal entry.  Dale Stanhope, Maine, no city
available, arrested Dec. 5, 1979, immigration and drugs.  Randolph Walton, Key
West, Fla., arrested March 4, 1980, immigration violation and drugs.
Samuel White, Key West, arrested March 4, 1980, immigration violation and drugs.
Walter Thomas White, Glendale, Calif., arrested May 27, 1979, illegal entry,
''pamphleteering.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: list

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 7, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Texan Indicted on Charges Of Holding Alien in Peonage

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 6


A Federal grand jury has indicted a seafood company owner on charges involving
holding an illegal Mexican alien against his will at an oyster processing plant.

Benjamin Harrison Nelson, 41 years old, owner of a concern on Galveston Bay, was
indicted yesterday on two peonage charges, two counts of kidnapping with intent
to hold a slave and aiding in the transportation of an illegal alien, the
authorities said.

Mr. Nelson could be sentenced to a maximum of 25 years in prison and fined
$22,000.  The indictments came after a chauffeur for the Mexican consul in the
border town of Brownsville called the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service and said that his brother had been smuggled to Houston
and then to the community of Smith Point, where he was being held against his
will.

The chauffeur, in an affidavit filed with immigration officials, said his
brother had left the plant once but had been taken back at gunpoint.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 14, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION IN SUMMARY;
by Micahel Wright and Caroline Rand Herron;
Immigration Panel Suggests Answers

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 417 words


If the immigration proposals tentatively adopted by a Federal commision last
weekend seem familiar, it is perhaps because they resemble some key changes
recommended by President Carter, and yawned at by Congress, three years ago.
Similarly, any difference in the situation - unresolved questions about illegal
aliens, inconsistencies in the law, poor morale in the field - is mostly a
difference of degree. Things were bad then; they are evidently worse now.

Among other things, the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy said
Congress should grant amnesty to illegal aliens already in the United States if
they ask for it; that could number one million of the three to six million
aliens thought to be here. It also said that employers who hired illegal aliens
in the future should be hit with civil or criminal penalties, and that the basic
quota for legal immigration should be increased slightly.

But the panel voted, 7 to 5, against issuing identification cards to all bona
fide American workers. Because illegal aliens are difficult to spot - and
because forged documents are easy to obtain - employer sanctions would be
meaningless without work identification cards, argued Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
chairman of the commission and president of the University of Notre Dame.
However, Patricia Roberts Harris, the Secretary of Health and Human Services and
one of four Cabinet officers on the panel, said she was ''unalterably opposed''
to cards because of the potential for ''wrongful use'' by the Government.

It's not clear what the Reagan administration will prefer, although during a
campaign stopover in Texas, the President-designate supported issuing ''guest
worker permits'' to Mexicans hired to harvest crops. In the past, such proposals
have been strongly opposed by labor and Hispanic leaders.

The mood of the new, more conservative Congress is another question mark. The
House of Representatives in 1972 and 1973 approved penalties for businesses with
illegal aliens on their payrolls, but the legislation died in the Senate. More
recently, pleas by officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
money and officers haven't gotten the agency much more than sympathetic nods.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Michael Wright and Caroli ne Rand Herron

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 7, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Miami Businessman, Cuba-Born, A Contender for Immigration Job

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6


A Miami businessman emerged yesterday as a leading candidate for the position of
Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Jose Manuel Casanova, 50 years old, who was born in Cuba and came to the United
States in 1960, confirmed that he had discussed the position with officials in
the Reagan Administration, but he declined to give details. White House aides
have been promising that Hispanic Americans would soon be named to several major
posts.

Mr. Casanova, reached at his home, said that he was once president of the
Flagship National Bank of Westland, Fla., and was now president of Agro-Com
Export, which exports food and medicine to Latin America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 6, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFICE WORKERS TO RALLY AGAINST U.S. POLICY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Aug. 5


Employees of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service will hold
a national day of protest Aug.  21 to demonstrate against President Reagan's
approach toward immigration, a Federal union officer said today.

The employees will also protest the agency's financial shortages and Mr.
Reagan's failure to appoint a national director of the agency, said Mike
Harpold, president of the I.N.S. Council of the American Federation of
Government Employees.

''This will be our first nationwide thing, but it may not be our last,'' said
Mr. Harpold, who traveled from San Francisco to El Paso to organize the
demonstration.

He said that the demonstration would not be a strike, but that employees would
set up informational picket lines.

'Important People Functions'

Mr. Harpold said the 9,400 agency employees in the union were concerned that a
lack of leadership and proper policy would lead to inadequate application of
immigration laws.

''These are important people functions that, if done wrong, would be a real
black mark on the United States,'' he said. ''I'm not making a threat. I'm
simply stating a reality that if things go further, the country runs a real risk
of having mistreatment, abuse of rights and internal corruption. That is why we
are acting now.''

Mr. Reagan's proposals for changing immigration policies, especially toward
Mexico, are a matter for extreme concern, Mr.  Harpold said.

The President is publicizing the proposed policy ''as a commitment to enforcing
the border,'' he said. ''But there has been a failure to go forward with any
real immigration policy. Some of the programs will create problems in the areas
where they are supposed to be solving them.''

'Thumbing Their Noses'

Mr. Harpold called the President's recommendation to allow illegal aliens to
become citizens after they have lived in the country for 10 years an
''administrative nightmare.''

He went on, ''We're not prepared to accept something that's not going to work.
What we'll have is people who are here illegally thumbing their noses at people
who try to do it right.''

Mr. Harpold said the union also disagreed with Mr. Reagan's ''guest worker''
proposal that would allow Mexican workers to enter the country for specific
jobs.

''The Administration would like to have a goal of a cheap labor pool in the
United States,'' he said. ''But the Administration is having difficulty squaring
that with what the Select Commission recommended.''

The union favors the recommendations made by the Select Commission on
Immigration and Refugee Policy, which urged stronger border enforcement, more
funding for the I.N.S. and the adoption of sanctions against people who employ
illegal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION IN SUMMARY;
Identifying the Problem Is Easy

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron and Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 193 words


A Federal commission on immigration policy, like the Democratic President that
appointed it, is finishing up appointed rounds. Among them is deciding whether
to recommend that Americans adopt a timehonored European custom, and carry
cartes d'identite.

As it has been all along, the 16-member Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy is closely divided on the issue.  Last week, the panel voted, 8
to 6, with one abstention, in favor of a new, more secure method of
identification for citizens and legal aliens - and again, as it did last month,
for civil and criminal penalities for employers who hire illegal aliens. Whether
a new system implies the ''counterfeit-resistant worker I.D. card'' the Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, chairman of the panel, has been pushing is not clear. It
could also imply a national computer identification system, such as that
credit-card companies use.

Neither is likely to meet civil libertarians' fears of potential Government
abuse. Such arguments led to a tentative vote against cards last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 15, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION

BYLINE: United Press International

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 29 words


In The Times of Jan. 7 on proposals by a special commission on immigration
policy included incorrect information. A clarifying article appears on page B9.
wore a parka

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: correction

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 15, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NO CHANGES SOUGHT ON EXCLUDING ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14


The Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy has decided not to
recommend any change in the law that bars certain classes of aliens, including
Communists and homosexuals, from the United States.

The 16-member commission decided, in effect, to sidestep one of the main
functions it was expected to perform, apparently because the subject was too
controversial. In its final report, to be issued Feb. 27, the commission urges
Congress to re-examine the criteria for excluding aliens, but avoids making
specific proposals on the subject.

Congress, in creating the commission three years ago, had asked for a
comprehensive review of immigration law, together with ''legislative
recommendations to simplify and clarify'' it. The commission has voted to
recommend a general amnesty for illegal aliens now in the United States, a
comprehensive revision of how visas are allocated and stiff penalties for
employers who hire illegal aliens in the future.

At the final meeting of the commission last month, several members characterized
the current list of exclusions as archaic, but said the commission would be
going too far if it urged Congress to ''modernize'' the criteria. ''The less
said, the better,'' Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, told his
colleagues on the commission.

Defining Grounds for Exclusion

Allen E. Kaye of New York, president of the Association of Immigration and
Nationality Lawyers, said yesterday he was ''distressed and disappointed'' that
the commission had not said more about the grounds for exclusion. ''It seems
like such a cop-out,'' he said.

William Fliegelman, former chief immigration judge for the Federal Government,
said that commission members ''failed to measure up to their responsibility'' to
help eliminate what he called outmoded, unworkable features of the law
concerning exclusion of aliens.

The existing law explicitly forbids the issuance of visas to 33 classes of
aliens, including those who are mentally retarded or insane; those afflicted
with ''sexual deviation'' or a ''dangerous contagious disease''; paupers,
vagrants, polygamists and prostitutes; aliens who are ''likely at any time to
become public charges,'' and aliens who have been convicted of drug violations,
even minor marijuana offenses.

One section of the law contains a 1,000-word description of the political and
ideological grounds for excluding anarchists, Communists, those ''affiliated
with any organization that advocates the economic, international and
governmental doctrines of world Communism'' and those who publish or circulate
materials advocating the use of force to overthrow the Federal Government.

Popular Support Cited

Despite the exclusions, the United States still takes a larger number of legal
immigrants each year than any other country.  Although none of the commissioners
publicly defended the exclusions, several members said privately that there was
popular support for many of the restrictions and that with a more conservative
mood in Congress, it would be difficult to change this aspect of the law.

The influx of 125,000 Cubans last year, including at least 1,700 criminals, the
demonstrations by Iranian students and growing concern about illegal aliens were
all cited as reasons for what was called a ''restrictionist'' climate in
Congress.

Commission staff members recommended major changes in the law, noting that
respected scholars and artists had been denied visas because of their political
views. Other aliens, according to the staff members, have been excluded because
of medical conditions that pose no threat to public health and because of minor
misconduct in the distant past.

''An alien convicted of stealing a loaf of bread and firewood in Italy during
World War II to keep from starving and freezing is still inadmissible to the
United States,'' said Sam Bernsen, director of legal research for the commission
and former general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In 1979, according to the State Department, consular officers denied more than
600,000 visa applications.

'Anachronistic Remnants'

The American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American
Association of University Professors and the Association of the Bar of the City
of New York urged the commission to recommend repeal of the so-called
ideological exclusions. ''Our reputation for allowing expression free from
unnecessary governmental restraint will continue to be tarnished by these
anachronistic remnants of a fearful era,'' the bar association said.

The Attorney General may grant a waiver to a member of a proscribed political
organization, but there is often a delay, and many aliens dislike the disclosure
requirements concerning political beliefs.

Commission members said they feared that any recommendation to liberalize the
rules against homosexual aliens would overshadow their other proposals.
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the new chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee panel on immigration, said, ''I can think of nothing
that will more quickly blow this really quality work product out of the water
and breach it forever than to get too deeply into this subject.''

The section of the law barring homosexual aliens has become difficult to
enforce. The Public Health Service, noting changes in the medical view of
homosexuality, will no longer certify aliens as being victims of a mental
disease or defect on the basis of homosexuality. The commission, created by
Congress in 1978, consisted of 16 members headed by the Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame. There were four members
from the House, four from the Senate, four Cabinet officers from the Carter
Administration and four members from the public at large.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 2, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Cubans Who Left Plane in Miami Won't Be Given Political Asylum

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 120 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 1


Immigration officials refused to offer political asylum and instead ordered
deportation hearings today for 41 Cubans who got to the United States by posing
as tourists and then left a Spain-to-Mexico flight on a Miami layover.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials in Miami could not cite similar
instances in which Cubans had been denied asylum, but they said that in the
future most Cubans who arrive from a country other than their homeland would not
be granted asylum.

The 41 Cubans got off an Aeromexico flight on a refueling stop in Miami on March
21 and refused to reboard the plane to continue to Mexico City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 4, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

ERODING IMMIGRATION POLICY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 500 words


To the Editor:

The much-awaited report of the U.S. Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee
Policy, issued recently, contrasts ''humanitarian concern'' and ''national
intererst.'' Father Theodore Hesburgh, chairman, said Senator Alan Simpson had
reminded the commission at several points that its work was at the service of
the ''national interest.'' In fact, the title of the final report is ''U.S.
Immigration and the National Interest.'' In his introduction, Father Hesburgh
suggests that national interest is incompatible at points with humanitarian
concern.§enator Simpson last December further eroded the concept of humanitarian
concern in immigration policy by saying that the people of the United States
were suffering from ''compassion fatigue.''

The commission and its report recognize the contributions of all immigrants.
Yet, the policy recommendations seem to say that some are admitted because we
want to be nice, and some are welcome because they can help us. These latter
ones are called ''seed immigrants'' as if the others were the end of a
generation.

Maybe the time has come to define national interest primarily as humanitarian
interest. It is not a time for fully open borders and resultant chaos, but for
reflection on the best course of action that will work for everybody in the long
run. We need to be aware that massive economic and political problems anywhere
in the world in this century are by necessity our problems.

The dichotomy between ''humanitarian concern'' and ''national interest'' makes
for an inconsistent policy package, with some of the suggestions and
recommendations, at best, the result of guesswork and political maneuvering. It
was not for the Select Commission to judge what Congress could deal with and to
round up a package full of trade-offs. We expected the commission to listen to
the people involved, and to seek to fill in the enormous gaps in basic
information in order to draw up policy.

The commission should have proposed basic changes from a status quo that now
benefits nobody, especially the undocumented immigrant. When Father Hesburgh, in
his introduction, discusses the ill effects of undocumented migration, he
forgets to mention that the one who stands to lose the most is the migrant
forced to live underground at the mercy of employers, landlords and smugglers.

We cannot think of the ''national interest'' at one time, ''humanitarian''
interest at another. There is only one Earth and one human race. Immigration
policy, to be in the national interest, must be based on that simple fact.
AURORA CAMACHO DE SCHMIDT Director, U.S.-Mexico Border Program American Friends
Service Committee New York, March 25, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 2, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

The Unluckiest Cubans

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 393 words


The story sounds like Dickens, rewritten by Kafka and updated by Joseph Heller:

The exhausted Cuban refugee confronts a stern immigration official who asks,
''Have you ever been in prison?'' He has, briefly, for a bit of black
marketeering frowned upon by Fidel Castro. In Cuba he would lie about it, but
this is America. So he tells the truth, and is hustled off to a penitentiary. He
is ''excludable.''

Eventually he gets a hearing, but it doesn't go well. He lacks court records and
witnesses, yet the burden is on him to prove that he is not a dangerous
criminal. As it sinks in that he might remain locked up indefinitely, he wonders
if it wouldn't be better to return to Cuba, to take his chances. But the Cubans
won't hear of it.

Finally outrage takes over. What about the wonderful American Constitution? Ah,
that only applies to people who are in America.  Because he is ''excludable,''
at least legally, he is not yet ''in'' America.

But of course this K. and 1,800 other Cuban emigres who are being held as
excludables are most decidedly in America. Some have serious criminal records
and would pose a danger if set free. But many appear to have only slightly
blemished records. No one knows for sure. The immigration laws, however, do not
entitle them to the presumption of innocence, and so the doubt works against
them. The situation so disturbed a Federal judge in Kansas that he ordered the
release of a 48-year-old Cuban inmate in whom he recognized no ''threat to
public safety.'' The man remains in prison pending appeal.

The Carter Administration undertook a two-part program for dealing with such
Cuban prisoners. It proposed a review panel that would assess each case and
release those judged not dangerous. At the same time, it started quiet
negotiations with Cuba to arrange the return of truly ''undesirable'' criminals.
Before any deal could be nailed down, Ronald Reagan assumed office and suspended
the talks until there had been a wider review of refugee and immigration policy.

May that review, soon to be completed, give these unluckiest Cubans some reason
for hope. When there is little recourse in law, a year is too long to spend in a
maximum-security prison - for administrative reasons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 6, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

VETO RULE ATTACKED BY ADMINISTRATION

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 5


The Reagan Administration has questioned the constitutionality of all
legislative vetoes in urging the Supreme Court to strike down a provision in the
immigration law that authorizes either house of Congress to veto certain rulings
by the Attorney General.

''Various forms of Congressional control of executive action, short of duly
enacted legislation, are unconstitutional,'' the Justice Department stated in
papers filed in the Supreme Court Friday, in what it said was ''the view of this
and previous Administrations.''

The statement contrasted with campaign statements by Mr. Reagan last year and a
Republican platform provision, which broadly endorsed use of the legislative
veto as a means of controlling regulatory agencies.

A legislative veto is an action by Congress or, in some cases, a Congressional
committee to overrule a regulation or other action by an executive branch or
independent regulatory agency without meeting the constitutional requirements
for enacting a new law.

Veto Authorized by 150 Laws

More than 150 existing laws have provisions authorizing legislative vetoes. Some
allow either the House, the Senate or a committee of either body to veto
specified regulations or other executive branch actions. Others require
agreement by both houses on such a veto but allow no role for the President.

In its brief to the Supreme Court, the Justice Department argued that the
one-house veto provision in the Immigration and Naturalization Act was
unconstitutional because ''any exercise by Congress of its legislative powers
must receive the concurrence of both houses and be submitted to the President
for his approval or veto.''

The provision ''also violates the separation of powers under the Constitution by
involving the legislative branch in the execution of the law,'' the Justice
Department argued.

The Supreme Court has never ruled on the constitutionality of the legislative
veto, which has become increasingly popular in Congress in the last decade but
which has been opposed by every President since Herbert Hoover as an
encroachment on Presidential powers.

Related Case in Appeals Court

The Justice Department's appeal to the Supreme Court was unusual in that the
department had argued successfully against the veto in a case in the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco. The appeals
court struck down the one-house veto provision as unconstitutional in December.

The case involved deportation proceedings against Jagdish Rai Chadha, a Kenyan
of Indian extraction, who came to the United States in 1966 on a student visa
and sought to stay after the visa expired in 1972. He said it would be difficult
or impossible for him to return to Kenya or go to Great Britain because of his
race.

Immigration officials ''suspended'' deportation of Mr. Chadha on hardship
grounds, under a provision of the immigration act authorizing the Attorney
General or his designate to take such action subject to the power of either
house of Congress to invalidate it.

The House disapproved this decision without debate or a recorded vote and called
for the deportation of Mr. Chadha and five other aliens in December 1975. Joshua
Eilberg, then a Democratic Representative from Pennsylvania and the sponsor of
the disapproval resolution, said that the six aliens did not appear to meet the
legal requirements for suspension of deportation.

Ruling Praised by Carter

Mr. Chadha's lawyers, joined by the Justice Department, asked the appeals court
to declare as unconstitutional the legislative veto and the immigration act
provision.

The appeals court's ruling in favor of Mr. Chadha was the first time a Federal
court had invalidated a legislative veto provision.  Jimmy Carter, then
President, praised the decision as ''profoundly significant.''

Justice Department lawyers had said that they would seek a Supreme Court ruling
affirming this decision, hoping to resolve the constitutionality of legislative
vetoes, and that there was precedent for such an appeal in cases involving the
constitutionality of acts of Congress.

Last month, the Justice Department denounced as unconstitutional a bill that
would give either house of Congress the power to veto rules and regulations
adopted by Federal agencies in the absence of contrary action by the other
house.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 17, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AIDES' UNCERTAINTY ON RULES IS KEEPING THOUSANDS IN ASIA REFUGEE CAMPS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1250 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16


United States immigration officials, uncertain of the new legal standard for
identifying refugees, have held up the admission of 5,000 to 6,000 people from
Indochina who have been stranded for months in refugee camps in Southeast Asia.

The State Department insists that they are refugees because they have a
''well-founded fear'' of suffering persecution if they return to their homes in
Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. has written
to Attorney General William French Smith complaining that American Federal
immigration officers in Southeast Asia have deferred action on refugee
applications at a rate much higher than was justified.

Senior State Department officials, including Walter J. Stoessel Jr., the Under
Secretary for Political Affairs, and Morton I.  Abramowitz, the Ambassador to
Thailand, met Wednesday with Mr. Smith to emphasize their concern.

The Associate Attorney General, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who attended the meeting,
said yesterday that immigration officers had deferred action on 16 percent of
the Indochina refugee applicants interviewed since January. In recent months, he
said, the rate of deferrals was even higher, and since last October 5,000 to
6,000 applications, representing 8 percent of the people interviewed, had been
deferred.

The Obligation of the U.S.

These cases represent a small fraction of the 317,000 people living in the Asian
camps. The debate over them is part of a larger concern over what obligation the
United States has to the people of Indochina after two decades of American
involvement there. After Federal officials decide the cases now in dispute, they
will have to act on many thousands of similar matters involving refugees who
want to come to the United States.

Mr. Giuliani said that, on the basis of information provided by the State
Department, the ''vast majority'' of the 5,000 to 6,000 applicants were
legitimate refugees and should be recognized as such. Mr. Smith said he would
probably issue a directive to that effect next week.

Mr. Giuliani and other Justice Department officials said that immigration
officers in Southeast Asia had apparently changed the way they were applying the
law without going through the chain of command by checking with the State
Department or consulting Congress.

Questions and Problems Posed

The controversy illustrates some of the questions and problems that have arisen
in the Indochinese refugee program in its six years.  Among the questions are
these:

If the United States has a special responsibility to the people of Southeast
Asia arising from its involvement in the war there, how long does the
responsibility last?

Is it important for the United States to provide a non-Communist alternative to
the peoples of Indochina?  Do generous opportunities for resettlement stimulate
the exodus of people from Vietnam and other countries of Indochina?  At what
point does the flow of refugees become simply a stream of immigrants?  In the
past, Attorneys General admitted refugees on an ad hoc basis, and the definition
of ''refugee'' was limited to those fleeing Communist countries or the Middle
East. The Refugee Act of 1980 ended those restrictions, deleted the reference to
Communist countries and incorporated the broader United Nations definition,
under which a refugee is anyone outside his home country who will not return for
fear of persecution.

The law also required the Attorney General to consult with Congress at the
beginning of each fiscal year on the number of refugees to be admitted from each
country.

In recent months, immigration officers in Southeast Asia have reported that some
of the Asians they interviewed were apparently not political refugees or persons
of ''special concern'' to the United States. State Department officials contend
that last fall formal consultations with Congress established a presumption that
the Indochinese were refugees. As a result of those consultations, the United
States pledged to take 168,000 Indochina refugees this year, or 14,000 a month.

State Department officials said that hardly any refugees were escaping from
Cambodia but that ''boat people'' were still leaving Vietnam at a rate of 5,000
to 6,000 a month. Also, they said, the exodus from Laos continues at a rate of
4,500 a month. The officials estimated that of the 317,000 refugees in camps
throughout the region, 247,000 were in Thailand. They said that many of the
Khmer refugees from Cambodia had been in Thai camps for a year and a half.

'Blanket Assumption' Questioned

A study published last November by the Joint Economic Committee of Congress said
there was reason to question the ''blanket assumption'' that all those leaving
Laos and Vietnam were refugees. The study, written by Dr. Astri Suhrke of
American University here, said, ''Most recent arrivals are 'low-risk' refugees
that do not belong to harassed minority groups, do not have close family ties in
the United States and were not associated with American programs during the
war.''

Dr. Suhrke said that the policy of the United States toward persons fleeing such
non-Communist countries as Haiti was stricter than its policy toward Vietnamese
and Laotians. The Refugee Act was intended to curb such differentiating
treatment of would-be refugees.

The State Department, in a formal comment on Dr. Suhrke's study, said it was
flawed by a ''benign view'' of the Communist totalitarian governments in
Indochina.

To answer some of the questions raised by Dr. Suhrke and others, the United
States says it plans to send a fact-finding team to Southeast Asia to visit
refugee camps, interview refugees and talk to officials in the ''first-asylum''
countries, including Thailand and Malaysia.

Habib's Task Delaying Panel

Tentatively selected as members of the panel are Philip C. Habib, a former
Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian Affairs, and James F. Greene, former
Deputy Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The panel's
departure has been delayed by Mr. Habib's role as a special envoy assigned to
try to ease the crisis caused by Syria's deployment of missiles in Lebanon.

The first-asylum countries of Southeast Asia have provided a haven for Indochina
refugees on the assumption that most of them would ultimately be resettled
elsewhere. State Department officials say that if the United States and other
countries stopped taking refugees for resettlement, they fear that the
first-asylum countries might once more push refugees out to sea or back across
their borders.

State Department officials said immizration officers were not trained to
appreciate the political conditions in Southeast Asia.  They said that each of
the ethnic groups of Indochina, the Khmer, the Hmong and the Lao, had
distinctive problems that must be evaluated with care.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, proposed last year to let
State Department consular officers process refugee applications, as immigration
officers now do, but Congress did not accept the proposal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 21, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Deports 3 Cuban Refugees Who Came Through Costa Rica

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 15, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 20


The Federal Government has deported a family of three Cuban refugees who arrived
illegally in this country from Costa Rica last February.

It was believed to be the first time since relations were cut with the Fidel
Castro regime in 1961 that the United States had deported Cuban refugees who
arrived from a third country.

Dinora and Carlos Palomino and their 7-year-old son, Enarxis, were flown to San
Jose, Costa Rica, yesterday.  They were among 10 Cubans who arrived in Miami
illegally last February. An judge from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service signed deportation papers against the group two weeks ago, but the seven
others have not been sent back.

The family's attorney, Mark J. Newman, obtained a five-minute emergency hearing
with Federal District Judge Edward Davis just before the three boarded the
plane, but he refused to stop the deportation.

They were seeking political asylum, but Judge Moseley said that was not the
issue, observing, ''Costa Rica is not Cuba.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEE POLICY;
ANNANDALE, Va. - In May 1980, President Carter welcomed the Cuban ''boat
people'' with open arms. But now, in May 1981, President Reagan's interagency
Task Force on Immigration and Refugee Policy may recommend that boats carrying
Haitians be intercepted in international waters. In the intervening year, the
United States' desire to live up to its tradition of welcome and to honor a
United Nations treaty to which it is a party has confronted a fear that this
country has become vulnerable to repeated inundations by masses of deprived
peoples.

BYLINE: By Ronald S. Scheinman and Norman L. Zucker

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 792 words


Two fundamentally conflicting attitudes are at the heart of the immigration
issue: the instinct to protect what we have achieved, and the equally strong
impulse to preserve our heritage as history's most open and successful
multi-cultural society.

The large-scale influx of Cubans into Florida underscored a phenomenon largely
ignored until then: the accelerating flow of arrivals into the United States as
a country of first asylum.  Haitians, Nicaraguans, Salvadorans, and others
pushed and pulled by political and economic forces had been entering in large
numbers.  Unlike the Mexican undocumented aliens, who were clearly economic
migrants, many of these others contended that they were refugees.

The problem of distinguishing bona fide refugees from economic migrants has
become acute. It is true that neither our domestic laws nor the United Nations
treaty on refugees, which we ratified in 1968, obliges us to accept refugees; we
must only refrain from forcibly returning them to territories where their lives
or liberty might be endangered. Our asylum policy relating to this hemisphere
has in the past considered only one set of alternatives: resettling the refugees
in this country or returning them to their homes. Both approaches, however, have
been merely reactive.

What is needed is a cost-conscious policy that tries to respect this country's
ethical and legal obligations, protect its economic achievements, reduce the
potential for domestic conflict, and serve its interests in promoting sound
international economic development.

Such a policy should have two priorities: the long-term objective of improving
economic and political conditions in the sending countries, and the more
attainable goal of providing appropriate inducements for countries in this
hemisphere to resettle aliens that the United States cannot accept permanently.
Although successful programs for assistance abroad are not legion, and although,
at a time of dramatic United States domestic cutbacks, the political climate is
hardly right for proposing new disbursements for foreign expenditures, the first
step toward relieving pressures at home ought to be economic incentives for
neighboring countries to accept and resettle numbers of emigres.

There are three reasons why such a policy could prove attractive here and
abroad. First, in the United States the expense of resettling refugees is higher
than anywhere else. We estimate that the average initial resettlement costs in
this country are $3,000 per capita. This figure does not include social
services, medical benefits, and cash support that may continue for years until
the migrant is self-sufficient. Second, funds to resettle refugees in third
countries, if channeled through international bodies and flexible enough to
benefit the host country's population, may well attract other public and private
money for development and investment. Finally, these migrants - the peasants as
much as the educated elite - are the seeds of the Western Hemisphere's
productive and intellectual capacities. It is both more sensible and more
humanitarian to distribute their potential regionally than to concentrate it in
this country or to forcibly repatriate them to the conditions they fled.

The United States should have no illusions about the ease or speed of
implementing such a policy, or even of its ultimate realization.  We tried, with
thundering lack of success, to internationalize responsibility for the Cuban
entrants last spring. (We did not, however, offer financial inducements.)
Furthermore, the origins of this problem lie in large-scale social and political
problems that transcend national boundaries, and therefore exceed the reach of
national decision-making. We ought not to delude ourselves that our
technological achievements can be duplicated in the social and economic spheres,
because the circumstances that create refugees and economic migrants are part of
the larger human condition.

Our immigration problems will not be resolved, at least within the bounds of our
laws and political philosophy, until these other issues are confronted.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Ronald S. Scheinman, who has worked for the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees and the United Sates Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee
Policy, is a consultant on immigration matters. Norman L. Zucker, professor of
political science at the University of Rhode Island, is writing a book on
refugee policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: op-ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Five Charged in Beating Of Refugees From Cuba

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28


A supervisor at the Immigration and Naturalization Service and four detention
officers were indicted yesterday, charged with beating and abusing Cuban
refugees at Fort Chaffee, Ark., last fall.

A Federal indictment returned in Federal District Court in Fort Smith, Ark.,
also charged one of the men with conspiring to attempt a cover-up by erasing
medical records.

The indictment named Curtis A. Clark, a supervisory detention officer from Elk
Grove Village, Ill.; and four detention officers: Jimmy P. Davis of Yuma, Ariz.,
James A. Lane and Eugene Pallaschi of New York City and Wayne Richardson of
Denver.

All five employees were charged in one count with conspiring to inflict bodily
harm on the refugees by assaulting them with such weapons as riot batons between
Sept. 23 and Oct. 27, 1980.

Attorney General William French Smith said the indictment resulted from a
six-month investigation of the handling of a disturbance at the refugee camp,
where Cubans were placed after an exodus from Cuba last spring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 31, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 82 words


''It is to such totalitarian states and the kinds of punishment they mete out
that we doom people to return, if we accept and carry to its logical conclusion
the I.N.S. action. In my view, this Administration does not wish to be seen as
contributing to the creation of that kind of tragedy.'' - Secretary of State
Alexander M. Haig Jr., in a letter urging reversal of an immigration policy
limiting the entry of Indochinese refugees. (13:5.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 6, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIAN DEPORTATIONS START; U.S. ORDERS OPEN HEARINGS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5


The immigration authorities in Miami have begun mass deportation proceedings
against newly arrived Haitians, processing 35 cases a day in locked courtrooms
from which private lawyers have been barred.

Justice Department officials, after receiving complaints and inquiries about the
unusual procedures, said tonight that they would direct the authorities in Miami
to hold the hearings in open court, one case at a time. Associate Attorney
General Rudolph W. Giuliani added that each Haitian would be clearly advised of
his right to consult a lawyer.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration agency here, acknowledged that the
proceedings this week in Miami represented a change in practice. Haitians and
Cubans who arrived in the United States without visas before last Oct. 10 were
given special legal status permitting them to remain in the United States.
Action against those arriving since then was held in abeyance while immigration
officials decided what to do with them.

Mr. Jervis said that the agency was going forward with proceedings to expel the
6,000 Haitians who arrived after Oct. 10. The 35,000 Haitians who previously
arrived in Florida and were known to the immigration agency have been allowed to
stay.

Lawyer 'Thrown Out of Courtroom'

Steven D. Forester, an attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, said
that the group hearings and deportations represented a ''total departure'' from
the practice followed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service over the
last two years.

''On Monday,'' Mr. Forester said, ''I was thrown out of a courtroom in which an
immigration judge was holding a mass hearing for 35 Haitians. Twenty-five of
them received final orders of exclusion.''

Representative Shirley Chisholm, Democrat of Brooklyn, said today that the
proceedings in Miami were ''clear violations of due process'' of law. In a
two-page letter to Attorney General William French Smith, she said the
deportations should be halted ''until there is a full and complete investigation
of the practices'' in court and at the detention center where the Haitians have
been held.

Mrs. Chisholm and other members of the Congressional Black Caucus have
complained for more than a year that Haitians were treated more harshly than
other aliens seeking refuge in the United States.

Many Willing to Return

Mr. Jervis and Judge Joseph W. Monsanto, the nation's chief immigration judge,
based in Miami, confirmed that the proceedings were being conducted on a larger
scale than in the past.

Mr. Jervis said that 11 Haitians who had entered the United States illegally
returned to Haiti yesterday and 14 more departed today.  These 25 Haitians, he
added, told the court they were not afraid to return to their homeland.

At least 140 Haitians have been through such proceedings this week, Mr. Jervis
said. Ninety indicated that they were willing to go back to Haiti, he said, and
the others were to have further hearings.

The immigration agency maintains that the Haitians arrived in the United States
without visas and have no right to remain. In the past, most of the Haitian
refugees were allowed to stay here pending a resolution of their request for
political asylum.

Judge Monsanto said, ''I am requiring the judges to perform their tasks strictly
as the law requires - nothing more, nothing less.''

Violation of Ethics Alleged

He also said that Mr. Forester's attempt to seek access to the Haitians was an
effort to solicit business in violation of the canons of professonal ethics. The
Haitians ''have as much of a right not to have a lawyer as to have one,'' Judge
Monsanto said, noting that Mr. Forester had not been hired by the aliens.

The judge said that the courtroom had been closed in keeping with Section 236 of
the Immigration and Nationality Act, which says that an inquiry into the
admissibility of an alien ''shall be kept separate and apart from the public.''

Mr. Forester added, however, that under the immigration agency's rules, an alien
could waive his right to a closed hearing and ask for an open proceeding.

In her letter to the Attorney General, Mrs. Chisholm said that the new practices
were reminiscent of Carter Administration policies that were condemned last year
by Federal District Judge James Lawrence King in a class-action suit filed on
behalf of 5,000 Haitians.

Federal Judge's Opinion Cited

''Those Haitians who came to the United States seeking freedom and justice did
not find it,'' Judge King said in his opinion.  ''Instead, they were confronted
with an Immigration and Naturalization Service determined to deport them.'' The
results, he said, were ''offensive to the very notion of constitutional due
process and equal protection.''

Dale Frederick Swartz 3d, an attorney for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil
Rights Under Law, who represented the Haitians in the case before Judge King,
said the immigration agency had apparently decided that ''it must resort to sham
and secret proceedings'' because the Haitians might otherwise qualify for
political asylum.

Mr. Forester and a Justice Department lawyer who visited Haitians being held at
the Krome Avenue detention camp outside Miami said that telephone service there
had been disrupted, apparently by construction work in the area. As a result,
they said, the Haitians often could not communicate with lawyers.

Altogether, according to Judge Monsanto, there are about 800 Haitians for whom
proceedings must be held. The judge said he intended to step up the pace to 40 a
day next week. It was not immediately clear whether those plans would be
affected by the directive issued tonight by the Justice Department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

PUTTING IMMIGRATION INTO PROPER FOCUS

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 224 words


To the Editor:

In his June 1 news article ''Future Unclear for Reagan's Bold Immigration
Plan,'' John Crewdson says that the Administration's Interagency Task Force on
Immigration Policy is concerned that, with current rates of fertility and
immigration, by the year 2030 onefifth of the country's projected population of
300 million will be composed of immigrants who have arrived here since 1980, or
their descendants.

Your readers might be interested in knowing that eight other advanced industrial
countries (Australia, Switzerland, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, France,
Sweden and Great Britain) currently have a higher percentage of foreign-born
than does the United States. Further, the percentage of foreign-born in this
country, counting those who are here legally, actually has gone down sharply,
despite recent increases in immigration and refugee admissions.

The cause of concern is clear. It is not the percentage of legal immigrants and
refugees out of the total population but the presence of large numbers of
persons who have come to the United States outside the law or who abuse their
non-immigrant visas that is alarming.

I applaud the Reagan Administration's efforts to cope with these problems.
(Rev.) THEODORE M. HESBURGH, Co-chairman, Citizens' Committee for Immigration
Reform, Washington, June 2, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: cartoon of immigrants

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. DEPORTATIONS OF HAITIANS HALTED

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that it would suspend
deportation proceedings against Haitians pending a review of the procedures that
govern such hearings.

Lawyers trying to represent the Haitians complained last Friday that the aliens
had been denied due process of law because the preliminary hearings were held in
locked courtrooms from which private attorneys and spectators were barred.

The lawyers also complained that the Haitians were being brought before
immigration judges in groups of 17 or 18 rather than one by one.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said that for the last
four years the Government had been under a court order preventing the expulsion
of Haitians. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which
includes Florida, lifted the restrictions last December.

''I.N.S. is reviewing the legal and logistical problems inherent in resuming the
exclusion process after this long interruption,'' Mr.  Jervis said today in a
prepared statement. ''The Government fully intends to enforce the immigration
law consistent with proper legal and procedural protection of the aliens.''

Last week, at least 140 Haitians went through expulsion proceedings in Miami.
The immigration service contends that the refugees have no right to remain in
the United States because they failed to obtain visas or other travel documents
before entering.

Cases to Be Reviewed

''Haitians who have been found excludable or agreed to voluntarily depart within
the past week are having their cases reviewed before action is taken to remove
them from the country,'' Mr. Jervis said.

The suspension of proceedings, according to Mr. Jervis, will have no effect on
the 25 Haitians who were deported last week. Mr. Jervis said that the
immigration service had no plans to bring them back to the United States for
further hearings.

David W. Crosland, general counsel of the immigration service, said that he
expected the hearings to resume late this week.  Approximately 6,000 Haitians
have arrived in the United States since last October. Immigration officials have
said that they regard deportation proceedings as a way to discourage further
migration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 10, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. PREPARES TO EXPEL 76 HAITIANS AFTER FINDING RIGHTS WERE HEEDED

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that it had reviewed last
week's hearings on 76 Haitians in this country and would expel them as soon as
travel documents were issued by the Haitian Government.

The agency said that the review showed that all 76 had been advised of their
rights to legal counsel on two occasions and of their right to a formal hearing
on the exclusion proceedings against them.

Attorneys for the Haitians had protested the conduct of the hearings in Miami,
particularly because the sessions were closed to the public and because the
Haitians were dealt with as a group rather than given individual hearings.

But the agency said today that all 76 were questioned individually by
immigration judges on whether they had documents permitting them to enter the
United States and they were each asked if they feared persecution if they
returned to Haiti. The agency said that all those who requested lawyers or
expressed fear of returning to Haiti were granted a continuance of their
proceedings.

11 Have Returned to Haiti

The agency reported that 136 hearings were held last week before immigration
judges. Twenty-six hearings were continued so that Haitians could obtain
attorneys; 14 were continued so that an asylum claim could be filed, and 96
Haitians were ordered expelled from the country. Of the 96, 11 were returned to
Haiti last Thursday and the immigration agency is completing documentation on
nine others.

The agency said that the 76 who are scheduled to return to Haiti had waived
their rights to a lawyer and said that they were not afraid to return to their
own country. As a result, they were ordered excluded. The agency said that they
were advised of their right to appeal the exclusion order and did not do so.

''We are satisfied that the rights of the Haitians who entered illegally without
documents were adequately protected and that they were fully aware of their
rights,'' said David Crosland, general counsel of the immigration service.
''They chose not to contest their expulsion.''

Officials said that exclusion hearings for Haitians illegally in this country
would soon be resumed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 13, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SMITH URGES MIAMI BUSINESSMEN AS HEAD OF IMMIGRATION SERVICE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12


Attorney General William French Smith has asked President Reagan to nominate
Norman Braman, a 48-year-old Miami businessman, to be Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization.

Justice Department officials said today that the choice of Mr.  Braman reflected
the Administration's conclusion that management expertise was the quality most
needed in the person who would direct the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Members of Congress, Government auditors and immigration attorneys had
complained for years that the agency was mismanaged.

Mr. Braman started a chain of discount drug stores in Pennsylvania before moving
to Florida, where he is the head of an automobile sales and leasing
organization. He owns Braman Cadillac, which he has described as the largest
Cadillac retail dealership in the country.

Meanwhile, Justice Department officials said that President Reagan intended to
replace Peter B. Bensinger, the head of the Drug Enforcement Administration. Mr.
Bensinger was appointed by President Ford in 1975 and retained by President
Carter.

Budget Opposition Cited

A Reagan Administration official said that Mr. Bensinger was regarded as a poor
''team player'' because he had lobbied against budget cuts that the White House
had proposed for his agency.

John H. Langer, a spokesman for the drug agency, said that Mr.  Bensinger was on
a brief vacation, on a sailboat in the Chesapeake Bay, and could not be reached
for comment. Mr. Bensinger had apparently not been formally notified of the
President's plans to replace him.

At a meeting with reporters on May 14, Associate Attorney General Rudolph W.
Giuliani sharply criticized the drug enforcement agency, saying that the Federal
effort against narcotics had had ''abysmal'' results in the last four years.
Attorney General Smith said recently that ''drug enforcement simply was not a
priority of the previous Administration.'' However, neither Mr. Giuliani nor Mr.
Smith has publicly criticized Mr. Bensinger by name.

Mr. Smith has emphasized the control of illicit drug traffic as a means of
combating violent crime.

Interim Leadership Possible

Mr. Bensinger's deputy, Frederick A. Rody Jr., is scheduled to leave Washington
for another assignment at the end of next week. The agency may be run by interim
appointees for several months because no one has been selected to succeed either
Mr. Bensinger or Mr. Rody.

The immigration service has been under the direction of temporary appointees for
20 months, since Leonel J. Castillo left office at the end of September 1979.
David W. Crosland, the general counsel of the agency, served as acting
commissioner until last month, when the Attorney General named Doris M. Meissner
to serve in that capacity.

Mr. Braman described himself as ''the product of a good, sane immigration
policy,'' noting that his mother had come from Rumania and his father from
Poland.

Mr. Braman was a fund raiser for Mr. Reagan in last year's Presidential
campaign. He is vice president of the Greater Miami Jewish Federation and
chairman of the local United Jewish Appeal campaign.

----

Hearing on Haitians Postponed

Special to the New York Times

MIAMI, June 12 - A hearing to determine the legality and fairness of deportation
proceedings against undocumented Haitians was postponed today by a United States
District Court judge here.

Judge Alcee Hastings instructed the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
make transcripts of its June 1-5 Miami deportation hearings at which 76 Haitians
were ordered deported to their country. He indicated he might begin taking
testimony next Wednesday.

The judge ruled on a petition filed on behalf of the Haitians by the Haitian
Refugee Center Inc. and the American Civil Liberties Union. The disposition of
the case could affect more than 6,000 Haitians who might be deported as
undocumented aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 20, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

L.I. MAN ACCUSED AT TRIAL OF NAZI PAST

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: WESTBURY, L.I., June 19


The United States Government is seeking to deport a 62-year-old Long Island man
who is said to have been an officer at a Nazi prison camp in Estonia. Some
12,000 Eastern Europeans, including 2,000 Jews, were executed at the camp in
World War II.

During a weeklong, nonjury trial in Federal District Court here before Judge
Jacob Mishler, the Government argued that the man - Karl Linnas, a draftsman who
lives in Greenlawn - had lied to immigration authorities in 1951 when he entered
the country as a displaced person from Germany. The Government said he had lied
again when he became a United States citizen in 1960, by saying that he had been
a student during World War II.

Using a series of television interviews taped in the Soviet Union three months
ago, and documents allegedly found in files at the prison camp, Federal lawyers
attempted to show that Mr. Linnas was an officer in an Estonian partisan group
that had collaborated with the German army and conducted executions of Jews and
Communists at the prison in Tartu, Estonia, in 1941.

The charges were denied by Mr. Linnas through his lawyer, Ivars Berzins, who
attempted to prove that any testimony or documents provided in the Soviet Union
were not trustworthy. Mr. Linnas did not appear in court during the proceedings,
and Mr. Berzins refused to talk with reporters.

Death Sentence in U.S.S.R.

Mr. Linnas was tried in absentia in the Soviet Union 20 years ago and sentenced
to death on charges of war crimes. The United States ignored a Soviet request in
1961 to extradite Mr. Linnas, who declared that the charges against him were
''Moscow propaganda.''

To support this contention, Mr. Berzins today called a former Soviet prosecutor
and member of the Moscow bar association as a witness. Speaking through an
interpreter, the witness, Frederick Nezansky, said the Soviet judicial system
did not hesitate to produce forged documents or perjured witnesses.

''What you have to say is very interesting, but what has this got to do with
this case?'' asked Judge Mishler. ''Can you show us that a document introduced
in this case is a forgery?''

''No,'' Mr. Nezansky responded.

Takes the Fifth 95 Times

Among the documents were notes that had supposedly been signed by Mr. Linnas
when he allegedly served as an officer in the prison camp.  Neal M. Sher, deputy
director of a special unit of the Justice Department that was created two years
ago to pursue the prosecution of Nazi war criminals, said that Mr. Linnas,
beyond giving his name, had refused to answer any questions during pretrial
proceedings and that he had invoked the Fifth Amendment against
self-incrimination 95 times.

In videotaped testimony taken in Estonia and with his image appearing on three
television screens, Elmar Puusepp, a 74-year-old Estonian, said he saw Mr.
Linnas herd a group of Jews, including a 5-year-old girl with a doll, aboard a
bus. About a half-hour later, Mr. Puusepp said, the bus returned to camp empty,
except for the doll, which a guard took to a warehouse. According to the
testimony, the bus riders had been taken to a site nearby and shot to death.

Another videotaped witness, Hans Laats, said he had seen Mr. Linnas order the
execution of several Communists. Mr. Laats, a 66-year-old forestry inspector,
was an administrator at the Tartu camp. He served 12 years of a 20-year sentence
for collaboration with the Nazis.

The videotapes were made in Tallinn, the Estonian capital. The witnesses were
cross-examined by Rodney Smith and Martha Talley, the two Justice Department
lawyers who prosecuted the case this week in Westbury.

Judge Mishler today reserved decision and told lawyers for both sides to submit
their final written arguments to him within two weeks. Government officials said
that should Mr. Linnas be found guilty, the appeals process and deportation
proceedings would take at least seven years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 24, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

JUDGE RULES AUTOWORKER MUST LOSE U.S. CITIZENSHIP FOR FALSIFYING PAST

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, June 23


A Federal district judge today ruled that John Demjanjuk, a Ukrainian-born
autoworker accused of covering up Nazi war atrocities, must be stripped of his
United States citizenship because he concealed his past from immigration
officials.

In issuing the order, Judge Frank Battisti also dismissed a defense request for
a new trial. The five-week civil trial ended March 11.  In a 44-page opinion,
Judge Battisti said: ''The defendant's certificate of naturalization must be
canceled as it was procured by concealment of a material fact or by willful
misrepresentation.''

Mr. Demjanjuk, 61 years old, was accused by the Government of concealing his
service in World War II as a guard in a Nazi death camp when he applied to enter
the United States.

Government prosecutors contended that Mr. Demjanjuk was really a notorious guard
who was called Ivan the Terrible who served at death camps at Treblinka and
Sobibor, Poland. Among the 13 prosecution witnesses were five survivors who
identified a 1952 picture of Mr.Demjanjuk as that of Ivan.

Says He Was a Prisoner Until '45

Mr. Demjanjuk testified that he was a Soviet soldier captured by the Germans in
1942 and held prisoner until 1945. He acknowledged being placed by the Nazis in
a military unit of captured Ukrainians but said he never fought for the Nazis or
helped them.

He said that he lied on his applications to enter the United States under the
Displaced Persons Act by saying he had been a farmer in Poland in the war
because, as a Ukranian, he feared being repatriated to the Soviet Union. The
Displaced Persons Act excluded Germans or Nazi collaborators.

The case is among 19 being prosecuted by the Justice Department's office of
special investigations, formed in 1979 to find and prosecute Nazi war criminals
in the United States for violating United States immigration laws.

One defendant, Feodor Fedorenko, faces deportation now that the United States
Supreme Court has upheld his denaturalization by a Federal judge in Florida. Mr.
Fedorenko, also a Ukrainian, served as a guard at Treblinka but there was no
testimony that he persecuted prisoners.

Spiros Gonakins, one of Mr. Demjanjuk's lawyers, said the ruling would be
appealed. There was no immediate comment from Mr. Demjanjuk or his family.

As the decision was released, 20 Cleveland Ukrainians gathered outside the
courthouse to protest the ruling. They contend that Mr.  Demjanjuk was a victim
of Soviet persecution of Ukrainians and other members of nationalist groups in
the Soviet Union. They protested at the trial that the prosecution used as
evidence a document from Soviet archives, an identification card issued to one
Iwan Demjanjuk at a Nazi training camp at Trawniki, Poland, in 1942.

''He hasn't been treated fairly because of the intervention of the Soviet
Union,'' said Zenon Krislaty, founder of the Committee Against Use of Soviet
Evidence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
An Associated Press dispatch in The Times yesterday on a ruling that John
Demjanjuk, a former Nazi guard, be stripped of his citizenship, contained errors
regarding another former guard, Feodor Fedorenko. Mr. Fedorenko's deportation,
upheld by the United States Supreme Court, affirmed a ruling by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. At his trial Mr. Fedorenko
contended that he had not persecuted prisoners, but death-camp survivors
testified that he had.

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of John Demjanjuk

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SET TO GIVE 85 HAITIANS NEW IMMIGRATION HEARINGS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 6


The Justice Department, in a change of policy, said today that it was willing to
hold new hearings for 85 Haitians who had been ordered deported in proceedings
allegedly flawed by violations of the aliens' rights.

The Government had previously defended the decisions of immigration judges who
ordered expulsion of the Haitians on the ground that the aliens did not have
visas or other documents necessary to enter the United States.

However, an assistant United States attorney in Miami, Richard A.  Marshall Jr.,
said today, ''We concluded that it's appropriate to redo the hearings, based on
our independent analysis of the record.'' Mr. Marshall disclosed the
Government's decision when he appeared before Judge Alcee L. Hastings of the
Federal District Court in Miami.

Mr. Marshall did not say precisely why the Justice Department now favored new
hearings. Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said that new hearings would ''remove any appearance of unfairness'' in
the original proceedings, but he did not elaborate.

Translation Problems

Other Justice Department officials said that there appeared to have been some
mistakes made in translation of the original proceedings from English to the
Creole patois spoken by most Haitians.

For example, according to attorneys for the Haitians, an immigration judge asked
at one point whether the aliens wanted to appeal to a higher court, and this was
translated as being a question whether the Haitians wanted to move to a bigger
courtroom.

While correct translations might not have produced any different results, the
Justice Department officials said, it would have taken much time and effort for
the Government to correct the record for later litigation

Ira J. Kurzban, an attorney for the Haitians, said, ''We are delighted that the
Government has, in effect, admitted wrongdoing in regard to these 85
individuals, but we are concerned about the rights of all other Haitians in the
Krome Avenue detention camp,'' outside Miami. There are about 1,150 Haitians in
the camp, according to Mr.  Jervis.

Mr. Marshall did not explicitly admit wrongdoing by the Government, but he and
other Justice Department lawyers said that they wanted the proceedings to be
seen as fair.

Criticism on Proceedings

Mr. Kurzban said that attorneys for the Haitians wanted to be sure they would
have access to their clients in the Krome Avenue camp. In addition, he said,
they want the deportation proceedings held in regular Federal courtrooms, not at
the camp, and they want the cases to be handled one at a time. At some hearings
early last month, Haitians appeared in groups of 25 or more.

The Government has built a courtroom at the Krome Avenue camp so that hearings
can be held there.  The debate over the Haitians comes as the Reagan
Administration is trying to formulate a general policy on immigration. The fate
of the Cubans still being held at Fort Chaffee, Ark., may be discussed at a
Cabinet meeting tomorrow, but the Cabinet is not expected to make final
recommendations on other aspects of immigration policy until its meeting next
week, probably on Tuesday.

Several agencies that could be deeply involved in new immigration programs are
resisting some of the policies recommended by an interagency study group under
Attorney General William French Smith.  One such proposal is to use the Social
Security card as an identity card for workers.

For example, in an interview today, John A. Svahn, the Commissioner of Social
Security, said: ''We oppose using the Social Security card as an identifier, and
it would cost a small fortune, perhaps $860 million, to make it forgery-proof.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 9, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. STOPS AIDE TO MOON SECT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 8


The immigration authorities stopped Pak Bo Hi, a key official in the Rev. Sun
Myung Moon's Unification Church, as he tried to enter the United States today.
They said they wanted to question him in detail about the means by which he had
become a permanent resident of the United States.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
that Mr. Pak and his wife, Ki Sook Pak, were stopped at Kennedy International
Airport in New York City when they arrived from Buenos Aires. They were told to
report to the agency's New York office next week for questioning.

Justice Department officials said that Mr. Pak and other members of the church,
including Mr. Moon, had been under investigation on suspicion of possible fraud
in the way they had obtained status as permanent residents. A Justice Department
official said last month that the Government would probably begin deportation
proceedings against Mr. Moon this summer.

Permanent Resident in 1966

Mr. Pak, a former lieutenant colonel in the South Korean Army, was assistant
military attache at the Korean Embassy here from 1961 to 1965. He became a
permanent resident of the United States in 1966. In recent years, he has been
special assistant to Mr. Moon and president of the Korean Cultural and Freedom
Foundation.

A two-year Congressional investigation of Korean-American relations concluded in
1978 that Mr. Pak was one of the ''assets'' used by the Korean Central
Intelligence Agency in its efforts to gain influence in the United States.
However, Mr. Pak denied that he had ever been ''linked with or employed by the
Korean C.I.A.''

People familiar with the activities of the church said that Mr.  Pak had
supervised its day-to-day operations while Mr. Moon served as its spiritual
leader.

David Carliner, an immigration lawyer here who plans to represent Mr. Pak, said
his client had become a permanent resident ''properly and lawfully,'' and added
that he found it strange that the immigration authorities would challenge Mr.
Pak's status 15 years after granting him permanent residence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION POLICY MAY OMIT A WORKER-IDENTIFICATION CARD

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19


The announcement of a comprehensive immigration policy, delayed by disagreements
among President Reagan's advisers, is expected this week. But the plan may not
include a suggested national identity card.

The announcement is likely, according to Administration officials, to contain
other elements recommended by an 11-member advisory committee headed by Attorney
General William French Smith. But the officials said that some disputed elements
of the report have been diluted.

The committee, for example, had recommended use of a ''more secure Social
Security card'' - a document that could not easily be counterfeited - as
identification for citizens and aliens

Officials began moving Haitians to detention centers around the country,

including two in New York. Page A18.
seeking work in the United States. Administration officials said that the
Cabinet, which reviewed the panel's proposals, then decided that Mr. Reagan
should leave the question of identity cards open, subject to negotiation with
Congress.

Decisions Expected This Week

The full Cabinet did, however, urge that employers be subjected to fines and
other penalties for hiring illegal aliens. What is unclear is whether employers
could be prosecuted for such hiring in the absence of a foolproof method of
verifying the citizenship or immigration status of applicants.

''The Cabinet has finished its work,'' said Thomas P. DeCair, a spokesman for
Attorney General Smith. ''The President has not made any final decisions.'' He
said that the decisions and announcement would come soon after Mr. Reagan
returns from the summit meeting in Canada. He is due back Tuesday.

In reviewing the Smith committee proposals, White House staff members appear to
have stiffened the conditions under which illegal entrants could legitimize
their status. Thus, fewer could qualify soon for status as permanent residents.

A majority of the committee had recommended that illegal aliens who have been
here at least five years should be allowed to apply for permanent resident
status. But in a July 10 ''memorandum for the Cabinet,'' Craig L. Fuller,
director of the Office of Cabinet Administration, and other White House aides
suggested a new option, not in the committee's report. They proposed that aliens
who had entered the country illegally before Jan. 1, 1980, wait 10 years in a
''transient'' status before becoming permanent residents.

Aliens may apply for citizenship after five years as lawful permanent residents.
The memorandum said that the longer waiting period for illegal aliens would
avoid the ''potentally massive demographic and financial impact'' of creating
several million permanent resident aliens.

During the 10-year wait, aliens would not be allowed to bring in spouses or
children, according to the proposal. They would have access to medical services,
but not to welfare, food stamps or unemployment insurance.

In committee meetings, officials of the Departments of State, Justice,
Education, Labor, the Treasury, and Health and Human Services supported a
legalization program, employer sanctions and an experiment in admitting Mexicans
as temporary workers. So did Frank S.M. Hodsoll, deputy assistant to the
President.

''Employer sanctions@ (with a new I.D. card) is the only effective technique''
to stem the flow of illegal migrants, the agencies' statement said. The guest
worker program should include 50,000 Mexicans a year for two years, they said.

Two Oppose the Sanctions

But employer sanctions were opposed by the Office of Management and Budget, the
Transportation Department and Martin Anderson, President Reagan's domestic
policy adviser, who was not technically a member of the committee. They favored
a more limited legalization program and a large temporary worker program,
authorizing jobs for as many as 600,000 Mexicans, including 300,000 already
here.

The committee report said this option ''would not prohibit employers from hiring
illegal aliens.'' The temporary worker program, it said, ''could be a principal
element of expanded bilateral relations,'' even though ''recent discussions with
the Mexicans do not indicate great interest in such a program.'' The committee's
other members were the Secretary of Defense and the director of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.

Administration officials said that the Cabinet had urged the President to pursue
a strategy of ''selective interdiction,'' to intercept boats carrying Haitians
and other aliens to the United States without visas. This effort, estimated to
cost $10 million a year, would not divert significant Coast Guard resources from
drug enforcement or rescue, according to the Cabinet memorandum.

The advisory committee proposed Federal ''holding centers'' for detaining
illegal aliens as they arrive in the United States. The Cabinet endorsed this,
but said it might create political problems around the camps.

The Cabinet also urged that the President propose legislation to speed up
proceedings for expelling certain newly arrived aliens. The proceedings are slow
and ''completely unworkable'' in the event of a mass influx of aliens, Mr.
Smith's committee said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 14, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

INQUIRY IS ASKED IN SEIZURES OF 3 AS POLISH ALIENS

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Aug. 13


Senator Christopher J. Dodd said today that he had asked the Immmigration and
Naturalization Service to investigate ''claims of excessive force and hostile
behavior'' by its agents in arresting persons suspected of being Polish aliens.

Senator Dodd, in a letter to the Connecticut district director of the service,
cited three recent instances in which violence accompanied arrests of Polish
aliens or of an American citizen of Polish extraction, including one incident in
which agents chased a van in New Britain, Conn., while trying to shoot out its
tires.

Mr. Dodd's letter was supported by correspondence from an immigration lawyer
detailing allegations of harassment.  Reports of the local police on all three
incidents are sketchy. The immigration service denied allegations that excessive
force was used.

Suit Charges Harassment

The Senator's letter follows the filing of a lawsuit against the immigration
service by Polish aliens, Americans of Polish origin and the Connecticut Civil
Liberties Union. The suit, pending in Federal District Court here, charges
harassment of Polish aliens and naturalized Poles in incidents involving
brutality and warrantless searches.

The court action was taken after a series of raids around the state in the last
two years directed at rounding up Poles who enter the country on tourist visas
and then find work, often staying beyond the visa's expiration.

The letter by Mr. Dodd, a Democrat and a member of the Foreign Relations
Committee, was accompanied by material from an immigration lawyer, Ryszard S.
Mrotek of Hartford, detailing allegations of illegal conduct by immigration
agents in raids on Bongiorno's Supermarket in Stamford on June 18 and Moore's
Tool and Die Company in Stratford on July 24, and in a chase through the north
end of New Britain resulting in an arrest on Aug. 3.

In the Bongiorno Supermarket raid, agents entered the store without a warrant,
according to its manager, Maurice Nizzardo. In a telephone interview, Mr.
Nizzardo said: ''They were grabbing anyone that they thought was of Polish
descent. They more or less randomly went around choosing people.''

Handcuffed and Led Out

Those with little knowledge of English who did not have identification proving
their status as permanent residents were handcuffed behind the back and led out
of the store, Mr. Nizzardo said.

''I myself didn't see the need of these people being handcuffed,'' the manager
sgid. ''They never retaliated against the officers - they were crying.'' He said
several women were among them.

A spokesman for the immigration service denied charges of excessive force in
apprehending Poles, but added, ''There's more force used by Poles generally to
resist their arrest.'' The spokesman, John Weiss, assistant district director,
said he had ''not the foggiest idea'' why this was so.

Working on a tourist visa or overstaying a visa are not criminal charges,
immigration lawyers note, but violations of rules. Under rulings by the United
States Supreme Court, aliens who enter the country legally are entitled to the
constitutional rights of due process.

In the Moore's Tool and Die incident, a part-owner of the company driving to
work with several illegal aliens was apprehended, apparently on suspicion of
being an alien. The police report says that the man, Zenon Mocarski, a
naturalized American citizen, was taken to Bridgeport Hospital for treatment of
injuries sustained in a scuffle with immigration agents.

The agents charged him with assaulting a Federal officer, but the charges were
dropped today in Federal District Court in Bridgeport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

DEPORTATION HEARING IS SET FOR JAILED IRANIANS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 55, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 534 words

DATELINE: OTISVILLE, N.Y., Aug. 15


A tentative agreement that would have allowed 59 jailed Iranians to be released
from a Federal prison here fell through yesterday, and deportation hearings were
scheduled for Monday.

Warden Michael Quinlan had said earlier that attorneys for the Iranians had
reached an agreement Thursday with Federal immigration authorities to release
those with legal student or resident status unconditionally and to release those
whose status was in doubt on $500 bail.

But at the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service regional office in
Newark, a spokesman, John Gaffney, said the agreement was held up by a dispute
over the status of one of the men.

Immigration authorities were insisting on deporting 27-year-old Esmaiel Asadi,
whose deportation had been ordered in December 1979, Mr. Gaffney said, when
immigration officials in Houston found he had violated his status as a college
student by transferring without approval of authorities.

The deportation order was extended until July 1, 1981. Because Mr.  Asadi had
not turned himself over for deportation, immigration officials were refusing to
release him with the others, Mr. Gaffney said.

Bail Cut From $20,000

As part of the tentative agreement reached Thursday, attorneys for the jailed
men were assured they would be allowed to leave in a group, with bail for those
under investigation reduced from the current $20,000 to $500, Mr. Gaffney said.
But he said yesterday that Mr. Asadi would have to be an exception.

''We're back to square one,'' Warden Quinlan said. He said an administrative law
judge was to begin deportation hearings at the prison Monday morning.

The Iranians, who had been fasting since July 29 as part of a protest against
the Government of Ayatollah Khomeini, had refused to identify themselves to
authorities since they were taken into custody Aug. 5. But they began giving
their names Thursday night, after their attorneys reached the agreement with
immigration authorities, Mr. Quinlan said.

''As far as I know, they're still eating,'' the warden said yesterday afternoon.
Their first full meal was breakfast early yesterday, he said.

Complaints From Neighbors

The 59 were among 67 arrested in Englewood, N.J., on Aug. 5 after neighbors
complained the Iranians, who said they were students, were living in a single
house and sleeping in cars in a parking lot. They were taken into custody when
they refused to produce passports or other identification. Those who provided
sufficient information were released, and the rest were brought to the Federal
prison in this Orange County town on Aug. 7.

On Thursday, attorneys for the detained people filed suit in Federal District
Court in Manhattan seeking their release, on the ground that they were
imprisoned without due process, pending individual deportation hearings. The
suit also asked for compensatory and punitive damages, asserting that the police
entered the New Jersey apartment while the Iranians were sleeping, without a
warrant or probable cause.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 17, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SET TO START HEARINGS FOR 1,800 JAILED CUBANS

BYLINE: By REGINALD STUART, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Aug. 16


Federal District Judge Marvin Shoob has scheduled a series of hearings, the
first tomorrow morning, for hundreds of Cuban refugees held in United States
prisons since they came to this country more than a year ago with the ''freedom
flotilla.''

The hearings at Federal Court here will consider the cases of about 1,800 Cuban
refugees that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has ruled not
admissible to this country because of their criminal records. The refugees are
the only Cubans still in Federal custody out of 124,789 who came here in the
mass exodus.

Attorneys for the imprisoned Cubans say they hope many will be ordered released
by Judge Shoob soon, possibly several hundred this week. Their optimism is
partly based on recent opinions from Federal judges in several districts. The
judges ordered the release of several Cubans who had been imprisoned for reasons
similar to those that have kept many refugees detained at the Federal
penitentiary here.

2 Refugees Recently Released

The refugees' lawyers also cite two recent orders here, one by Judge Richard
Freeman and the other by Judge Shoob. The orders freed two refugees deemed not
admissible to this country because they did not have proper entry papers, which
few, if any, refugees had at the time of the mass boatlift.

''There are some who have never been convicted of a crime in either Cuba or the
United States,'' said Dale Schwartz, an immigration lawyer whom Judge Shoob has
designated as the refugees' legal counsel.

Last month, in an attempt to expedite resolution of the immigration service's
findings against the refugees, Judge Shoob ordered the Government to divide the
detainees into 12 subgroups based on the crimes they had admitted committing in
Cuba and on charges against them in this country.

The judge's move, viewed by the refugees' lawyers as a major step toward the
Cubans' freedom, resulted in a breakdown that showed a wide variation in the
magnitude of the offenses for which the refugees were being detained.

309 Lacked Entry Papers

For example, the immigration service ruled 309 refugees as not admissible, it
was found, because they did not have entry papers. In light of recent rulings by
Federal judges, this group could be ordered freed by tomorrow night.

The most serious offenses include violent crimes, such as murder and rape, but
the Government does not have a figure for refugees involved in such crimes. In
addition, 100 to 200 refugees have been declared not admissible on grounds they
are criminally insane.

Those accused of the most serious crimes may not be freed as soon as the others,
Mr. Schwartz said, but they may be ordered sent to mental institutions or other
types of prisons as opposed to being held at the aging, crowded prison here.

In January, President Carter proposed the establishment of a three-member panel
to screen each detained refugee and to review the ruling by the immigration
officers who initially determined whether an individual should be admitted or
excluded. Exclusion presents a problem, however, because Cuba has refused to
accept any returned refugees.

Only a handful of detained refugees had been released before President Reagan
delayed the panel's creation last March, pending a review of immigration policy
by an interagency panel.

When the new Administration's immigration policy was unveiled a few weeks ago,
it called for formation of the panel, which is to meet on or before Sept. 1 and
review each refugee's case separately.

Upon hearing of the Reagan Administration's intention to pursue Mr. Carter's
strategy, Judge Shoob said the plan was ''a good tune, but it's been played too
long.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 20, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AGREEMENT REACHED TO FREE IRANIANS FROM UPSTATE PRISON

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: OTISVILLE, N.Y., Aug. 19


Federal officials agreed to an arrangement late today under which 58 Iranians
who have been held in Federal prison here since Aug. 7 could be released.

The Iranians, who have refused to provide authorities with documentation showing
whether they are in this country legally, agreed to present such evidence, or
face deportation hearings.

Under the arrangement, the Iranians in the group who are found to be legal
residents will be released as early as tomorrow evening, an immigration official
said. Those who do not present evidence of their legal status will have to post
a $1,000 bond pending a hearing.

Refused to Show Evidence

The Iranians were among 67 arrested by immigration officials early this month in
Englewood, N.J., after they refused to show officials evidence that they were in
the country legally.

Government spokesmen have said that the Iranians, who describe themselves as
opponents of the regime of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, were arrested in an
apartment in Englewood after neighbors complained.

The Iranians had taken part in demonstrations outside the United Nations and had
been on a hunger strike.  Since their arrest and imprisonment at the Federal
prison in this Orange County village, the Iranians have resumed the hunger
strike, prison officials said. They did not indicate whether they would end the
strike as a result of tonight's agreement.

Claudia Stavisky, one of three lawyers for the Iranians, said that the men -
many of whom say they have relatives in Iran - face ''execution if they return''
to that country.

The arrangement for the Iranians' release, made after discussions between
officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Iranians'
lawyers, was agreed on during a recess of a deportation hearing held today at
the prison.

As part of the arrangement, Federal officials agreed to delay the deportation
scheduled for tonight of an Iranian who had been ordered to leave the country
two years ago but had not done so. He is currently in a Federal jail in New York
City.

Identified as Esmaiel Asadi, 27 years old, the prisoner was given seven days to
get a visa that would allow him to be deported to a country other than Iran.

Miss Stavisky said that the Government's reluctance to defer postponement of Mr.
Asadi's deportation was one of the factors that led to a breakdown of a similar
agreement reached last week with Federal officials. That agreement would have
allowed unconditional releases for many of the 58 men or their release on a $500
bond.

In the only deportation hearing held here today, Judge Nathan Gordon of the
Immigration Service ordered one of the Iranians, who refused to identify
himself, to be deported to France. He has 10 days to appeal the decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 22, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Haitians Land in Puerto Rico As Expulsion Hearings Start

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: JUANA DIAZ, P.R., Aug. 21


A fifth planeload of Haitian refugees, including three children, arrived from
Miami today as immigration officials began hearings that may send the refugees
back to their impoverished homeland.

An Air Florida jet arrived at Ponce's Mercedita airport from Miami carrying 96
single men and women and three children who were accompanied by the their
parents.

Immigration and Naturalization Service judges began exclusion hearings today for
28 of the more than 500 Haitian refugees who have arrived in Puerto Rico from
Miami's Krome North camp since Aug.  12.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 26, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WAVES OF CHANGE BUFFET A DREAM OF CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

DATELINE: SMITHVILLE, Mo.


The rains that ruined much of Franz Leuthardt's strawberry crop this season will
not drive the Swiss-born farmer from his 141 acres of bottom land here in rural
Missouri. But the obstacles that keep him and his family from becoming American
citizens just may.

''You've got enough trouble fighting with nature,'' says the 33-year-old Mr.
Leuthardt. ''Last year it was dry, and this year everything is in the mud. You
don't need additional trouble.''

But trouble is just what Mr. Leuthardt has had since March 1977 when he bought a
farm on the Little Platte River in this small agricultural town 20 miles north
of Kansas City.

Mr. Leuthardt, who arrived in this country with his family early in 1979 on a
temporary visa, is admired here for his agricultural savvy and hard work. But he
is scarcely any closer to the dream he has for himself, his wife and their
7-year-old son: becoming citizens of the United States.

And in Smithville, citizens are growing impatient with the Federal Government,
which they believe is unfairly keeping the family from gaining American
citizenship.

''Here these boat people come in, they didn't even have their own toothbrushes,
and there is no problem with them staying,'' said C.@F. Kindred, the owner of
Kindred Chevrolet-Oldsmobile. ''That's what really burns us up.''

Mayor Willard Pence said: ''There isn't a farm town in the country that wouldn't
like that man in the community. It's pathetic.'' The Leuthardts are among about
500 foreigners who came to this country on temporary visas hoping to qualify for
citizenship who have been caught in the middle of changing immigration patterns
and rules. In the past these people, who are in low-priority groups, would have
had a better chance of obtaining permanent visas. However, in recent years no
permanent visas have been available for these people.

System of Priorities

Investors seeking permanent visas to this country stand at the end of a long
line of immigrants. Relatives of United States citizens and individuals with
exceptional ability in the arts or sciences, for example, qualify before them.
Among those in low-priority classifications are students under the age of 16 and
clergymen who are continuing their religious work.

In years past, an investor's long wait was often rewarded with a permanent visa.
In 1976, almost 28,000 of the 286,000 permanent visas issued went to investors
or other immigrants in the nonpreference category. In 1980, however, none of the
274,000 permanent visas issued went to people in that category. The visa ceiling
was simply being reached before investors were even considered.

Federal officials say that in addition to an increase in demand for immigrant
visas, changes in immigration laws have made it more difficult for people like
the Leuthardts to get permanent visas. The changes, in 1976 and 1978, reshuffled
the demand so that a new group of aliens, residents of the Western Hemisphere,
were applying for visas in the preference categories. Before 1976, the
preference system did not apply to the Western Hemisphere.

With all visa numbers now being used by aliens claiming some type of preference,
none are available for aliens in the nonpreference category.

At one point Mr. Leuthardt thought of selling his farm and moving to Canada, but
he could not find a buyer. So he devoted himself to his ''You Pick Farm,'' where
customers pick their own fruit and vegetables in the fields.

Bill in Congress

When townspeople learned of Mr. Leuthardt's struggle to become a citizen they
took his case to their legislators, but with limited results. The House of
Representatives passed a bill last year that would have granted permanent visas
to the Leuthardts and 500 others like them. But a similar measure before the
Senate did not come to a vote. This fall, the House Judiciary Committee is to
take up similar legislation again. A Senate bill is also expected to be
introduced in this session of Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Franz Leuthardt and Judy Albright on his
strawberry farm

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 4, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS FLEE AMID PROTEST AT HOLDING CENTER IN MIAMI

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 3


About 50 Haitians detained at a refugee camp south of here pushed through a
barbed-wire fence early this morning and fled into the nearby swamps of the
Everglades National Park, but by midafternoon all but five had been recaptured,
Federal officials said.

The escape occurred after a stone-throwing demonstration by hundreds of Haitians
who protested their prolonged detention and charged overcrowding and inadequate
food at the Krome North camp, some 20 miles from downtown Miami. The camp, a
former missile site set up as part of south Florida's air defense system, is
designed to hold a maximum of 775 persons.

According to Vern Jarvis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Washington, 1,060 Haitians are being held at the camp.

The Haitians, who came to the United States by boat from Haiti or the Bahamas,
are regarded by the immigration agency as illegal aliens. Attorneys for the
Haitians have argued in Federal court hearings and at the immigration agency's
exclusion and deportation proceedings that they should be given status as
political refugees and allowed to stay in the United States.

Guards Use Tear Gas

Mr. Jarvis said in a telephone interview said that the protest started about 8
A.M. and ended three hours later, when about 50 Haitians escaped.

He said ''contract guards'' who work at the camp and immigration officials
called from Miami used tear gas to quell the demonstration after the Haitians
began throwing stones at the guards. No injuries were reported, Mr. Jarvis said.

Asked why the protest had occurred, Mr. Jarvis said: ''Principally, they wanted
to be released and I don't blame them. Such demonstrations and escapes have
happened before, and we are doing our best to ease overcrowding.''

Mr. Jarvis reported that the Haitians at Krome were being given ''institutional
food,'' which he described as comparable to that in other detention centers.

For a number of months, the agency has been trying to resettle Haitians in other
holding centers. Last month Gov. Bob Graham of Florida asked a Federal judge in
Miami to limit the number of persons detained at the camp to 775.

590 Transferred to Puerto Rico

In recent weeks the agency has transferred 590 Haitians to the newly opened
detention facility at Fort Allen, P.R., and 200 more are expected to be sent
there next week. But the almost uninterrupted inflow of Haitians has filled the
Krome camp anew.

A spokesman for the Justice Department said today that the Government had
reached a tentative agreement with local officials to use an abandoned Air Force
base near Glasgow, Mont., as a center for refugees and illegal aliens.

The agreement will be reviewed by the board of the Valley Industrial Park, which
took over the air base 20 miles north of Glasgow when the military pulled out.
Glasgow is in northeastern Montana, about 60 miles south o f the Canadian
border, where sub-zero temperatures are common in winter.

Mr. Jarvis said that if the Government decided to use the Montana base as a
refugee center, it would house Cuban refugees held at Fort Chafee, Ark., rather
than Haitians now being detained at Krome.

Some people familiar with the Haitian refugees here believe that the report of a
possible transfer of Haitians to Montana may have been a factor in today's
demonstration and breakout at Krome.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of riot police taking a Haitian to a waiting bus

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 6, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CENSUS TOTALS SHOW NATION IS DIVERSE AS NEVER BEFORE

BYLINE: By JOHN HERBERS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words


WASHINGTON DURING much of its history, the United States has had an official
policy of admitting immigrants of white European stock while barring those from
Asian, African and Latin nations. In recent years, however, all that has
changed. The inscription on the Statue of Liberty, unveiled in 1886, shortly
after passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act and inviting ''your huddled masses
yearning to breathe free,'' no longer has a hollow ring to people whose skin is
black, brown or yellow.

Not that the lamp has always been lifted in hospitality. There has been strong
opposition to many of the recent immigrants. But new statistics provided by the
1980 census and the Immigration and Naturalization Service show that they have
come in great numbers and have spread throughout the nation, although not
evenly. Many have been assimilated into the economy and society.

As a percentage of the population, the white majority has been diminished
somewhat by the tide of Mexicans, Cubans, Puerto Ricans, Asians, South
Americans, Africans and others. How much so since 1970 is unknown because 1980
census figures on race and national origin are not wholly comparable to 1970
figures. That in itself testifies to the strength of new immigrants who were
able to bring political pressure to force the Census Bureau to add more racial
groups to its forms and to stop counting some non-Negro groups with black or
brown skin as whites.

Provisional 1980 census figures show breakdowns by rough numbers and as a
percentage of the population: Whites, 188.3 million, 83.2 percent; Blacks, 26.5
million, 11.7 percent; American Indians, Eskimos and Aleutians, 1.5 million, .6
percent; Chinese, Filipinos, Japanese,

Asian India ns, Koreans, Vietnamese, Hawaiians, Samoans and Guamanians, 3 .5
million, 1.5 percent. Others, including other Asians,Mexicans, Pue rto Ricans,
Cubans, Africans and many other categories not listed on the census form
accounted for 6.7 million or 3 percent.

In a separate question, residents were asked if they were of Spanish origin.
Those who answered affirmatively totaled 14.6 million, 6.4 percent. Hispanic
people, of course, can be black or white. The vast majority in this country have
been shown by surveys to be Mexican, Puerto Rican and Cuban.

Illegal aliens, who did not respond to the census, make up an additional layer
of population. Nobody knows how many there were, but not many are believed to be
white Europeans. Furthermore, the Census Bureau concedes it could not count all
residents; its undercount was presumably greatest among blacks and browns.

Diversity Helpful to Miami

But immigration statistics for those who entered legally underscore dramatic
gains by people of non-European origin. During the 1960's, 1.3 million people
emigrated from Europe. For the decade ending last Sept. 30, European immigration
totaled only 842,000. But during the same periods, Asian immigration jumped from
362,000 to 1.5 million, African from 33,000 to 87,000, South American from
219,000 to 266,000. While Canadian immigration dropped from 304,000 to 115,000,
that from Mexico increased from 432,000 to 624,000.

Changes in the immigration laws became fully effective in 1968, lifting strict
quotas that had been in effect for decades against Asians and others of
different color and tradition than the majority of white Americans. Enacted in
1965, at the height of the civil rights movement, the new law reflected changing
racial attitudes. In addition, countries that had furnished millions of
immigrants earlier in the century became more prosperous and stable, while
people from the third world became the ''huddled masses'' knocking at the
American door. United States involvement in the Vietnam War later made it
imperative to open the door wider to refugees from Indochina. In two years
ending Sept. 30, 111,000 Vietnamese arrived, adding to a total now above one
quarter million. In Los Angeles a few weeks ago, nearly 10,000 aliens, most of
them Indochinese, were sworn in en masse as American citizens.

There are signs that the new immigrants cannot be as easily assimilated as the
Germans, Italians, Irish, Poles and other Europeans who came by the millions for
many d ecades. Struggles continue over where to place the Cuban and Ha itian
boat people who landed in Florida in 1979 and 1980. Illegal e ntry - difficult
to control in an era of international trade and travel - has thrown the
Immigration and Naturalization Service into d isarray. California officials have
been complaining about Asian r efugees overloading state welfare rolls.
Controversies rage over the proposed reimposition of restrictive quotas.

But the United States always has thrived on diversity and the new immigrants in
many respects are adding new dimensions to American life. Many who have come are
entrepreneurs and professionals who in Miami, for example, have prospered and
added to the city's wealth. In New York, scores of newly arrived ethnic groups
are restoring deteriorated neighborhoods and otherwise contributing to the
city's economy.

Asian Indians, Chinese, Filipinos and Japanese now total more than 3 million.
While they live mostly in the West and in the big Eastern and Northern cities,
they are sufficiently spread out to bring cultural diversity to many communities
that had little in the past.  Immigrants from Mexico, long a part of the
Southwest, are settling in small Middle Western towns that had been almost
totally whites of European extraction.

This kind of diversity has been increasing in every region.  Officials say there
is every indication it will continue to grow and America's experience as a
melting pot may lie more in the future than in the past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: table of 1980 census data on racial groups

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 15, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION CASE TAKING ODD TWIST

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ROBBINS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 14


Ernest J. Hupp, an Immigration Court judge, has trouble maintaining a cool,
judicial demeanor when he is reminded of the two Federal agents who followed him
in a black automobile last May 22, so intimidating him, he said later, that he
withdrew from a deportation case he was hearing.

Judge Hupp said in a telephone interview that he did not know at the time that
the seemingly sinister automobile was being driven by agents of his own
Immigration and Naturalization Service. He was so upset, he said, that he
required medical care.

But the most serious victim of that Federal surveillance, two lawyers here have
charged, is the imprisoned man whose case Judge Hupp was hearing and who will
now have to begin again before a new judge.

Charging governmental misconduct as part of their argument in a habeas corpus
proceeding, they are asking Federal District Judge Morris E. Lasker in Manhattan
to free Michael O'Rourke, a former weapons and explosives specialist with the
Irish Republican Army, the guerrilla movement of Irish nationalists. Mr.
O'Rourke was the subject of a widely publicized arrest here two years ago and
has been imprisoned without bail ever since.
Judge Withdraws From Case

Briefs seeking a hearing on the pleas are now being prepared and will be filed
this week, the lawyers, Willard Myers and Charles Glackin, said. Among documents
in their possession for use in the case is an ''order of recusation'' written by
Judge Hupp removing himself from the deportation case after he learned that the
men following him were immigration agents and expressing his belief that he had
been ''unjustly harassed and intimidated because of presiding in this case.''

Mr. O'Rourke, convicted in Ireland and sentenced to six years for possession of
unregistered weapons and ammunition, had escaped from a Dublin prison and fled
to this country under the name of Patrick Mannion and had been living here since
February 1978. After his arrest in October 1979, according to his attorneys, he
was investigated on suspicion of involvement in the slaying of Lord Mountbatten
and of a plot against the life of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain,
but no confirmation of such suspicions was ever found.

Charged now with overstaying his visa, Mr. O'Rourke is being held in a maximum
security wing of the Federal Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan,
where he has been for the last 23 months. Mr.  O'Rourke's attorneys contend that
a recent reassignment of Mr.  O'Rourke's case, which was nearing completion
under Judge Hupp, unjustly extends his incarceration. They are asking the court
to grant bail and to order an end to the Government's proceedings against him.

The Government is seeking to deport Mr. O'Rourke to Ireland and has insisted on
keeping him in jail on the ground that he would be a poor bail risk. In an
affidavit filed with the Board of Immigration Appeals, a State Department
official has also argued that ''a favorable decision on Mr. O'Rourke's petition
for bail would have serious consequences'' for United States foreign policy and
efforts to combat international terrorism.

Argument Is Challenged

Mr. O'Rourke's attorneys contend that the prisoner has divorced himself from the
Irish revolutionary movement, and they question the propriety of introducing
political considerations into the bail issue.

For its part, the Immigration and Naturalization Service sa ys thereis no
connect ion between the surveillance of Judge Hupp and the O'Rourke case . The
judge was under investigation on an anonymous complaint, ac cording to Verne
Jervis, a spokesman for the agency, who declined to discuss either the nature or
the source of that complaint.

Reached at a West Virginia prison where he is conducting hearings on unrelated
cases, Judge Hupp said he had been given an explanation that only raised a
question as to why his superiors would waste Government money investigating a
judge with an ''unblemished record'' in 40 years of service.

''I am pleased to inform you,'' says a letter he received, signed by Doris M.
Meissner, his agency's acting commissioner, ''that a thorough inquiry was
conducted concerning an allegation that you were leaving your official duty
station without charging any appropriate leave. The inquiry did not sustain the
allegation, and no further action is contemplated.''

In his order announcing that he was stepping down from the case, Mr. Hupp said,
''I sincerely believe that the complaint was filed be cause I have been involved
in the O'Rourke case.''

Fears About Pursuers

Originally, the judge said, he thought he was being followed by agents of the
Irish Republican Army.  According to an affidavit from a Government attorney in
the case, the immigration agency acknowledged its surveillance to him and
disclosed it at his insistence to Judge Hupp after the attorney learned of the
judge's fears and the apparent effects on his health.

What has never been explained, said Judge Hupp, is why the agents thought it
necessary to follow him to his hometown in Millersville, Md., a distance of 125
miles, if their purpose was merely to determine whether he had left his office
without properly signing out. All that was necessary, he said, was to check the
time log that he keeps in his desk. It clearly showed, he said, that he had
appropriately charged his departure on Friday, May 22, against leave time.

The district director of the agency here declined to discuss the case, and the
director of its Office of Professional Responsibility, based in Washington,
which has acknowledged conducting the inquiry, has not responded to a telephone
call seeking a clarification.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 29, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN TO NOMINATE FLORIDA AUTO DEALER TO IMMIGRATION POST

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28


President Reagan said today that he would nominate Norman Braman, a wealthy
Miami Beach businessman, to be Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.

If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Braman, 49 years old, would succeed Doris
Meissner, Acting Commissioner.  Mr. Braman is head of an automobile sales and
leasing organization in Florida that is among the largest in the United States.
Automobile sales of Braman companies are now near the $160 million mark.

Mr. Braman, a native of West Chester, Pa., now lives with his wife and two
children in Miami Beach.  In an interview, Mr. Braman said he was ''excited,
thrilled'' by the opportuity.

'Doing My Homework'

''I look forward to the job,'' he said. ''I've been doing my homework since the
middle of June. I'm convinced the job is do-able.  ''I think we can change the
situation in this country. I think we can restore and bring back a quality of
life. The President is committed to bringing sanity back.''

Mr. Reagan has not yet formally submitted his immigration policy to Congress,
but Mr. Braman said he was happy with the President's general philosophy and
called it ''a great step forward.''

He said he believed he would be able to help formulate the Administration's
immigration policy and predicted that ''the final recommendations will be very
satisfactory.''

He said he had been assured he would be permitted ''a major reorganization'' of
the agency. Asked whether that meant closing borders, he replied: ''I think we
have to have control our own borders. We're going to be committed to upholding
the laws of the country.''

The greater Miami area has a heavy concentration of refugees from Latin America
and South America.  ''I think that I am fortunate that Ihave a feel f or it,
being that I am from here,'' Mr. Braman said.

Justice Department officials have described him as a manager and an organizer
who could ''really take hold of something and make it work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 15, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Starts New Efforts To Return Haitians

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 14


Immigration officials today announced plans to speed up deportation proceedings
and asked a Federal court to allow the repatriation of Haitians who want to
return home.

The Government, which contends that hundreds of refugees want to go back,
requested a hearing on the repatriation motion for tomorrow.  It also said it
would begin exclusionary hearings at a camp near here whether or not the
Haitians' attorneys were present. That reverses a policy in effect since early
summer when a Federal judge preliminarily barred hearings for Haitians without
attorneys.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 23, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SMITH SEES IMMIGRATION PLAN AS A MEANS TO AVERT BOATLIFTS

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 22


Attorney General William French Smith defended the Reagan Administration's new
request for sweeping emergency immigration control powers today, calling them
''possibly the only way'' to prevent another influx like the 1980 Cuban
boatlift.

Stressing the costs and disruption caused by the arrival of more than 100,000
Cubans last year, Mr. Smith said, ''It is very important to take whatever steps
are necessary to prevent a recurrence.''

The legislation would authorize the Administration, in an ''immigration
emergency,'' to use the armed forces to seize American or foreign vessels
suspected of carrying illegal immigrants on the high seas and to close ports and
roads in the United States. It would drastically restrict judicial review of
decisions to imprison, exclude or deport aliens from designated countries, among
other things.

Dismay Among Rights Lawyers

The emergency powers provisions of the comprehensive immigration control
legislation proposals sent by Mr. Smith to Congress this week also appear broad
enough to be invoked to stem the continuing migration of thousands of Haitians.

They also raise significant constitutional questions and, by the Justice
Department's own admission, may be challenged as ''inconsistent with
international law'' in some respects.

The complex emergency proposals, copies of which are just beginning to circulate
in Washington, have already provoked dismay among civil rights lawyers who have
seen them.

''These proposals represent a stunning rejection of American immigration
tradition, Congressional prerogatives and the rule of law,'' Dale Frederick
Swartz, an immigration law expert, said today.

''They present grave international implications,'' he said. ''The President, in
effect, is seeking power to ring the country with the military to keep others
out, to deny U.S. citizens and corporations the right to international travel
and commerce which they have long enjoyed.''

Serious Issues Seen

Mr. Swartz added that ''by denying the courts jurisdiction to hear challenges,
the President is seeking authority to act above the law,'' raising ''serious
constitutional issues.''

Mr. Smith said in remarks at the National Press Club today that ''in all of
these procedures the necessary steps are being taken to make sure that the
rights of individuals are appropriately protected.'' He discussed the
immigration proposals in response to a question, after making a speech reviewing
the Administration's program to combat crime.

Under the immigration proposals, if the President determined that ''a
substantial number'' of illegal aliens had embarked for the United States or
were about to, he could declare an ''immigration emergency'' with respect to the
nation or nations of origin and authorize

- ''The closing or sealing of any harbor, port, airport, road or any other
place'' that might be used as a ''point of departure'' to pick up aliens and the
interception of vessels, aircraft or vehicles that have already departed as well
asthe stopping, boarding and seizure of American or foreign flag vessels
suspected of carrying illegal immigrants, without the consent of any other
country, and the return of the vessels to the foreign nation or some other place
and ''constraints on domestic travel'' in connection with the sealing of harbors
and closing of roads.

- The use of ''any component of the Department of Defense, including the Army,
Navy and Air Force'' to stop, board and search vessels or aircraft and make
arrests or seizures, despite a centuryold law that bars such law enforcement
activities by the armed forces.

- The detention, in Federal and state prisons and special camps, of aliens
arrested on suspicion of illegal entry or attempting illegal entry, in the sole
discretion of the Attorney General, with severe restrictions on access to the
courts, and without regard to violations of environmental laws at the camps.

- The elimination of hearings before special immigration judges and of Federal
court review in exclusion and asylum proceedings, which could be held on the
high seas. Judicial review would be restricted, but not eliminated, in
deportation proceedings involving aliens arrested after their arrival in the
United States.

To Discourage From the Outset

Mr. Smith said today that detention of aliens seeking asylum was necessary to
discourage people like the Haitians from setting sail in the first place.

Thousands of Haitians have landed in small boats in Florida in recent years, and
the Government contends that most are seeking economic rather than political
freedom. The Administration has recently sent Coast Guard cutters to intercept
and turn them back in Haitian and international waters, under an executive
agreement with Haiti.

The Justice Department analysis of the emergency provisions, which was
transmitted to Congress, said that it would ''be inconsistent with international
law'' to stop and board foreign flag vessels without the approval of the foreign
Government. But a spokesman for Mr. Smith today repudiated this statement,
stressing that although ''a question might be raised,'' it was ''our view that
it would not be a violation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Attorney General William French Smith

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 25, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation in Summary;
Unwelcome To the U.S.

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 248 words


The United States ''melting pot'' was put to a stern test last year, when more
than 140,000 immigrants from Cuba and Haiti landed in southern Florida. Last
week the Reagan Administration submitted legislation it described as ''possibly
the only way'' to prevent it happening again.

The proposal empowers the President to move against ''mass migration'' by
banning travel to some countries and sealing American harbors, ports and
airports. Authority to search foreign vessels on the high seas for illegal
aliens without the permission of the foreign country involved was also
requested, a proposal the Administation acknowledged to be in violation of
international law but might be necessary ''in the most compelling of
circumstances.''

Judicial review of decisions to imprison, exclude or deport would also be
restricted; aliens in detention camps awaiting deportation hearings could be
released only at the discretion of the Attorney General. Mr. Reagan's Attorney
General, William French Smith, said that ''the necessary steps are being taken
to make sure that the rights of individuals are appropriately protected.'' Dale
Fredrick Swartz, an immigration law expert, spoke for many opponents of the
proposal, copies of which are only just beginning to circulate, when he said
they ''represent a stunning rejection of American immigration tradition,
Congressional prerogatives and the rule of law.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Mr. Reagan's Immigration Music

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words


Give the Reagan Administration, and especially Attorney General Smith, credit:
they have now devised and sent to Congress a detailed program for modernizing
the creaky immigration laws. It took a long time; we disagree with some parts;
and there are even parts we detest. But it is a careful and coherent program -
one which, however modified, can finally put the country back in charge of its
own borders. That is more than any President has offered since Lyndon Johnson,
and even if it does no more than focus national debate, the Reagan package can
provide the basis for new laws that can and should be enforced.

But there's a catch. Who will enforce them?  To know the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is to know the truth of Senator Alan Simpson's sad
verdict: ''It's in tatters.'' There's little point to drafting new laws if there
aren't enough personnel to enforce the old ones. It doesn't do much good to
fine-tune immigration policy if the violin at hand has three broken strings.

The Administration's 10-part immigration package responds to two pressing
problems: refugees from Haiti in the Southeast and jobseekers from Mexico in the
Southwest. The idea concerning the Haitians is to deter those who are not
genuine political refugees, with tougher enforcement to bar the borders and
blunter legal treatment for those who manage to get in anyway. The idea
concerning the Mexicans is at least to begin getting more serious about
controlling illegal entrants.

On the whole, the proposals for the Southeast seem excessively harsh while those
for the Southwest do not seem harsh enough, but the specific measures proposed
warrant detailed appraisal in future editorials. What is most striking at the
moment about the package just sent to Congress is that it contains more new work
than new help for the starved Immigration Service.

The service's plight has been documented by Representative Roman Mazzoli, the
House Immigration subcommittee chairman. A big Border Patrol station in
California has two helicopters able to operate at night. They are flown only 10
to 15 hours a week; there's no fuel for more. When the Defense Department
offered six more helicopters, the answer was, thanks but no thanks: we can't
afford to pay any more pilots.

A generation into the computer era, the service is still in the era of Bob
Cratchit, handling, and often mishandling, millions of pieces of paper.
Nationwide, airport inspections in the last several years have gone up 40
percent - and the number of inspectors has gone up 17 percent. It has been two
years-plus since the service has even had more than an acting director.

The Reagan Administration's initial response to the Immigration Service's needs
was astonishingly brutal: cut another 1,400 people.  Common sense has since
taken over and the agency has, almost uniquely, been allowed to ask Congress for
a budget increase, of 30 percent.

But even with that raise, it is utopian to pile on new burdens until more
personnel are in place, until records are computerized and until the service is
managed. It is welcome news that someone has finally written new music for the
immigration orchestra; but first there must be instruments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 29, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

INTERDICTION POLICY DEFENDED

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28


An officials of the Reagan Administration today defended its policy of
intercepting would-be Haitian immigrants at sea and returning them to Haiti
without any administrative or judicial review.

"Interdiction at sea is an appropriate and necessary means" of keeping illegal
aliens out of the United States, Alan C. Nelson, Deputy Commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, told the House immigration subcommittee.

He said that multiple layers of review of decisions to deny Haitians asylum as
political refugees had "bogged the whole thing down" and prevented or delayed
expulsion of thousands of Haitians who have landed illegally in Florida.

But John Shattuck, head of the American Civil Liberties Union's Washington
office, testified that "many bona fide refugees are unlikely to be returned to
Haiti for persecution, imprisonment without charge and even death" under the
policy, which was also strong criticism from immigration lawyers who testified.

The Administration has had a Coast Guard cutter on patrol in international
waters near Haiti since Oct. 9 under an agreement with Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 1, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

DECIDING HOW TO STOP HAITIANS- AND WHY

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr.

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


There was a wretched symmetry to it: While lifeless Haitian bodies washed up on
a Florida beach Monday morning, live Haitian bodies plucked from another
foundering boat by the United States Coast Guard were being hauled back to the
island they tried to flee.

The survivors of the tragedy in which 33 were drowned ended up in the Krome
North detention camp, where more than 1,000 other Haitian refugees have been
living behind barbed wire for months. Meanwhile, in Congressional hearings in
Washington and makeshift Florida courtrooms, Government officials and
immigration lawyers continued to dispute what the Haitians are running away
from, and what should be done with them.

The Haitians have been coming have been coming to the United States for more
than 10 years, risking their lives in leaky boats like the two that swamped last
week. Many give their fortunes to body smugglers who sometimes starve them, beat
them, or kill them after getting their money.

Tens of thousands have made it across 600 miles of open sea to Florida.
Immigration officials catch about 1,000 Haitians a month on Florida's beaches,
and they estimate that an equal number slip through their grasp. Nobody knows
how many more have found a watery grave on their way.

The Reagan Administration has vowed to stop the Haitians from coming, and to
deport those who have come this year and those who come in the future. The
Administration says it will make exceptions for those who may qualify for
political asylum. It seems more likely to achieve the second of these goals than
the first, notwithstanding its new policy of ''interdicting'' refugee vessels at
sea.
Limits of Generosity

''Haiti is a crummy place,'' a Justice Department official said last week. But,
he added, the United States can no longer afford to provide refuge for the
millions who flee the crummy places of the world every year.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the American
Civil Liberties Union, the National Council of Churches, the Congressional Black
Caucus and most other critics of Administration policies toward Haitians agree
with that assessment.  There the agreement ends.

Haiti has the Western Hemisphere's most grinding poverty, and, in the opinion of
many, its most corrupt and oppressive dictatorship.  The coincidence of these
two distinctions on one blighted half of an island gives rise to a legal
argument.

The Reagan Administration, like the Carter Administration before it, contends
that almost all the Haitians who risk everything to get to Florida are simply
poor people fleeing poverty, not political refugees. Officials point to an
estimate by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees that only a
''small percentage'' of the illegally entering Haitians were political refugees
entitled to asylum under United States and international law.

Others disagree. They accuse the Government of a racially and politically biased
policy of dealing more harshly with Haitian refugees, who are black, than
refugees from any other country.  Critics say the Administration tries to send
back the Haitians en masse despite evidence that some returnees, in the words of
Federal District Judge James L. King of Miami, ''have been beaten, tortured and
left to die in Haitian prisons.''

Judge King tried a class-action suit brought on behalf of more than 4,000
Haitians seeking political asylum. In his opinion on the case, written last
year, he said the manner in which the Immigration and Naturalization Service
sought ''to ship all Haitians back to Haiti violated the Constitution, the
immigration statutes, international agreements, I.N.S. regulations and I.N.S.
operating procedures.''

''It must stop,'' he concluded.  Since then, the Reagan Administration has
instituted its policies of locking up Haitians who make it to Florida and
intercepting others at sea, where the immigration service can decide whether
they qualify for political asylum without being second-guessed by lawyers or
judges. According to the Administration, last week's interception by the Coast
Guard Cutter Chase of an unseaworthy 30-foot boat in the Windward Passage
between Haiti and Cuba saved 57 lives and demonstrated the effectiveness of the
interdiction policy.

Although the Haitians were promptly returned to Port-au-Prince, Alan C. Nelson,
Deputy Commissioner of the Immigration Service, assured the House Immigration
subcommittee that two ''well-trained'' and experienced immigration officers had
been and would be ''constantly watchful'' for any evidence that individual boat
people might qualify for an asylum hearing in the United States.

Haitian Officer Aboard

The interdiction regulations do not require officers to tell the Haitians, many
of whom are illiterate, what political asylum is, or ask them whether they seek
it. Officials said the immigration officers last week questioned each Haitian
picked up by the Chase for a few minutes, through translators, as to who they
were and whether there was any reason they could not go back to Haiti, before
deciding that none were political refugees. A Haitian naval officer was aboard
the Chase, in accordance with an executive agreement between his country and the
United States. Under the agreement, sailing vessels under the Haitian flag may
be boarded and searched for immigrants.  Mr. Nelson said the Haitian officer was
not present during last week's questioning, and that upon their return the
Haitians were received courteously and turned over to the International Red
Cross.

The N.A.A.C.P. characterizes the interdiction policy as a ''barbaric assault on
human freedom'' and a probable violation of United States obligations under a
United Nations agreement on asylum for political refugees.

Other critics, including the Civil Liberties Union and several immigration
lawyers, called quickie asylum proceedings on the high seas a mockery of
fairness and due process, guaranteed to return the Haitians to an uncertain fate
regardless of their reasons for fleeing.

In Florida, meanwhile, the process of separating political refugees from
economic refugees among the Haitians is swamped under a deluge of applications
for asylum and a morass of overlapping court proceedings.

Administration officials say the problems are caused by a few lawyers who take
more cases than they can handle and clog the works with delaying tactics.

Their solution: Congress should enact a law that strips aliens who arrive
illegally in the United States of any right to administrative review of
decisions, and to severely limiting judicial review.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of officials recovering bodies of dead Haitians
table of conditions in Haiti table of status of Haitians in U.S.

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 1, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The World;
The 33 Who Didn't Make It

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron and Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 250 words


For residents of Hillsboro Beach, Fla. the sight of swollen, nearnaked corpses
scattered across the town's condominium-lined beach was perhaps as bizarre a
scene as it was tragic. The victims, 33 Haitian refugees, had drowned before
dawn when a sailboat capsized about a mile out. Thirty-seven survivors made it
to shore. An autopsy showing that many of the dead had recently eaten warm
meals, raised suspicions of smuggling involving a ''mother ship.''

The United States at first agreed to return the bodies to Haiti, but Florida
officials were given the decision to make when Haitians in Miami protested that
their countrymen should not be buried in a place they so desperately wanted to
leave. The tragedy, the worst of its kind in a decade, again focused attention
on the Haitian problem and on the Administration's immigration policy.

The Administration has devised a 10-part immigration package it hopes will
effectively stop the flow of unwanted immigrants into the United States,
establish guidelines to determine which immigrants the country will accept and
set up an apparatus to relocate immigrants when they arrive. It also has made a
philosophical distinction between ''political'' refugees, who should be allowed
into the country, and ''economic'' refugees merely seeking to better themselves,
who should not. Human rights groups are concerned that enforcement is likely to
be arbitrary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 13, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION POST LOSES ITS NOMINEE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12


Norman Braman, President Reagan's nominee for Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, withdrew his name from consideration today, saying that he
wanted to devote himself to his automobile business in Florida.

In a letter to Attorney General William French Smith, who recommended him for
the position last June, Mr. Braman said he had reached ''the regrettable
conclusion'' to withdraw in view of ''the current depressed market'' affecting
the auto industry.

Mr. Braman, a millionaire, owns a Cadillac dealership in Miami. He has described
it as the largest or second largest retail distributor of such cars in the
United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has not had a Presidential appointee
in the Commissioner's office for more than two years. Members of Congress and
Congressional auditors have repeatedly said that the agency lacked the firm,
professional management needed to cope with a steady influx of legal and illegal
aliens.

Earlier Desire for Post

In their exchange of letters, neither Mr. Smith nor Mr. Braman gave any reason
for Mr. Braman's withdrawal other than his concern about his business. In an
interview in mid-October, Mr. Braman expressed no reservations about taking a
Government job. He expressed confidence that he would be confirmed by the Senate
and enthusiastically described his plans for improving the agency.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky who is chairman of the
House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said today that Mr. Braman's
withdrawal was ''a real disappointment for me and a setback for the agency in
its efforts to modernize.'' He suggested that Mr. Braman's ''extensive business
dealings in the past needed so much verification that it just went beyond the
time available.''

Senate aides investigating Mr. Braman's background said that they had not turned
up any problems but that they had not completed their work. Immigration
officials said that Mr. Braman had probably become frustrated by the delays.

An assistant to Mr. Braman in Miami said that he had left this morning on a
business trip to Europe and could not be reached for comment.

Job Rights Vote Delay

Meanwhile, at the request of the White House, the Senate Committee on Labor and
Human Resources delayed a vote today on the nomination of William M. Bell to be
chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. There were indications
that Mr. Bell, a black businessman from Detroit, might not have won approval.

Major organizations representing blacks, women and Hispanic Americans have
opposed Mr. Bell on the ground that he lacked the experience to head the
Government's chief agency for enforcing laws against job discrimination. White
House officials said that President Reagan was standing by the nomination and
wanted additional time to lobby for it.

Asked if there was any thought of withdrawing the nomination, Edwin Meese 3d,
counselor to the President, said, ''No, absolutely not.'' At the immigration
service, there have been several acting commissioners since Leonel J. Castillo
resigned in September 1979.  President Carter nominated Matt W. Garcia, a Texas
state legislator, to succeed Mr. Castillo, but the nomination was never
confirmed by the Senate.

Deputy Commissioner Mentioned

Informed speculation about a new nominee focused today on Alan C.  Nelson, the
deputy commissioner, who is a friend of Mr. Meese. Mr.  Nelson said in an
interview that he was a possible candidate. He noted that he had worked in the
office of the District Attorney for Alameda County, Calif., with Mr. Meese and
D. Lowell Jensen, who is now Assistant Attorney General in charge of the
criminal division of the Justice Department.

In the interview last month, Mr. Braman said that he was qualified to head the
immigration service because of his proven success as an entrepreneur.

Senator Paula Hawkins, Republican of Florida, had recommended him for the job.
But when she first mentioned it, he recalled, ''I almost laughed - I mean,
immigration and naturalization.'' When his brother and his lawyer tried to
dissuade him from taking the job, he said, ''That intrigued me all the more.''

President Reagan announced on Sept. 28 that he intended to nominate Mr. Braman.
Before that, Republicans and Democrats in Congress had chided the President for
not selecting an immigration commissioner or a coordinator for refugee affairs.

Mr. Reagan later said that he was nominating H. Eugene Douglas to coordinate the
refugee activities of the Departments of Justice, State and Health and Human
Services. Mr. Douglas, a former executive of the Memorex Corporation, is a
specialist in Asian affairs on the policy planning staff of the State
Department. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee has not yet held a hearing on
Mr. Douglas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Norman Braman

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 18, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN TO CHOOSE CALIFORNIAN TO RUN IMMIGRATION SERVICE

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17


President Reagan announced today that he intended to nominate Alan C. Nelson, a
lawyer from California, to be Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.

Mr. Nelson is now serving as deputy commissioner, a position to which he was
appointed by Attorney General William French Smith.  President Reagan's first
nominee to head the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Norman Braman,
withdrew last Thursday, saying that he wanted to devote himself to his
automobile business in Florida. Senate aides were still investigating Mr.
Braman's background in preparation for a public hearing on his qualifications
for the job.

Before coming to Washington in September, Mr. Nelson, 48 years old, was a lawyer
with the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company in San Francisco. He is a
friend of Edwin Meese 3d, counselor to the President, having worked with Mr.
Meese in the office of the District Attorney for Alameda County, Calif.

Mr. Nelson served in Mr. Reagan's Cabinet when Mr. Reagan was Governor of
California. From 1972 to 1975, Mr. Nelson was director of the California
Department of Rehabilitation, and from 1969 to 1972 he was assistant director of
the state's Department of Human Resources Development.

Post Vacant for Two Years

The immigration service has not had a Presidential appointee as Commissioner
since Leonel J. Castillo resigned in September 1979.  David W. Crosland and then
Doris M. Meissner have served as acting commissioners. Justice Department
officials have suggested that Mrs.  Meissner might stay on as deputy
commissioner if Mr. Nelson is confirmed by the Senate.

Mr. Nelson has made a favorable impression on members of Congress on several
occasions when he appeared as a witness to discuss immigration policy. Members
of the Senate Judiciary Committee staff have said that he could probably be
confirmed without difficulty.

Nevertheless, they said, there may be some delay because it usually takes the
White House several weeks to submit the papers for a nomination, and the
Judiciary Committee must then hold a hearing on Mr. Nelson.

Union Head Welcomes Choice

Michael G. Harpold, president of the National Immigration and Naturalization
Service Council, a union representing 6,000 agency employees, had predicted that
Mr. Nelson would be chosen for the job.

''I like the fact that he's wired into the White House,'' Mr.  Harpold said,
alluding to Mr. Nelson's friendship with Mr. Meese.  ''He will significantly
elevate the status of I.N.S.''

The immigration service is one of the few agencies for which Mr.  Reagan has
proposed an increase in money and staffing. The agency, faced with large numbers
of legal migrants and illegal aliens, plans to use the additional resources to
add patrols on the border with Mexico and to speed up deportation proceedings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

BACKLOG GROWS ON ALIEN FILES

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22


Bureaucratic problems have left the Immigration and Naturalization Service
unable to keep track of 30 million forms filed by foreign visitors, and it may
be 1983 before it is known who entered or left the country in the last two
years.

Disclosure of the backlog was made in a study conducted for the agency and by
immigration officials in interviews.  The forms have not been processed so that
they can be fed into the agency's computer system. Meanwhile, the millions of
forms have simply been put on microfilm and left stacking up in cartons at
agency facilities here.

Only a year ago, immigration officials told Congress that the agency would
upgrade its computer system so it could monitor the flow of aliens into the
country, including 10 million visitors a year. The Reagan Administration has
also submitted proposals to Congress calling for stricter controls on illegal
immigration.

A Threat to Credibility

Robert Kane, the agency's Associate Commissioner for operations support, said
the backlog in processing visitor forms ''puts the whole credibility of the
system into question - it puts the credibility of the I.N.S. into question.''

He said that the computer that stores visitors' data was ''outmoded.'' Irvin
Klavan, the Associate Commissioner for information services, said the backlog of
I-94 forms, which are filed when visitors enter and leave, totaled more than 30
million on Sept. 30, at the last official count. He said it was now probably 32
million.

He also said 664,000 visitors' applications for extensions of their temporary
visas had not been put into the agency's computer because they could not be
matched to the original arrival forms.

Long Wait Is Foreseen

Immigration officials say it will be at least January 1983 before the files are
brought up to date.  Price Waterhouse & Company, a private consulting firm that
conducted a six-month, $100,000 study of the control system, termed the backlog
''very troublesome.''

Agency officials blamed a private contractor, Milmark Services Inc. of Crofton,
Md. They said Milmark failed to perform acceptably on a contract calling for it
to enter the data into the computer system.

The task is complicated because the visitors' forms are often written in foreign
languages.

Company Official Responds

Thomas Ruger, Milmark's treasurer, said in Wilmington, Del., that his company
was being unfairly portrayed as a ''goat'' and that the backlog was 10 million
forms before the company got the contract.

Mr. Ruger said the agency postponed the start of work under the contract six
times while Milmark's previous owners frantically built up and reduced their
staff in anticipation of the work. He said the company finally got only a week's
notice, and ''you just don't put 100 people together in a week.'' Mr. Ruger said
Milmark had been a successful Government contractor for 14 years and that the
immigration episode threatened its future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of boxes of alien registration forms

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. APPROVES THE RELEASE OF 703 CUBAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: By REGINALD STUART

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 31, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 25


United States immigration officials, acting under the close scrutiny of a
Federal judge, have approved the release of 703 Cuban refugees from prison here.
In doing so, however, the Government has asserted its right to deport them
later.

The 703 were part of a group of 125,000 Cuban refugees who came to this country
by sea in the spring of 1980; altogether, about 1,700 of those people were
detained.

They were imprisoned because of questions raised by immigration examiners about
their suspected involvement in crimes, as perpetrators or victims.

By the end of this week, 441 Cubans had been released from the Federal Detention
Center here under an expedited hearing procedure prompted by a Federal judge who
threatened in late August to take over the refugee review procedures.

Judge Had Prepared a Plan

Federal District Judge Marvin Shoob ruled that the Government had been holding
people for an unnecessarily long time and noted than fewer than a dozen Cubans
had been released in the first six months of this year. He prepared a plan to
speed up the review process but deferred carrying it out after receiving a
proposal from the Government that was put into effect immediately.

Deborah Ebel, a member of the Cuban legal aid team, said that the speeded-up
review process was ''basically accomplishing the release first of those people
who clearly should not be in prison.

''We're fairly satisfied with the most recent progress,'' she said, ''people
leaving at a rate of about 40 to 50 a week.'' But she noted that 574 refugees
were still waiting to be interviewed in a review of their cases.

The legal team representing the Cubans remains worried about the Government's
continued refusal to declare that it has no intention of deporting the Cubans,
including those cleared for release.

Confusion Over Intent

There has been considerable confusion over the Government's intent since it
filed with the court in August a status review plan that referred to the
prospects of returning the refugees to Cuba. At that point, Judge Shoob issued a
temporary restraining order barring the deportation of any of the Cubans while
his review of the release process was going on.

Since then, the Government has refused to clarify for the court the question
whether any negotiations are in progress with Cuba that could result in the
refugees' deportation.

In a conference with Judge Shoob early this month, United States Attorneys again
refused to say that the Cubans would not be deported while his review of the
release process was under way.

In Effect, on Parole

Meanwhile, the freed Cubans are, in effect, on parole, able to go to work but
with the understanding that they are subject to deportaion.

The Government is challenging the temporary restraining order before the United
States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta.

The Cubans have argued that they are political refugees and would be subject to
persecution if returned to Cuba.  Judge Shoob has set a hearing for Dec. 21 for
arguments on whether the refugees have a well-based fear of persecution. If he
finds that they do, it could dramatically enhance the prospects of their being
allowed to remain in the United States permanently.

Lawyers for the Cubans have argued that most of those being held should be
released. But they said that some might have to be detained because of the
serious nature of the crimes in which they are alleged to have been involved, or
because of mental health problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 4, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SUIT BY 6 HAITIAN ALIENS TESTING DETENTION POLICY

BYLINE: By DAVID M. MARGOLICK

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1117 words


The first legal test of the Reagan Administration's policy of detaining ''boat
people'' from the embattled Caribbean island of Haiti will take place today in
Manhattan.

Lawyers for the the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service and for
six aliens from Haiti who have been detained in Brooklyn for the last six months
will square off in Federal District Court in Manhattan.

The six Haitians, who are seeking political asylum in this country, contend that
their detention is ''cruel, vindictive and irrational,'' and violates the United
States Constitution and United Nations protocols on the rights of refugees.

Parole Requests Cited

They also charge that the Immigration Service's district director, Charles D.
Sava, has improperly denied their requests to be released on parole, pending
determination of their asylum claims.

''If Mr. Sava's actions can be explained at all, it is that they are designed
and intended as an 'invidious discrimination' against the plaintiffs, as blacks
and Haitians, to punish them for seeking political refuge and to deter other
Haitians from seeking such refuge,'' the plaintiffs argued in papers filed on
Nov. 25 with Judge Robert L. Carter of Federal District Court.

''Possibly the Government of Haiti can jail people for no other reason than that
it will set a handy example for others,'' the plaintiffs in the suit continued,
''but such arbitrary abuse of authority is not a part of the United States legal
system.''

The Government denies that it has discriminated against the Haitians. The
Immigration Service ''has ample authority to continue the detention of the
petitioners, and this authority has been properly administered in this case,''
said Thomas H. Belote, a special assistant United States Attorney.

The six Haitians arrived separately in the United States by boat at various
times last summer. Each maintains he fled his homeland to escape persecution by
the Haitian Government and its agents. The office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees has declared three of them to be refugees.

While their asylum applications are pending before an immigration judge, they
have been held at the Immigration Service's processing center at 136 Flushing
Avenue in Brooklyn, built in 1941 to serve as a brig for the Brooklyn Navy Yard.

Earlier this year, the New York Civil Liberties Union sued the Justice
Department over what it considered unconstitutional conditions at the center,
which is in an advanced state of disrepair and has no outdoor recreation
facilities. A settlement of the suit, including an agreement to close the
Brooklyn detention facility within roughly one year, is said to be imminent.

The plaintiffs maintain that aliens seeking admission to the United States have
until recently been released on parole, pending determination of their claims,
unless they presented security risks or were likely to abscond - a policy that
represented ''the humane qualities of an enlightened civilization,'' according
to the United States Supreme Court's 1958 opinion in Leng May Ma v. Barber.

For other groups of aliens, they contend, this policy still applies.  Things
changed for Haitians last summer, they say. The plaintiffs point out that
although none of them has a criminal record and all of them have obtained
sponsorship from church organizations and have filed substantial and documented
claims for asylum, Mr. Sava has denied five of their parole requests and has
held the other in abeyance while awaiting an advisory opinion from the State
Department.

Mr. Sava made no reply to five of the parole applications for more than two
months. His decisions in these cases were handed down earlier this week after
the filing of the Haitians' lawsuit.

The plaintiffs assert that Mr. Sava's long delay in addressing the parole
applications and his failure to explain any of his decisions constitute an abuse
of discretion.

They also say that the unusual treatment accorded the Haitian aliens violates
the United Nations Convention and Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees,
which requires that its provisions be applied ''without discrimination as to
race, religion or country of origin.''

Penalties Are Barred

The Convention, to which the United States is a signatory, also bars the
imposition of penalties for illegal entry by refugees or unnecessary
restrictions on their movements once in the country of refuge - prohibitions
that, the plaintiffs charge, the Government has ignored.

The plaintiffs also assert that their detention violates the Fifth Amendment to
the United States Constitution, which states that ''no person shall be deprived
of life, liberty or property without due process of law.'' They cite several
Federal cases in which courts have extended to aliens a variety of procedural
protections mandated for United States citizens by the Constitution.

''We're not saying that aliens have rights equal to U.S.  citizens,'' said Prof.
Harriet Rabb of the Immigration Law Clinic at Columbia Law School, counsel for
the plaintiffs. ''What we are saying is that among all those groups of aliens
hanging on here by their fingernails, only the Haitians are getting the
clippers. The Government is violating the few rights of those who have the
fewest rights of all.''

Government attorneys counter that no court has jurisdiction to review
determinations of the United States Attorney General or his agents in matters
relating to the parole of illegal aliens. Such decisions, the attorneys say, are
within the broad discretion accorded to immigration authorities.

They dispute assertions that the Haitians are entitled to constitutional
due-process protections, citing the United States Supreme Court's 1953 opinion
in Kwong Hai Chew v. Colding, which states that ''the Bill of Rights is a futile
authority for the alien seeking admission for the first time to these shores.''

----

Haitian Found Dead in Cell

BUFFALO, Dec. 3 (AP) - A young Haitian being held for deportation was found dead
in his cell early today at the nearby Alden Correctional Facility, authorities
said.

Frank M. Festa, the prison superintendent, said the Haitian, Yves H. Chapoteau,
20 years old, was found dead on his cot about 4:30 A.M. ''There were no bumps or
bruises on the body,'' Mr. Festa said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 5, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

The City;
Decision Delayed On Haitian Paroles

SECTION: Section 2; Page 29, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 191 words


A Federal judge reserved decision on requests that eight Haitians be paroled as
they await a ruling on their applications for political asylum.

Judge Robert L. Carter of Federal District Court in Manhattan put off a decision
after lawyers for the Haitians asserted that an immigration official's denial of
parole had discriminated against the aliens.

Lawyers for the Haitians argued that Charles D. Sava, district director of the
Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, had acted arbitrarily and, by
refusing to parole the Haitians, had failed to exercise his discretionary power
properly.

Six of the plaintiffs, who were transferred from the Miami area after illegally
entering the United States, were represented by a group of Columbia University
Law School professors. Two others retained a private lawyer.

Each of the Haitians claimed at the time of arrival that he had fled Haiti for
fear of political persecution. While their applications for asylum are pending,
the Haitians have been held at the immigration agency's processing center in
Brooklyn.  (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 20, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESS FINALLY ACTS TO STEM THE FLOOD OF FOREIGN DOCTORS

BYLINE: By DAVID SHRIBMAN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Virtually unnoticed amid the last minute foreign aid, farm and pension bills
Congress passed last week was a measure that could change the face of health
care in the nation's urban areas. The measure, actually a series of amendments
to the Immigration and Nationality Act, adjusts the requirements and extends the
deadline for hiring foreign doctors who wish to practice in the United States.
It is Congress's final notice to hospitals across the country that their
dependence on foreign physicians must cease.

The amendments will have several effects. Among the more important, they would
require all incoming foreign physicians to pass the visa qualifying examination,
a rigorous test of medical competency that about 80 percent of foreign doctors
fail. In the past, failure has not ruled out employment in public or voluntary
hospitals. But it will after Dec. 31, 1983, and that will restrict immigration
of foreign doctors. Americans who take their medical degrees abroad are not
affected by the legislation.

The implications for hospitals in the Northeast are troubling; for New York City
in particular, they are distressing. The latest figures indicate that foreign
doctors account for more than three-quarters of the interns and residents in a
dozen New York hospitals. They constitute more than half the interns and
residents in 23 of the city's hospitals and at least a quarter of the house
officers in 34 city hospitals. Of the house officers in pediatrics at the four
Health and Hospitals Corporation facilities in Brooklyn, 93 percent are
foreigners. Foreign physicians also make up much of the staff of New York
State's mental hospitals, and they play important roles in hospitals in
Connecticut, New Jersey, Illinois, Delaware, Maryland, Michigan and Ohio.

Since the 1960's, when the flood of immigrating physicians began, foreign
doctors have tended to concentrate in inner-city medical facilities that have
held little attraction for American physicians.  Between 1963 and 1976 their
number rose from 31,000 to more than 85,000. At their peak in 1972, foreign
doctors constituted some 46 percent of those who received licenses to practice
medicine in the United States. Many have moved into fields, such as pediatrics,
anesthesiology and rehabilitative medicine, less popular among their American
counterparts.

Their presence in the nation's physician population has not proved an
unadulterated blessing. For one thing, it has produced a medical ''brain drain''
in countries that can ill afford the loss. A 1977 study, for example, showed
that nearly two-fifths of the foreign doctors in the United

States were from India and Pakistan, which have chronic physician shortages.  On
this end, members of the American medical establishment have complained of
language difficulties and cultural differences that adversely affect some
foreign physicians' ability to treat American patients. There has been furious
debate in the medical fraternity over the adequacy of foreign medical school
training programs.

''Some of these doctors graduated from Cambridge and London - in some instances,
they have fit in very well and have made major contributions,'' said Dr. Kenneth
Moritsugu, director of the division of medicine in the Department of Health and
Human Services' Bureau of Health Professions. ''Some of them, however, have
graduated from very, very large classes and raise the issue of quality
control.'' Dr. Moritsugu said it was not unusual to find a foreign medical
doctor practicing as a psychiatric officer in a state mental institution, ''even
though he is not adequately trained or sensitized to the American socio-cultural
system.''

Since 1976, Congress has tried to reduce the size and importance of foreign
physicians in urban medical facilities. It set December 1980 as the cutoff for
hospitals hiring new foreign physicians who had not passed the visa qualifying
examination.

At the same time, Congress offered a slender carrot to medical facilities where
an immediate cutoff of foreign staff would cause a ''substantial disruption'' in
health services. Those institutions could receive waivers if they pledged to
develop and implement plans to reduce their dependency on foreign doctors. To
date, waivers have come primarily from the Northeast and Middle West. No
hospital in the West requested a waiver in 1978 and 1979. Of the 239 waivers
granted last year, 187 were to hospitals in New York City.

Easing the Transition

The number of foreign physicians moving to New York City hospitals has been
dropping, however. This year only 44 waivers were granted.  Many observers
believe that the two year extension to the hiring cutoff date will give
hospitals the time they need to compensate further for the foreign medical
doctors on whom they have become dependent.

The Federal Government is encouraging them to draw on its National Health
Service Corps, a cadre of doctors assigned to medically underserved communities
to work off their Federal education grants.  Many hospital administrators are
advocating greater use of physician assistants and nurse practitioners where
practicable.

In New York City, the Health and Hospitals Corporation has formed a group of
doctors, hospital administrators and deans of local medical schools to address
the problems and is considering intensified recruitment of American doctors, the
hiring of osteopaths, greater employment opportunities for American graduates of
foreign medical schools and increasing the attractiveness of positions in city
hospitals.

''Solutions often respond to deadlines,'' said David A. Mannis, a counsel at the
Health and Hospitals Corporation who lobbied for the deadline extension. ''We
wanted a phase-down schedule, but two years might be too short. It remains to be
seen what we can do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: graph of physician immigrants admitted to U.S. on
permanent basis photo of doctors

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 22, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 291 words


U.S. AIDES HAITIANS' LAWYERS DISCUSS RIOT IN PUERTO RICO CAMP

SAN JUAN, P.R., Dec. 21 (UPI) - Lawyers for Haitian refugees negotiated with
United States immigration officials today at Fort Allen, where riots erupted
over the weekend because of attempts to fence in those in the camp.

The Haitians are kept segregated by sex by fences topped with barbed-wire. They
are demanding that they be allowed to contact and to speak to one another,
according to Efren Rivera, a lawyer for 795 refugees here.

Many of the men and women have been separated from their spouses because
American officials do not recognize their marriages.  Jean-Claude Bajeux,
coordinator for the Inter-Regional Council for Haitian Refugees, said the
situation was ''a tinderbox that can go off at any moment -They want to be out
by Christmas.''

The Border Patrol flew in 100 agents Sunday to help restore order.  The
disorders began Saturday night, after officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service entered the camp at nighttime and began putting up a
fence, Mr. Rivera said.

The police said that about 200 persons involved in the riot knocked down a fence
and threw stones at officials.

---- 900 Cubans May Stay in Prison

ATLANTA, Dec. 21 (AP) - Many of the Cuban refugees in the Federal penitentiary
here may be too dangerous for early release, an assistant United States
attorney, Douglas Roberto, said today.

He told Federal District Judge Marvin Shoob that up to 900 of the detainees
might not be eligible for release. Judge Shoob had ordered the Government to
review the status of the Cubans and release those not considered dangerous.

About 510 of the Cubans have been placed with sponsors, and 321 are about to be
released, Mr. Roberto said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Ukrainian Boy's Parents File Suit Over U.S. Asylum

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 20


The parents of a 13-year-old Ukrainian boy who is fighting to stay in the United
States filed suit today seeking to block an order from Federal immigration
officials granting the boy political asylum.

The American Civil Liberties Union filed the suit on behalf of Michael and Anna
Polovchak, accusing the Immigration and Naturalization Service and its Chicago
director of ''illegally violating the integrity of the family'' by granting
their son, Walter, political asylum on July 19.

Walter's family immigrated to the United States about a year ago, but his
parents became dissatisfied with their life here and planned to return to the
Soviet Union.

Walter ran away from his parents' home in Chicago last summer. He has been
living with court-appointed foster parents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 31, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Federal Judge in Brooklyn Grants Day's Recess in 4th Abscam Trial

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 150 words


Federal Judge Mark A. Costantino yesterday granted a 24-hour recess in the trial
of Alexander A. Alexandro Jr., a former immigration officer charged with
accepting $2,000 from undercover agents.

The recess was granted because Mr. Alexandro's attorney, Joel Winograd, was ill.
Closing arguments in the trial, now in its ninth day, had been expected today.

The trial of the 31-year-old Mr. Alexandro, who lives in Commack, L.I., in
District Court in Brooklyn is the fourth Abscam trial to date. He is charged
with taking the money in exchange for his promise to help obtain permanent
residency in the United States for a foreigner who was not entitled to it.

Mr. Alexandro has not denied taking the money, but he has maintained that he was
holding the cash while conducting his own investigation into what he thought was
an organized-crime operation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 10, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Fights Homosexual Ruling

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 89 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 8


The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service will appeal a ruling
allowing Carl Hill, an acknowledged homosexual from London, to stay in the
United States for 60 days, a service official said today. A Federal immigration
judge, Bernard Hornbach, ruled here late yesterday that homosexuality in itself
was not sufficient reason to deny a visitor's permit. The Federal agency argued
that immigration laws banned homosexuals from entering the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 19, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Deportation Hearing Postponed

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 18


A Federal immigration and naturalization judge today postponed indefinitely a
deportation hearing of Archbishop Valerian Trifa, an accused Nazi sympathizer
wanted by Rumania to serve a life prison sentence. Archbishop Trifa, leader of
the Rumanian Orthodox Church in the United States, is accused of lying to United
States immigration officials about his membership in the fascist Iron Guard when
he emigrated to this country in 1950.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 20, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Iranians Ordered to Post Deportation Case Bonds

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 259 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19


Immigration officials said today that many Iranian students who appear to be in
the United States on invalid visas had failed to show up for deportation
hearings, forcing the Government to require them to post bonds when they are
taken into custody.

David W. Crosland, Acting Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said that the bond requirement had been introduced in recent weeks
because several thousand Iranian students either had refused to leave the
country when ordered to do so or had failed to appear at deportation hearings.
Many have simply disappeared, he said.

The bonds, ranging from $500 to $2,000 or more, are intended ''to make sure
there is some incentive for them to do what they are supposed to do,'' he said.
He said the money would be returned on proof that the person had complied with
the final ruling of the immigration court.

Last November, shortly after Islamic militants seized the American Embassy in
Teheran, President Carter ordered all Iranian students in this country to report
to the immigration service. About 7,000 of the 60,000 students reporting were
found to be deportable for one reason or another, Mr. Crosland said. He added
that fewer than 500 of the approximately 2,200 students ordered to leave had
actually departed and that many were appealing their deportation orders.

Iranian students in American colleges and universities are by far the largest
group from any foreign country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION PANEL TO MEET IN PRIVATE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22


Immigration lawyers and citizen groups expressed anger yesterday after learning
that a Federal commission recommending major changes in immigration policy would
hold most of its last scheduled session in private at a secluded resort.

Four Cabinet officers including Attorney General Benjamin R.  Civiletti, eight
members of Congress and four public members serve on the Select Commission on
Immigration and Refugee Policy, which is scheduled to meet Dec. 5 through 7 at
the Tides Lodge on the Rappahannock River in Irvington, Va. The Commission is
scheduled to meet for a total of 23 1/2 hours, according to a notice published
in the Federal Register. All but three and a half hours on the afternoon of Dec.
7 will be closed to the public.

The Rev . Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University of NotreDame and
chairman of the 16-member commission , said it was necessary to exclude the
public from ''our last and mos t important meeting'' because the agenda included
''ticklish questi ons of national security,'' affecting relations with Mexico a
nd other countries. He said that the decision to close the meeting w as final
and would not be reconsidered.

Father Hesburgh said in an interview that the commission, created by Congress in
1978, wanted to develop a ''consensus on major final recommendations.'' The
panel, he said, will submit its report to the President and Congress by March 1.


Criticism From Interest Groups

Immigration lawyers, civil libertarians, refugee resettlement workers and
special interest groups denounced the decision to close most of the session as
contrary to the spirit of Federal laws requiring open government. Attorneys for
a group representing Haitian refugees said that they might file a lawsuit to
gain access.

Phyllis Eisen, a spokesman for Zero Population Growth, a nonprofit group
interested in population policy and immigration, said she was ''incensed'' at
the commission's decision to meet in private.  ''Politicians have a right to get
together and cut deals, but these are not just politicians,'' she said. ''They
are public commissioners operating on public money.''

David Carliner, the author of a handbook on the rights of aliens who is chairman
of the immigration committee of the American Bar Assocation, complained in a
letter to Father Hesburgh that the meeting was being held ''in an isolated
location, which is virtually inaccessible to the public.'' The site, near the
point where the Rappahannock flows into the Chesapeake Bay, is a three-hour
drive from Washington.

At the session, commissioners will try to develop recommendations on such
controversial issues as a national identity card, numerical limits on
immigration, amnesty for illegal aliens already in the United States, penalties
for employers who hire illegal aliens, asylum for political dissidents,
selection criteria for new immigrants, deportation procedures and admission of
temporary workers from Mexico.

Harris Opposes Decision

A spokesman for one member of the commission, Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary
of Health and Human Services, said that she had opposed the choice of a
''remote'' location and the decision to close most of the session. ''She knew of
no national security considerations'' that would require closed sessions, said
the spokesman, Bill M. Wise.

Father Hesburgh asked for permission to close most of the meeting in a five-page
letter to the head of the General Services Administration, the Federal
housekeeping and supply agency.  Commission officials said that the President
had designated the agency to review such requests. Ray Kline, deputy
administrator of the agency, approved the request on Nov. 7.

Dale Frederick Swartz, director of the alien rights project of the Lawyers
Committee for Civil rights Under Law, asserted that some members of the
commission ''have not done their homework'' and did not want that fact disclosed
at a public meeting. In private, he said, commissioners may advocate positions
that they would not defend in public.

In his letter asking for permission to close the meeting, Father Hesburgh said
that the commission had held public hearings in 12 cities and conducted 25
public consultations with experts.

The Cabinet officers on the commission, besides Mrs. Harris, and Attorney
General Civiletti are Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, and Secretary of
Labor Ray Marshall. They will all be replaced by their counterparts in the
incoming administration after Presidentelect Ronald Reagan takes office on Jan.
20. Commission members said they were unsure whether the new appointees would
endorse their report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 28, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Immigration Panel Changes Site for Its Meetings

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27


The Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, after receiving
complaints, has scheduled its next meeting at a more accessible site, but the
press and public will be excluded from much of the meeting.

The panel, which includes four Cabinet officers and eight members o f Congress,
plans to hold its last meetings next Saturday and Sunday at Air lie House in
War-

National news is on pages

A20-24, B10-11 and B18.
renton, Va., about an hour's drive from Washington. The Saturday session,
scheduled for 8:30 A.M. to 8 P.M., will be closed to the press, a spokesman for
the commission said Tuesday, while the Sunday session, from 8:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.,
will be open.

The commission, which studies immigration law and policy, had planned to meet
Dec. 5-7 at the Tides Lodge on the Rappahannock River in Irvington, Va., about
three hours from the capital.

Patricia Roberts Harris, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and
Representative Elizabeth Holtzman, Democrat of Brooklyn, members of the
commission, complained about the location and the restriction on news coverage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 15, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

EXILED SOUTH AFRICAN ALLOWED TO SEEK ASYLUM

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 14


Dennis Brutus, the exiled South African poet and scholar who has been ruled
''deportable'' because of an expired visa, received a temporary reprieve today.

A United States immigration judge, Irving Schwartz, gave him 20 days to seek
political asylum in this country. The petition will be submitted to the State
Department for advice, a process that generally takes at least 30 days.

When the State Department advisory opinion is returned to Judge Schwartz, a
hearing will take up whether Professor Brutus will be granted asylum, have his
visa extended, leave the country voluntarily or be deported. In addition,
according to Robert Vinikoor, a lawyer for the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, ''It should be stated on record where Brutus should be
sent,'' in the event of deportation.

Professor Brutus's attorney, H. Nasif Mahmoud, had asked that his home be
defined by the court as South Africa. But, Mr. Vinikoor said, ''We do not intend
to designate South Africa, but rather Zimbabwe, the country of his birth, from
which he holds a passport.''

Mr. Mahmoud asserted that his client's life would be in danger in Zimbabwe. He
said that terrorists employed by South Africa are at work there; he cited the
murder of a South African nationalist, Joe Gqabi, in July 1981.

In the meantime, Mr. Brutus, a senior professor of African literature in the
Northwestern University English department, is free to return to Amherst
College, where he is spending a sabbatical year as a visiting writer.

In the 20-minute hearing, much time was spent in argument on the professor's
sojurn at Amherst while claiming residency at Northwestern. Judge Schwartz
repeatedly demanded to know why no mention of the sabbatical had been made at a
hearing in November.

In tones of exasperation, the judge read from the November transcript. But his
expression changed as Mr. Mahmoud said that a passage marked ''unintelligible''
referred to Amherst College. The Judge smiled, and said, ''I take it back.''

Mr. Mahmoud called the hearing ''a victory in that Dennis didn't get thrown out,
but it's a short-lived victory be-

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 17, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Topics Artful;
Poetic Asylum

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 221 words


Another poet can be proudly added to this nation's population. He is Dennis
Brutus, a Zimbabwean and tenured professor of English at Northwestern
University, who has just been granted 20 days to apply for political asylum.

The spirit of independence and reconciliation may thrive in Zimbabwe, but
Professor Brutus, who came to America 10 years ago, has ample reason not to
return. A former intelligence agent for South Africa reports that his Government
considers Mr. Brutus one of its most dangerous opponents. And Zimbabwean
officials blame South Africa for the assassination - in Zimbabwe last year - of
a man who had been jailed with Professor Brutus in South Africa.

His application for political asylum from Zimbabwe is thus a misnomer. But the
State Department and immigration officials should have no difficulty in
supporting the request.

Mr. Brutus is a man of unusual talent. The confusion about his status was not
his fault. When Zimbabwe became independent, his British passport became invalid
and he could not extend his temporary work visa. When he obtained a Zimbabwean
passport, immigration officials lost the file for six months. And when they
superficially looked at the case, they denied permission to work because he
appeared ''deportable.'' An immigration judge in Chicago fortunately looked
closer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 9, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL SAYS CARTER'S BUDGET WILL CUT AGENCY STAFF

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8


David Crosland, the Acting Immigration Commissioner, said today that President
Carter was planning to propose significant manpower cuts for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service at a time when ''everyone would agree we have more of a
problem'' with illegal aliens.

At a breakfast meeting with reporters, Mr. Crosland said that the budget for the
fiscal year 1982, which Mr. Carter will submit to Congress next week, would
contain noticeable reductions in manpower and would cut total appropriations
below the agency's 1980 level.

A spokesman for the service, Vern Jervis, later corrected Mr.  Crosland to say
Mr. Carter's actual dollar request would be slightly higher than the $380.7
million sought for the fiscal year 1981, which began last Oct. 1.

However, because of inflation, the dollar increase will result in a reduction of
the service's staff below the 10,886 employees it had in the last year.

Request Is Cut Back

''We asked for more than we got and we got less than we have,'' said Mr.
Crosland, who was sharply critical of the Office of Management and Budget for
cutting back his request for additional investigators to track down illegal
aliens. Mr. Crosland said that the immigration service had under 900 domestic
investigators, fewer than it had 22 years ago, and would lose a significant
number under the proposed budget. This will mean more and longer delays in
immigration inspections at ports of entry, he said.

The administration of President-elect Ronald Reagan will send Congress a
proposed revision of the Carter budget plan. Mr.  Crosland's comments were seen
as an effort to make sure his service got better treatment from the new
administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 23, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Marcello Deportation Order Is Upheld by Appeals Court

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 22


A Federal appeals court today upheld an order to deport a reputed organized
crime chief, Carlos Marcello of New Orleans, an effort that began almost 30
years ago.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed a ruling by
Federal District Judge Jack Gordon of New Orleans, who had blocked a deportation
order upheld by the Board of Immigration Appeals.

''It means that Marcello's latest attempt to avoid deportation has been
unsuccessful,'' said John Volz, a United States Attorney. ''The deportation
order, arguably, is now back in effect.''

In refusing Mr. Marcello's 1972 application for suspension of the deportation
order, the Board of Immigration Appeals said the reason was that he ''lacked
good moral character.''

The board's refusal to suspend the deportation order was appealed to Judge
Gordon in 1979. He vacated the board's ruling and sent the case back for a
reassessment of Mr. Marcello's character.

Judge Gordon said he felt the board had relied on ''rumor and innuendo'' instead
of reading more than 30 sworn affidavits obtained from Louisiana residents
saying that Mr. Marcello is a fine man.

But the appeals court said, ''We are unable to adopt these objections to the
board's order.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 30, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Keeping Curbs;
on Iranians, Acting Chief of Immigration Says

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29


David Crosland, Acting Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said today that restrictions on Iranian nationals would remain in
effect until the Reagan Administration decided to change them.

A spokesman for the service said that about 4,000 Iranian students had not
complied with a Presidential order, issued in response to the seizing of
American hostages in Iran, to report to immigration officials. He said 53,654
Iranian students had been found to be in the country legally, 743 had left the
country and 2,800 Iranians, including nonstudents, had asked for asylum.

''No one is forced to leave while their asylum application is pending,'' the
spokesman said.  In April, President Carter barred the entry of Iranians except
for humanitarian reasons and few have entered the country since then.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 1, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration and the Missing Nail

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words


Who should decide which foreigners are allowed into the United States, the
foreigners or the United States? In a responsible society, the question would
answer itself. But that's not the way things now work in the United States.

We are a rich and generous country given to bragging about our immigrant
origins. When there is obvious need, we live up to the romantic images of Miss
Liberty and the Golden Door, taking in waves of freedom fighters or boat people.
But romance notwithstanding, there is no longer any such thing as unlimited
immigration. A million people are waiting in line to enter the United States
legally; millions more are eager to jump the line; and the nation must choose
which to let through the door.

The United States now purports to choose, to make its own rational immigration
policy. But, in great part the policy is made by hundreds of thousands of
individual foreigners who slip into the country illegally. In the process,
America loses.

Undocumented farm workers from Mexico, for instance, may be brave and
industrious. But each takes a place that, if society were choosing fairly, might
be assign instead to a refugee from Somalia, a sister from Korea or a more
deserving Mexican applicant. The country is not now making the choice. The more
the system spins out of control, the more Americans lose patience with
Government - and perhaps with any immigration at all.

How should the country regain control of its own immigration choices? A
blue-ribbon commission, led by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh of Notre Dame, has
just provided a careful and reasonable way. Wars are lost for lack of a
horseshoe nail; as the commission shows, creating a rational immigration policy
turns on a nail called worker identification. That is:

- If the United States wants to decide how much immigration to permit, it must
do a far better job of controlling illegal immigrants.

- If the United States wants to control illegal immigrants better, it needs a
far better enforcement system than the starved Immigration Service's, and
without requiring the Reagan budget-cutters to find much new money.

- If the United States wants effective but economical enforcement, the surest
way is through employers, who now are legally free to hire illegal aliens and in
any case have no good way to check an employee's status.

- If the United States wants to make an enforcement system effective by making
employers culpable, employers must have a reliable way to screen out illegal
aliens, without discriminating against legal residents who look or sound
foreign.

The Hesburgh Commission could not agree on exactly how to do this.  Some members
would have workers show forge-resistant Social Security cards. But that conjures
up police-state images to others. They would institute an automated call-in
system, like that used with credit cards.

Still, whatever the differences over method, almost the entire commission
strongly agreed on the need for some secure identification system. One way or
another, it's the nail without which the country will keep losing the illegal
immigration war.

Now the public focus shifts: to Alan Simpson, Wyoming Republican and new
chairman of the Senate immigration subcommittee; to Romano Mazzoli, Kentucky
Democrat and new immigration subcommittee chairman in the House. Most of all,
attention turns to the Reagan Administration, which has so far evaded the
commission - and the issue. Until they act, American immigration policy will
stay in foreign hands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 19, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

LEGISLATIVE VETOES FACE LEGAL ATTACK

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18


Attorney General William French Smith said today that the Reagan Administration
planned to argue before the Supreme Court that legislative vetoes, an
increasingly popular Congressional device, are unconstitutional if they intrude
upon the President's power to manage the executive branch.

President Reagan asserted in a campaign speech last Oct. 8 that ''both Congress
and the President'' should be granted ''greater authority to veto regulations
approved by executive agencies,'' and a Republican platform provision had
supported ''use of the Congressional veto'' as a ''means of eliminating
unnecessary spending and regulations.''

The Attorney General stopped short of saying that all legislative veto
provisions were unconstitutional.  The case before the Supreme Court involves an
effort by the House of Representatives to exercise its authority under a
provision in the immigration laws that gives either house of Congress the power
to veto by a majority vote a decision by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service not to deport certain foreign citizens who are illegally in the country.
The High Court has not yet announced whether it will hear the case.

A Provision of Numerous Laws

More than 150 Federal laws now authorize Congress - and in many cases either
house of Congress acting alone or a committee of one house - to veto certain
regulations and other actions by various executive branch departments and
independent regulatory agencies.  However, the Supreme Court has never ruled on
the constitutionality of such provisions.

''As a general proposition, we view a legislative veto that intrudes on the
authority of the President as being unconstitutional,'' Mr. Smith said in a
statement.

He said that ''the executive branch has taken this position on numerous
occasions and the new Administration will take that position'' in the
immigration case now before the Court.

Mr. Smith qualified his statement by noting that ''a legislative veto can take
many forms'' and that ''with respect to any specific piece of legislation, it
would have to be considered on an individual basis.''

This apparently leaves open the possibility that the Administration might
approve of a law giving one or both houses of Congress power to veto regulations
by independent regulatory agencies that do not report to the President, such as
the Federal Trade Commission.

In campaigning for the Presidency, Mr. Reagan did not qualify his endorsement of
the legislative veto device with any mention of possible constitutional doubts.
But every President since Franklin Delano Roosevelt has opposed legislative veto
provisions as encroaching on the powers of the executive branch.

In the case referred to by the Attorney General, the Justice Department last
December obtained the first ruling ever by a Federal court striking down a
legislative veto provision.

Legislative Veto Is Overturned

A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
in San Francisco struck down a one-House veto provision in the immigration laws
as violating the constitutional principle of separation of powers ''because it
is a prohibited legislative intrusion upon the executive and judicial
branches.''

The panel's decision invalidated an effort by the House of Representatives to
veto the Government's decision not to deport Jagdish Rai Chadha, an Asian-born
student from Kenya who had overstayed his visa. The Justice Department last week
obtained an extension until May 1 of its deadline for filing appeal papers in
the case.

Although it is unusual for parties that are victorious in the appeals courts to
seek Supreme Court review, it is not unprecedented. Mr. Smith's statement
apparently indicates that the Administration will try to use the Chadha case to
obtain a definitive Supreme Court ruling that at least some legislative vetoes
are unconstitutional.

Response From Congress

Meanwhile, lawyers representing the House and Senate last week obtained the
appeals court's permission to intervene in the case for the purpose of urging
the full court to reconsider the decision of the three-judge panel.

The legislative veto device is politically sensitive because it has become a
favorite tool of both Republican and Democratic members of Congress seeking to
assert control over Federal regulators in recent years.

Many members of Congress support legislative veto provisions as a means of
reining in what they view as the tendency of administrative agencies to use the
powers delegated to them under vague laws as a basis for issuing regulations
that Congress did not intend to authorize.

Argument Against Such Vetoes

Opponents of legislative vetoes argue that Congress should not be able to
override decisions of the executive branch without passing a law, which requires
a majority vote in each House and is subject to the President's own veto power
under the Constitution.

Mr. Smith did not go that far today. He kept the Administration's options open
with respect to future laws containing provisions that authorize legislative
vetoes. ''We are well aware of the fact that previous Presidents have signed
bills that included legislative vetoes, while opposing the legislative veto
generally, after considering the merits of the legislation,'' Mr. Smith said.

The Attorney General's statement came in the aftermath of intensive discussions
within the Administration concerning what position to take on the legislative
veto device, both in pending litigation and with respect to pending legislative
proposals that would enable either house of Congress to veto almost any
regulation issued by any agency, in the absence of an objection to the veto by
the other House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 1, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. REVIEWS STAND ON DEPORTING ALIEN TROTSKYISTS

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 572 words


An immigration official testified yesterday that a review was being conducted to
determine whether aliens who belong to the Socialist Workers Party can be
deported from the United States.

Glenn A. Bertness, acting associate commissioner of enforcement for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, presented the testimony in the four-week
trial of the party's $40 million lawsuit against the Government in Federal
District Court in Manhattan.

After the immigration review was disclosed, the Socialist Workers issued a
statement saying that the action could subject hundreds of party members and
supporters to deportation proceedings ''solely because of their political
ideas.''

Jack Barnes, the party's national secretary, added that the Government was
resorting to ''threats and intimidation'' to defend itself in the lawsuit, which
accuses Federal agencies of using informers, break-ins, wiretaps and harassment
to violate the party's rights.

Focus on F.B.I. Inquiry

The seven-year-old suit has largely focused on a long investigation that the
Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted against the Socialist Workers, a small
Trotskyist party that says it has 2,000 members.

The party's lawyers called Mr. Bertness as a witness after the Government
submitted a document in the trial disclosing that the immigration agency was
''presently reviewing the nature of the Socialist Workers Party.''

In the document, Mr. Bertness is quoted as saying, ''There is good reason to
believe that the Socialist Workers Party of the United States is an organization
that advocates the economic, international and governmental doctrines of world
communism.''

According to the testimony of Mr. Bertness, the immigration service has
undertaken the review of the Socialist Workers to decide if the party should be
classified as a ''proscribed'' organization that advocates totalitarian
doctrines of world communism. If it is so classified, he said, deportation
proceedings could begin against aliens who have been members or affiliates of
the party.

Authority to deport members and affiliates of organizations given that
classification, Mr. Bertness said, comes from provisions of the Immigration and
Nationality Act of 1952, known as the McCarran-Walters Act.

Mr. Bertness testified that the immigration agency regarded the Socialist
Workers as a ''proscribed'' organization with regard to aliens from 1956 until
1966, when it removed the party's classification.

He added that his belief now that the party could be classified again on the
ground that it advocated Communist doctrines was based on an immigration hearing
that took place 20 years ago.

Mr. Bertness said the current review grew out of documents submitted recently in
the party's lawsuit, showing that the immigration agency and the State
Department had adopted conflicting classifications of the party.

The State Department still classifies the party as ''proscribed,'' he said,
adding that the immigration agency wanted a consistent Government policy on the
Socialist Workers.

Mr. Bertness said the immigration agency would now seek information about the
party from the F.B.I., and estimated that the agency's review process would take
at least six months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 25, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Immigration Officials Deny Dumping Haitians in Miami

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 24


Immigration officials denied today that they had ''dumped'' a group of Haitian
refugees in a parking lot in northeast Miami.

The authorities, who are faced with large numbers of Haitians awaiting
deportation hearings, said that they had taken 118 of the refugees to a parking
lot to be met by friends and relatives, about 30 of whom never showed up.

Samuel Constant, director of the Haitian Refugee Center Inc., a privately
financed social service agency, said the refugees ''were dumped out late at
night,'' and 40 were left stranded.

Denying that the refugees were dumped, Richard Gullage, deputy district director
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that the agency had been in
contact with sponsors and had told them to meet the refugees yesterday at the
lot.

Those refugees who were released are still subject to deportation hearings, but
because of severe overcrowding at a refugee camp here, the immigration service
is releasing some who can provide the name and address of a relative with whom
they can live pending a hearing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 27, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

ACTION TO DEPORT SUN MYUNG MOON CALLED LIKELY BY JUSTICE DEPT. AIDE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26


A Justice Department official said today that the Government would probably
begin deportation proceedings this summer against the Rev. Sun Myung Moon, the
founder of the Unification Church, on the basis of an investigation suggesting
that he and his wife, Hak Ja Han, had violated Federal immigration rules.

The immigration authorities said that many members of Mr. Moon's church had also
apparently violated the rules by coming to the United States on visitors' visas
when they actually intended to stay permanently. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service also contends that many members of the church are in this
country illegally because they have remained longer than authorized.

David Carliner, an immigration lawyer here who represents Mr. Moon, said that
the immigration service had been investigating the Koreanborn evangelist and
other church members since the early 1970's. However, the lawyer said that he
thought the investigation had ended several years ago and that he knew of no
immediate plans for deportation proceedings against Mr. Moon.

Church Assails Reports

In New York, Dr. Mose Durst, president of the church, issued a statement today
saying that reports about imminent deportation proceedings were ''part of an
orchestrated attempt to assassinate the character of Reverend Moon, discredit
the church and defame its members.'' The church says that it has four million
members around the world, including 30,000 in the United States.

The Justice Department official who said that deportation proceedings against
Mr. Moon were likely to begin in the next few weeks insisted on speaking
anonymously because, he said, ''11th-hour developments might persuade the
Government'' to change its plans.

Another official, David W. Crosland, general counsel of the immigration service,
confirmed the existence of the investigation but would not say whether
deportation efforts were likely.

Mr. Crosland said that Mr. Moon became a permanent resident alien in 1973. Mr.
Moon entered the United States on a visitor's visa in 1972, according to a
Federal Bureau of Investigation report. Copies of the report were released today
by the Unification Church.

Charges by Congressional Panel

A Congressional subcommittee that in 1977 and 1978 investigated Korean-American
relations and possible legal violations by the church, said that Mr. Moon had
apparently flouted the immigration service's regulations ''with impunity.''

In its final report, issued in late 1978, the subcommittee said that Mr. Moon
had obtained his ''green card,'' the certificate of permanent resident status,
on the basis of his wife's having previously established residence in this
country.

''She in turn achieved her status,'' the report said, ''by being listed as an
employee of the Korean Cultural and Freedom Foundation, which was controlled and
used by the Moon organization.'' The investigation was conducted by a
subcommittee of the panel then known as the House Committee on International
Relations.

The report said that Mr. Moon's organization had exploited or ignored United
States immigration laws so that church members could come to the United States,
raise funds and ''move large amounts of cash across international boundaries.''
The report alleged that these activities circumvented or violated restrictions
on the international movement of currency.

Process Could Be Long

''Although many of the goals and activities of the Moon organization were
legitimate and lawful,'' the report said, ''there was evidence that it had
systematically violated U.S. tax, immigration, banking, currency and Foreign
Agents Registration Act laws,'' as well as state and local laws relating to
charity fraud.  The church has repeatedly denied the allegations.

If immigration service officials decided to move against Mr. Moon, they would
serve him with an ''order to show cause'' why he should not be deported. The
process could take a long time because after the initial proceeding before an
immigration judge, Mr. Moon, like any other alien, could ask for review by the
Board of Immigration appeals, the United States Court of Appeals and the Supreme
Court.

The immigration service has prevailed in the Court of Appeals here in at least
one case in which it took action against members of the Unification Church, also
known as the Holy Spirit Association for the Unification of World Christianity.
The Commissioner of Immigration had argued that aliens reportedly brought to the
United States for missionary training were actually soliciting funds for the
church.

Mr. Carliner, author of the American Civil Liberties Union's handbook on the
rights of aliens, said that the immigration service had a ''political bias''
against Unification Church members. He also asserted that the Congressional
investigation, led by former Representative Donald M. Fraser, Democrat of
Minnesota, had been ''politically motivated.''

The investigation concluded that Mr. Moon and his followers had sometimes been
acting ''in cooperation with or at the direction of'' the South Korean
Government when they attempted to influence United States foreign policy and to
gain control of businesses and other secular institutions in this country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 28, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS' PLIGHT FRUSTRATING TO ALL SIDES

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 27


As the boatloads of Haitian refugees stream across the summer calm of the
Florida Straits and the crowding increases in the Federal holding camp near the
Florida Everglades, immigration officials, resettlement workers and community
activists share a common sense of futility, of trying to trap water in sand.

It is, perhaps, the only sentiment they share as they struggle to cope with a
crisis that Senator Paula Hawkins, Republican of Florida, has called chaotic and
mismanaged and that Senator Lawton Chiles, Democrat of Florida, has called
inhumane and unconscionable.

Earlier this week, 432 persons were put out of the camp, and some of them ended
up waiting in the middle of the night in a Liberty City parking lot for sponsors
who never showed up.

But even as these refugees left the blistering heat of the Krome Avenue
detention camp, where many have been living in tents, 351 more Haitians arrived
to take their places. That brought the total number of Haitians at the camp to
1,247. Officials say the camp's capacity should be 525.

Suit to Fight Deportation

On Monday morning, Federal District Judge Alcee Hastings is scheduled to hear
more testimony in a suit filed to stop the Immigration and Naturalization
Service from carrying out its solution to the problem, which is to send the new
arrivals straight back to Haiti after mass, closed-door hearings from which even
lawyers have been barred.

The Federal Government contends that Haitians, unlike the Cuban refugees that
came here by boat last year, are not fleeing political oppression, and therefore
as a group are not entitled to political asylum.

The suit, filed by attorneys for the Haitian Refugee Center Inc.  and the
American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of 85 Haitians who were subjected to
the hearings June 1-5, and those still facing them, contends that the agency's
procedures are unconstitutional.

Assistant United States Attorney Richard A. Marshall told the court at the
hearings that the Haitians had waived their rights to an attorney knowingly and
had said they did not want to appeal.

Last week, however, expert witnesses testified that tapes and transcripts of the
hearings revealed bad translations, inaccuracies and omissions in the
procedings.

Problems in Translation

Jocelyne Legrand, a language instructor at Miami Dade Community College and the
University of Miami, testified that very little of the upper class Creole
vocabulary used by court translaters was understood by the refugees, most of
whom are from poor backgrounds.

She said that words such as ''expired visas,'' ''hearings,'' ''citizen,'' and
''political asylum'' were either translated into French, which most Haitians do
not understand, or not translated at all. The word ''asylum'' is understood by
many of the Haitians to mean a mental hospital, she said.

When the immigration judge asked the refugees if they wanted to appeal his
deportation ruling to a ''higher court,'' she said, the translator asked the
Haitians if they wanted to go to a ''larger courtroom.''

Haitian Changed Response

Lucien Louis, a 21-year-old refugee, testified that the immigration judge had
asked him if he was afraid to go home.  ''When I said I was afraid to go back,''
he said, ''the interpreter got mad. I changed my mind. I said to the judge that
if I had to go back, I would resign myself. But I knew it was my death.''

''Whether it's politics or economics, if they don't get out of Haiti, they'll
die,'' said Leticia Godoy, director of the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee
Service.

''It's inhumane,'' she said. We can't send these people to die. The United
States is not known for being inhumane.''

Sponsors Fail to Show

At ll P.M. Tuesday, two buses filled with refugees from the camp arrived at a
parking lot near an immigration agency office in the Liberty City section of
Miami, but many relatives and sponsors who were to meet the Haitians there did
not arrive. About 30 of those left wandering around spent the night at the
Haitian Refugee Center, evoking charges that the Haitians were ''dumped,'' a
characterization that Verne Jervis, an immigration agency spokesman, called
''absolutely inaccurate.''

At a meeting with voluntary resettlement agencies the following day, William F.
Alexander, administrator of the Krome Avenue camp ''said they would get rid of
100 a day by whatever means necessary,'' according to Don Flachmeier, director
of the Cuba-Haitian Ministry for the Lutheran Ministries of Florida. Mr.
Alexander did not return telephone calls seeking to corroborate Mr.
Flachmeier's account of the meeting.

There is a backlog of 6,000 cases of Haitians who have arrived in the United
States since Oct. 10, when a special legal status allowing recent Cuban and
Haitian arrivals to remain here was revoked by the Carter Administration.

Meeting Doesn't End Concerns

Representatives from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the A.C.L.U., the National
Lawyers Guild, the American Friends Service Committee and several other civil
rights groups tried to raise their concerns with the immigration agency's
actions at a meeting with agency officials in Miami June 11, but came away
unsatisfied.

''They felt they were the implementers of policy decisions made in Washington,''
said Peggy Demon, director of urban affairs for the N.A.A.C.P. ''They felt
political pressures needed to be applied at a higher level than the staff level
of I.N.S.''

''We have all kinds of refugees in Miami,'' Mrs. Demon said.  ''Cubans, Soviet
Jews. It seems the Haitian refugees, more than any group, has experienced the
worst treatment. We feel it's the color of their skin.''

In Washington, eight members of the Florida Congressional delegation met
yesterday with Doris Meissner, acting commissioner of the immigration agency,
and with a Justice Department representative to discuss the Haitian refugees'
problems.

Senator Chiles and Senator Hawkins were able to garner support on the Senate
floor Thursday night to restore $71 million in proposed cuts in assistance to
Cuban and Haitian refugees and then went on to add $12 million for educational
assistance.

At yesterday's meeting they were assured that immigration problems would be a
key item on the agenda for next week's Cabinet meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitian refugees awaiting immigration officials
in Florida

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CROAT ACCUSED OF WAR CRIMES IS ORDERED DEPORTED

BYLINE: By CHARLES MOHR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 1


A Department of Justice official said today that the Government would move
quickly to deport a person who as Interior Minister of the Nazi German puppet
state of Croatia in World War II purportedly ordered the deaths of hundreds of
thousands of people.

An order of the Board of Immigration Appeals overturned a stay of deportation
granted to the former Croatian official, Andrija Artukovic, in 1959 on the
ground that he would be subject to ''political persecution'' if returned to
Yugoslavia. Mr. Artukovic, 8l years old, lives in southern California and has
successfully resisted deportation and extradition for 30 years.

Allan A. Ryan, Jr., the director of the Office of Special Investigations of the
Justice Department, said that the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in a
letter delivered today, had directed Mr. Artukovic to report to its regional
office in Los Angeles by next Wednesday to be handed a deportation order.

He could legally be deported within 72 hours of his appearance at the regional
office, but he may file a petition requesting a review of the order by the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Judicial Circuit, which includes
California. Such a petition would automatically stay the deportation order.

Mr. Ryan expressed the opinion that Mr. Artukovic would have ''only very narrow
legal grounds'' for an appeal. A 1953 decision by the immigration board
determined that Mr. Artukovic ''was a leading Nazi criminal during the Second
World War'' and a 1978 law says that Nazi war criminals cannot claim deportation
stays on the ground that they would be subject to persecution.

A spokesman for the Yugoslav Embassy said today his Government regarded Mr.
Artukovic as a ''war criminal'' and he would be tried if deported.

Justice Department officials said the action in the Artukovic case had nothing
to do with the indictment last month of a group of eight Croatian nationalists.
Mr. Artukovic, who came to the United States in 1948 under a false name and with
an Irish passport, was a leading figure in the Ustashi movement, which has long
been struggling for the independence of Croatia from Yugoslavia.

When Hitler dismembered Yugoslavia in 1941, Ante Pavelic, the Ustashi leader,
formed a Croatian state under German tutelage and made Mr. Artukovic the
Interior Minister.

Croatia proclaimed a policy of persecution against various ethnic groups, mainly
Serbs, Jews and Gypsies. Journalistic and historical accounts say that more than
300,000 people, including 30,000 Jews, were executed.

The 1953 decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals, which was in effect
affirmed today, said: ''There appears to be little doubt that the new Croatian
state, at least on paper, pursued a genocidal policy in Croatia with regard to
Jews and Serbs; that Artukovic helped execute this policy in that, as Minister
of Interior, he had authority and control over the entire system of public
security and internal administration.''

A witness at the 1961 trial in Israel of Adolf Eichmann, the Nazi who oversaw
the German effort to exterminate European Jews, testified that Mr. Artukovic was
''recognized by the Nazis as a leader in the anti-Jewish pogroms.''

Mr. Pavelic and Mr. Artukovic vanished when the Croatian state collapsed at the
end of World War II in 1945. Mr. Pavelic reached Argentina, where he was wounded
in an apparent assassination attempt in 1957. He disappeared again when
Argentina agreed later that year to consider a Yugoslav extradition request and
he was reported to have gone to Paraguay. Subsequently he moved to Madrid, where
he died in December 1959 at the age of 70.

Mr. Artukovic worked, until retirement, as a bookkeeper and resides in Surfside,
Calif., south of Long Beach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 1, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

ACRIMONY CONTINUES OVER HAITIAN REFUGEES' FATE

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 31


Last week, just after the Government moved 286 Haitians from an overcrowded
detention facility here to similar quarters in New York, West Virginia and
Texas, and just after Florida's Governor sued the Justice Department to
alleviate the overcrowding, and just after attorneys representing the Haitians
brought suit to keep them here within reach of legal counsel, and just before
another group of boats bearing 463 more Haitians washed up on south Florida
shores, the Kiwanis Club of Miami held a meeting.

''Naval blockade!'' yelled an overheated member of the audience.  ''A moratorium
on all immigration!'' The member was among 150 who attended the meeting to give
their opinions to officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Four and a half hours later, the immigration officials said they shared
the residents' concerns but said little more.

Yesterday the Reagan Administration said a great deal more when it announced its
immigration policy in Washington. Included in the policy, parts of which must be
approved by Congress, was a plan to have the Coast Guard intercept boats at sea,
hold on-the-spot hearings and see to the prompt return of the refugees, who, in
the case of the Haitians, have been coming in at the rate of about 15,000 a
year. Civil libertarians expressed outrage.

A statement from the Haitian Refugee Center Inc., a nonprofit advocacy agency
aiding the refugees, said, ''This proposition, while being in violation of
international laws and sovereigntiy of vessels on the high seas, is reminiscent
of the ships of Jews that were refused landing permits during World War II, and
is contrary to the policies which have been encouraged by the U.S. to
Indochinese refugees seeking a country of first asylum.''

Miamians Express Relief

Many Miamians, however, some of whom make a weekend pastime of watching the
rickety, overloaded craft arrive, telephoned radio talk shows to express their
relief.

''It's about time our problem was recognized,'' said Paul T.  Beeman, an editor
with a technical magazine here. ''What would be comparable? Well, say, 12,000
Eskimos turned up in Buffalo. You can bet Buffalo would want the nation to give
a hand.''

The only local quarter that was silent, it seemed, was the 13-acre detention
camp on the edge of the Everglades where 1,338 haitians spent the day as they
have many days past - doing nothing.

Meantime, the Federal Government announced late today that it would transfer 200
more refugees from the camp Sunday morning, sending these to the Federal prison
in Lexington, Ky.

The Krome Avenue camp, named out of convenience for the nearest thoroughfare, is
a former antiaircraft missile base. Designed to accommodate 530 detainees with
an ''emergency'' capacity of 859, it is bursting with humanity and shot through
with acrimony.

Haitians Remain Unaware

The asperity, however, is usually between lawyers and immigration officials,
rarely between aliens and the authorities. This is because the Haitians, who
from all appearances seem to be happy just to have arrived in Miami alive, are
not aware of what is going on, according to their attorneys.

''Oh, I doubt if any one of them has any idea what was said in Washington,''
said Steve Forrester, one of two attorneys handling cases here for the non
Haitian Refugee Center.

At the camp, what was going on were expulsion hearings. Since the
Administration's aim is apparently to provide amnesty for the refugees who
arrived before Jan. 1, and since all the refugees at Krome arrived after that,
these people could be headed back to Haiti shortly. So could 8,500 others who
were ''pardoned'' out of Krome in 1981 to church or family sponsors while the
United States came up with a policy on their status. They remain subject to the
same deportations hearings.

''The official attitude of Krome is that you don't tell people what's going
on,'' said Vera Weiz, the other lawyer from the refugee center. ''If you do,
you're going to have 1,300 unhappy people on your hands. We look at them and we
tell them immigration is going to deport you and they look at you like, 'Huh?' I
mean, somebody has to tell them.''

Few Lawyers Aiding Haitians

The expulsion hearings, at the rate of about thirty people a day, began last
week. They were being held Wednesday in three courtrooms, with three immigration
judges and one lawyer, Mr. Forrester. He filed so many motions that at one point
Judge William F. Nail Jr. told him, ''You're going to motion me to death.''
Among the motions denied was one to move the hearings downtown, where other
lawyers, put off by the hour-long drive to and from the Krome camp, could find
time to represent the Haitians.

''They're overwhelming us,'' said Mr. Forrester, a young, hardworking, earnest
man who comes to his job rumpled; his shirt looks like it was pressed with a
hammer. ''One judge on Monday gave me a week before the second hearing. Another
judge gave me two days for 10 cases. It's impossible and he knows it. It's a
little bit hairy.''

The hearings always end up with an attorney requesting political asylum for his
client.  But the Federal Government contends that the Haitians are not fleeing
political oppression but economic oppression. Therefore, unlike the case up to
now with Cuban refugees, political asylum has been barred to the the Haitians.

Most of the Haitians do not seem to understand the distinction. One young man,
lying on his bunk in a sea of bunks in a hangar at Krome, said through a
Creole-speaking interpreter: ''I don't understand why the question is asked of
us. We are here because we are poor. Our families are poor. We are here to
work.'' Then he went back to playing with the steel casters he had removed from
the feet of his bed, a major source of recreation for young men in the hangar.

In the Krome camp administration building, Sam Brown, an immigration service
officer, was processing new arrivals, typing over and over, ''I came here to
work,'' or some variation, as told to him through an interpreter. Mr. Brown said
he had heard that three more Haitian boats had been sighted off the coast, and
then put his hands together as if to pray it was not so. To the immigration
service, it all seems clear cut: the Haitians entered the country illegally, for
the sole purpose of finding jobs.

Advocates for the Haitians say the refugees also came to escape the repression
of the President for Life, Jean-Claude Duvalier, a fact that usually becomes
known only after the Haitians talk to a lawyer. Unfortunately, the lawyers say,
it comes a little late, because the Haitians are already down on record with the
immigration service as only seeking employment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: 2 photos of Haitian refugees

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Last of Castro's Castoffs

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 488 words


No problem arising from last year's ''boatlift'' of 125,000 Cuban refugees is
more vexing than that created by the 1,900 ruled excludable by United States
immigration officials. Normally, aliens with criminal records are promptly
shipped back home, but in this case Cuban President Fidel Castro won't hear of
it. So for more than a year, the 1,900 have remained in a strange limbo. In law,
they have not yet been admitted to the United States. In fact, they are doing
time, hard time, at the Federal penitentiary in Atlanta.

Immigration officials have been unable so far to figure out what else to do with
them, even though a year has passed. All the more reason to praise United States
District Judge Marvin Shoob for the initiative he took this week in Atlanta.
Government handling of the matter is a disgrace, he says. ''You can't hold
people in prison as an alternative to deportation ... it's patently unfair.''

To force the issue, he is insisting that the 1,900 inmates be sorted out. He
wants to release those who pose no danger. But even by relatively lenient
standards, that may only be a few hundred. What about the rest?

Another hundred or so are mentally ill or have been charged with crimes
committed in the United States. They could legitimately be dealt with in
American courts and institutions. That would still leave a thousand or more who
admit to committing serious crimes in Cuba or who give immigration offi-cials
other reasons to believe they came from Cuban prisons. What about them?

The minimally decent answer is for Cuba to take them back. And it is
Washington's policy to try to negotiate just that with Fidel Castro. But he was
evidently unembarrassed to send them - and the rest of the 125,000 - in the
first place. If he keeps on saying no, then what?

Leaving the thousand in prisons indefinitely would raise serious legal and moral
questions, not to mention costing American taxpayers about $15 million a year.
But simply releasing them might create a wholly understandabale storm of protest
in Florida, and other states where Cuban emigres are likely to congregate.

There is a middle way. Washington could create a special probation program for
the inmates it feels reluctant to release. They could be made subject to strict
conditions and close supervision, perhaps in halfway houses in several cities,
with access to social services.  Those who do well in the outside world would
eventually be released and given resident status. Those who violate conditions
of probation could legitimately be returned to custody.

Such a program would require special legislation and supplemental funding. But
it would likely be cheaper than leaving the Cubans in prison. And it would
reflect Judge Shoob's main motive: In contrast to Fidel Castro's callous
conduct, it would be the right thing to do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SEEKS TO DEPORT 40 HAITIANS WHO LACK LEGAL REPRESENTATION

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 783 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun deportation proceedings
against 40 Haitians who are without individual legal assistance and are being
held in a Federal prison near Lake Placid, N.Y.

An alien making an asylum claim has the right to be represented by a lawyer, and
all the Haitians in the prison, at Ray Brook, have requested one. But they
cannot afford to pay, and there are no lawyers in the Lake Placid area to
represent them without charge, according to James Grable, chief legal officer
for the Immigration Service in Buffalo.

Stanley Mailman, a New York City lawyer whose firm is representing several
Haitian refugees being held in a former Navy prison in Brooklyn, has asked the
immigration judge in Buffalo to transfer the cases against the Ray Brook
prisoners to an urban area where immigration lawyers are available. The judge,
Gordon Sacks, has adjourned the proceedings against the Haitians until he rules
on Mr.  Mailman's motion.

Grounds for Gaining Asylum

To establish the right to political asylum, an alien must show that there is
political repression in his country and that he would be persecuted if he
returned.

Last year, a Federal judge in Florida, ruling in another case involving Haitian
refugees, said that on the basis of information from a State Department
official, ''Haiti has been accurately described as 'the most oppressive regime
in the hemisphere.' '' The judge, James Lawrence King of Federal District Court,
ruled in favor of a group of Haitians in a case that accused the Government of
discrimination against them.

Establishing the right to political asylum has been almost impossible for
Haitians. Judge King found that during a nine-month period in 1978 and 1979, the
Immigration Service denied all 589 asylum claims filed by Haitians.

The service has opposed the transfer requested by Mr. Mailman for the Haitians
at Ray Brook. The service says that such a transfer would be an infringement on
its ''exclusive parole authority,'' according to papers that Mr. Grable has
filed with Judge Sacks.

The Need for Witnesses

Mr. Grable also said that there was no evidence that the Haitians ''would be
deprived of access to witnesses or evidence if the hearings are conducted at Ray
Brook.''

However, in a sworn statement filed with Judge Sacks, Mr. Mailman said that
''despite comprehensive efforts,'' a Roman Catholic priest who had been working
on behalf of the Haitians at Ray Brook ''has been unable to locate potential
witnesses who would be able to testify about the current political conditions in
Haiti, or the likelihood that the detainees would be singled out for persecution
upon return to Haiti.''

Those witnesses are primarily among Haitians living in Miami, Mr.  Mailman said
last week.  In mid-July, about 300 Haitians were transferred out of a Federal
refugee camp near Miami. The 40 who are being held at Ray Brook came from there,
as did 83 others who are now in the former Navy prison in Brooklyn. Others are
confined in Federal prisons in Big Spring, Tex., and Morgantown, W. Va. The
policy of imprisoning aliens who arrive without documents is a discretionary one
currently applied only to Haitians, a Justice Department spokesman said last
week.

Dispute Over Transfers

Michael Posner, director of the Lawyers Committee for International Human
Rights, said in an interview last week that the Haitians were transferred out of
Florida because experienced immigration lawyers there were making it difficult
for the Government to carry out its deportation efforts.

Charles Sava, director of the Immigration Service office in New York, said last
week that he did not know why the Haitians had been transferred. Other officials
in the Reagan Administration have said it was because of overcrowding at the
Florida refugee camp.

One of those detained at Ray Brook, 29-year-old Bernard Elsinord, said in an
interview at the prison last week that he and the others there were unable to
pursue their asylum claims effectively while they were imprisoned.

Immigration officials at the prison have helped some of the refugees fill out
their asylum applications. Jane Berger, an attorney with the Lawyers Committee
for International Justice, said that while this assistance was ''well-meaning,''
it was not in the best interests of the refugees because the Immigration
Service's objective was to deport them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Haitians detained at Ray Brook Federal prison

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 6, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

POWER OF CONGRESS TO VETO ACTION OF EXECUTIVE BRANCH FACES STUDY

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5


The Supreme Court agreed today to settle a dispute that has hurt relations
between the White House and Congress for nearly 50 years: whether Congress has
the constitutional authority to block executive branch action by exercising the
socalled legislative veto.

While the case the Court accepted today involves immigration policy, the
eventual decision is likely to determine whether Congress can use a legislative
veto to block foreign arms sales like President Reagan's proposed sale of five
radar-bearing Airborne Warning and Control System planes to Saudi Arabia. The
Awacs issue itself, however, will most probably be resolved one way or the other
by the time the Court rules on the immigration matter in the spring.

Today's case, Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha, No. 80-1832,
involves the legislative veto provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act
of 1952. Under this provision, either house of Congress can overrule a decision
by the Attorney General to cancel deportation proceedings against an alien.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit struck down the
provision last year in a challenge brought by a native of Kenya, Jagdish Rai
Chadha. Mr. Chadha had overstayed his student visa and was eligible for
deportation, but the proceedings were suspended after he persuaded an
immigration official that he would face ''extreme hardship'' if he had to return
to Kenya.

Resolution Against Suspension

The House of Representatives passed a resolution of disapproval, in effect
canceling the suspension, and Mr. Chadha was ordered deported. He then brought
suit directly in the appeals court on the ground that the Congressional action
violated the constitutional principle of separation of powers, and the court
agreed.

Both the House of Representatives and the Senate appealed that decision to the
Supreme Court. The Justice Department also asked the Court to review the
decision. The department agreed with the appeals court opinion and sought not a
reversal but a definitive constitutional ruling from the High Court.

Urging the Justices to take the case, the department said that the issues raised
by the legislative veto ''go to the very heart of the assignment of powers under
our constitutional system.''

The department said that the framers of the Constitution intended Congress to
pass the laws and the executive branch to carry them out. The result of
upholding a legislative veto, the Justice Department's brief said, ''would be to
strip the executive branch of the independence intended by the Framers and to
transfer the ultimate decision-making authority in executing the laws to the
legislative branch.

'Necessary and Proper Clause'

Lawyers for Congress told the Court that authority for the legislative veto
derived from the so-called ''necessary and proper clause'' of Article I of the
Constitution, which gives Congress the power to ''make all laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into execution'' the powers given by the
Constitution to the Federal Government.

Congress has added legislative veto provisions to some 150 laws beginning in
1932. Some provide for a one-house veto, while others require disapproval by
both houses of Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 14, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

BILL AIMED AT EASING NATURALIZATION LAW APPROVED BY HOUSE

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13


The House today approved a bill that would eliminate adultery and possession of
marijuana as grounds for mandatory denial of naturalization for aliens.

The law now says that aliens are not considered to have the ''good moral
character'' required for naturalization if such offenses are on the record.

If the House bill becomes law, a person could still be found to lack good moral
character if he had a record of adultery or marijuana possession, but such a
finding would not be mandatory.

The change was contained in a bill making several changes in immigration law.
Supporters said the measure would streamline operations of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and save about $2 milion annually.

Bill Awaits Senate Action

The bill was passed on a voice vote and sent to the Senate, where a similar
measure has been introduced. The legislation is strongly supported by the Reagan
Administration.

The annual registration requirement for permanent resident aliens would be
eliminated under the bill, which would require such aliens only to notify the
immigration agency of a change of address.

The legislation is expected to reduce the need for individual immigration bills
that are frequently passed by Congress to solve immigration problems for
particular persons.

Another change would allow an alien who is being deported to be sent to any
country willing to accept him. The law now says an alien must be deported to the
country in which he resided before coming to the United States.

Requirements Would Be Eased

Certain naturalization requirements would be dropped, including the stipulation
that two American citizens testify and submit affidavits on the applicant's
background and character.

The bill would raise from the age limit under which foreign-born adopted
children may enter the United States as immediate relatives, to 16 years old
from 14.

The bill would also require alien diplomats who want to become permanent
residents to show why they could not reuturn to their own countries, and also to
show that their change in status would be in the national interest of the United
States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 12, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

RULING NEARS IN HAITIANS' LAWSUIT ALLERGING U.S. BIAS lodged in armory

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2508 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 11


A major legal controversy over how the Government has treated thousands of
Haitian refugees, which could affect whether they remain in this country or are
sent home, is drawing to a close in a Federal courtroom here.

Lawyers for the Haitians contend that there is a pattern of harassment and
discrimination. But the Government says that this is not the case and that it
has merely attempted to carry out the law.  At the trial, which began last year,
lawyers representing the Haitians produced what they said was evidence of ''a
continuing pattern of illegal and discriminatory conduct'' by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service in its efforts to deport Haitians back to their
Caribbean home.

The details of the service's ''expedited processing'' of Haitians in 1978 and
1979, which the lawyers say violated many of the rights conferred on aliens by
immigration laws and internal immigration service regulations, were assembled in
the course of the class action suit brought against the Justice Department.

Before the deportation of Haitians from the United States was halted temporarily
a year ago on the order of Federal District Judge James L. King, 179 had been
returned home. Judge King's ruling in the case is expected soon, and should he
find that the Haitians' treatment has been neither unlawful nor
unconstitutional, the Government will be free to resume deportation proceedings
against the 30,000 or so Haitians who remain here.

The thousands of pages of records assembled in the case contain a number of
serious allegations. Among them are charges that some Haitians were largely
denied effective representation by lawyers, that some were the victims of fraud
by immigration officers and that some were returned to Haiti against their will
without being told of their right to apply for political asylum in the United
States.

The practices that characterized the expedited processing, according to a
post-trial memorandum submitted by the plaintiffs last month, were
''intentionally directed against Haitian nationals'' alone, and not at citizens
of other countries who were seeking refuge or asylum.

The Justice Department has admitted some of the Haitians' charges but rejected
the rest, including those involving the denial of the right to counsel. In its
rebuttal to the suit, the department has relied heavily on a State Department
report asserting that most of those who leave Haiti do so for financial reasons,
not political ones.

Chance to Present Evidence

Durward Powell, the immigration service's Southern regional director, has said
that the Haitians had been ''given every opportunity to present evidence, oral
or otherwise,'' in support of their claim of political asylum.

The principal result of the alleged practices, the Haitians' lawyers allege, was
to make into a ''self-fulfilling prophecy'' the belief, reflected in internal
immigration service documents, that the Haitians had fled not from political
repression but from the abject poverty that characterizes their country, the
poorest in the Western Hemisphere.

The Haitians are the first large group of refugees entering the United States in
recent years who have fled a land ruled by a non-Communist but nonetheless
authoritarian government. Until a new refugee law took effect in April, those
leaving Communist societies were accorded preferential treatment upon arrival in
the United States. Now, no distinction is made. President Carter has promised
that the Haitians will be accorded fair and lawful treatment.

Immigration officials have made clear their belief that all but a handful of the
Haitians are economic, not political, refugees.

'Fear of Prosecution'

The only basis for political refuge, officials point out, is a ''well-founded
fear of persecution'' upon returning home. ''If we're going to let Haitians in
because they're hungry,'' said Raymond Morris, the service's director here,
''then how can we stop people from India, Southeast Asia and China from coming
in?''

Anyone who enters the United States illegally, as all of the Haitians have, is
entitled by law to a formal deportation hearing before he or she can be returned
home. Many of the illegal aliens who come to the United States, particularly
those from Mexico, often waive their right to a hearing and agree to return
voluntarily at Government expense. But if a hearing is requested, an alien is
also entitled by law to apply for political asylum, and deportation proceedings
normally can continue only if the asylum claim is disallowed.

Technically, the Haitians are asking in their law suit that the immigration
service be required to reconsider their requests for asylum and their ultimate
deportability in cases where adverse decisions have already been rendered. The
suit is an unusual one, since the Haitians are the first large group of refugees
to come here who are not fleeing what Mr. Powell calls ''sudden and intolerable
political changes'' in their home country.

The first Haitian refugees began arriving here in leaky sailboats in the summer
of 1972. But it was not until June 1978, when the Bahamas began to expel
Haitians who had sought refuge there that their numbers in south Florida
increased dramatically. The Bahamian Government cited the rapidly rising
unemployment rate in that Caribbean nation in announcing the expulsions.

600 Arrived in June 1978

Six hundred Haitians arrived that month, and each successive month brought
hundreds more. The number of arrivals reached record levels in the last six
months, something Mr. Morris attributes to ''information getting back to Haiti
that we were under a court order not to deport any Haitians.'' There are now an
estimated 30,000 Haitians in southern Florida, nearly all of whom would be
affected by Judge King's decision.

Unlike the Cuban refugees who have arrived here in far greater numbers over the
years, many Haitians at first were imprisoned for months pending deportation, a
practice since abandoned as impractical as their numbers grew. As the new
arrivals filled jails in the Miami area, the Justice Department began to speed
up its efforts to send them home. As one top immigration official wrote in a
memorandum to his superiors, ''The most practical deterrent to this problem is
expulsion from the United States.''

The immigration service has since stopped incarcerating Haitians pending
deportation because, as one official said, ''We can't keep these people secreted
away in order to deport them after the judge lifts that ban.''

Regulation Allegedly Ignored

According to documents and testimony, the step-up, undertaken at the direction
of Michael Egan, then the No. 3 man the Justice Department, included the
suspension of an immigration service regulation requiring that deportation
proceedings be halted for any individual who had filed an application for
political asylum.

Following that step, it was suggested that the service monitor ''community
reaction'' before proceeding. But the reaction was not adverse - almost no one
but the Haitians' lawyers took notice -and the expedited processing continued
apace.

By July 1978 the immigration service, which previously had handled fewer than a
half-dozen Haitian cases a day, increased its load to 55. By September the
number had climbed to more than 100 a day, due in part to instructions to
immigration judges - who make up an administrative arm of the Justice Department
and are not an independent judiciary -from Mario T. Noto, then the Deputy
Commissioner of Immigration, to ''triple'' their productivity.

''The importance attached to this program'' at the service's headquarters in
Washington ''cannot be overstated,'' wrote Richard Gullage, now the deputy
district director here. ''All supervisory personnel are hereby ordered to take
whatever action they deem necessary to keep these cases moving through the
system.'' One immigration service lawyer testified that he had never seen a
comparable number of cases disposed of in so short a time, and that there was no
relationship to the increasing numbers of Haitians facting deportation.

'Niceties of Due Process'

In its haste to send the Haitians home, their lawyers charged, the immigration
service abandoned its concern for ''the niceties of due process.'' According to
court and related records, the service frequently failed to advise Haitians of
their right to a lawyer without charge. When the Haitian Refugee Center, a
private agency, sent representatives to the Miami immigration office to inform
arriving Haitians of the availability of free legal counsel, refugee center
lawyers said, a guard was posted to keep the representatives out. One lawyer
said Haitians told him they had been warned by immigration officers that ''an
attorney will get them in trouble.''

Some documents allegedly were falsified. Immigration records show, for example,
that Jean Surpris, who arrived here in 1978, declined the offer of a lawyer. But
Mr. Surpris swore in a subsequent affidavit that ''they never asked me 'Do you
wish to have a lawyer?' and I never answered 'no' like it says on the form.''

Lawyer Was Requested

Even when such an offer was made and accepted, a lawyer was sometimes not
forthcoming, some refugees contend. Urile Pierre said he had wanted a lawyer but
was nevertheless recorded as declining.  ''I could not understand why they were
continuing to ask me questions after I had told them I didn't want to answer
before I had a lawyer,'' Mr. Pierre said.

Before last year's court order suspending deportations, 59 Haitians had been
given permission to stay in the United States, 179 had been formally deported to
Haiti and another 450 were listed as having returned home ''voluntarily.'' But
according to a State Department report, more than a score of returnees
interviewed by American diplomats in Haiti said that the immigration service had
''given them the option of spending the rest of their lives'' in an American
jail or ''voluntarily'' returning home.

The service began scheduling a dozen or more asylum interviews and deportation
hearings at the same hour, making it physically impossible for lawyers
representing several clients to appear on behalf of each one. Lawyers who did
appear often had only 30 minutes to prepare complicated cases, the normal
preparation time for which is 20 hours. The proceedings themselves, which
formerly averaged 90 minutes, were abbreviated to less than half an hour,
further impeding the presentation of the facts required.

Lawyers Tell of Threats

Lawyers said they were ordered to remain silent when they attempted to intercede
on behalf of their clients, and were threatened by immigration judges and agency
lawyers with disciplinary proceedings if they continued to inform the Haitians
of their rights.

The atmosphere at the asylum interviews, the lawyers said, was ''hostile and
aggressive.'' One wall of the interview room bore a travel poster that
proclaimed ''New Routes to Haiti.'' The interviewers, who often were immigration
officers hastily recruited from airport duty and untrained in the evaluation of
asylum claims, were described as frequently angry or intimidating. On some
occasions, Haitians who angered the officers by invoking their Fifth Amendment
privilege against self-incrimination were simply thrown in jail, something the
immigration service later admitted it had had no authority to do.

As Steve Mander, a former agency lawyer who is now in private practice put it:
''There seems to be an attitude problem which pervades the immigration service.
I myself might have been caught up in it at times.'' The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste,
a Haitian priest, puts it differently: ''The immigration doesn't like us. There
is a flagrant aspect of racism as far as Haitians are concerned.''

There are also questions about whether the content of the asylum interviews was
faithfully recorded. Five-minute answers to such questions as ''What do you
think would happen to you if you returned to Haiti?'' were reduced to a single
sentence, and the sentences often bore a remarkable similarity. One lawyer,
Steven Forester, said that on more than half the written forms he had seen, the
question ''Why did you come to the United States?'' was answered with the
phrase, ''I came here to find work,'' as if each of the Haitians had used
precisely the same words.

The interview reports were crucial to the Haitians' cases, Mr.Forester said,
because they were used as evidence in later deportation hearings and also by the
State Department in its review of the immigration service in each of the cases.

Several of the Haitians who gave sworn depositions testified that the agents who
interviewed them simply fabricated answers to the questions they were asked.

Gracia Carida's form shows, for example, that she answered ''no,'' when asked
whether she had been politically active in Haiti, and that she did not want to
return because ''It's impossible to make a living in Haiti.'' Actually, ''I said
that I could not go back to Haiti because the Government had killed my cousin,
that the Government was looking for everyone in my family,'' she said.

One of those listed as having come to the United States ''to work'' was Jean
Louis, former member of the Tonton Macoutes, the Haitian Government's unpaid
secret police force, who testified that he had had ''an excellent job in Haiti''
that had paid him $87 a month, a relative fortune where the annual per capita
income is only $120.

'They'll Kill Me'

He said he had told the immigration service, ''If I go back they'll kill me''
for having defected from the Macoutes. But the immigration examiner, he said,
had written that he said he was never politically active and could not return
home ''because I owe a lot of money.''

Although Judge King's order halted deportations, it apparently did not keep the
service from attempting to send Haitians home as ''voluntary returnees.'' Last
August, Fritz Charles arrived in Miami and was directed, he said, by the service
to sign a standard form requesting that he be ''permitted to withdraw my
application for admission and to return abroad.''

Mr. Charles said he refused, explaining, ''I was a member of the Haitian Navy
and they might kill me if I go back.'' At that point, he said, the interpreter,
also a Haitian, forged his signature on the paper. ''I never so much as put my
hand on it,'' he said later.

Immigration officers were preparing to take Mr. Charles and his common-law wife,
Louisanne Innocent, to the airport and put them on a plane to Haiti when Miss
Innocent became hysterical. A lawyer witnessed the scene and telephoned Mr.
Forester, who telephoned the immigration service. Other Haitians in the group
were taken to the airport and sent home, but Mr. Charles and Miss Innocent
remained behind.

That incident, Mr. Forester testified later, was ''discovered totally by
accident.'' But he questioned whether other ''so-called voluntary returnees''
had also been coerced, since ''the vast majority of such returns remain
undetected.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photos of a refugee suffering on Florida beach and
Haitian refugees

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION SERVICE STILL AWAITS LEADER

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14


President Carter's eight-month delay in nominating a Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization, as the agency faces some of the biggest challenges in its
history, is puzzling immigration officials, members of Congress and Hispanic
Americans.

Since Oct. 1, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been under the
direction of a temporary appointee, David W. Crosland.  The last commissioner,
Leonel J. Castillo, had announced almost two months earlier that he intended to
leave office by the end of September.

Among those puzzled by the delays in nominating a commissioner is Matt Garcia,
the 52-year-old Texas state legislator widely considered to be the leading
candidate for the job.

Mr. Garcia said that he doubted he could be nominated by the President and
confirmed by the Senate before the general election in November. The work of
Congress will be interrupted by the two Presidential nominating conventions this
summer.

Interim Appointment Opposed

Mr. Garcia said that he did not want to start work as acting commissioner before
being confirmed because, he said, ''there is nothing to be gained'' in having
one interim appointee replace another.

Under Mr. Crosland, a former general counsel of the immigration service, the
agency has carried out several high-priority projects, interviewing nearly
60,000 Iranian students in the last six weeks of 1979 and processing more than
112,000 refugees who have come to the United States from Cuba since April 21.

Arnie Miller, the chief recruiter of personnel for President Carter, said that
the selection process had ''taken a little longer than it should have'' and that
a nomination would probably be announced soon. He declined to be more specific.

In early February, 14 senators sent President Carter a letter saying that the
agency urgently needed ''a strong leader and a proven manager'' to help it cope
with both legal immigration, ''now at its highest level since the early years of
this century,'' and with illegal immigration.

'Declining Effectiveness' Seen

''I.N.S. is in serious trouble and its effectiveness as a Federal agency is
declining rapidly,'' said the letter, written by Senator Walter D. Huddleston of
Kentucky and signed by seven other Democrats, including the Senate majority
leader, Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia.

The letter said, ''Increasing immigration pressures, lack of adequate
Congressional and Administration support, declining employee morale, lack of
permanent leadership and possible internal corruption are immobilizing the
I.N.S.''

The Senate Judiciary Committee, in a report on the agency's budget last month,
said that ''the morale problem has been aggravated'' by the failure to nominate
a commissioner.

Mr. Crosland said that he did not know the reasons for the delay but that his
approach was to run the agency as if he were the Presidentially appointed
commissioner. Members of Congress said that he had done as well as anyone could
in his situation.

However, Richard L. Bevans, president of the National Border Patrol Council, a
union representing 2,300 employees, described Mr.  Crosland as ''a figurehead, a
caretaker.'' He said that Mr.  Crosland's superiors in the Justice Department
now made many major decisions that would normally be made by the commissioner.

Selection Viewed as Political

Michael G. Harpold, president of the National Immigration and Naturalization
Service Council, another union with 5,800 members, said, ''There is no one
protecting the interests of the agency.'' As weeks pass with no appointment, he
said, employees increasingly believe that ''the selection of a commissioner is
strictly political.''

Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti, asked about the delay in nominating a
successor, said at a news conference on May 29: ''Some positions are difficult
to fill with the right person with the right talents.'' He said that Mr. Garcia
remained ''a serious candidate for the position.''

Ruben Bonilla of Corpus Christi, Tex., national preident of the League of United
Latin American Citizens, said he told Mr. Civiletti at a luncheon this week that
''the delays were becoming more unusual and more inexplicable.''

Mr. Bonilla, a member of a new committee that advises the Attorney General on
Hispanic affairs, said that the Administration was being very cautious because
it recognized immigration as a politically sensitive issue.

Re-examination of Agency

A confirmation hearing could become a forum in which senators reexamine the
problems of the immigration service as well as Administration policy toward
illegal aliens and Cuban and Haitian refugees.

''Matt Garcia has cleared enough channels and been reviewed inside out,'' said
Mr. Bonilla, warning that further delay in submitting the nomination would lead
to ''frustration and resentment in the Hispanic community.''

Mr. Garcia said that the Federal Bureau of Investigation finished making
background checks on him about two months ago. He confirmed that he had filed
his Federal income tax returns late in four or five years of the 1970's, but he
said this should not be considered a problem because he had paid all penalties
and interest. He attributed his late filings to the fact that he had been
''overburdened with work.''

Mr. Garcia, serving his fourth two-year term in the Texas House of
Representatives, has a large law practice and has been active in the Democratic
Party in San Antonio. For example, he said, he was the master of ceremonies at a
fund-raising event for President Carter's re-election campaign in April.

John C. White, the Democratic national chairman, said he had told White House
aides that Mr. Garcia would be an outstanding choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 17, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN IDENTIFICATION CARDS CALLED CIVIL RIGHTS THREAT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16


A proposal for the Federal Government to issue identification cards or work
authorization cards to American citizens and legal aliens was criticized today
by civil liberties lawyers.  Meeting with the staff of the Select Commission on
Immigration and Refugee Policy, the lawyers said that there was great potential
for abuse in such a system.

John H.F. Shattuck, director of the Washington office of the American Civil
Liberties Union, said that identification cards would be ''tantamount to a form
of domestic passport'' and should be considered only along with a constitutional
amendment that set principles for the management of data by the government.

The commission, created by Congress in 1978, is seeking ways to curtail illegal
immigration. It is studying a proposal for a Federal agency to issue
counterfeit-resistant Social Security cards to all American citizens and aliens
who are legally eligible to work in this country. Employers would be required to
check the cards before hiring new employees; those who hired illegal aliens
would be subject to penalties.

The proposal was developed by the staff of the commission in response to a
request from the chairman, the Rev. Theodore M.  Hesburgh, president of the
University of Notre Dame.

Law Enforcement Uses

Alan F. Westin, professor of public law and government at Columbia University,
said that there would be pressures from law enforcement agencies to use the
record system in investigations, to find fugitives, for example.

To avoid such uses of the cards, Mr. Westin suggested that the necessary
information might be stored in a computer. A Federal agency serving as custodian
of the computer system could then give employers clearance for job applicants.

Lawrence H. Fuchs, executive director of the study commission, said that the
introduction of identification cards could become ''the occasion for
strengthening the fabric of civil liberties'' rather than threatening them. To
penalize employers for hiring illegal aliens without providing workers with a
means of identification, he said, would threaten rights of Hispanic Americans
and other minorities who might be suspected of being illegal aliens.

A report prepared by the commission staff says that some minority groups have
opposed the work authorization concept ''because they believe it would result in
a discriminatory pattern of usage in actual operation.''

Warning on 'Racist Reaction'

Mr. Fuchs said that the 16-member commission was very conscious of the need to
protect civil liberties, but that continued illegal immigration carried risks of
its own, including an increased potential for social and political tension. The
tension, he warned, could lead to a ''xenophobic, racist reaction.''

At present, aliens need certain types of visas and, in some cases, Labor
Department certification to work in the United States. There is no Federal law
against hiring illegal aliens, although employers may be prosecuted for
harboring or smuggling illegal aliens and for violating wage and hours laws.

Mr. Fuchs summarized today's meeting by listing the safeguards that, according
to the participants, should be attached to work authorization cards: clear
definitions of who is eligible to work; civil and criminal penalties for using
the card for anything but work authorization, and requirements that computerized
data not include addresses and that the information be subject to audit by a
review board from outside government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 18, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Edith Lowenstein, 70, a Lawyer Who Handled Immigration Cases

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 153 words


Edith Lowenstein, a lawyer, died Saturday in Doctors Hospital. She was 70 years
old and lived in Manhattan.  Miss Lowenstein was born in Germany and came to the
United States as an exchange student. After she received her law degree from the
University of Chicago in 1939, she specialized in immigration cases.

She served as an appellate attorney for the Criminal Division of the Department
of Justice from 1939 to 1944 and as a trial attorney with the Office of Alien
Property from 1944 to 1953.

Miss Lowenstein moved to New York in the early 1950's to join the American
Council for Nationalities Service as editor of Interpreter Releases, a
publication that became the information bulletin on immigration matters for the
country.

In the 1960's she went into private practice. Miss Lowenstein taught immigration
law at a number of schools, including the New School of Social Research.

There are no survivors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 18, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESSMEN SAY HAITIAN REFUGEES STILL FACE A 'DUAL STANDARD' IN U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17


Members of Congress said today at a Congressional hearing that the Carter
Administration was continuing to treat Haitian ''boat people'' much more harshly
than Cuban exiles despite a new law designed to equalize the treatment of aliens
seeking asylum in this country.

At a hearing of the House judiciary subcommittee on immigration, refugees and
international law, State Department and immigration officials denied charges by
Congressmen that race made a difference in treatment, noting that many Cuban
refugees were black, like the Haitians.

John A. Bushnell, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for inter-American
affairs, said that Cuban refugees would probably face threeyear sentences under
a Cuban law for leaving the country if they were forced to return but that most
of the Haitians would not face persecution.

Representative Shirley Chisholm, Democrat of Brooklyn, speaking on behalf of the
Congressional Black Caucus, wept as she described efforts to improve the
treatment of Haitians in this country.

Equal Treatment Termed 'Lie'

''The Administration has recently begun to spout off a lot of rhetoric about
Cubans and Haitians receiving equal treatment,'' she said. ''The facts are that
this statement is a blatant lie.''

She deplored what she described as the ''rigid, doctrinaire position'' of the
State Department, which has generally called the Cubans political refugees and
the Haitians economic refugees. ''You cannot separate the economic factors from
soci@o-political factors,'' she asserted. ''They are all interconnected.''

Representative Elizabeth Holtzman, the subcommittee chairman, said that there
was a ''dual standard'' and added that Federal workers had provided cash and
medical assistance to Cubans arriving in Miami, whereas ''Haitians who had been
in this country for months and even years were denied similar assistance.''

Miss Holtzman, also a Brooklyn Democrat, said that the routine assistance for
Cubans had been halted after she brought it to the attention of Administration
officials, who explained that they had been following a 20-year policy of
generosity to Cubans fleeing Communism.

Definition of Refugee

The Refugee Act of 1980, signed by President Carter on March 17, redefined
''refugee'' to mean any person who had a ''well-founded fear'' of persecution if
sent home. The old law expressed a clear preference for those fleeing Communism.

Virginia R. Dominguez, who was born in Cuba and teaches anthropology at Duke
University, said that many of the Cubans and Haitians in the latest wave of
immmigration had come for economic reasons and apparently did not meet the new
statutory definition of ''refugee.''

As an explanation for the alleged unequal treatment, Dr. Dominguez observed that
there was a vocal, influential Cuban-American population in the United States
lobbying for aid to the most recent arrivals from Cuba, while there was only a
''small and for the most part vulnerable Haitian-American population.''

David W. Crosland, acting commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, noting his own background as a civil rights lawyer, said that ''race is
really not a factor'' in the handling of applications by Haitians for asylum.

Of the more than 14,000 Haitians who have come to the United States in the last
decade and who now face expulsion, he said, fewer than 1,000 have exhausted
their administrative appeals.

Stephen E. Palmer Jr., a State Department official, said that the department was
''keenly aware of the abysmal series of human-rights abuses that Haiti has known
practically throughout its 180-year history.'' However, he said, ''the
determination of a particular asylum claim'' is not ''a general referendum on
human rights in the home country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Bishop James A. Hickey

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 24, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ADMINISTRATION OPPOSING BAN N HOMOSEXUAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23


The Carter Administration has endorsed a proposal to repeal a section of the
immigration law that prohibits the entry of homosexual aliens into the United
States.

In a letter sent last week to several persons interested in homosexual rights,
Anne Wexler, an assistant to President Carter, said that the Administration's
position was ''premised upon the President's human rights policies and the
nation's responsibility to be consistent with our immigration expectation of
other countries.''

She noted that the United States, as one of 35 countries that signed the
Helsinki agreement in 1975 had promised to ease restrictions on travel as one
way of promoting human rights. Some people, including Patricia M. Derian,
Assistant Secretary of State for human rights, have seen the ban on homosexuals
as possibly inconsistent with the commitment made at Helsinki.

Assistant Attorney General Alan A. Parker, in a separate letter to Senator Alan
Cranston, Democrat of California, said that the Justice Department supported the
objective of his bill to repeal statutory language requiring the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to exclude suspected homosexual aliens.

The two letters constituted the first statement of the Administration's position
on the issue.  Justice Department lawyers concluded last December that ''the
I.N.S. is statutorily required to enforce the exclusion of homosexual aliens''
because the ban was enacted by Congress in 1952 and upheld by the Supreme Court
in 1967.

In practice, according to a spokesman for the immigration service, homosexuals
have been admitted in recent months because the Public Health Service would no
longer certify aliens as being victims of a mental disease or defect solely on
the basis of their homosexuality.  But the homosexuals were ''paroled'' into the
country, with no decision as to whether they were legally entitled to enter.

33 Grounds for Exclusion

The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, also known as the McCarran-Walter
Act, as amended, lists 33 grounds for automatically excluding aliens, including
paupers, prostitutes and polygamists. The Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy, a 16-member study group, is likely to recommend changes in this
section of the law, which applies to foreigners trying to come here either as
visitors or permanent residents.

A recent Library of Congress study said that the McCarran-Walter Act was passed
at the height of the cold war and was ''basically a restrictionist measure,''
designed to keep out Communists, subversives and other immigrants seen as a
potential danger to the nation.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a member of the select commission, has called for
repeal of all 33 subsections of the law listing grounds for exclusion. ''Had
these sections applied to American citizens, rather than to aliens, they would
undoubtedly have been thrown out in court years ago,'' he said. They should be
replaced with ''reasonable and humane'' provisions, he added.

A Congressional aide who characterized the exclusions as ''an accumulation of
prejudices'' said that wholesale revision of this portion of the law would be
more feasible politically than selective repeal of the ban on homosexuals.

Charles F. Brydon, co-executive director of the National Gay Task Force, which
is based in New York, said that there was ''a substantial gay group'' among the
Cuban refugees who had come to the United States in the last nine weeks.

Some, according to Verne Jervis, the immigration service spokesman, said that
they had been in prison because they were homosexuals.  They have been allowed
to enter this country like other homosexuals, he said.

Representative Anthony C. Beilenson, Democrat of California, has introduced in
the House a bill that is similar to Mr. Cranston's. No immediate action is
expected on either measure, according to aides on Capitol Hill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 25, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

DEPORTATION ALLOWED FOR '43 OLIVE THEFT

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 520 words


Immigration authorities have ruled that an alien who overstayed his visa in the
United States must be deported because he stole some olives and some wood in
1943 when he was a youth in his native Italy.

A petition to overturn the immigration ruling was rejected in Manhattan
yesterday by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The
court found that the alien was excludable and that the authorities had not
abused their discretion in the case.

The alien, 56-year-old Michele Chiaramonte, came to this country on a visitor's
visa nine years ago and lives in Queens. He said the petty thefts had occurred
in wartime Italy when his family needed food.

His lawyer, Martin Rothstein, is considering further appeals. He remarked that
the case was reminiscent of a Victor Hugo novel of ''a man being hounded his
whole life as a result of a theft of necessities of life.''

Judge Calls Offenses 'Minor'

In the appellate decision, Judge Thomas J. Meskill said the Immigration and
Naturalization Service was empowered to exclude Mr.  Chiaramonte because of his
prior convictions and was not required to give him discretionary relief.

''We are not unmindful of the seeming harshness in turning petitioner away
because of two minor criminal escapades committed in his youth,'' Judge Meskill
said in the 18-page decision, which he wrote with the concurrence of Judge
Leonard P. Moore and Judge William H. Mulligan.

''Neither are we unaware,'' he continued, ''that I.N.S.'s steadfast denials of
Chiaramonte's various applications may seem somewhat quixotic when viewed
against the veritable flood tide of immigration, legal and illegal, which this
nation has experienced of late.

''Such perceptions, however, do not license us to override the legislative
scheme when, as here, it has been properly implemented.'' Noting that Congress
regulates immigration, Judge Meskill said that ''we are not free to substitute
our judgment for that of the national legislature merely because the statutory
scheme dictates a severe or unfortunate result in a particular case.''

Other Violations Noted

His decision upheld a ruling by Immigration Judge Francis J. Lyons that Mr.
Chiaramonte had not demonstrated the ''extreme hardship'' required for a waiver
of excludability. Judge Lyons also said discretionary relief would be improper
because of ''repeated violation of the immigration laws.''

Mr. Chiaramonte came here from Italy on a visitor's visa in 1971, began working
in violation of his entry conditions, overstayed his visa and arranged for his
wife and two sons to be smuggled into the country.

He filed numerous applications and appeals after arriving here. His father and
brothers, who came here legally after World War II, are naturalized citizens.
His request for an immigrant visa had been denied in 1970 because of the two
convictions in his youth.

His crimes were the theft of 60 pounds of olives and 220 pounds of wood, which
resulted in suspended sentences and small fines when he was 19 years old.

They still haunt him under prevailing immigration laws as crimes of ''moral
turpitude.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 3, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE ASSAILS U.S. HANDLING OF HAITIANS

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 2


A Federal district judge declared today that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service had knowingly violated ''the constitutional, statutory, treaty and
administrative rights'' of thousands of Haitian refugees seeking political
asylum in this country.

Judge James L. King, ruling in a class-action lawsuit brought by more than 4,000
Haitians, ordered that the service take no further action against the plaintiffs
until the Government had presented him with an acceptable plan for reconsidering
their asylum claims. That plan, he said, must eliminate the ''wholesale
violations of due process'' that he found had characterized the service's
previous denials of those claims.

''Haitians who came to the United States seeking freedom and justice did not
find it,'' Judge King wrote in a 180-page decision.  Instead, he said, ''they
were confronted with an Immigration and Naturalization Service determined to
deport them,'' and to do so ''irrespective of the merits of their asylum
claims.''

The Haitians had contended that the mere act of seeking political asylum in the
United States would prompt the Government of Jean-Claude Duvalier, Haiti's
President-for-Life, to view them as opponents of his regime, and that many of
them would be subject to political persecution if forced to return home. They
sought review of asylum claims that have been denied, and an end to practices
that violated their rights.

The Government had argued that nearly all the Haitians here were merely seeking
better economic conditions and faced no threat of political persecution upon
return. But Judge King dismissed that position as unsupported by the evidence
presented in the year-long trial here that ended May 21.

''The court has seen a stark picture of how these plaintiffimmigrants will be
treated if they return to Haiti,'' he wrote, ''and it has seen an equally stark,
and even more troubling, picture of the treatment of Haitians by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.''

In unusually scathing judicial criticism of an executive agency, Judge King also
suggested that officials of the service had been motivated to some degree by
racial prejudice in seeking mass deportation of the Haitians.

No Explanation But Bias

''The plaintiffs are part of the first substantial flight of black refugees from
a repressive regime to this country,'' he said, adding that while ''prejudice of
any type is seldom overt,'' he could place no other interpretation on some key
pieces of evidence, including an internal immigration service memorandum
asserting that the Haitians threatened the economic and social ''well-being'' of
Miami.

Judge King characterized as ''stark, brutal and bloody'' the testimony and other
evidence offered by the Haitians to show that many of those deported to Haiti
had been badly mistreated, imprisoned and even murdered upon their return. He
declared that ''until the I.N.S. can definitely state which Haitians will be so
treated and which will not, the brutality and the bloodletting is its
reponsibility.''

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said in Washington that
his agency would have no comment on the decision.  Robert Havel, a spokesmen for
the Justice Department, said it would be some time before a decision was reached
on whether to appeal today's ruling. The department, of which the service is a
part, was the defendant in the lawsuit.

Administration's 'Parole'

The practical benefit of today's decision for the Haitian plaintiffs is unclear.
On June 20 the Carter Administration, which had been under considerable pressure
from the Congressional Black Caucus to respond to the Haitians' plight, granted
a temporary ''parole'' allowing the Haitians and the recent Cuban refugees to
remain in this country for at least six months.

This ''parole,'' which can be renewed, is intended to give Congress time to pass
legislation that would allow the Haitians to become permanent residents and,
eventually, citizens of the United States.  But the order applies only to the
estimated 30,000 Haitians living here as of June 20, and those arriving later
still will be subject to deportation unless granted asylum by the service.

The plaintiffs in the suit before Judge King are covered by the parole order,
and presumably would have no reason to pursue asylum claims unless their parole
expired before Congress had granted them permanent resident status.

The Justice Department had based its defense primarily on State Department
interviews with 86 of the 700 or so Haitians who have been deported or have
returned to Haiti voluntarily.

None of the 86 acknowledged having been persecuted or otherwise mistreated, the
State Department said. All conceded fleeing Haiti, the poorest country in the
Western Hemisphere, for economic and not political reasons, it said.

But Judge King dismissed this study as methodologically unsound and ''unworthy
of belief.'' His courtroom, he said, had become ''populated by the ghosts of
individual Haitians - including those who have been returned from the United
States -who have been beaten, tortured and left to die in Haitian prisons.''
Those not imprisoned, he added, faced harassment and intimidation and ''the
continuing threat of a midnight visit'' from the Haitian secret police.

The immigration service, the judge said, had also ''demonstrated its failure to
grasp the fundamental rules of Haitian politics and economics.'' He suggested
that the ''dramatic poverty'' in that country was ''a function of the political
system'' and ''a result of Duvalier's efforts to maintain power.''

Bias Is 'Central Issue'

The judge wrote that one ''central issue'' overshadowed all others raised by the
Haitian plaintiffs, that of systematic discrimination by the service on the
basis of national origin.

''The plaintiffs charged that they faced a transparent discriminatory program
designed to deport Haitian nationals and no one else,'' he said. ''The
uncontroverted evidence proves their claim.''

Thousands of asylum claims, the judge said, were denied before cases could be
fully presented, with the subsequent violation of numerous immigration
regulations and Constitutional guarantees. The abuses, he said, were
''systematic and pervasive,'' and he accused the immigration service of
demonstrating ''a willingness to sacrifice due process for the sake of speed.''

''The manner in which I.N.S. treated the more than 4,000 Haitian plaintiffs
violated the Constitution, the immigration statutes, international agreements,
I.N.S. regulations and I.N.S. operating procedures,'' he said. ''It must stop.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 22, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

12-YEAR-OLD REFUGEE FRON UKRAINE GRANTED POLITICAL ASYLUM IN CHICAGO

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 21


Walter Polovchak, the 12-year-old Ukrainian boy who said he was unwilling to
return to the Soviet Union with his family, has been granted political asylum,
an immigration official said today.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said the decision to grant the boy asylum was made by Michael
Landon, the agency's district director for Chicago, on the recommendation of the
State Department.

Neither Mr. Landon nor State Department spokesmen could be reached immediately
for comment.

On Parents' Visa

Julian E. Kulas, the boy's attorney, said the action cleared the way for the
boy's parents, Michael and Anna Polovchak, to return to the Soviet Union without
their son.

Mr. Kulas said Soviet authorities had told Mr. Polovchak over the weekend that
because Walter and their youngest son, Michael Jr., 6, were on the parents'
visa, both boys would have to accompany the parents or the family would not be
allowed to return to their home in the Ukraine.

But the granting of political asylum separates Walter from his family's
passport, Mr. Kulas said today.

Father Berates Government

In an interview published today in The Chicago Tribune, Mr.  Polovchak was
quoted as saying that the United States had no right to take his son away from
him, even though the boy had asked for political asylum.

''Am I drunkard?'' he said. ''I am not. Do I starve my children? I do not. Have
I broken any laws? I have not. So who is this government to take away my child?
It is against the law and against the Constitution.''

The Polovchaks, along with a daughter, Natalie, 17, emigrated to Chicago six
months ago. The daughter, who was traveling on her own passport, has decided to
stay in the United States.

Ran Away From Home

When he learned last week that his parents planned to return to the Soviet
Union, Walter ran away and moved in with a Ukrainian-born relative in Chicago.

The police found him and took him to a district police station.  But when his
father tried to retrieve him, the police called the State Department, which
issued a temporary order keeping the boy in the United States until a court
hearing could be held.

A Cook County judge ordered Saturday that the boy be placed in temporary custody
pending a final hearing scheduled July 30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 7, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IRANIAN PROTESTERS FREEED IMPROPERLY SOME OFFICIALS SAY: THEY DECLARE U.S.
FAILED TO VERIFY MAYN NAMES FROM AMONG THE 171 IN PRISON AT OTISVILLE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6


Several United States immigration officers who interviewed Iranian demonstrators
jailed at Otisville, N.Y., said today that many of the 171 Iranians there had
been released prematurely, before their names and legal status could be
verified.

The 171 Iranians, all men, were freed from the Federal prison in Otisville last
night after being held there for four days on suspicion of having violated
immigration laws. Twenty women held at a facility in Manhattan were freed at the
same time. All were arrested July 27 in Washington at a demonstration in support
of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the Iranian revolutionary leader.

A 172d man seized during the demonstration was returned to Washington from
Otisville yesterday to face a felony charge of assaulting a policeman.

Initially Refused to Give Names

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service here and in New York
said last night that the Iranians had given their names to immigration officers
after initially refusing to identify themselves.

One immigration officer who was at Otisville said: ''We did not check with the
schools where the students were supposedly enrolled, except in a handful of
cases. We did not check with the district offices where they should have
registered. I was dying to do that.''

Several employees in the Manhattan office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service said that they planned to walk out or call in sick tomorrow to protest
the handling of the Iranian prisoners.  However, a spokesman for the New York
unit of the American Federation of Government Employees said that the union had
not organized a formal job action.

Refusal to Continue Checks

The immigration officer, who asked to remain anonymous because of possible
reprisals, said that his supervisor told him at about 2 P.M. yesterday, ''We are
not going to do any more checks. The students are going to be released.''

Carter Administration officials, meanwhile, said the release of the Iranian
demonstrators had averted a worsening of the situation for the 52 American
hostages in Teheran but had not made their early release more likely. (Page A3.)

Another immigration officer speculated that the Iranians had been released
prematurely because the Administration feared that Iranian authorities might
retaliate against the American captives.

In Iran, Hojatolislam Hashemi Rafsanjani, the Speaker of the Parliament, which
is to decide the fate of the hostages, said yesterday that debate on the subject
would be postponed in retaliation for the alleged mistreatment of the Iranian
demonstrators in the United States. The 191 demonstrators had been held for six
days in a municipal jail in Washington. They had originally been charged with
disorderly conduct, but these accusations were later dropped.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said that investigators
had had ''access to records and adequate information'' to determine the legal
status of the Iranians. ''The investigators had as much information as they do
when they go into a factory to make an arrest,'' he said.

Asked whether anyone in the White House or the State Department had instructed
the immigration service to release the Iranians, Mr.  Jervis said, ''Absolutely
not.''

Immigration officers who interviewed the Iranians held in upstate New York said
they had been told by their supervisors to limit the interviews, wherever
possible, to eight questions covering such information as the prisoner's name,
date and place of birth, and date and place of entry into the United States.

Mr. Jervis said the immigration service had checked with some, but not all, of
the schools where the Iranians were said to be enrolled.  Justice Department and
immigration officials said that when it became clear that most of the Iranians
were in compliance with the terms of their visas, it was considered less
important to verify the information given by the others.

Meanwhile, the District of Columbia police granted a permit to Iranian students
for a demonstration tomorrow in front of the National Press Building, followed
by a march to the Mall. The students say they are protesting American news
coverage of their fellow students' arrests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 8, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SOME IMMIGRATION AIDES STAY HOME TO PROTEST RELEASE

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 613 words


A number of United States immigration officers failed to turn up for work at
their Manhattan office yesterday in a loosely organized protest against the
release of Iranian demonstrators Tuesday.

Up to a third of the 187 investigators at the district office at 26 Federal
Plaza joined what was termed an illegal work stoppage by a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The protest, which some officers called a sickout, grew out of the release of
171 Iranian men arrested in Washington last week and transferred to a Federal
prison in Otisville, 70 miles northwest of New York City in Orange County.
Twenty Iranian women, held in a Manhattan facility, were also freed Tuesday.

Several immigration officials who worked on the case in Otisville have charged
that many of the Iranians were freed prematurely, before their legal status - or
even names - could be verified.

The last of the Iranians left a mosque in Woodside, Queens, early yesterday
after neighborhood residents staged an angry demonstration against them. The 70
to 80 remaining had rejected Mayor Koch's offer of safe passage, choosing to
leave for Washington in vans provided by the American Indian movement.

All were arrested July 27 at a Washington demonstration in support of Ayatollah
Ruhollah Khomeini. After being detained in a Washington jail until Friday, they
were transferred to the Federal facilities in upstate New York and held for four
days on suspicion that they had violated immigration laws.

Some of the 17 immigration officers charged with investigating the Iranians in
Otisville say they were not permitted to finish background checks and allege
that the decision to release them was politically motivated. ''The processing
was not even completed,'' said Ignatius A. Gentile, an official with the
American Federation of Government Employees. ''If the Administration feels we
have to turn these people loose and out of custody of the Immigration Service,
why doesn't the Government just state the truth? That's what's upsetting my
people.''

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
in Washington that the officers' criticism ''does not excuse what they have
done.'' All those who stayed away from their jobs have been sent telegrams
notifying them that unless they provide medical certification confirming that
they were ill, they will face disciplinary action. ''That could range from a
simple letter of admonishment to loss of a job,'' Mr. Jervis said.

However, Jack Solerwitz, lawyer for the officers' union, said that according to
the rules, an immigration officer would have to be ill for three days before a
medical note would be required.  He said the absenteeism yesterday was caused by
illness, not a sickout. ''That would be illegal,'' he added.

The decision to release the Iranians, Mr. Jervis explained, ''was made after
their identifications were established to our satisfaction.'' He added that
''their release was based upon review of available records.''

One officer who worked in Otisville said in an interview yesterday that the
Iranians did not have identification and that the Immigration Service did not
telephone many of the schools where they said they were enrolled.

Mr. Jervis confirmed that some of the schools were not called and that the
Iranians did not carry identification. ''We released them because there was no
reason to hold them any longer,'' he said.  ''They had satisified our
requirements about providing information about themselves. But we're continuing
to gather information on them. You can be legal today and illegal tomorrow.
Releasing them does not preclude any action later.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

OFFICIALS IMPLY 20 TO 30 IRANIANS WERE FREED TOO SOON

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 24


Immigration officials now acknowledge that at least 20 to 30 of the Iranian
students arrested at demonstrations here late last month were released from a
Federal prison in Otisville, N.Y., before their names and legal status had been
verified.

The acknowledgment tends to support complaints by immigration officers at the
time that some of the Iranians had been released prematurely.

A total of 171 Iranian men had been held four days at the Otisville prison and
20 Iranian women at a Federal jail in Manhattan on suspicion that they had
violated immigration laws. All were freed on the evening of Aug. 5. It now
appears that eight of the 191 were in violation.

The Acting Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, David W.
Crosland, has ordered a review of the circumstances surrounding release of the
Iranians, all said to be supporters of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the Iranian
revolutionary leader.

Names on a Master List

Francis J. Johnson, an assistant director of the immigration service office in
New York, said Friday that ''20- or 30-some checks were not completed'' at the
time the Iranians were freed. The names had been submitted to the agency's
headquarters for comparison with a master list of Iranian students, compiled
last year, but the responses for those 20 or 30 students did not come back
before their release, Mr. Johnson said.

The master list was one of three sources of information that immigration
officers could consult. If the initial check suggested any discrepancy or
problem, investigators could call the school where the Iranians were enrolled or
the nearest district office of the immigration service.

Glenn A. Bertness, an assistant commissioner of the service at its main office
here, said that he decided at about 9 A.M. on Aug. 5 that the Iranian students
would be released from prison at 9 that evening. He said he had decided on the
release time after he was told by an immigration service investigator who was at
Otisville that the verifications of the students' status could be completed by 9
P.M.

Visa Problems Disclosed

The Justice Department issued a statement Aug. 7 saying that all but two of the
Iranians were legally present in the United States.  Deputy Attorney General
Charles B. Renfrew gave the White House an assurance to that effect.

But Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said Friday that the
agency had rechecked 161 of the 191 Iranians and found eight to be ''out of
status,'' that is, violating the immigration laws or the terms of their visas.
Four of the eight were in deportation proceedings before their arrests here, he
said.

Immigration officers said there was substantial confusion at the Otisville
prison. Many of the Iranians were on a hunger strike and some were becoming ill.
The district director of the immigration service in New York, Henry S. Dogin,
had been on the job only three days, and, according to one immigration official,
''There was some crosscutting of the chain of command and a lot of data got
muddled.''

In a letter this week to Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti, Representative
Elizabeth Holtzman said her own preliminary inquiry had suggested that
''pressure may have been brought to bear on the service to release the Iranians
summarily.'' Miss Holtzman, a Brooklyn Democrat who serves as chairman of the
House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said that ''over 30 of the student
detainees may have been in this country beyond the specific dates indicated on
their travel documents.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AFGHANS DREAMING OF LIFE IN AMERICA;
New U.S. Law Raises Their Hopes of Leaving Refugee Facilities;
- Other Groups Affected

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section ZZZ; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Sept. 6


A new American immigration law is raising hopes among tens of thousands of
Afghan refugees stranded in India and in Pakistan that they may soon be
permitted to enter the United States.

Actually, no more than 1,000 Afghans are likely to benefit from the legislation
this year. From 1981 on, the number permitted to enter under it will be limited
to another 1,000 a year.

Still, for people who had little chance of settling permanently in Asian
countries and no chance of going anywhere else, the law is welcome, and
anticipations are rising faster than real prospects.

Provisions of New Law

The measure, the Refugee Act of 1980, increases the number of visas that can be
issued to refugees each year to 50,000 from 17,500. This is in addition to
special programs such as those set up for Vietnamese boat people and Cubans. In
addition to Afghans, the groups that are likely to be competing for an increased
number of refugee visas include Ethiopians, Eritreans, South Africans,
Namibians, Ugandans, Libyans, Lebanese and others who can show that they cannot
go home without risk of persecution.

Even more important for groups such as the Afghans, the legislation permits
people to apply for visas as refugees at about 15 embassies and consulates in
South Asia, the Middle East and Africa. Formerly the applications could be filed
only in cities where the Immigration and Naturalization Service maintains
offices. The problem for many of the refugees was that they had neither the
documents nor the money needed.

Few Afghans Have Passports

The law was signed by President Carter on March 17. Before it went into effect
Afghans who fled into Pakistan or India from civil war and Soviet troops could
apply for American visas as refugees only if they could get to Hong Kong,
Frankfurt or Athens. Since the West German, Greek and British authorities were
not issuing even tourist visas to Afghans, it became a Catch-22 situation for
even the relatively few who had passports.

About a million Afghans are living in tents in camps in Pakistan, and most have
no passports, but they can now apply for visas at the American Embassy in
Islamabad or the consulate in Karachi. Another consulate, in Peshawar, was
originally included on the list where applications could be made, but the small
office was swamped by applicants from nearby camps, so it directed applicants to
Islamabad, four hours away by bus.

The same sort of hope that has been raised among the Afghans is said to be
evident in other parts of the world where refugees have sometimes spent years in
camps, unable to return home for fear of imprisonment or execution and unable to
move on because of travel restrictions.

Exiles from the Eritrean region of Ethiopia are applying for refugee visas in
Kenya, the Sudan and Djibouti. South African dissidents can apply in Botswana,
Lesotho, Swaziland and Zambia.

The Word Spreads Quickly

Here in Delhi, where most of the Afghan refugees tend to be business and
professional people who were able to escape by plane, word of the new policy has
spread quickly. In the few days since refugee applications began to be processed
here 450 individuals and family groups have filled out forms, and each day
members of the consular staff are conducting dozens of interviews.

In one glassed-in enclosure Howard Kavaler, a consular officer, was questioning
a 26-year-old Afghan accompanied by his wife and 2-year-old son. The man, who
came out three months ago, asked that his name not be used. He said through an
interpreter that he was a customs agent three years ago in Kabul, the Afghan
capital, and then was drafted to serve in the army as a private. After officers
overheard him making anti-Soviet statements, he spent six months in a Kabul
prison before being released a year ago, he related.

He made his way to Pakistan with his family and then crossed into India. He is
living with friends. He has no relatives in the United States but knows some
friends who have settled there. He wants to work, he said, and is willing to do
anything.

The interviewers seek to establish whether the applicants qualify as refugees;
they try to determine if they would be mistreated if they returned home and if
they are entitled to settle anywhere else.  It seems clear that most of the
applicants here qualify. They are asked to take medical examinations and then
are told that the decision on visas is made elsewhere.

A Long Wait Remains

''We can only recommend,'' a consular officer, Bernard Alter, told an Afghan
journalist at the end of an interview. ''You understand that it will take some
time and you really should think in terms of months rather than weeks.''

The difference is that now the journalist, who said he paid an $800 bribe to an
Afghan official to get his passport, can think about it at all. It is believed
that when the apportionment is worked out between all the consular posts, about
200 Afghans here may receive refugee visas in the first month.

In Pakistan the number will probably be somewhat greater. Except for a few rare
cases, these people will be the first significant group of Afghans going to the
United States; it is likely that the stream will continue in coming months.

''We've had a remarkable response in terms of applications here just as a result
of word of mouth,'' Mr. Alter said. ''Can you imagine what must be happening in
Islamabad, where there are all those hundreds of thousands of refugees just down
the road? I think we are all going to need extra help.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 8, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Ex-Immigration Chief Has a Role In Spanish-Language News Unit

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, Sept. 7


Leonel J. Castillo, the former United States Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, will be a partowner of a news service for Spanish-language
newspapers in the United States, The Dallas Times Herald reported.

In a report from Mexico City, the newspaper said that the Hispanic American
Communications Agency would be opened before the end of the year in cooperation
with the Spanish news agency EFE.

Mr. Castillo, who ran unsuccessfully for Mayor of Houston after resigning from
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that the news service would
concentrate on a United States audience and would employ Spanish-speaking
Americans. The first bureau will be in Houston, and he said bureaus eventually
would be established in other major cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 12, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
Woman, 22, Accused Of Defrauding Aliens

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 108 words


A 22-year-old woman was accused of pretending to be a Federal immigration
officer in a money-making scheme in which she took aliens to an Immigration and
Naturalization Service office to be fingerprinted.

District Attorney John J. Santucci of Queens said the woman, Adia Vasquez of
108-66 37th Avenue, Corona, had been ordered held in $10,000 bail by Justice
Melvin D. Glass of State Supreme Court on charges of grand larceny, criminal
impersonation and a scheme to defraud. She allegedly offered, for a $1,000 fee,
to get a resident card for a down payment of $250 to $500, but never asked for a
final payment since the card was never obtained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 22, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21


Twelve thousand Iranian students still in the United States are in the country
illegally, officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said today.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the agency, said that about 2,000 Iranian students
had been ordered to leave the country after formal deportation hearings.

Another 10,000 are awaiting deportation hearings, Mr. Jervis said.  They have
been accused of violating United States immigration law, the terms of their
visas or special reporting requirements imposed on them by the Carter
Administration last fall after the seizure of the American Embassy in Teheran.

Mr. Jervis and David W. Crosland, acting commissioner of the immigration
service, discussed the status of the students in separate interviews. Explaining
their procedures, the officials said students suspected of violations were
identified and then were served with orders to show cause why they should not be
deported. Immigration judges held hearings in which the Government had the
burden of proving, by ''clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence,'' that the
facts alleged as grounds for deportation were true.

Length of Hearings Varies

Mr. Crosland said that the time for a hearing varied from 15 or 30 minutes to
days and even weeks. He said he could offer no firm estimate of how long it
would take to complete the hearings.

The student cases are being given priority across the country, Mr.  Crosland
said, but so are cases involving Cuban refugees with criminal backgrounds. On
June 7 President Carter directed the Justice Department to move quickly to expel
refugees who had committed ''serious crimes'' in Cuba.

Mr. Crosland said that 2,000 Cubans were going through expulsion hearings in
Federal prisons at Atlanta, Ga., Talladega, Ala., Leavenworth, Kan., and McNeil
Island, Wash. More than 230 Cubans have been ordered to leave the country, he
said, but none have left, apparently because President Fidel Castro of Cuba
refuses to take back any of the refugees.

Six of the 40 to 45 immigration judges are working full time on Cuban cases, Mr.
Crosland said, and 20 Justice Department attorneys have been deputized as
immigration judges to help with the caseload.

Many Students Filing Appeals

Mr. Jervis and Mr. Crosland said that many of the Iranian students facing
deportation were taking advantage of their right to appeal.  They may ask for a
review by the Board of Immigration Appeals, the United States Court of Appeals
and the Supreme Court.

About 430 Iranian students have been deported, Mr. Jervis said, and 5,000 have
left voluntarily. However, the immigration service has no foolproof way of
keeping track of departures. Students who left without turning in travel
documents or who crossed the border into Canada or Mexico might not have been
counted.

Mr. Jervis said 59,000 to 60,000 students had registered as they were supposed
to do in the last six weeks of 1979. Immigration officers have since located
another 2,000. Mr. Jervis and other officials estimated that there were 8,000 to
10,000 students whose whereabouts were unknown.

Mr. Crosland said that the immigration service would probably issue new
regulations ''tightening up control'' of all foreign students by the end of the
year. The rules, he said, would probably require colleges and universities to
report on their foreign students once, twice or perhaps four times a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 22, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FEDERAL STUDY FINDS IMMIGRANTS ARE NOT A BURDER ON TAXPAYERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21


Immigrant families start earning more than native-born American families, on the
average, within 10 years after arriving in the United States. Further, according
to research done for a Federal study commission, from the time of their arrival,
they contribute more in taxes than they take in public services.

The studies also show that children of immigrants, after an initial
disadvantage, tend to overtake the children of native-born families in academic
performance, as measured by years of schooling and percentage of children
completing college.

Prof. T. Paul Schultz, an economist and demographer at Yale University, sought
to explain the scholastic achievement of immigrant children by suggesting that
immigrants were ''selectively drawn from their country of birth'' and ''more
strongly inclined to invest in their children's schooling than are native
American parents.'' Professor Schultz said in an interview last week that
''years of schooling completed is a powerful predictor of lifetime earnings.''

Panel Requested Study

Professor Schultz and Prof. Julian L. Simon, an economist at the University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, studied the schooling and earnings of immigrant
families at the request of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee
Policy, which was created by Congress to recommend changes in immigration law.

The studies did not distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants, although
the researchers said other studies had shown that there was generally not much
difference in the economic progress of legal and illegal immigrants from the
same country.

Their findings are likely to add fuel to the controversy between those who see
immigration as a potential boon to the nation's economy and those who say that
immigrants will take jobs and scarce resources from those who are already here.

Professor Simon concluded that ''the average immigrant is a remarkably good
investment for taxpayers.'' He found that immigrants were ''not heavily on
welfare or unemployment compensation rolls, as the popular wisdom has it.''

Professor Schultz said, ''We tend to attribute more problems to immigrant groups
than is warranted from what we have seen in their rapid upward mobility in our
society.''

The studies by Professor Schultz and Professor Simon, based on a computer
analysis of data from a 1976 Census Bureau survey of 150,000 families, represent
a sophisticated attempt to measure the economic costs and benefits of
immigration. Their research tends to confirm and extend the findings of Prof.
Barry R. Chiswick, an economist at the Chicago Circle campus of the University
of Illinois, who demonstrated the upward mobility of immigrants with 1970 census
data.

Refugees were included with other immigrants in the 1976 survey, but the sample
likely did not include many Indochinese or other recent refugees. Professor
Chiswick has suggested that refugees take somewhat longer than other immigrants
to achieve economic parity with native-born Americans, apparently because the
refugees are driven by political forces and are not ''self-selected'' for innate
ability and work motivation.

Although the researchers noted that there had been large numbers of refugees in
the last five years, they said they believed the influx would not fundamentally
change their findings in the long run.

Professor Chiswick found substantial differences in the economic progress of
immigrants, depending on where they came from.  Non-Hispanic whites, Japanese
and second-generation Chinese fared better than Mexicans and Filipinos, he said.

''Somewhere between two to six years after entry,'' Professor Simon reported,
''the average immigrant family comes to earn about as much as the average native
family, and after that earns more. The rapid approach to equality is heavily
influenced, of course, by age and education composition, and especially the
absence of retired family heads among the immigrants.''

Social Security as Factor

''Many native families are retired and get Social Security,'' Professor Simon
observed, ''whereas the immigrants tend to be young people of working age with
few children when they arrive.''

The available data, he said, suggest that ''it takes perhaps 10 years for the
average immigrant working family to attain the same income as the average native
working family.''

Professor Simon also found that immigrants, in their first 12 years in the
United States, ''use substantially less public services, largely due to less use
of Social Security because of youth, than do native families.'' After 12 years,
he said, the levels of use are ''roughly equal.''

On a related subject, Mr. Simon said that ''after about two to six years,
immigrant families come to pay as much in taxes'' as native families, and
''after that they pay substantially more.'' The financial ''net balance'' every
year is in favor of natives, he said; ''that is, immigrants contribute more to
the public coffers than they take from them.''

Roger Conner, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a nonprofit group that wants to end illegal immigration and reduce legal
immigration, said that such calculations were misleading because they did not
count the full costs of providing government services to immigrants. The costs,
he said, include not only welfare and ''income transfer'' programs, but also a
share of the costs for national defense, road construction, schools, police and
fire protection, and other community services.

Professor Simon said that immigrants were paying for their share of community
services through taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION SERVICE KEEPS LIST OF 'PROSCRIBED' GROUPS IN NATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26


Although President Richard M. Nixon abolished the Attorney General's list of
subversive organizations six years ago, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service still maintains a list of ''proscribed'' and ''questionable''
organizations, immigration officials have disclosed.

Aliens who are members of any of the organizations on the list are subject to
special investigations and may be barred or expelled from the United States, the
officials said.

The existence of the list was disclosed incidentally in papers that the Justice
Department filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan in preparation for the
trial of a lawsuit brought by the Socialist Workers Party. Immigration officials
here provided further details about the list of ''organizations proscribed,
questionable and cleared.''

The list, an 89-page appendix to the immigration service investigator's
handbook, classifies 668 political organizations in seven categories: avowed
Communist groups, explicitly proscribed by the Immigration and Nationality Act
of 1952; groups held to be proscribed on the basis of classified information;
groups that appear to be legal; groups still under study; ''questionable''
organizations about which other Government agencies have supplied ''derogatory
information,'' and ''Communist-front'' and ''Communist-infiltrated''
organizations.

Basis for Listing Groups

There are 384 proscribed organizations in the first two categories. Groups are
labeled as ''Communist-front'' and ''Communist-infiltrated'' on the basis of
petitions filed with the old Subversive Activities Control Board, which passed
out of existence in 1973, a year before President Nixon abolished the Attorney
General's list of subversive organizations.

The handbook says that the immigration service took ''no position'' on how the
control board's decisions might affect an alien's status under the immigration
law.

The basic immigration law already automatically bars 33 classes of aliens,
including those who write, publish or distribute materials espousing the
''doctrins of world Communism or the establishment in the United States of a
totalitarian dictatorship.''

The Socialist Workers Party is not proscribed and membership ''does not in and
of itself constitute grounds for deportation,'' a senior immigration official
said. But the handbook says that an alien who belongs to the party should be
''questioned closely to determine his personal attachment to the principles of
the Constitution and his disposition to the good order and happiness'' in the
nation.

Move to Halt 'Blacklisting'

Margaret Winter, an attorney for the Socialist Workers Party, said that the
group had filed suit seven years ago to ''stop this type of blacklisting.''

''The Government said in 1974 that they were not going to use the Attorney
General's list any more,'' she said, ''and in 1976 they said they had terminated
the investigation of the party. Now we find that the Government is still using a
list against us and other legal organizations.''

Justice Department officials, including several who work on internal security
cases, said that they had not been aware of the immigration service's list.

Glenn A. Bertness, Assistant Commissioner of the immigration service, said it
was extremely rare for an alien to be deported for membership in one of the
listed groups. The alien, he said, can usually obtain a hearing before an
immigration judge and can argue that his membership was not ''meaningful'' or
active.

Proscribed groups on the immigration service list include the Communist Party of
the United States of America, the Federation of Greek Maritime Unions, the
Jewish Aid Society of Montreal and the W.E.B. DuBois Clubs of America.

The Socialist Workers Party suit, which seeks $40 million in damages from the
Government for alleged disruption of the party's activities, is tentatively
scheduled for trial next Jan. 5 in Federal district court in Manhattan. The
party, which is Marxist, says that it has no close political ties to China or
the Soviet Union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

YOUNG SALVADORANS COMPLAIN OF JAILINGS IN MEXICO

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


Central Americans fleeing here from political violence in their homelands have
charged that they are being illegally jailed and extorted by Mexican immigration
officials and the police.

In most cases the refugees are young university students, often victims of
right-wing terrorist groups in their native countries, who arrive at the Tijuana
airport with valid visitor visas. Several of those currently held in the Tijuana
jail said their visas had been confiscated because immigration officials had
alleged that the refugees intended to cross illegally into the United States.

The jailed Central Americans, most of whom are from El Salvador, said they had
been forced to pay immigration officials in Mexico City $20 or $40 to continue
their trips. The immigration officials here demanded $150 and jailed the
refugees regardless of the fee payment, the detainees said.

Twenty-eight of the imprisoned Central Americans staged a hunger strike recently
to protest their confinement. Most were sent to Mexico City for deportation just
hours after the strike began.

Jose Perez Canchola, a lawyer and director of a Tijuana civil rights group that
is pressing for better treatment of the refugees, said the jailings were
unlawful. He explained that the immigration authorities argued that if a Central
American visa holder had insufficient cash or had no friends or relatives in the
area, immigration officials ruled that they would likely enter the United States
illegally and thus are deportable.

''There is nothing in the law that allows them to do this,'' said Mr. Perez
Canchola. ''No other foreigners are subject to these requirements,'' he said.
''It allows all sorts of arbitrariness.''

The situation has drawn criticism from the Mexican national press.  In an
apparent response to the charges of abuse, Roman Cardenas was dismissed on
Monday as Tijuana's immigration chief.

Neither Mr. Cardenas nor his successor, Primitivo Lomeli, has been available for
comment. The assistant chief, Alberto Corona, said he was not authorized to
speak to reporters about the matter.

According to Mr. Perez Canchola, Central Americans have been imprisoned here for
up to seven weeks while the police have attempted to extort money from them.
''They are told that if they can come up with several hundred dollars they can
get out,'' said Mr. Perez Canchola. ''What happens is that even if they pay,
they keep squeezing them for more. In the end they have no more money and they
just deported.''

Sometimes, he said, local attorneys call relatives in the United States and
offer to gain the release of the prisoners for $1,000 to $1,500.

Isabel Gomez, a Salvadoran mother of two, interviewed in her filthy dank cell at
the Tijuana jail, said that since being imprisoned two weeks ago, attorneys had
called her husband, an illegal alien living in California.

''They say they can get me out for $1,500,'' she said. ''He makes very little
money, and it was hard for him to get the $1,000 to have my children and me
brought here. Where will he get that kind of money again?''

In another part of the jail, several young Salvadoran university students
complained bitterly about ''illegal and inhumane treatment.''

''The Mexican Consul gives us visas, but he doesn't tell us they are only good
to go to jail,'' said Francisco Contreras.  ''We are running for our lives,''
said Mr. Contreras. ''That is important to understand. We are not here to get a
better job. If we stay in El Salvador, we die.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 7, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

1,774 PEOPLE WITHOUT A COUNTRY: CUBAN REFUGEES SIT IN U.S. JAILS

BYLINE: By PAUL L. MONTGOMERY, Spec ial to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1401 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Dec. 5


In the cell blocks for Cuban refugees at the United States Penitentiary here,
the gray steel bunks are jammed end to end. Some inmates have draped sheets from
the bed above to create shadowy white havens in what has been their American
home for as long as seven months.

The 800 men in the pentitentiary here are among the 1,774 refugees from the
Cuban boatlift who were selected on arrival as criminals and are still
incarcerated in 17 institutions around the country. All but 37 are men; most
were imprisoned on the basis of their own admissions to immigration officers
that they had committed crimes ranging from murder to petty thievery. Almost
half have yet to receive a hearing on their status.

Of all the snarls in public services created by the surge of 125,000 Cuban
refugees into the country this year, the situation of these 1,774 is one of the
most tangled.

Since Cuba refuses to take them back, and since immigration law and public fear
prevent their admission to this country, most appear to be stuck where they are.
Acknowledging the problem, the Government is planning to convert the 1,500-bed
Atlanta penitentiary - known since its cons truct ion in 1902 as the place where
Federal prisoners serve ''hard time'' - into an all-Cuban facility next year.

Even the severest critics of immigration policy agree that there are some among
the 1,774 who should not be freed, though denial of due process in their cases
causes concern among civil libertarians.  However, many basically blameless
refugees appear to have been thrust into the same category as convicted
murderers and rapists by inadequate screening, faulty translation, bureaucratic
mix-ups and sheer bad luck.

When the boatlift began from Mariel, Cuba, on April 21, the Cuban authorities
announced that they were sending the United States ''escoria'' - ''scum.'' An
easy way to get a safe-conduct to the boats at Mariel was to show evidence of a
jail term for criminal or anti-government behavior.

Alberto Delgado Quesada, an Atlanta inmate, is 27 years old, polite and well
spoken. He was a bulldozer operator in Havana. Mr. Delgado says, however, that
he has never been in jail. To get the safeconduct, he says, he took over the
record of a friend who had been jailed for six months for stealing three pairs
of underpants from the factory where he worked to give to a girl friend.

Upon arrival in Key West, Fla., and in the processing centers afterward, each
refugee was asked whether he had ever been in jail.  Since the Immigration
Department has no access to Cuba's criminal records, officers had to take each
refugee at his word.

Mr. Delgado, fearing an inconsistency in his records, he says, ''confessed'' to
the theft of the underpants and the six-month sentence. He has been in the
Atlanta penitentiary since May 28.

Mr. Delgado, whose explanation of these circumstances was accepted by the
immigration court, is one of about 50 Atlanta inmates, only some of whom had
hearings, who have been cleared for release if sponsors can be found. But
finding sponsors has proved to be one of the most difficult problems in the
resettlement program.

While many sponsors stepped forward last spring, particularly in the Cuban
communities in Miami and northern New Jersey, most have dropped out because they
are already taking care of refugees or because of bad experiences with some of
the refugees released. For the sponsors remaining, priority is given to the
6,700 refugees without serious criminal records who are still being held in the
resettlement camp at Fort Chaffee, Ark.

''I haven't lost hope, but it has been a long time,'' Mr. Delgado, who left a
wife and 4-year-old daughter in Havana, said in an interview last Wednesday, the
first press interview permitted at the penitentiary since the arrival of the
Cubans. ''It's so easy to get demoralized. Most people have a set term when they
go to prison. Here there is no limit; the months keep passing.''

Crimes of 'Moral Turpitude'

Under immigration law, applications for admission to the United States can be
denied if the applicant has been accused of a crime of ''moral turpitude'' in
his country of origin. Crimes against persons, theft, embezzlement and
prostitution are in that category.

According to the immigration authorities, nearly 24,000 of this year's Cuban
refugees admitted to criminal records. Those incarcerated were generally those
who had been convicted of crimes that would be felonies in the United States.
Since they have theoretically not yet entered the country, the imprisoned
refugees are not considered by the courts to have such constitutionally
guaranteed rights as due process or equal protection under the law.

Each refugee is entitled to what is called an exclusion hearing before an
Immigration and Naturalization Serv ice judge and can be represented by counsel.
However, in such proc eedings the applicant has the burden of proving he is
worthy of ent ering the country ratherthan the Government's having the burden of
pr oving he is not. For example, the applicant cannot confront and qu estion an
immigration officer who may have misunderstood what he sa id on arrival.

Some Categories Elicited

The Government says it has no breakdown of the categories of crimes supposedly
committed by the 1,774. Defense lawyers in Atlanta said that interviews with 312
prisoners at the penitentiary had shown these categories of crime:

Homicide, 11; rape, 6; child molesting, 5; assault, ll; arson, 2; thefts, 148,
of which 40 involved thefts of food and 32 thefts of clothing; homosexual
prostitution, 4; sexual deviation, 18; marijuana smoking, 7. The rest were
categorized by the lawyers as political crimes, including keeping unbalanced
books, killing a cow without government permission, being a troublemaker,
dealing in the black market, using a father's identification card to attend a
carnival, deserting from the army and attempting to escape from Cuba.

So far, 1,0 25 of the 1,774 in detention have had hearings. Of these, 947 we re
ordered excluded, 32 were granted admission, and 46 decisions are pending.
However, about half of those ordered excluded have appealed their cases to a
higher immigration court, and the Government ha s appealed the cases of some of
those granted admission.

Once an applicant is deemed not admissible to the country after the exclusion
hearing, the law says he must be returned to the country from which he came. The
State Department says it tried five times from June to September to have the
Cuban Government accept the undesirables. The reply in each case, the department
said, was that the Cubans had forfeited their right to live in Cuba.

'My County Is a Bad Country'

Prisoners interviewed at the penitentiary said the long wait in jail without
word of their fate had produced tensions and a number of suicide attempts. In
September one of the Cubans was stabbed to death by another in a fight. Those
interviewed said that the longtime criminals among them ruled the rest, pushing
first into the food lines and attempting to rape the younger men.

''I never have experienced anything like this, and my country is a bad
country,'' said Luis Perez Ramirez.  William Noonan, the executive assistant to
the warden at the penitentiary, said it was standard Federal practice not to
segregate inmates by the severity of their crimes. ''In our prison system, it's
not what they did but how they behave when they get here that counts,'' he said.

He said that 550 of the Cubans were in the cell blocks - eight to a
20-by-10-foot space designed for four prisoners - and that 99 were in segregated
cells because of misbehavior or for their own protection and about 150 model
prisoners were in an open dormitory in the basement.

In the cell blocks, many of the Cubans were asleep on their bunks at
mid-afternoon one day this week. One stood with his face pressed to the bars.
''Help, help,'' he cried in English to a passerby.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 11, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NEWS ANALYSIS;
IMMIGRATION, OLD AND NEW;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 33, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10


The proposals endorsed this week by the Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy resemble those unsuccessfully pushed by President Carter in 1977,
and there is no obvious indication that the latest recommendations will have any
better chance of gaining Congressional approval.

Mr. Carter, like the commission, urged Congress to legalize the status of
illegal aliens already in this country and to establish civil and criminal
penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens in the future. Like the
commission, he opposed any new form of worker identification.

The 16-member commission was created by Congress the year after Mr.Carter made
his proposals. Its chairman, the Rev. Theodore M.  Hesburgh, president of the
University of Notr e Dame, predicted that its recommendations would fare better
than th e President's because ''we've done more research'' and thinking abo ut
the apparently intractable problems of immigration. The pane l's voluminous
study hasmade a permanent contribution to public debat e; its final report, due
March 1, will be the most authoritative G overnment study of the issue.

No Clear Mandate Given

At best, however, the commission has only laid the groundwork for action. For
any comprehensive revision of immigration law and policy, the prospects are
rather bleak. No clear overall mandate emerged from the commission. And though
it did not disclose all of its votes, it was apparently divided into two or
three factions of roughly equal strength on several key issues.

In the past, proposals to revise the immigration laws have probably taken too
little account of public sentiment. A recent Gallup Poll found strong support
for a law prohibiting employment of illegal aliens, favor for identification
cards for everyone in the United States and opposition to an amnesty for illegal
aliens.

The commission heard witnesses around the country testify to their outrage about
illegal immigration, but then it recommended a moderate increase in the basic
quota for legal immigration, on the theory there would ultimately be a net
decrease in the flow of immigrants if illegal immigration could be sharply
curtailed.

''We seem to be expanding like mad,'' Father Hesburgh said of the proposals. But
he asserted that if all of the proposed figures were taken into account, the
number of immigrants entering the country would be far below the number of legal
and illegal entries today.
'Then We're in Trouble'

And what, he was asked, if the Government legitimized the status of about 1.5
million aliens, then found that its enforcement program was not working well
enough to prevent the illicit entry of still more aliens? ''Then,'' he said,
''we're in trouble.''

For that reason, another member of the commission, Senator Alan K.  Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, said he wanted to be sure that enforcement was effective
before he would allow any increase in legal immigration.

The Hesburgh and Simpson logic is that the United States cannot legalize the
illegal aliens without more aggressive enforcement of the law; cannot
effectively enforce the law without imposing sanctions on employers, and cannot
adopt sanctions without a new means of identification for all citizens and
aliens authorized to work in this country.

But the commission would not accept a new form of identification; some members
saw in it a potential for abuse of civil liberties. So the logical coherence of
the package begins to fall apart. Without a foolproof means of identification,
Father Hesburgh said, employer sanctions are meaningless, ''like kissing your
sister.''

An Emotional Issue

Legislation to penalize employers for intentionally hiring illegal aliens was
twice passed by the House of Representatives, in 1972 and 1973, but died when
the Senate did not act. It is unclear whether Republican control of the S enate
and the White House will revive support for t he idea. The sanctions could be
seen as a form of Government in tervention, which Republicans often preach
against.

Immigration is, for many, an emotional issue, and anyone proposing restrictions
is vulnerable to charges of racial discrimination. Even Father Hesburgh's career
as a civil rights advocate does little to comfort Hispanic groups alarmed at the
idea of employer sanctions.

''Sanctions will be used by employers as a license to deny employment to
qualified Hispanics,'' said the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund. And Eleanor Holmes Norton, chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, has expressed a similar concern and opposes enactment of employer
sanctions for that reason.

A Sign of More Understanding

The Immigration and Naturalization Service lacks the resources it needs to
enforce current laws, so without a huge infusion of money and manpower, it could
probably not enforce stringent new laws in the workplace and on the Mexican
border. In recent years, neither Congress nor the Administration has placed the
agency high on its list of budget priorities.

Eight members of Congress served on the immigration commission, and that bodes
well for the panel's report, if only because some additional lawmakers now
understand the complexity of the issue.  They, at least, will be prepared when
public frustration, heightened by this year's experience with Cuban and Haitian
refugees, forces Congress to ct.

President Truman established a similar comm ission in 1952, just after Congress,
over his veto, passed a restr ictionist immigration statute. The Truman panel
had no immediate ef fect, but its viewpoint gradually gained acceptance, leading
to aboli tion in 1965 of the quota system based on national origins. Simil arly,
the Hesburgh commission may lay the basis for changes a de cade from now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 12, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NEW RESETTLEMENT EFFORT AIMED AT CUBAN REF UGEES IN MIAMI JAILS

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 11


Immigration officers interviewed Cuban refugees at Dade County's crowded jails
today in the Federal Government's first attempt to help South Florida cope with
what local officials called a refugee crime wave.

The immigration service agreed yesterday to begin taking homeless refugees into
custody and to move them to camps, including one in Brooklyn, N.Y., where
efforts will be made to find them homes, jobs and sponsors around the country.
Other camps are in Texas and California.

A city official said the agreement was a good first step that could relieve
tensions caused by the presence of an estimated 2,000 refugees who have been
abandoned by their sponsors and are living in city parks or on the streets.

Assistant City Manager Cesar Odio said the action should have been taken ''a
long time ago.''

30 or 40 Arrests a Day

Mr. Odio said the city police had been arresting 30 or 40 refugees a day on
charges of vagrancy and other misdemeanors. ''They have been back on the streets
the next day,'' he said. ''Now they have someplace to go.''

Ray Morris, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said immigration officials were identifying those refugees who had been arrested
for such misdemeanors as vagrancy and who had no homes, jobs and sponsors. Only
those people will be eligible for resettlement.

Refugees charged with felonies will be left in jail to face prosecution, he
said.  Mr. Odio said local misdemeanor charges against the eligible refugees
would be dropped.

Officials Requested Action

A spokesman for the immigration service in Washington said the action was taken
at the request of Florida's Congressional delegation and local authorities in
Miami.

Immigration Commissioner David Crosland 3d, in Washington, directed Miami
immigration officials to determine which arrested refugees were eligible for the
resettlement program. The Government will revoke the special status under which
those refugees have been living in this country, a move that will allow them to
be taken into custody.

The camps at Brooklyn, El Paso and Port Isabel, Tex., and El Centro, Calif.,
have room for a total of 500 refugees, Mr. Morris said.

''As we find sponsors for those we can take others,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 25, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

COURT OPPOSES CONGRESSIONAL VETO AS INTRUSION ON EXECUTIVE BRANCH

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR JR., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24


In a decision that President Carter today called ''profoundly significant,'' a
Federal appeals court has cast doubt on the constitutionality of hundreds of
laws providing for Congressional vetoes of executive branch actions. The
President said he would issue an executive order instructing Government
departments and agencies to ignore such vetoes.

Mr. Carter said he would consult with Attorney General Benjamin R.  Civiletti to
determine whether an early Supreme Court decision should be sought to confirm
the finality of the decision made Monday by the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco.

The appeals court ruled that the House of Representatives had violated the
constitutional separation of powers when it sought to force the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to deport an immigrant from Kenya. The House had acted
under a law that allows the House or Senate to override some decisions of the
executive branch to suspend deportation of illegal aliens.

Separation of Powers

The appeals court said that the Congressional veto provision in the immigration
law violated the constitutional doctrine of separation of powers ''because it is
a prohibited legislative intrusion upon the executive and judicial branches.''

Although the court did not declare un-
constitutional all laws that provide for Congressional vetoes of executive
branch actions, a Justice Department lawyer said that the reasoning in the
court's 45-page opinion ''confirms the view previously taken by the Attorney
General that legislative veto provisions are generally unconstitutional.''

Larry L. Simms, a Deputy Assistant Attorney General, said, ''We would like to
get a decision from the Supreme Court in an appropriate case because it would be
more definitive.'' He said it had not been decided whether to seek Supreme Court
review, however. Mr. Simms said there was precedent for the Government to take
the unusual step of seeking Supreme Court review even though it was the winning
party in the court below.

Ruling Is a Precedent

The appeals court decision is the first ruling ever against a legislative veto
provision, according to Mr. Simms. Every President since Franklin Delano
Roosevelt has opposed legislative veto provisions generally as unconstitutional.

The Court of Claims upheld a one-House veto in a 1975 decision in a suit
involving judicial salaries, but that decision was based on narrow grounds and
was not reviewed by the Supreme Court.

Congress, increasingly determined to assert greater control over regulatory
actions by Federal agencies, has written more than 150 Congressional veto
provisions into various laws during the Carter Administration, prompting an
ongoing battle with the White House and the Justice Department.

These provisions generally provide that either House of Congress, or in some
cases both Houses acting together, can nullify rules or other actions by
particular executive branch departments or agencies.

Congressional advocates of such provisions have said they are necessary to
ensure that the executive branch carries out the laws the way Congress intended
them to be carried out. President Carter and Mr. Civiletti have criticized them
as usurpations of power that upset the constitutional balance among the three
branches of government and infringe on the constitutional duty of the executive
branch to ''take care that the laws be faithfully executed.''

Victory for Student

The appeals court decision was a victory not only for the Carter Administration
but also for Jagdish Rai Chadha of Kenya, who entered the United States as a
student in 1966. After his visa expired, he obtained a suspension of deportation
from the Government, in part because of a finding that his East Indian heritage
would have made it difficult to return to Kenya.

The House of Representatives passed a resolution vetoing his suspension of
deportation along with those of several other aliens under an immigration law
that provided for such a one-House veto. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service ordered his deportation. But when Mr. Chadha appealed to the court, the
Justice Department, representing the agency, conceded that the order and the
Congressional actions on which it was based were unconstitutional and sought to
use the case to test its position that congressional vetoes are generally
unconstitutional.

The three-judge appeals court panel, in a complex opinion written by Judge
Anthony M. Kennedy, stressed that the use of the Congressional veto in
immigration cases interfered with ''a central function of the judiciary,'' that
of ensuring fairness and uniformity in dealing with aliens who seek suspension
of deportation. The opinion said the use of the Congressional veto also
''trespasses upon central functions of the executive'' to enforce the laws. The
court also found that the one-House veto provision bypassed ''the internal check
of bicameralism'' inherent in the constitutional requirement that legislation be
passed by both House and Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 11, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FT. DRUM MADE A DETENTION SITE FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10


The White House announced today that the Fort Drum Army base in upstate New York
would become an interim detention center for Haitians, Cubans and other aliens
who had entered the United States illegally.

About 2,700 illegal Haitian immigrants are currently being housed in 17
locations around the country, most of them in Florida.  They will be joined at
Fort Drum, which is just outside Watertown, near the Canadian border, by 460
Cubans from Fort Chaffee in Arkansas. Renovations on the buildings at the Army
base are expected to take two months.

Representative David Martin, a Republican whose district includes Fort Drum,
said he disagreed with the Reagan Administration's decision.

Site 'Met Key Criteria'

After meeting with President Reagan and Secretary of Defense Caspar W.
Weinberger, however, Mr. Martin said he had been assured that Fort Drum would
continue to play ''a major role'' in future defense plans.

A team of Federal officials from the Departments of Health and Human Services,
Justice, and Defense recently completed a nationwide search for a temporary site
while a permanent facility was built. The White House said that all three of the
departments agreed that Fort Drum ''was the one site that met the key criteria,
including capacity, availability and minimal impact on defense operations.''

The White House announcement took New York State officials by surprise. Barbara
B. Blum, Commissioner of the New York State Department of Social Services, said:

''The Governor's office has heard nothing. We are astonished, and, at the very
least, we feel there should have been consultation. We know the state itself
will ultimately bear responsibility for the refugees and the needs of the
Watertown community that borders Fort Drum.''

Other Sites Considered

Representative Samuel S. Stratton, an upstate Democrat who is a member of the
Armed Services Committee, said: ''It was not a very smart idea. It's going to be
cold up there.''

Fort Drum was one of half a dozen locations on the Justice Department list of
potential sites. Other military installations mentioned in the past included
bases at Lakehurst, N.J.; McAlester, Okla., and Sandwich, Chicopee and Ayer,
Mass.

The Administration has already moved to cut off the access of Haitian refugees
to lawyers and judges by having the Coast Guard intercept their boats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Map of northern New York

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Suspect Admits Conspiracy In Smuggling of Aliens

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: ROCK ISLAND, Ill., June 6


Alfonse Interial, whom the authorities called the leader of an alien-smuggling
operation, pleaded guilty yesterday.

He was among 17 persons indicted April 27 by a Federal grand jury in Illinois
for transporting illegal aliens from Mexico and Guatemala into Illinois, Texas,
Florida, New Jersey, Oklahoma and Michigan.

Mr. Interial was indicted for conspiring to transport illegal aliens, violating
the Farm Labor Contractors Act, illegal transportating of aliens, bribing a
witness, obstructing a criminal investigation and not filing tax returns for
three years.

In a plea agreement with the United States Attorney's office, he pleaded guilty
to four counts of conspiracy to be served concurrently. He pleaded guilty to one
count of income tax evasion and one of transporting illegal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 17, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

2 CLEARED ON 2 COUNTS OF SMUGGLING ALIENS; NO VERDICT ON 6 ITEMS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, June 16


Raul Saldivar and his son, Raul Jr., two Bonita Springs, Fla., farmers accused
of smuggling Mexican aliens through Arizona, were found not guilty here today of
two counts of transporting illegal aliens, but the Federal jury was unable to
reach a verdict on six related counts.

The jury returned guilty verdicts against two other defendants, Federico
Villalon of Phoenix and Rafael Pedro Gonzalez, a Mexican national, for
participation in alien smuggling. Both Mr. Villalon and Mr. Gonzalez were
accused of being ''coyotes,'' or drivers of the illegal aliens.

Judge Valdemar Cordova of Federal District Court declared a mistrial on the six
undecided charges, four against the elder Saldivar and two against the son. The
United States Attorney's Office said that it would again prosecute the six
charges, and Judge Cordova took under advisement a motion from the defense
attorney, Claude Tison, for a transfer of the case to a Federal court in
Florida.

Union Helped Prepare Case

The jury deliberated for nearly three days after the three-week trial. Each
count carried a possible sentence of five years in prison or a $2,000 fine or
both. In the course of the trial, three other defendants were dropped from the
case.

The Government case was prepared over more than a year with the assistance of
members of the Arizona Farm Workers Union, according to Don Devereux, a member
of the group.

In a 20-count grand jury indictment handed up in November, the Saldivars were
accused of arranging the shipment of undocumented workers from Mexico to their
Florida farm. They were accused of advancing a $450 fee for workers'
transportation and then withholding wages until the fee was repaid.

Mr. Tison said that the Government charges were false and that the case was
based on the testimony of witnesses who sought immunity for their own illegal
presence in the country.

Mr. Devereux said in an interview that the case was significant because it
''never would have been started under the Reagan Administration'' and because he
believed it marked ''the end of prosecution of growers in Florida by the U.S.
Attorney'' for illegal smuggling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

TEXAS SEEKS NEW PLAN FOR MEXICAN OFFENDERS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 64, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Tex., Oct. 10


To Texas officials, the problem of Mexican youths who cross the border and
commit crimes in El Paso seemed to have an easy solution: Ship them back to a
detention center in Ciudad Juarez.

But that solution has become an international issue that some say may have to be
resolved by Congress with a treaty between the United States and Mexico.

More than two years ago, El Paso officials reached an oral agreement with
juvenile authorities in Ciudad Juarez that called for sending youths caught
committing crimes in El Paso back across the border to spend up to three months
in the detention center.

''It was working beautifully,'' said District Judge Woodrow Bean 2d. ''The crime
rate here went down last year. Those juveniles over in Juarez knew that if they
were caught over here, they were going to be taken to the detention center, so
they didn't come over here.''

Question of Legality

Juvenile authorities on both sides of the border said they were pleased with the
arrangement. But in December, Margaret Ingle, a Juvenile Probation Department
employee, refused to take a group of youths to Juarez, saying it was illegal for
El Paso County officers to take prisoners into a foreign country.

She was dismissed, but complained. The county Juvenile Board, by a vote of 4 to
3, ruled April 23 that the process indeed violated a clause in the Texas
Constitution that prohibits ''banishing'' convicted criminals from the state.
The board reinstated the employee and ordered the probation department to find
another solution.

Under the procedure, young illegal aliens who were arrested were sent to the El
Paso County probation department for screening. Those with Texas criminal
records were taken to court and, if convicted, placed in the state juvenile
center in Brownwood.

First offenders were placed in state vehicles and taken to the Juarez detention
center, said Xavier Banales, head of the probation department.

Jailed Without a Hearing

''I felt bad about that, too,'' said Judge Edward Marquez, a member of the
Juvenile Board who voted to end the policy. ''Those kids were being locked up
without any kind of a hearing.''

Since the shuttle across the border was halted, Mr. Banales said, his agency has
either tried to prosecute the youths or turned them over to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

But to prosecute the department must contact a youth's parents.  That can be
difficult in Juarez, a city of 900,000 that has relatively few telephones, Mr.
Banales said.

Lee Holder, assistant immigration director for investigations, said the
teen-agers were either taken to court for deportation hearings or released at
the bridge over the Rio Grande in what his agency calls ''voluntary departure.''


More Referrals, Faster Returns

Since the policy was changed, Mr. Banales said, ''we're beginning to see two
things - an increase in the number of referrals and quicker returns by the
youngsters.''

Judge Bean said the trend had proved a prediction he made when he was outvoted
at the Juvenile Board meeting.  ''I predicted right away that the crime rate
would probably double in El Paso, especially after those kids start realizing
that they're just going to take them to the bridge and kick them out,' ' he
said.

Statistics appear to bear him out. For the first 28 days of September, 56
Mexican youths were referred to the probation department, the highest monthly
total since last October. By contrast, in April, the last month under the
agreement, 25 Mexican juveniles were arrested in El Paso.

Most Arrests for Burglaries

According to Mr. Banales, 60 to 70 percent of the young illegal aliens are
picked up on suspicion of business burglaries.  The judges on the Juvenile Board
have now t urned to Congress, sincethe Constitution limits agreements with forei
gn countries to the Federal Government.

Senator Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, and 14 colleagues from border states
have asked the State Department to begin talks with Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 19, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

THE SPARSE WATCH ON AMERICA'S BORDERS 4/bl;
by Hamilton Fish Jr.

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 433 words


To the Editor:

The smuggling of aliens which prompted your July 7 article on our undermanned
Border Patrol is the vilest and most frustrating aspect of illegal migration.

he U.S. Border Patrol is charged with maintaining the integrity of our borders
between points of entry. Numbering only 350 at any given time on our 2,000-mile
border with Mexico, it is no match for the smugglers, who are well-organized on
both sides of the border.

Illegal border crossings increase annually; in 1979, apprehensions exceeded one
million. While it is more humane to turn aliens back at the border than to
apprehend them in the interior of the country, reassigning personnel while
failing to increase levels makes the mission of the Border Patrol virtually
impossible. More officers are needed, particularly since South Florida is now an
area of vulnerability.

The President's policy statement of August 1977 calling for improved border
control has been followed up by reductions in patrol strength. Personnel on duty
in May 1980 was 214 below levels authorized by the Congress in fiscal 1978.

Congressional concern was expressed on July 1, when the House adopted, 337 to
72, my amendment to provide for 311 additional Border Patrol positions in
Justice Department appropriations for fiscal year 1981.

As long as Mexico and other Central American countries experience rapid
population growth, poverty and high unemployment, pressures on our border will
continue. Cooperative arrangements with Mexico to develop labor-intensive
industry and agriculture would help.  Likewise, the magnet effect of the U.S.
economy could be reduced by economic disincentives.

All aspects of this complex phenomenon, including the status of aliens already
here illegally, are being explored by the Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy. Its recommendations, due in March of 1981, will certainly
include more effective control of our borders.

Recognizing the magnitude and importance of the problem, recruitment and
training of Border Patrol personnel should not be delayed.  (Rep.) HAMILTON FISH
JR.  Washington, July 11, 1980

The writer is ranking member on the House Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees
and International Law and a member of the Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 21, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TEEN-AGERS JOIN IN THE BUSINESS OF SMUGGLING ALIENS

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1307 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


In the apparent belief that they will not be prosecuted, children and young
teen-agers are being used by large alien-smuggling rings operating along the
Mexican border to guide groups of illegal aliens into the United States and to
drive them in cars and trucks to their destinations in the north.

The Justice Department is responding to the smugglers' latest ploy by arresting,
prosecuting, convicting and, in some instances, imprisoning those as young as 16
who are found to have been involved in the booming business of smuggling illegal
aliens for profit.

There is no shortage of youngsters willing to risk such involvement. They can be
seen by the thousands each day in Mexico's teeming border cities, where nearly
half the labor force is idle and where a payment of $100 for driving a single
load of aliens to Dallas or San Francisco is as much as a month's wages.

Immigration officers say that children as young as 10 are now being used by the
smuggling rings for the less dangerous, and also less remunerative, jobs of
guiding groups of illegal aliens across the border on foot.

Less Leniency Now

Those so young are not being prosecuted. They are simply returned across the
border to Mexico, often to reappear a few days later, officials say, with
another load of illegal aliens. But the older youths being hired to drive the
aliens north, chiefly boys and girls ranging in age from 15 to 17, are sometimes
meeting with a less happy fate.

''The transporters of illegal aliens are apparently telling these kids, 'You'll
get a couple of nights in jail and the feds will bounce you back across the
border,' '' said Jerry Collins, an official of the United States Parole
Commission, which has just begun a study of the problem. But such leniency from
the Justice Department cannot be relied on, as Jose Luis Ramirez now knows.

Last Monday Jose Luis, a resident of Tijuana who turned 17 in June, was
sentenced to six months in prison after his conviction in a Federal court here
of transporting illegal aliens, a felony.  According to his lawyer, Craig
Weimerman of the Federal Public Defenders' office, Jose is typical of the youths
who become involved with smuggling.

''He's pretty much been living off the streets since he was 14,'' Mr. Weimerman
said. ''He hangs around Tijuana, somebody offers him some bucks to drive into
the United States, so he does it. It's his way of surviving.''

Prosecution Is Not Widespread

Although the prosecution of juveniles like Jose appears to be on the increase,
it is by no means widespread. John Cleary, who heads the Federal Public
Defenders' office here, estimates that his staff has represented about 35 young
defendants in similar felony smuggling cases in the last year, ''an increase
compared to a couple of years ago.''

Because records in juveniles proceedings are often sealed, the precise number of
such prosecutions nationwide could not be obtained. Other lawyers in Mr.
Cleary's office, a Government agency that provides legal counsel for indigents
accused of Federal crimes, said they represented a considerably larger number of
juvenile smugglers, perhaps 75 a year, who were tried on misdemeanor charges,
given mandatory sentences of probation and returned to Mexico.

Like most defense attorneys involved with such cases, Mr. Cleary questions the
value of the prosecutions, either to society or the young defendants. ''They
always hit the lieutenants and the sergeants,'' he said. ''It's a manifestation
of our frustration with the alien problem -we tend to take it out on the ones we
can get our hands on.''

The border guides and drivers, like Jose Luis, are not even sergeants. They are
the privates of the smuggling trade. Most of them know nothing about the
organization that has employed them, probably not even the real name of the
person who gave them the job.  For this reason, Mr. Cleary believes, ''it's
foolish to initiate such prosecutions against children.''

Law Makes No Distinction

Peter K. Nunez, the principal Assistant United States Attorney here, disagrees.
''Why not?'' he asked in a recent interview. ''If we catch a 16-year-old who is
violating a law and it's a serious case, then we'll prosecute.''

The Federal immigration statutes, Mr. Nunez said, made no distinction between
juveniles and adults. ''If Congress does@ n't want us prosecuting juvenile
aliens, they ought to say so,'' he added.

Although it is up to individual United States Attorneys' offices to decide
whether to pursue a particular case, some critics of the Justice Department
blame pressure from the Border Patrol for the prosecutions of juvenile
smugglers.

''Their standard response is, 'We have to prosecute or we'd be overrun with
juveniles','' said Bernie Velasco, a Federal defender in Tucson. ''But the
reason they do it is the Border Patrol. They're out there beating the bushes,
and they catch people and they want to prosecute them. It's the tail wagging the
dog.''

Repeat Offenders Cited

Some Border Patrol officers believe, however, that such prosecutions are not
extensive enough. Robert L. Barber, who heads the patrol's antismuggling unit in
El Paso, said his intelligence officers had been unable to crack an organization
in that area that was providing teen-age drivers to smuggling groups ''on a
moment's notice.''

The drivers his agents apprehended were simply returned to Mexico without
prosecution, Mr. Barber said, adding that he would like to see some of the
repeat offenders tried in court, particularly ''one young lady I know of who
keeps turning up - she's about 16.''

One element that concerns critics of the juvenile prosecutions is the wide
disparities in sentences meted out to young defendants. Mr.  Velasco told of two
17-year-old Mexican youths discovered recently in southern Arizona driving
vehicles containing illegal aliens. Both youths, he said, were convicted, but
one was given probation and returned home while the other was sentenced to jail
until his 21st birthday.

What prosecutors describe as ''aggravating circumstances'' that warrant
prosecutions are often seen by defense lawyers as less than malicious, as with
the case of 16-year-old Hector Campos Rodriguez, who was convicted here last
month of smuggling aliens, a felony.

Panicked at Highway Checkpoint

According to his lawyer, Eugene Iredale, Hector panicked when the car he was
driving was flagged down last July 12 at the Border Patrol's highway checkpoint
at San Clemente, Calif., on Interstate 5, a principal northbound route for
illegal alien traffic. Instead of stopping, Hector hit the accelerator, but the
Border Patrol caught him after a chase. Five illegal aliens were riding in the
car.

Although Hector has been tried and convicted, he is not in jail. On July 28, he
was sentenced to five years' probation and returned to Mexico. His only time
behind bars was the three weeks he spent at the Metropolitan Correctional Center
here, awaiting trial and sentencing.

Jose Luis Ramirez is not so lucky. He has already served a month at the
correctional center, a Federal facility for adult offenders, in a third-floor
wing set aside for juveniles.

''It's very cramped up there,'' Mr. Weimerman said. ''There's not much room for
the kids. The law says they're supposed to be separated from adults, but they
rarely are. The problem with the Federal system is that they have no facilities
for juveniles.''

The probation officer who handled Jose Luis's case recommended that he serve
four years in jail. But the suggestion was rejected as excessive by the
presiding judge, who sentenced Jose to six months.

The youth will serve his time at one of the state juvenile detention centers or
private ''community-based facilities,'' like boys' ranches, with which the
Federal Government contracts for incarceration of its young prisoners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 10, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
Dominican Police Arrest 25 In Migrant-Smuggling Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO , Dominican Republic, Sept. 9


The deaths of 22 stowaways on a freighter on Friday have led to the arrest and
questioning of at least 25 people in an attempt to break up a group trafficking
in illegal migrants, the police said today.

The 22 died of asphyxiation in the ballast hold of the Panamanian freighter
Regine Express. Twelve others survived.  The case has uncovered the smuggling of
migrants to the United States, Puerto Rico and other countries, officials say.
The crew of the Regine Express is under arrest on board the ship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
by Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron;
Guide Convicted In Death-Trek Case

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 187 words


With a conviction in Federal District Court in Tucson, Ariz. last week, the
Justice Department closed its books on the grisly episode that began July 3,
when about 30 people, part of a band of about 40 aliens smuggled from El
Salvador through Mexico to the United States border, crossed by night with their
guides into a desert; two days later, 13 would be dead of dehydration.

Santos Flores Elias, a Salvadoran, was convicted of one count of conspiring to
smuggle aliens and seven counts of smuggling aliens. He is to be sentenced Nov.
3; the maximum penalty would be 40 years in prison and a fine of $29,000. Mr.
Flores was part of a smaller detachment of the original 40 who safely crossed
the border south of Yuma but were later arrested.

The 13 deaths were mentioned only in passing during testimony identifying Mr.
Flores as an assistant to Carlos Rivera, said to be the organizer of the whole
affair. Mr. Rivera himself was one of the 13 who died in the desert. Two
survivors of the trek pleaded guilty week before last to one count each of
smuggling aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
2 Men Get 5-Year Terms In Alien-Smuggling Case

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Oct. 20


Two men who pleaded guilty to an alien smuggling charge in a case connected to
the deaths of 13 Salvadoran refugees in the Arizona desert last summer have been
sentenced to Federal custody for five years, but are eligible for release by the
parole board ''at any time.''

Before pronouncing sentence on Elias Nunez Guardado, 27 years old, of San
Salvador, El Salvador, and Mateo Preciado Navarro, 55, of Sonoita, Mexico,
Federal District Judge James A. Walsh received letters from some of the
survivors of that desert trek, saying that the two smugglers had been helpful in
their hours of desperation in Organ Pipe National Cactus Monument.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 4, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Salvadoran Is Sentenced In Alien Smuggling Case

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Nov. 3


A 22-year-old Salvadoran was sentenced today to seven years in prison after his
conviction on charges of smuggling aliens in connection with an attempt to enter
the country last summer that ended in the deaths of 13 of his countrymen in the
Arizona desert.

Federal District Judge James A. Walsh sentenced Santos Flores Elias of San
Salvador to a five-year term for conspiracy plus concurrent two-year terms for
each of seven counts of smuggling aliens. Mr. Flores was found guilty in a jury
trial last month.

According to Arthur J. Hutton, Mr. Flores's attorney, the conviction will be
appealed on the ground that the trial should have been moved from Tucson because
of extensive pretrial news coverage of incident, and because some jurors knew of
the case before the trial began.

Prosecutors had charged that Mr. Flores helped the man they identified as the
ringleader of the smuggling attempt, Carlos Rivera, to bring a group of 40
Salvadoran refugees across the Mexican border into the 516-acre Organ Pipe
Cactus National Monument in Arizona.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 7, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
2 Governors Criticize 'Guest Worker' Plan

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Oct. 6


Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California and Gov. Bruce Babbitt of Arizona today
criticized President Reagan's plan for allowing 50,000 Mexican nationals to work
as ''guests'' in the United States.

The two are among four American and six Mexican governors attending the second
Border Governors Conference here.  Gov. William Clements of Texas, a Republican,
came to the two-day conference anxious to get agreement from the governors on
Mr.  Reagan's proposal to let illegal aliens work in this country. But Mr. Brown
and Mr. Babbitt, both Democrats, disagreed.

''This proposal is a very drastic and punitive plan,'' Mr. Babbitt said. ''It
would seal off the border and institute a token immigration program. I can't
support it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WHERE ILLEGALITY LIES

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 71 words


To the Editor:

Your July 16 editorial ''The Haitians and Walrus Courts'' prompts me to point
out that it is already illegal to hire illegal aliens.  The crime committed by
their employers is none other than tax evasion.  GEOFFREY GORDON Bloomington,
Ind., July 17, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 14, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Two Pieces of I.D.

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 391 words


Will the person who knows the real Reagan position on identification cards
please stand up?

Is it Attorney General Smith? He has tenaciously opposed requiring employers to
ask for I.D. from job applicants even though that would, finally, permit
effective Federal action against illegal immigration. He does not object out of
a civil libertarian concern about police statism but because he thinks such
cards could be too easily forged.

Or is it Secretary of Agriculture Block? To combat fraud, his department will
now require plastic photo identification cards from the 2.84 million people who
pick up food stamps for their families in 17 cities. The value of spending $8
million for cards to discourage fraudulent use of stamps is obvious. The typical
food stamp family receives benefits worth $1,068 a year.

Common sense, if not consistency, points toward the position of the Secretary of
Agriculture.  The Reagan Administration says, commendably, that it wants the
United States to get control of its own borders. And Attorney General Smith
ac-knowledges that there can be no effective enforcement unless employers who
hire illegal immigrants are made liable to punishment.

But the only way that will work is if they know the people they are hiring are
illegal. That means requiring job applicants to show identification - like a
Social Security card. That is already necessary, but the card is easy to
counterfeit. It could, like the food stamp card, be made much harder to forge.

Mr. Smith thinks even that would not be forgery-resistant enough: if it's not
possible to produce a counterfeit-proof $20 bill, an identity card could not be
safe. His logic eludes us. Sure, people are always trying to counterfeit $20, or
$100, bills. But the Secretary of the Treasury does not therefore order his
department to stop printing them.

It is easy to see the overriding value of currency to society. It is easy to see
the value of holding down fraud in the food stamp program. What is hard to see
is why the Attorney General is so reluctant to acknowledge the value of
enforcing the immigration policy this Administration professes to desire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

DEPORTATION OF HAITIANS FROM MIAMI CENTER ON RISE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 7


There is resigned stillness these days at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's Krome Avenue Detention Center, which is home to some 800 refugees,
mostly Haitians.

A week and a half ago, all male Haitians were locked in the new concrete
two-story men's dormitory to keep them from escaping. Then, on Thursday and
Friday, a total of 25, the largest group of Haitians to have been deported since
early 1979, were put on planes back to Port-au-Prince after closed hearings at
the immigration service's downtown Miami headquaters.

The remaining male refugees were allowed out for meals and, as of Thursday, for
a 10-minute exercise period.  A month ago the immigration service added 25
guards to its 30-man force, put in a third 12-foot-high fence topped with barbed
wire, and assigned a patrol car to the camp.

Camp 'Like a Sieve'

Krome was ''like a sieve,'' in the words of one immigration service official,
who said inmates would take off to the local convenience store to supplement
their meager diets or to add new T-shirts to the minimal wardrobes issued them.
Others would disappear to Miami's rapidly growing ''Little Haiti'' about 35
miles to the east.

The 15-acre camp of scrubland on the eastern edge of the Everglades has been
split down the middle with a fence to keep the men and the women separate. They
even eat at different times.

The immigration service had been allowing five voluntary agencies to resettle
Haitian refugees pending their claims for political asylum. Then the service
decided not to release anyone who had arrived on a plane with forged visas after
Feb. 23. Of the 161 in this category, called the ''Boeing People,'' only 46 were
still at Krome when the security crackdown began. ''Boat people'' were not
allowed to leave if they arrived after May 20,

The Krome Avenue site, formerly used to store Nike missiles, was taken over by
the immigration service last summer to house Cubans who came from Mariel. But as
the influx of Cubans slowed to a trickle and the refugees were resettled, the
population of the plant shifted. Now the immigration service is bracing itself
for the seasonal influx of Haitians who take advantage of the summer-calm
Caribbean seas to make the crossing.

One-Quarter Detained

Only about one-quarter of the Haitian arrivals are caught before they have a
chance to disappear into Miami's Haitian community, according to United States
Representative Daniel Mica, a Democrat from West Palm Beach; those who are are
caught go to the Krome Avenue Detention Center.

Thus on Thursday and Friday, for example, while some of the Haitians were being
sent back to Port-au-Prince, 18 were sent to the center after they were arrested
while applying for work authorization papers. The immigration service will not
have an exact count of the number of refugees at the center until tomorrow.

Life for most Haitians is not easy, as it has not been for Samedy Philippe
Franklin. He is a slim, 23-year-old tailor from Cap-Haitien, one of the poorest
areas in a desperately poor country. In a good month he made about $35; some
months he made nothing. His relatives paid his $250 boat fare hoping that he
would find employment in this country and then help them. He left a wife and a
child behind.

On the overcrowded boat he lost his most valuable possession - addresses of
relatives in Miami who could help him. He has written back to Haiti for a copy
of the list but does not know how long he must wait to get an answer.

Complaints About Food

He and others have complained about the food. Sometimes it was rotten, Mr.
Franklin said, and other times there was not enough.  William Alexander, the
immigration service official in charge of Krome, conceded that they were having
trouble with both the quality and the quantity of the food served last month but
said there had been no recent complaints.

Dr. Richard Morgan, head of the Dade County Health Department, said that
conditions at Krome had improved greatly with the open of the new men's
building. He said he was worried, however, that the expected influx of new
refugees would force camp officials to use the tents again.

Getting in touch with the outside world is the Haitians' biggest problem. There
is only one phone in the compound to which the refugees have ready access. It is
this phone that refugees depend on to contact their relatives in Florida as well
as lawyers to represent them at their immigration service hearings. Those who
appear without a lawyer almost certainly will be found ''excludable,'' according
the Steven D. Forester, a lawyer with the Haitian Refugee Center.

Agencies Sharing One Phone

The five voluntary agencies that have been charged with relocating the Haitians
also have to share one phone, which increases the difficulties of getting in
touch with relatives and sponsors.

Along with the Federal Government's Office of Refugee Resettlement, the
volunteer agencies have been working six-day weeks to relocate as many refugees
as possible. ''These are good, hard-working people,'' said Tania Mary Dina,
Miami director of the U.S. Catholic Conference. ''They deserve a chance.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

UNTOLD STORY OF COAST IMMIGRATION CENTER UNFOLDS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 84, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: ANGEL ISLAND STATE PARK, Calif., Sept. 12


Paul Chow vividly recalls his father's admonition of ''Angel Island. Shhh!'' ''I
heard that so much, it's almost like one word,'' he says.  From 1910 to 1940,
about 175,000 Chinese came to the United States. Most, including the elder Chow,
awaited entry to Gam Saan, the Golden Mountain, as they called California, at
the Federal Immigration Station on Angel Island.

Like the better-known Ellis Island in New York Harbor, which was the first stop
for European immigrants to the United States, Angel Island was entry point for
Asian immigrants.

But many recall their stay on the island with only bitterness.  They were locked
up like criminals. They slept stacked on steel bunks six high. If thet rebelled
they were put into a bare, windowless closet.

For decades this shabby chapter in American history lay virtually unexamined.
Humiliated Chinese-Americans -nearly all of those who entered at Angel Island
were Chinese - would not speak of it.

False Papers Used for Entry

Many had entered with false papers and were called ''paper sons'' because their
forged documents made them sons of merchants, teachers and United States
citizens. Those were the privileged, exempted under the Chinese Exclusion Act of
1882, the first Federal law to deny entry to a specific ethnic group.

Now the unpleasant story is being told, led by Mr. Chow, whose Angel Island
Immigration Station Historical Advisory Committee wants a museum created in the
decaying barracks last used in 1940.

Felicia Lowe, a Chinese-American filmmaker from San Francisco, is interviewing
former detainees for a television documentary.  Mr. Chow, a transportation
engineer with the state, stood in what was the men's dormitory on the island,
whose hilly paths and secluded coves in the middle of San Francisco Bay now draw
cyclists, hikers and boaters.
Poems Written on the Walls

On the peeling walls of the dormitory are poems in Chinese, written by
immigrants to express outrage and anguish. One of them, by an anonymous author,
reads:

''There are tens of thousands of poems composed on these walls; They are all
cries of complaint and sadness. The day I am rid of this prison and attain
success, I must remember that this chapter once existed.''

The immigrants called this place ''The Island.'' The name ''Angel'' seems to
mock memories such as those of Howard Tom.  Mr. Tom was 14 years old when he
arrived on the island in 1922. His father was a naturalized American citizen who
had returned to China to get his wife, Howard and a baby son.

His family was ''separated within two hours,'' Mr. Tom said, adding, ''We didn't
have a chance to say goodbye.'' He recalled lying on his bunk in the locked
dormitory, daydreaming of friends in China.

Questions From Official

Through an interpreter, an immigration official questioned him and his parents
separately, seeking to determine if they were really a family.

''How far from your house to your neighbor's?'' they each were asked.  ''The
three of us all gave the wrong answer,'' Mr. Tom said. ''I stretched my hand out
to represent so many feet. I didn't tell the interpreter how many feet each arm
length represented.''

The family was detained for two weeks before being released after a Chinese
minister in San Francisco vouched for them.  ''After 40 some odd years,'' Mr.
Tom said , he visited the island aspart of a spe cial tour. ''I was really
upset.'' There are s ome Chinese who say the period is too painful to
relive.Genny Lim, wh o wrote a history of the era, says a ''prominent, older''
Chine se-American woman was horrified by the idea of tourists visiting the
island, calling it ''exploitation.''

Other detainees recount suicides not mentioned in official records. They said
that modest Chinese women, shocked by the lack of privacy in the toilets, would
cover their heads with bags.

Ranger Gets Scholar's Interest

The history of the island began to unfold in 1970, when Alan Weiss, then a
ranger on the island, noticed characters carved on the walls and showed them to
superiors.

''No one was interested,'' Mr. Weiss said on a recent tour with Mr. Chow's
group. So he invited a scholar who determined that they were poems written by
Chinese immigrants. Enthusiastic Asian-American college students then began to
pry loose the island's history.

Restoration work is going slowly. A state grant of $322,000 is exhausted, and
Mr. Chow estimated that $1 million more was needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Paul and Hing Gai Chow

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 25, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS AT 2 DETENTION SITES REFUSING TO EAT AND TO TALK

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 24


Haitians being held at a Federal detention facility here and at a Federal prison
in Lexington, Ky., stopped eating and stopped talking to their keepers today.

Beverly McFarland, a spokesman for the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Miami, said that 727 of the 730 Haitians at the Krome
Avenue detention facility here refused breakfast and lunch. ''It's a passive
resistance,'' she said. ''They don't say anything, not a word. They have not
given any reason.''

At the Federal prison in Lexington, the warden, Robert Elsea, reported that ''a
few'' of the 186 Haitians being held there refused breakfast and that 20 percent
to 30 percent of the Haitians there turned out for lunch. ''Some are saying
they're not eating because they are in jail,'' he said. ''It's kind of hard to
read between the lines. They are very passive.''

There were no reports of hunger strikes at detention facilities elsewhere in the
country. In all, about 2,500 Haitians are being detained in this country and
another 700 are being held at Fort Allen in Puerto Rico, under an agreement with
the government there.

Backlog of Court Cases

The United States contends the Haitians are illegal aliens who tried to enter
the country without proper documents. Attorneys for the Haitians have filed
class-action suits, contending that they are political refugees and should be
granted asylum. The backlog of court cases has resulted in long periods of
incarceration, with occasional riots and breakouts.

The immigration agency in Miami had to add 12 Border Patrol guards to its
26-member security detail after repeated escapes in late November. At the time,
immigration officials cited Christmas as the reason for growing tensions at the
Krome Avenue facility. Nearly all of the Haitians are Roman Catholic, and the
immigration service said that as those in detention began to realize they would
not be free by the holiday, they became restive.

This morning the Haitians at Krome refused cleaning duties, chores that in the
past were performed with relish as the only relief from the monotony of being
held at a former missile base with no recreational facilities. The Haitian
community in Miami has held demonstrations all week demanding those being
detained be released before Christmas. Haitian leaders here also sent a petition
to the White House, comparing the Haitians detained at Krome with the American
hostages in Iran.

At Fort Allen, P.R., where 200 Haitians staged a stone-throwing riot last
weekend, injuring three guards, Don Hasson, a spokesman for the immigration
service, said the situation today was ''normal'' and ''relatively quiet.''

He said those being detained had not refused meals. One-hundred Border Patrol
guards have been added to the security complement at Fort Allen, said Mr.
Hasson, who declined to give the size of the normal security unit.

Archbishop Appeals for Release

MIAMI, Dec. 24 (AP) - The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Miami appealed to
President Reagan today for the ''humane'' release of the Haitians at the Krome
Avenue Center.

Archbishop Edward McCarthy said in a telegram to the President: ''As we witness
the cruel suppression of human rights in Poland, we must show the world that we,
the people of the United States, still stand for freedom, liberty and justice.
Your release of these Haitian detainees who have come to these shores seeking
freedom, liberty and justice will speak louder than any words.''

The Archbishop also said mass for 677 Haitians at the detention center and said
he sympathized with their frustration. He called their hunger strike ''a very
human reaction to the very inhuman conditions'' of the detention site.

He held a separate service for about 70 Haitian women who are segregated from
the men for what immigration officials call ''security reasons.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 19, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THOUSANDS OF ALIENS HELD IN VIRTUAL SLAVERY IN U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3765 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE, Fla.


Uncounted thousands of Spanish-speaking aliens who flee to this country each
year to escape the crushing poverty of their homelands are being virtually
enslaved, bought and sold on sophisticated underground labor exchanges. They are
trucked around the country in consignments by self-described labor contractors
who deliver them to farmers and growers for hundreds of dollars a head.

Exactly how many find themselves bound to employers who take advantage of their
illegal status, their naivete and their cultural alienation is not known.

But dozens of Immigration and Naturalization Service officials, migrant aid
lawyers, prosecutors, social workers, farm union organizers and others who work
closely with migrant laborers said in interviews that they believed the
practice, while not common, was probably a growing one involving thousands of
migrants from the tomato fields of Arkansas to the apple orchards of Virginia,
from the cotton fields of North Texas to the orange groves of Florida.

Rising Tide of Immigration

''You're not talking about something isolated,'' said William Burk, an assistant
Border Patrol chief in Del Rio, Tex. Humberto Moreno, a senior official of the
immigration service, agreed.  ''There's a significant amount of that going on,''
he said.

Five years ago the immigration service caught 76,000 aliens who had been
smuggled into the United States by ''coyotes,'' as the smugglers call
themselves; last year it apprehended 211,000. And as the organized smuggling of
illegal aliens increases, officials say, so does the possibility that an alien
will find himself forced to work for little or nothing.

As a result, the immigration service and the Justice Department, which until
recently were mainly concerned with keeping illegal aliens out of this country,
are now broadening their focus to include the smugglers, the labor contractors
and the growers who prey on the aliens once they are here. Earlier this month
the Justice Department brought its first peonage case in nearly a year, against
the owner of a seafood processing plant near Houston.

Efforts by Federal Agencies

The Justice Department's civil rights division has assigned a lawyer to
coordinate cases of involuntary servitude with the immigration service and the
Department of Labor, which enforces Federal law governing the hiring and
transporting of migrant farmworkers. Moreover, the immigration service recently
began instructing its antismuggling agents in the intricacies of the
Reconstruction-era slavery laws, which prohibit involuntary servitude and
peonage, or the forcing of a laborer to work off his debt to the employer.

''We're telling them to 'think peonage,' '' said Mr. Moreno, who heads the
antismuggling section of the immigration service.  That the authorities have no
certain figures on such cases does not surprise some who know the problem well.
''This country does a better job of counting its migratory birds than its
migratory workers,'' said Gary Bryant, a lawyer with Migrant Legal Action in
Washington.

Formal complaints about involuntary servitude are relatively few.  Last year the
Justice Department conducted 21 investigations into possible violations of the
antislavery laws, and there have only been nine such inquiries so far this year.
In both years, most involved blacks in Eastern states, not migrant Hispanic
workers.

Dearth of Willing Witnesses

Daniel F. Rinzel, chief of the criminal section of the Justice Department's
civil rights division, said his office received relatively few complaints of
''illegal aliens held against their will.''

The Government's principal difficulty in finding and trying such offenses, said
Bruce Berger, who left two weeks ago as the Justice Department's ''involuntary
servitude'' coordinator to go into private practice, ''is in finding people who
are willing to come forward.''

''Most times the victims are very afraid,'' he said. ''We're aware of the
problem, and I don't think we've found any satisfactory way of dealing with
it.''

Vincent Beckman, a lawyer with Michigan Migrant Legal Services, agreed.
''Usually, the people are just so intimidated they don't do anything about it,''
he said.

Even when potential witnesses overcome their reluctance, Federal investigators
said, there may be a host of other obstacles to a successful peonage prosection.
Frequently illiterate and often intimidated by the American legal process,
illegal aliens do not make the best courtroom witnesses, investigators say.
Jailed by the Government as ''material witnesses,'' they may grow hostile by the
time a trial begins.

Frustrations of Investigators

The clandestine nature of involuntary servitude may make it difficult to gather
independent evidence, as can the determined anonymity of the coyotes and labor
contractors who often enforce it.  An alien may not even be aware that the sort
of indentured service that might be tolerated in rural Mexico qualifies in this
country as a violation of the peonage or involuntary servitude laws. Most
frustrating of all, some of the larger growers may have the political
connections to get an investigation squelched, some investigators say.

In this context, several Border Patrol agents mentioned a South Texas grower
whom one described as ''a big operator'' and ''a pretty rough customer.'' He
added, ''He was shooting at aliens, holding their money, anything he could to
keep them from running off. We tried every way we could think of to get at him
under the peonage statutes, but he was very well connected politically.''

Existence is hard enough for the illegal aliens who toil in the fields from
sunup to sundown, picking lemons in Arizona, lettuce in California or melons in
south Texas for a few dollars a day, cooking over open fires, sleeping in the
fields at night and watching, always, for the green-uniformed agents of La
Migra, the United States Border Patrol.

But for those who unwittingly stumble into the underworld of the slave traders,
life can be infinitely worse. Shackled with inflated debts they can never repay,
they may find themselves locked up by night and guarded by day, beaten or
threatened with harm or even death if they try to escape, their children held
hostage to insure their continued servitude. Sometimes the workers held in
bondage are little more than children themselves.

Under Federal law, involuntary servitude occurs whenever a worker is compelled,
by whatever means, to work at a job he does not want.  If he is forced to work
off a debt to his employer, the offense becomes peonage. The size of the debt
does not matter, and it also makes no difference whether the peon initially
agreed to take the job, or whether he was paid.

And, according to recent court decisions, the law takes no account of the means
of compulsion. Physically restraining a worker, harming him or threatening to
harm him may be sufficient grounds for a charge of involuntary servitude, as
might the withholding of his pay or the holding of his relatives as hostages.
Even if a worker failed to take advantage of opportunities to run away because
he feared the consequences, servitude might be considered to exist.

Allegations From Files

Court records, immigration service files and other sources are filled with
descriptions of such abuse.  In Bartow, Fla., two Mexican girls, aged 12 and 15,
are allegedly held prisoner by a labor contractor who hires them out as field
workers to neighboring farmers. Federal agents burst into the contractor's house
and take the girls away. The girls file a civil lawsuit against the contractor.

In Colorado, a frantic Mexican mother seeks help from the authorities, saying a
rancher holds her 13-month-old child hostage to insure her return to a
$40-a-week job tending the rancher's cows and pigs. The authorities storm the
ranch and recover the child unharmed.

Another typical case is that of Jose Corona, a young Mexican who worked in 1978
and 1979 for Ted Cisnero, an orange grower in La Belle, Fla., 20 miles north of
here. In an affidavit, Mr. Corona said he received no wages for the first month
he worked for Mr. Cisnero, his salary going only for food and to repay the $200
''transportation fee'' Mr. Cisnero had given the coyote.

''Mr. Cisnero and his sons constantly warned and threatened me and other members
of the crew not to try to leave his employ or his camp,'' Mr. Corona said in an
affidavit. ''They threatened us with death or the possibility of being sent back
to Mexico. On several occasions Mr. Cisnero or his sons pointed guns at members
of the crew, warning them not to try to escape.''

When the workers were taken into town to buy food once a week, he said, they
were closely watched by one of the Cisneros, who ''would often force many of the
younger members of the crew to buy them 'gifts' while they were shopping.'' Mr.
Cisnero promised to send his workers' salaries directly to their families in
Mexico, Mr. Corona said, but when one worker discovered that his family was not
receiving any money and asked what had happened to it, the only reply he
received was a beating.

Along with two other workers, Mr. Corona, who said he was finally ''able to
escape from Mr. Cisnero's camp'' in December 1978, is suing Mr. Cisnero,
alleging that his conduct violated the Federal peonage statutes. The Justice
Department is also investigating the allegations.

Mr. Cisnero could not be reached for comment. His telephone has been
disconnected, and lawyers for Florida Rural Legal Assistance, who are handling
Mr. Corona's lawsuit, said Mr. Cisnero had not yet retained an attorney.

The Justice Department's first successful peonage prosecution involving illegal
Mexican aliens was recorded only last November.  Connie Ray Alford, a
41-year-old Truxno, La., chicken farmer, pleaded guilty to chaining two of his
workers, Isaul Mata and his brother Fidel, in a chicken coop at his Welcome Home
Ranch to keep them from running away. According to court records, the Mata
brothers, like their nine co-workers, had incurred debts of $250 each for their
transportation from Mexico to Louisiana that had not been worked off. Mr. Alford
was convicted and given five years' probation and incarcerated for three months.

The Mata brothers and their co-workers are suing Mr. Alford for $3 million,
charging that they were held captive for four months, menaced with guns and
forced to work 12 hours a day, seven days a week, for substandard wages.

Peonage Moves With Migrants

Peonage, though it exists on farms and ranches of the Southwest, is relatively
uncommon there because of the proximity to the Mexican border. California,
Arizona and Texas are flooded with illegal alien workers, and ''there just isn't
that much excess demand for labor here,'' said Lupe Sanchez of the Arizona
Farmworkers Union.

Rather, it is in the citrus and winter vegetable belts of Florida and the potato
fields of Idaho and on the tobacco farms of Virginia and North Carolina that
farmworkers are at a premium, so much so that the coyotes who smuggle them north
or east can easily command fees of $500 a worker.

A principal route of the underground alien-smuggling railway, investigators say,
is between Arizona and Florida. They say the system operates this way:

Workers earning perhaps $15 a day in the lemon groves around Phoenix are easily
lured eastward by a coyote with the promise of wages of $500 or more a week
picking oranges or tomatoes. The smuggler, through a series of late-night calls
between public telephones, has already received a Florida farmer's order for a
specified number of workers. When the workers are delivered, the farmer pays the
coyote between $300 and $500 a head.

But when the worker arrives he is told by the farmer that he is not free to
leave until he has repaid that sum from his wages, and as he works the debt
grows larger with charges for room, board, clothing, cigarettes and alcohol, all
sold by the grower at what Rob Williams, who heads the Florida Rural Legal
Services office here, calls ''really inflated prices.''

Earnings Go to Pay Debts

The worker is given perhaps $5 a week for pocket money, with the rest of his
''earnings'' credited against what he owes. The arrangement is legal.

It is only when the worker tries to leave that he may run into trouble and find
himself threatened with physical harm or exposure to immigration agents by the
farmer because of the unpaid debt. ''They make sure that anybody who's planning
to run away doesn't,'' Mr.  Williams said. ''That's the way the system works. It
really is peonage.'' And that is when the Federal laws can be brought into play,
though they seldom are.

Of the 25,000 or so agricultural workers who come to Florida at the peak of the
winter harvest season, Mr. Williams estimates, perhaps 2,000 are ''trapped in
camps where they can't leave.''

''A lot of people try,'' he said, ''especially when they find the working
conditions not to their liking, and that brings in the nastier elements of
violence.''

When the harvest ends, the worker, if he is lucky, is set free, often with only
a few dollars to show for weeks of labor. If he is not so lucky he is sold by
the farmer to another farmer for several hundred dollars, and the process begins
again.

Federal officials say one of the largest smuggling operations is run by two
Florida men who operate a tomato farm. They are under investigation by the
immigration service and the Justice Department, and a Federal grand jury is
hearing evidence in the case.

Until recently, the vast majority of farmworkers in the South and Southeast were
black. But the makeup of the farm labor force is changing rapidly all along the
Eastern Seaboard.

Hispanic Increase in Carolina

In North Carolina, according to William Geimer, the former director of a
Farmworkers Legal Services office there, the percentage of Hispanic workers has
increased in the last two years to the point where they now number one worker in
five.

In south-central Florida the change is evident everywhere, as on a recent
morning here in Immokalee, where clusters of young Mexican men sat talking and
drinking beer along the sidewalks of the town's tiny main street. Surrounded by
Mexican restaurants and bakeries, by public notices in Spanish and by local
markets stocked with tortillas, chorizo and canned beans, they might as easily
have been passing the time in a dusty little village along the Mexican border
1,500 miles away.

As more Mexicans and other Hispanic workers find their way east, cases of
suspected peonage are coming to light.  After the Alford prosecution, Federal
agents in Louisiana were flooded with unsolicited tips about other alien workers
held in similar situations. A. Martin Stroud 3d, the assistant United States
Attorney who prosecuted the case, said then that investigators were ''tracking
down other leads'' involving farmers ''all over northern Louisiana.'' But in a
recent interview in his Shreveport office, Mr.  Stroud said the investigation
had been curtailed, primarily because of a shortage of immigration service
funds.

The Alford case ''revolted'' him, Mr. Stroud said, but he also understood the
economics that created such situations. ''Where else do you get farm labor?'' he
asked, adding, ''You take 30 workers at $250 a head, that's an expensive
proposition. The farmer's got to hold them to get his money back. What's he
going to do if they start to run off - sue them?''

Law Cites Threat of Force

And the workers, he said, were generally ''easy prey'' because ''they don't
understand our society, they don't understand our customs.''

Few farmers resort to chains and shackles to prevent their workers from running
away, as Mr. Alford pleaded guilty to doing. But violations of the peonage and
involuntary servitude statutes require only the threat of force. Immigration
officers told of instances in which farmers had armed guards patrolling their
fields to keep workers from leaving.

In the cattle and cotton country of the Texas Panhandle, according to Trini
Gamez of the Texas Rural Legal Assistance agency, workers are sometimes simply
locked up at night. ''They're not allowed to come to town, and the boss will
bring them food and so on,'' she said, telling of a sugar beet farmer who held
his workers in a large barn.

''The men had their cots in there,'' she said. ''At night the door was locked.
They couldn't leave the place at all.'' But she said that Legal Aid lawyers had
been unable to investigate because of regulations prohibiting them from
soliciting cases, and because the workers involved were not free to come forward
and complain to the authorities.

The threat to turn an alien worker in to the immigration service if he attempts
to leave is most common, officials said. Federal courts have long held that such
a threat does not constitute a sufficient ground for a charge of forced labor,
although recent decisions may have opened the way for a test case.

Some employers resort to withholding a worker's pay until the harvest is
complete or threatening to have him charged with some real or imagined crime in
the event he runs away. Federal investigators are looking into a recent incident
in Tucson in which Arthur M.  Burris Jr., a 28-year-old truck driver and
part-time rancher, was arrested and charged by the state with false
imprisonment.

Allegation of Chaining

Mr. Burris was charged with chaining a 20-year-old alien worker to a tree
overnight without food or water. Pima County Sheriff's deputies said Mr. Burris
told them he had suspected the worker, Manuel Hernandez, of stealing some tools,
a theft that a friend of Mr. Burris later confessed. But Mr. Hernandez told the
authorities that, although Mr. Burris had promised to pay him $7 a day when he
was hired Aug. 21, he had not received any money.

Not all of the Hispanic newcomers who find themselves in forced labor situations
are necessarily illegal aliens. Two farm labor contractors are being sued by
more than two dozen Puerto Rican workers, some as young as 16, who are alleging
that they were forced to work up to 90 hours a week on farms in Delaware, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania, in some cases for as little as one cent a week in net
pay. They were threatened with harm, they say, and even death, if they tried to
leave.

Often, officials say, the aliens are enslaved long before they reach the farms
and ranches. Because they are a precious commodity to the smugglers, they are
forcibly held in decrepit ''drophouses'' until someone is found who will pay
their ransom. ''Generally, it's relatives or a farmer who come up with the
money,'' said Leon D.  Ring, the chief Border Patrol agent in Livermore, Calif.,
near San Francisco.

Last March, 28 Mexicans were found by immigration service officers in a
ramshackle Houston house, its windows boarded up, where they had been held under
armed guard by smugglers for two weeks. Officers say they have found as many as
50 aliens held captive in tiny one-@ or two-room shacks for long periods with no
mattresses or sanitary facilities and very little food. The immigration service
recently acquired a videotape, made in an undercover surveillance, showing
aliens being roughly unloaded from a truck and, with kicks and punches from
their coyotes, herded into a drophouse in east Los Angeles.

Immigration service files are filled with such descriptions of cruelty as these:
In Los Angeles, a tearful Honduran woman tells the police that her daughters, 15
and 16, are being held by a smuggler demanding $700 for having guided the family
across the border. The smuggler is threatening to strip the girls of their
clothing and abandon them in the desert if he is not paid, she says. The police
and Federal officers rescue the girls and arrest a suspect.

Smuggling Charge Called Easier

In a Mexican border town, a Peruvian woman arranges with a smuggler to bring her
and her 3-year-old grandson to the United States for $500. At the border the
child disappears. When he is recovered seven weeks later by the immigration
service, the boy says he has been ''beaten by a man very often'' and ''forced to
beg money in the streets.''

Another reason the relatively small number of prosecutions for peonage and
involuntary servitude does not provide an adequate picture of the scope of such
offenses, officials say, is that it is often easier to prosecute on the more
easily proved offense, such as smuggling or harboring illegal aliens.

Durward (Woody) Woosley pleaded guilty to alien smuggling in San Antonio in
1978.  According to Federal investigators and investigative files that are part
of the court record, from January to August that year Mr.  Woosley bought and
sold more than 5,000 alien workers, paying recruiters $30 a head to bring them
north from the Mexican border, then shipping them out to growers in the east for
up to $500 apiece.

''Farmers in Arkansas were buying an alien from Woosley for $400 and withholding
wages until the $400 was paid off,'' said Hugh Williams, who recently retired as
the Border Patrol chief in Del Rio, Tex. ''Then they would sell the alien to
somebody else for $400. The alien never saw any cash. In effect, each farmer was
getting free labor. There were cases where we found Mexicans who were at their
third or fourth farm and hadn't made a penny the whole time they were in the
U.S. - peonage, that's really what it was.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Connie Ray Alford and Patsy Alford (page 58)

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 7, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

2 GET PRISON TERMS FOR A SCHEME TO SMUGGLE ALIENS INTO THE U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 68, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 274 words


Two men con victed of posing as clergymen in a scheme to smuggle aliens into t
he United States for profit were sentenced to prison Friday by a F ederal judge
in Manhattan.

One of the men, Robert Walker, 41 years old , who called himself Father
Demetrius, was sentenced to four years by Judge Charles S.  Haight Jr. in
Federal District Court.

Mr. Walter's associate, John Busse, 24, who called himself Father John, received
a three-year term.  The defendants, both of whom lived in a Manhattan hotel,
were convicted Oct. 23 on charges of conspiracy, mail fraud, filing false
statements and counterfeiting immigration documents.

The charges stemmed from a Federal investigation into their operation, the
Migrant Ministry, which had offices in Times Square and lower Manhattan.

According to evidence at their trial, the two men solicited aliens seeking to
live in the United States and persuaded them to purchase documents - later found
to be phony - to overcome immigration difficulties.

The men wore clerical garb and represented themselves as ordained priests of
''the Diocese of the Orthodox Church in Florida, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, Dominican Republic, Jamaica and the Virgin Islands Inc.''

They solicited clients through advertisements in foreign-language newspapers,
according to James Rather, an assistant United States attorney who prosecuted
the case.

Mr. Rather told Judge Haight before sentencing that the defendants had made
$175,000 to $200,000 from the scheme in the last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 29, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ALONE ON THE RANGE: THE VANISHING COWBOY

SECTION: Section 3; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 749 words


DENVER C OWBOYS are deserting Western ranches in droves, lured by the energy
industry's eight-hour work days and wages of $10 to $15 an hour.  Drilling for
oil and gas and stripping coal seem to beat life on the range - living in camps,
trailing herds and sleeping on the ground for weeks on end. For that, the pay
runs from $400 to $800 a month plus room and board.

''There is no question about it,'' said William Swan, a Rogerson, Idaho, rancher
who is president of the National Cattlemen's Association. ''The cowboy shortage
is real and there is a definite need for thousands and thousands of cattle
hands.''

According to George Radosevich, a Denver lawyer and Wyoming cattle and sheep
rancher, there are 2,000 openings for cowboys on Western ranches. To cope,
ranchers, primarily those in Colorado, Wyoming and Utah, where the booming
energy industry vies for manpower, are hiring ''undocumented workers,'' a
euphemism of the Immigration and Naturalization Service for illegal Mexican
workers. An informal survey showed that illegal aliens working as ranch hands
are paid about $400 a month plus room and board.

But ranchers find Mexican cattle hands a mixed blessing. Many are from urban
centers, have never worked on the range and aren't used to the dawn-to-dusk
routine, according to George Salisbury, a livestock rancher in Baggs, Wyo.

Many ranchers are lobbying for eased immigration restrictions to enable them to
hire experienced cattlehands from Argentina, Brazil and Venezuela. Western
ranchers, according to Mr. Radosevich, want the Government to allow foreign
cattle hands to enter the United States under H-2 visas, as is the custom with
sheepherders. The H-2 visa in effect authorizes foreigners to work temporarily
in occupations with short supplies of workers.

Sheepherders in the country under H-2 visas are paid a minimum of $550 a month
in California, $525 in Nevada and $523 in the remaining eight Western states.
Rates include room and board and are set by the immigration service.

''The case for bringing in cowboys is different from that for sheepherders,''
said Jim Hardin, immigration officer in Denver.  ''Certificates are available
for sheepherders because no U.S. citizen is willing to spend months with a band
of sheep at 12,000 feet.'' A band is made up of 2,000 to 2,500 sheep.

''But if ranchers want foreign cowboys,'' he said. ''They must prove there is no
one around to take the job, and that is hard to do because there are a lot of
cowboys and there is a lot of unemployment.''

The immigration service requires ranchers seeking cowboys to advertise in local
newspapers as well as in high-unemployment areas of Texas and New Mexico before
it will accept an application for foreign cowboys. Many Western ranchers have
standing orders with state employment agencies for help, but report few or no
applicants.

Unable to hire foreign cowboys because of these restrictions, many ranchers
train foreign sheepherders for the job, an H-2 visa violation that the
immigration service currently overlooks.

Most Western ranchers today graze both cattle and sheep. The range wars of
yesteryear, popularized by Hollywood, where cattle ranchers were pitted against
sheep growers, are long forgotten.

John Arambel, president of the Midland Land and Livestock Company, of Rock
Springs, Wyo., is training Peruvian sheepherders to be cattlehands. ''Peruvians
make excellent cowboys,'' Mr. Arambel said.  ''They are little, easy on horses
and outperform Mexicans when it comes to rounding up cattle in timbered mountain
areas. Mexicans, on the other hand, do better at roping and handling - the rough
stuff.''

Bill Bonde, manager of the 230-member Western Range Association, of Fair Oaks,
Calif., which yearly hires an average of 235 foreign sheepherders for its
members, is not enthusiastic about foreigners as cowboys, based on his
experience with foreign sheepherders.

''The foreign cowboys, given time and a chance, once they have learned their way
around and speak English, will move on to industrial jobs just as the Anglos are
doing,'' he said.  Marc Raizman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of a cowboy

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN ADVISED TO ADMIT MEXICANS AS GUEST WORKERS

BYLINE: By HOWELL RAINES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 1


The Task Force on Immigration and Refugee Policy today advised President Reagan
to let 50,000 Mexican aliens come to the United States each year as temporary
workers and to grant permanent resident status to as many as 170,000 Cuban and
Haitian refugees already settled in the country, according to Administration
officials.

The change in status would apply to those refugees who arrived before Oct. 10,
1980. Immigration officials said that included about 125,000 Cubans and 30,000
to 45,000 Haitians.

The task force, led by Attorney General William French Smith and including seven
other Cabinet members, also urged Mr. Reagan to authorize a tough ''interdiction
at sea'' policy to allow the American authorities to turn boats bearing illegal
immigrants back to Cuba and Haiti, the officials said.

The group also recommended that the approximately 4,000 Cubans now detained in
Atlanta and Fort Chaffee, Ark., remain in custody until they can be repatriated
to Cuba as undesirables. But Mr. Smith's study group was ordered after today's
Cabinet meeting to come up with further options for the handling of these
refugees, who have been involved in a variety of social and legal problems since
they were evicted from Cuban jails and asylums and shipped to the United States
by President Fidel Castro last year.

The group further recommended a program of general amnesty for about one million
other illegal aliens who can prove that they have been in this country since
1979.

The 'Whole Range of Problems'

Officials said the recommendations were substantially the same as those made in
preliminary reports by the task force.  Mr. Smith and White House spokesmen
declined to provide details of the discussions in today's Cabinet meeting. Mr.
Smith said that the recommendations of the task force, which was formed on March
6, covered the ''whole range of problems and potential solutions.'' The Attorney
General said he expected Mr. Reagan to reach a decision within a week to 10 days
on which of the recommendations he will adopt as Administration policy.

But other sources familiar with today's meetings said there would be additional
discussions at a Cabinet meeting next week, possibly on Tuesday, and that Mr.
Reagan's decision could come speedily after that.

Today, these officials said, there was disagreement within the Cabinet on the
Mexican ''guest worker'' recommendations. The White House is attempting to solve
the problem of illegal Mexican aliens crossing the border to work in the United
States by adopting on a trial basis a policy in line with Mr. Reagan's campaign
promise to admit Mexican workers in an orderly fashion on temporary work visas.

Some of those in today's Cabinet meeting were quoted as arguing that the 50,000
figure was too low, although that figure was ''heavily recommended'' by the task
force. Some Cabinet members were said to prefer admitting 100,000 guest workers
annually and to lower the sanctions against American employers who hire illegal
aliens.

Cubans' Repatriation in Doubt

There was also disagreement on the task force recommendation to continue holding
the 4,000 Cubans in custody until Cuba could be forced to take them back. One
objection raised was that although many of them have records of criminal
activity or mental instability, it is unclear whether they can be held in the
United States for offenses in Cuba.

Cuba has so far refused to repatriate the refugees, but the task force
recommendation to the President was based on the presumption that any thawing of
relations with Cuba would require that nation to do so as a ''necessary first
step.''

As for the estimated 125,000 Cubans and Haitians who have settled in various
sections of the United States, the task force recommended that the President
approve a plan to allow them to apply for permanent resident status after living
in the United States for two years.

But this was tied to a proposal to limit the numbers of such immigrants in the
future through a tougher interdiction policy that would allow ''boat people'' to
be turned away before reaching American shores.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of President Reagan meeting with county executives

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 2, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Other National Events;
Joyless Task on Immigration

BYLINE: By Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 164 words


After six months of mulling, and with the air of doing its duty, the Reagan
Administration last week produced its immigration policy.  The mulling was
because the problem is enormous. The dutifulness could have come from the
realization that some of the proposals have entrenched and intense opposition.
The Administration wants to outlaw employing illegal aliens and to fine
employers of more than three workers who do; to admit 100,000 Mexican ''guest
workers'' to this country for two years, and to grant amnesty to several million
foreigners now living in the United States illegally. Some analysts doubted that
the package could be enacted as a whole. House bills to sanction employment of
aliens have twice died under pressure from business interests. Hispanic American
and labor leaders fear the guest worker program may displace their constituents.
- Michael Wright

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 23, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Border Patrol Aide Hails U.S. Supreme Court Ruling

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex., Jan. 22


An official of the Border Patrol has said that a ruling by the United States
Supreme Court could effectively restore the patrol's authority to stop vehicles
in border areas and search for illegal aliens.

James Selbe, Border Patrol deputy chief in the McAllen district, said yesterday,
''This decision does seem to put us back to operating under the statutes of the
Immigration Nationality Act.''

In the Supreme Court decision yesterday, Chief Justice Warren E.  Burger held
that the test was not whether there was ''probable cause to conclude the vehicle
they stopped would contain a group of illegal aliens.''

''Rather,'' he wrote, ''the question is whether, based on the whole picture,
they as experienced Border Patrol agents, could reasonably surmise that the
particular vehicle they stopped was engaged in criminal activity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 16, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY FINDS ALIENS GETTING FEDERAL SUBSIDIES FOR RENTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15


Preliminary inquiries by Congressional investigators strongly suggest that
substantial numbers of illegal aliens receive Federal housing subsidies while
hundreds of thousands of citizens wait months or years for similar assistance.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development has taken the position that
''there is no legal basis for inquiring into the citizenship status of persons
applying for Federal housing subsidies.''

Homer Smith, executive director of the Housing Authority of the City of Los
Angeles, said recently that his agency used to ask applicants, ''Is the head of
your household a citizen or legal resident of the United States?'' However, he
said in an interview, the question was eliminated last year after Federal
housing officials told him that it violated civil rights laws.

The issue is one illustration, the difficulty of defining the legal rights of
illegal aliens, whose numbers were recently estimated by the Census Bureau at
3.5 million to 6 million. For another example, there has been extensive
litigation in Texas over the entitlement of illegal alien children to a free
public education, while elsewhere some counties are pressing the Federal
Government for help in paying the costs of providing health care to illegal
aliens.

Los Angeles officials report that one of every five patients admitted to a
county hospital is an illegal alien. They said it cost $91 million to provide
hospital services to illegal aliens in the fiscal year 1978.

'Substantial Numbers' Found

Auditors from the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress,
found that ''there were substantial numbers of illegal aliens in federally
assisted housing projects.'' The manager of a 487-unit project in southern
California estimated that illegal aliens accounted for 36 percent of his
tenants, the auditors reported. The manager of a 685-unit project estimated that
100 to 125 units were occupied by illegal aliens.

Federal housing officials said they could not estimate the total number of
illegal aliens receiving subsidies because applicants were not asked about their
citizenship or immigration status.

Representative Wayne R. Grisham, Republican of California, has introduced a bill
to prohibit illegal aliens from receiving Federal housing assistance. ''I see no
reason why assistance should be provided to illegal aliens to the detriment of
otherwise eligible low-income families,'' the Congressman said, noting that
there were long waiting lists for such benefits.

Housing officials say that in almost every part of the country they are
inundated with applications when they announce the availability of subsidies.
The officials say that housing assistance is available to less than 20 percent
of those who need it. Inflation, budget cuts, a slowdown in new construction and
the conversion of rental apartments to condominiums are all factors that are
said to contribute to the shortage of low-cost housing.

The officials said that the value of subsidies varied from city to city but that
some families might receive as much as $100,000 in rent subsidies over 25 years.
Under the basic subsidy program, the Federal Government pays the difference
between the fair-market rent and what a tenant can afford to pay. Mr. Grisham's
proposal would also apply to Federal programs that provide mortgage insurance
and interest subsidies for low-@ and moderate-income families buying new homes.

An unpublished study by the General Accounting Office notes that almost all
statutory Federal assistance programs, Medicare, Supplemental Security Income,
food stamps, public service employment and others, require that participants be
permanent, or at least legal, residents of the United States.

Requirement Killed by Congress

However, Congress deleted a citizenship requirement from a housing
appropriations bill in 1952. The existing housing laws, which were revised seven
years ago, say nothing about citizenship as an eligibiity requirement.

Last year Congress amended the law to prevent foreign students from receiving
Federal housing assistance. Representative Bruce F. Vento, Democrat of
Minnesota, offered the amendment after learning of apartments in Minneapolis
where almost 30 percent of the subsidized units were reportedly occupied by
foreign students.

Supreme Court cases have established several principles relevant to any limits
that Congress might want to impose on housing benefits for illegal aliens. The
authority to control immigration, to admit or exclude aliens, is vested
exclusively in the Federal Government.  Federal and local officials may not
discriminate against citizens or permanent resident aliens on the basis of
national origin, and the Fifth and 14th Amendments to the Constitution guarantee
''due process of law'' and ''equal protection of the laws'' to any ''person'' in
the United States, not just to citizens.

The Court said in 1971 that states could not deny welfare benefits to legal
aliens or impose a residency requirement because in so doing they would encroach
on the exclusive Federal power over immigration.  But the Federal Government may
impose such restrictions, according to the Court, which in 1976 upheld a rule
denying Medicare benefits to aliens who had not lived in the United States for
at least five years.

The Housing Authority of Santa Barbara, Calif., adopted a policy last year
requiring applicants for subsidies to show that they were citizens or legal
aliens, but later it rescinded the policy. Robert H. Foreman, executive director
of the agency, said that Hispanic American groups had implied that they would
challenge the policy in court, and the agency's attorneys had concluded that the
body was not legally empowered to impose such restrictions.

Mr. Smith, the Los Angeles housing official, was asked what he would do if he
knew that certain tenants were illegal aliens. ''I wouldn't do anything,'' he
said, ''as long as they kept the terms and conditions of their lease.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ISLAND AIDES DRIVE ON 'ALIEN INSECTS'

BYLINE: By JOAN LEE FAUST

SECTION: Section 11; Long Island; Page 14, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words


WHEN insects enter this country from other lands, they are considered illegal
aliens. Unless they are discovered and eradicated promptly, troubles often
follow because these insects have no natural enemies here to keep them in check.

The Northeast's continuing battles with Japanese beetles and gypsy moths and the
West Coast's recent near-disaster with Mediterranean fruit flies are only recent
examples of what can happen when foreign insect pests get on the loose. Although
many insects fly undetected back and forth across borders, their chief gateways
are this nation's ports of entry - by land, sea and air.

John F. Kennedy International Airport, one of the nation's busiest, has been
selected by the Federal Government as one of 21 ports in a High-Hazard Project
to search out and destroy alien plant pests and diseases before they threaten
important economic crops. Although Federal inspectors are at the customs gates
of entry ports, there is always the chance that hitchhiker insect pests or
diseases slip through.

The High-Hazard Project, which began four years ago, is being coordinated by
Federal inspectors and administrators in the Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service (APHIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture with headquarters
in Hyattsville, Md.  Officials of the inspection agency administer Federal
regulations that prohibit or restrict the entry of foreign pests and plants.
They maintain inspection services at all major ports and administer regulatory
and control programs.

Don Woodham, technical coordinator for the project, said that the agency was
making intensified efforts to detect any insect pests or diseases that might
come into these ports and squelch them before they become established in
agricultural areas. Fruit flies, boll weevils, Japanese beetles, nematodes,
chestnut blight and Dutch elm disease are a few of the insects and plant
diseases that have been introduced at ports of entry over the years.

''New York is a high-risk port mainly because of its size and its interception
records,'' Mr. Woodham said. As part of the new effort to stop troubles before
they start, the High-Hazard Project is concentrating efforts in a 100-mile
radius of each of the 21 ports of entry.

Unlike many port areas where there are vast agricultural crops - sugar cane,
rice, grain, forests and citrus orchards - Long Island has many large-sized home
vegetable gardens that attract a variety of insects. The local APHIS agency has
sought the aid of these home gardeners and asked those interested in cooperating
with the survey to send postcards and sign up.

The cards should be mailed to John Arcery, APHIS, PPQ, J.F. Kennedy
International Airport, Cargo Building, Number 80, Room 103, Jamaica, N.Y. 11430.
Although the program is well filled for this year, the agency is interested in
having the names of home gardeners who would like to cooperate in the future.

John Arcery, a plant protection and quarantine inspector, is interested only in
large gardens (the minimum size is 15 by 30 feet). ''So far, 23 gardens have
been surveyed and there are 20 more to go,'' he said.

Those crops of particular interest to Mr. Arcery are potatoes, cucumbers,
melons, lettuce, onions, beans, beets, Brussels sprouts, cabbage and tomatoes.
''Home gardens have a variety of hosts and we are interested in the pests that
feed on them,'' Mr. Arcery said.

During a recent tour, he and Janice Yee, an agency assistant, inspected two
gardens on the Island, those of Edward Kmiotek in Massapequa and John Boles in
Wantagh.

To survey gardens, Mr. Arcery and Miss Yee work from the outer edges inward.
With knapsacks on their backs and collecting vials in hand, they closely examine
vegetables and fruit and look for leaves damaged by insect feeding or disease.
Any blemished fruit is cut open to see what is at work and, if found, the
culprit is collected for further identification. Insects found on backs of
leaves are put into the small vials filled with alcohol, and beetles and
caterpillars are caught in small boxes.

When inspection is completed, the collection is taken back to agency offices for
positive identification. Mr. Arcery said that most of the insects collected were
routine local ones. But any pest not quickly identified is checked out with a
staff entomologist, and, if he is stumped, the pest is sent to headquarters for
definite identification.

''So far nothing out of the ordinary has been picked up in the garden surveys,''
Mr. Arcery said. ''If it is, we would search and destroy by going back to the
area to check for more of the particular insect and measures would be taken to
eradicate it promptly.''

In addition to the garden surveys, the High-Hazard Project puts out blacklight
insect traps. Four are set up at key locations on the Island and turned on
weekly for one 24-hour period. This weekly trapping supplies sufficient volume
to survey an insect population in a given area, particularly where there are
important food crops.

There are thousands of insect species throughout the world. Mr.  Woodham said
that four years ago, the agency's master, or ''most wanted,'' list comprised
about 100 insect species. This year, after more has been learned about pests
worldwide, the list numbers nearly 300 insects that could be problems if allowed
to enter this country.

As any traveler abroad from this country has learned, all food, plant and animal
products must be declared. Smuggling of these products is a Federal offense.
Among the 240,000 prohibited plant products confiscated at ports of entry each
year, more than 10,000 exotic plant pests and diseases have been uncovered.

A U.S.D.A. permit is required before certain plant materials can be brought into
the United States. These include fruits, vegetables and plants or plant parts.
These permits can be obtained from the Permit Unit, U.S.D.A.-APHIS-PPQ, 638
Federal Building, Hyattsville, Md.  20782.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Notre Dame's President Offers Solution on Aliens

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich., Aug. 23


The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, the president of the University of Notre Dame,
who served on a Federal commission studying refugee problems, said today that
the only way to solve the problem of illegal aliens was to open the legal
''front door'' to refugees.

Father Hesburgh, speaking at the summer commencement at the University of
Michigan, also said that the flow of refugees to the United States could be
stopped by developing the areas of the world where disease and starvation were
rampant.

''In a word,'' Father Hesburgh told the 2,500 graduates, ''we think the front
door to America, the legal door, should be opened a bit wider and the back door,
the illegal one, closed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 22, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

TEXAN SAYS ALIENS POSE NO BIG SCHOOL PROBLEM

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21


Gov. William P. Clements Jr. of Texas said today that his state could provide
free public education for illegal alien children without any ''serious
problem.''

But the Governor, a Republican, said that the state would persist in asking the
Supreme Court to uphold a 1975 law that effectively bars such children from
public schools.

Mr. Clements's statement at a news conference here seemed to undercut the
state's legal justification for the law, even as he applauded the Justice
Department for filing a brief in the Supreme Court abandoning its previous
position that the law was unconstitutional.

One of the primary justifications for the law suggested by the state's lawyers
in their Supreme Court brief, filed in August, was that without it children with
no command of English would flood the schools, straining educational quality and
bilingual education programs, and raising costs.

Three lower Federal courts rejected similiar arguments, upholding the position
of the Carter Administration and lawyers for the children that the law was an
unconstitutional form of discrimination and that the state could afford to
educate the children.

Today, Mr. Clements said that the difficulty of educating the illegal alien
children ''was vastly overstated in the first place.'' He said the number of
illegal alien children who entered school in Texas last year, when enforcement
of the Texas law was blocked by the courts, was 11,000. This amounted to 10
percent of the estimate the state had given in the lower courts, and one-half of
1 percent of all public school children in Texas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 30, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

3 Guilty in Boatlift Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 29


A man and two women have pleaded guilty to violating the Trading With the Enemy
Act after bringing undocumented aliens to the United States from Cuba by sea
last year. Assistant United States Attorney Robert Rosenberg said Raul Eduardo
Gonzalez, Nelia Adelfa Gonzalez and Sandra Franco pleaded guilty Friday to
violating the act. They allegedly made repeated trips to Cuba to transport
refugees for commercial gain and had dealings with Cuban officials.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 5, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Border Governors Meet On Illeg al Alien Proble m

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Oct. 4


An aide to Gov. Bill Clements of Texas says the Government of Mexico is
concerned about how illegal aliens are being treated in this country and that
the subject will be the main focus of the second international meeting of the
border governors of the United States and Mexico, which begins tomorrow.

Eddie Aurispa, administrative aide for Latin American affairs, said the Texas
Governor would insist that a ''guest worker'' program be adopted by the two
national governments to help solve the illegal alien problem. He also said that
Governor Clements wanted a speeding of the precess for gaining American
citizenship.

Last year the Governors agreed to study joint problems and to report their
recommendations at this year's meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Coast Guard Intercepts Boat With 57 Haitians

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 113 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 25


The Coast Guard intercepted its first boatload of refugees tonight after two
weeks of patrolling Haitian waters in an effort to turn back illegal aliens, a
spokesman said. A short time later, the Haitians' leaky sailboat sank in rough
seas.

The Coast Guard cutter Chase stopped a 30-foot sailboat carrying 57 Haitians
about 123 miles northwest of Port-au-Prince and more than 500 miles southeast of
Miami, according to Petty Officer Sean Smith.

The Chase was to arrive in Port-au-Prince tomorrow. Officer Smith said he did
not know whether the Haitians would be turned over to the authorities there or
be allowed to leave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 2, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

HIGH COURT HEARS VIEWS ON FREE SCHOOLING FOR ALIEN CHILDREN

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1


The Supreme Court heard arguments today on whether alien children who are in the
United States illegally have a constitutional right to a free public education.

The case is important both constitutionally and politically, and it produced an
oral argument of unusual intensity and range. The Justices kept the lawyers on
their feet for almost half an hour beyond the alloted 60 minutes and seemed
reluctant to end the questioning even then.

The case involves a Texas law, the only one in the nation that allows local
school districts to charge tuition to illegal alien children or to bar them from
school altogether. The districts get no state money to cover the cost of
educating any children they choose to admit.

11,000 Aliens in Texas Schools

According to briefs in the case, there are now some 11,000 illegal alien
children in the Texas public schools out of a total enrollment of 2.2 million.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit struck down the Texas
statute on the ground that it denied the alien children the equal protection of
the law guaranteed by the 14th Amendment to the Constitution.

Under the Carter Administration, the Justice Department entered the case on
behalf of the civil rights groups and children who were challenging the law.
After Texas appealed to the Supreme Court, the department abandoned that
position and told the Supreme Court it would take no stand on the constitutional
issue because there was no Federal ''interest'' in the outcome of the case.

But, despite its absence, the Government was the subject of much of the
discussion in the High Court today.

Financial Burden Cited

Richard L. Arnett, a Texas Assistant Attorney General, said the state law was
enacted to ease the financial burdens caused by the Federal Government's
inability or unwillingness to stem a flood of illegal immigrants from Mexico.

Further, he said the Government did very little to deport the aliens once their
presence was known.  ''They're going to be part of the community anyway then,''
Associate Justice John Paul Stevens commented. ''So you'd rather have them
uneducated than educated?''

Questioning Disturbs Lawyers

With all nine Justices joining in the questioning, the Court probed the logical
limits of the Texas policy, to the apparent discomfort of the state's lawyers.

Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall asked whether the state could
constitutionally deny fire protection to illegal aliens.  ''I don't believe
so,'' John C. Hardy, the lawyer representing individual Texas school districts,
replied.  ''Why not?'' Justice Marshall asked. ''What's the difference?'' ''Let
me think a second,'' Mr. Hardy answered. ''That's a tough one.'' ''Are they here
at their peril, with no protection from the state?'' Justice Stevens asked.

Children 'Have No Control'

''The children themselves have a status over which they have no control,''
Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor observed. ''Does the Texas statute punish
children for something over which they have absolutely no control?''

Mr. Arnett replied that the children's parents remained free to move the
families back to Mexico.  The Supreme Court has never ruled on whether the 14th
Amendment's equal protection clause applies to illegal aliens at all. Yet the
Justices and the lawyers spent almost no time on that question, appearing almost
to assume that the clause does apply and concentrating on whether Texas could
nonetheless justify its differential treatment.

Peter D. Roos and Peter A. Schey, the lawyers for the children, stressed that
immigration status was often ambiguous and that the Texas law assumed a
certainty that Federal law did not provide. Many people who enter the country
without legal authority, they said, are ultimately found to have a right to
stay. The parents of some of the children in the case, they said, have been in
the United States for years, pay taxes and own property despite their illegal
status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 23, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ABUSE IS FREQUENT FOR FEMALE ILLEGAL ALINES

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1581 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


''They held her in the house,'' Hugh Williams was saying.  ''She worked from
sunup to way after dark. She requested that her wages be sent to her father in
Mexico. No money was ever sent to her father. This went on for about a year and
a half. Then she flipped - she became insane, broke out of the house and ran
down the street.  That's when the Border Patrol got her.''

Mr. Williams, who recently retired as chief of the Border Patrol in Del Rio,
Tex., was recalling the case of a 22-year-old Mexican woman who came to the
United States a few years ago to work as a live-in servant for a wealthy Nevada
family and, like uncounted thousands of others who have made the same
hope-filled journey, found for herself not a better life but a gilded prison
controlled by her ''benefactors.''

All across the Southwest, middle-class families are tapping the seemingly
endless supply of young Mexican women eager to work as maids, cooks and nannies
for as little as $25 a week. Nearly all the women who seek these jobs are
illegal aliens, and many of them simply ''commute'' across the border, crossing
surreptitiously each morning to their jobs in adjacent cities like San Diego and
El Paso and returning to their homes in Mexico each night.

Live-in Servants

But for those who come here to Tucson and cities farther north to escape the
glutted market along the border, commuting is not possible. Strangers in a
strange land, they must work as live-in servants far from home.

According to Federal investigators and prosecutors, migrant legal aid lawyers,
union organizers and others who work daily with alien laborers, such women all
too often end up as virtual captives of their employers, forced to work long
hours at the most menial of jobs for little money or none at all and,
frequently, to endure sexual abuse by the male members of their households.

Domestic workers are not the only ones who fall victim to the system of
modern-day involuntary servitude and peonage. Immigration officials say that
restaurants, hotels, construction companies and even prostitution rings in big
cities like New York and Chicago are being supplied by smugglers, as are farmers
in the South and East.  Because of the nature of the problem, no one is sure how
many aliens are affected. But in a series of interviews, abuses concerning
female domestics were most frequently mentioned after those involving the
thousands of Hispanic farmworkers believed to be in peonage situations.

Some of the domestics enter the United States with the help of sophisticated,
highly organized smuggling rings whose recruiters, or ''coyotes,'' sell the
aliens to employers to recoup their ''transportation fees'' of several hundred
dollars apiece. If the alien is then compelled by the employer to work off the
debt, as officials say they believe is true in an increasing number of cases, a
violation of the Federal peonage statutes results.

'Only Witness Was Insane'

For a number of reasons, such violations have been difficult to prove. In the
Nevada incident, Mr. Williams said, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
''tried to make a peonage case'' against the family, the owners of a department
store, but without success. ''The United States Attorney told us that we had a
great case,'' he said, ''but our only witness was insane.''

What is more common, officials say, is the reluctance of young women who escape
from such circumstances to testify against their employers for fear of
reprisals. Margo Cowan, a Tucson social worker, described the plight of
15-year-old Rosa and her sister, Catalina, 16, who had come to tend the
household of an executive in southern Arizona.

Miss Cowan said the executive arranged for the sisters to be smuggled across the
Mexican border and that the sisters at first seemed delighted with their
situation - cooking, cleaning and minding the family's two small children. They
did not seem to mind that they were not allowed outdoors except to attend
church. To them, the social worker recounted, the $100 a month they were being
paid was a small fortune.

But one day last October, Rosa said, she was raped by the executive and became
pregnant. The man told Rosa that he would pay for the delivery of her baby but
that she and her sister could no longer leave the house at all, the social
worker was told. Moreover, he reportedly said, she would have to put the baby up
for adoption and she and Catalina would both have to work for him for free to
pay back the medical expenses.

Refusal to File Charges

Last June, after the birth of Rosa's baby, the girls got word to Miss Cowan, who
heads the Manzo Area Council, a private social services agency. She went to the
house, found the sisters and took them with her when she left, but they have so
far rejected her appeals to file criminal charges.

''They're in fear for their lives,'' Miss Cowan said. ''This just has done a
whole bunch of psychological damage to them.'' Because of the victims' fears
over bringing charges, the Justice Department has developed almost no
prosecutions involving domestics held in peonage or involuntary servitude. The
last such indictment was in 1976.

Court decisions have held that threatening to turn an illegal alien over to the
Government is not, by itself, sufficient compulsion to constitute involuntary
servitude or peonage. According to Federal prosecutors, a worker must be
physically restrained, harmed, or threatened by an employer with harm or with
the bringing of a criminal charge.

Two young illegal aliens who eventually complained about their plight in a
lawsuit are Beatriz and Benita Orozco. They told the immigration service that
they were brought to Florida three years ago, when they were 12 and 15 years
old, by a man who promised to give them work and send their wages home. They
worked picking oranges and doing housework and earned $10 a week, with the rest
of the money going to repay their employer for their transportation to Florida,
they said. In the first year, some money was sent back to their father in
Tampisco, Mexico, but Juanita Sanchez, a Rural Legal Services lawyer in
Homestead, Fla., said the money apparently stopped going there the second year.

Their older sister, Maria, who was working elsewhere in Florida, eventually
found Benita and Beatriz. The two are now suing Manuel Rodriguez, the man who
brought them to Florida and put them to work.  They accuse him of failing ''to
return us to our family in Mexico as he had agreed with our father'' and of
hiring the girls out to other Florida growers. Benita said she had been ''rarely
permitted'' to see her younger sister and ''never allowed to go outside alone.''

Asked about the allegations, Mr. Rodriguez's lawyer, Jack T.  Edmund, said his
client had been ''just trying to help out another Mexican family.''

Not all of those who fall into involuntary servitude or peonage situations are
domestic workers, nor are they all women. A few months ago in Phoenix, for
example, Javier Parrusquilla, 22, showed up with his 13-year-old brother,
Rogelio, at the headquarters of the Arizona Farmworkers Union to report that
they and other young men had been forced to work by the owner of a Mexican
restaurant.

In a recent interview, Javier Parrusquilla said he and Rogelio had come from
Guanajuato, Mexico, and worked for a year and a half at the restaurant, living
with other workers in a six-by-six-foot shack behind the business.

Role of Big Companies

In an affidavit taken by union lawyers, Mr. Parrusquilla said it was not until
last April 20 that he asked the restaurant owner for his pay ''and told him I
was leaving.'' But the owner, he said, ''told me that he would not pay me, and
closed the doors so that I could not leave.''

''I said I was going to call the police,'' he went on. ''He then grabbed me by
the hair and told me he was going to kill me. He hit me on the back of the head
and scratched my throat. The police arrived at that time and they let me
leave.''

The brothers have since filed a criminal complaint against the man, and local
investigators are looking into the case.  According to several immigration
service officials, bigger companies sometimes hire their own recruiters to bring
Mexican workers into the country illegally and then require them to work off a
''transportation fee.''

''We do have some companies, big companies, who use large numbers of illegals,''
said William Chambers, the district director for immigration service in Dallas.

''They get a foreman and tell him, 'You get us a supply of workers here,' '' he
said, recalling a case last year in which an employee of a construction company
was found to have been paying smugglers $300 for each illegal alien delivered.

The Justice Department has not been able to prosecute many such cases. With most
companies that use such a system, Mr. Chambers said, ''I think it's obvious that
they know'' where their employees come from. ''But you would never be able to
prove that anybody in the higher echelons of the company was involved.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Maria Orozco, Beatriz Orozco

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 29, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FOREIGN WORKERS WHO FLED LANGUISH AT KUWAIT BORDER

BYLINE: By PRANAY B. GUPTE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

DATELINE: ABDALI, Kuwait, Sept. 28


Hundreds of immigrant workers who fled from the fighting between Iraq and Iran
are camped in the open at this border post, waiting for a way to get home.

These refugees are Pakistanis, Indians and Bangladeshis, mostly laborers who
were part of the great migratory wave that brought thousands of workers from the
subcontinent to the Middle East to work in the oilfields and at huge
construction projects associated with oil.

None of the refugees have much money and most of them are illiterate. They
dashed here, from nearby Basra in Iraq. A few managed to pack some clothes into
cardboard suitcases.

Transistor Radio Saved

Karam Singh, a bricklayer, was lucky enough to carry his transistor radio so he
has become a popular man here. Another bricklayer, Prem Singh, lost his passport
and identity papers when Iranian planes made rubble of his Basra home last week.

Abdali is about 80 miles from the city of Kuwait. There is no vegetation, only
sand. Water has to be ferried from an oasis at nearby Rozteen. It was possible
today to watch Iranian and Iraqi jets chasing one another in the brilliant blue
sky. Occasionally, the ground would shake as a bomb fell across the border in
Iraq. The sky last night sparkled with antiaircraft fire, mortars and tracers
from warring planes. Few of the refugees in Abdali slept much last night.

They have seen their livelihood go up in flames. and some had friends among the
25 who died in the Iranian bombing raids in Basra.

A Slain Friend Left Behind

''How will I face my friend's family?'' asked Sahdev Singh. ''We left Punjab
together two years ago. Now I am going back alone while my friend Hari lies
dead.''

''When will we go home?'' asked Uday Jeet, a carpenter who was working on a
jetty near Basra when Iranian planes struck. ''Why is it that they have gone but
not us?''

The ''they'' he was talking about are the 155 Americans, 250 Britons and
hundreds of Japanese, South Koreans, Poles, Italians, Yugoslavs, West Germans
and Frenchmen. They were technicians who worked in petrochemical plants and at
construction sites in Basra and although they fled here too, they did not stay.
Their governments or employers had arranged it so that most were aboard planes
headed for home within hours of leaving Iraq.

But for men like Karam Chand and Mohammed Ahmed there were no such arrangements.
Their employers, Japanese and Indian subcontractors, do not even have
representatives in Kuwait, so these refugees have no one to turn to for
assistance.

Today, when Surbirjit Singh Chhatwal, the Indian Ambassador to Kuwait, visited
the area, he was besieged by hundreds of men who pleaded for help in getting
home.

Food and Blankets Supplied

''It is heart-breaking,'' Ambassador Chhatawal said, as he walked around the
encampment. He had arrived with a physician, Dr. P.S.  Sahni, and a man named
Narinder Singh, a wealthy business executive in Kuwait who has brought food,
blankets and essential supplies to the refugees over the last few days.

''It's the least that can be done for you,'' the tall Sikh said in Punjabi, the
native language of the majority of the men. ''I want to assure you that every
effort is being made to get you home.''

Nearly a thousand other Indians and Pakistanis left Kuwait early this morning
for their homes, their passage paid for by relatives or employers. Most of them
were men with more education and better jobs than those who are still at Abdali.

They have been assured by representatives of their respective governments that
they will be able to get aboard planes for home over the next few days, but no
specific date has been given and so some of the refugees, at least, are
skeptical.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Map of Kuwait

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 4, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BOGUS SOCIAL SECURITY CARDS FOUND INCREASING BY G.A.O.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3


The General Accounting Office says there appears to be a growing traffic in
fraudulent Social Security documents, especially among illegal aliens who use
the cards to obtain jobs and unauthorized Government benefits. But the agency,
an investigative arm of Congress, says that issuing new cards would not
significantly reduce the amount of fraud.

''Reissuing the cards will not correct the underlying conditions contributing to
Social Security number and card misuse,'' the agency said in a report to be
issued later this month. ''Many Social Security numbers are still being obtained
illicitly,'' according to the study, ''because applicants are submitting
fraudulent documents,'' such as birth certificates, and many Social Security
employees are not adequately trained to recognize the counterfeit documents.

The report, to Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said that it would cost
$850 million to $2 billion to replace the existing cards with
''tamper-resistant'' or ''counterfeit-proof'' cards. The auditors said that the
expected benefits would not justify the costs.

The Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, a 16-member advisory
panel created by Congress in 1978, has seriously considered recommending the use
of new Social Security cards or some other secure documents as work permits for
citizens and aliens alike. At its meeting last month, the commission voted, 7 to
5, against requiring any new means of identification. Some members said the work
permits were needed so that employes could distinguish legal from illegal
aliens, but critics saw in the proposal a potential threat to civil liberties.

Stiffer Penalties Urged

The General Accounting Office urged Congress to adopt stiffer penalties for
misuse of Social Security cards.  ''It is a misdemeanor to obtain and use Social
Security numbers fraudulently and a felony to counterfeit the Department of
Health and Human Services' seal in reproducing Social Security cards,'' the
report said. ''However, it is not a crime to print, photograph or make any
impression in the likeness of Social Security cards, or to buy, to sell,
transfer or otherwise deliver such falsified, forged or counterfeited Social
Security cards.''

Julian Swittenberg, the auditor who supervised the study, said yesterday that
counterfeit cards were rather crude in Texas and other Southwestern states but
that more sophisticated false-identification schemes had been detected in
Illinois. The Social Security Administration tightened controls over the
issuance of numbers in 1974, Mr. Swittenberg said, but that only increased the
use of fraudulent documents.

The Social Security numbering system was ''never intended to be used for
identification,'' the study said, but its use for that purpose has steadily
increased, particularly with the spread of computerized record-keeping in the
last decade.

Greater Opportunities for Misuse

''Basically,'' the report said, ''the opportunity for Social Security number
misuse results from the increased use of the number as an identifier or
authenticator in various Federal or state welfare, tax and unemployment
insurance programs.''

The report quoted immigration officials as saying that many illegal aliens had
been apprehended with metal Social Security cards, which were obviously poor
copies because the Government does not produce metal cards. The metal cards sell
for about $3 apiece, the study said, while counterfeit paper cards sell for $10
to $50 each, and a valid Social Security card may sell for $25 to $250 or more.

The investigators said they could not accurately estimate the extent of the
problem because successful frauds were, by definition, undetected. However, they
said, crimes based on false identification, which often includes false Social
Security numbers, cost taxpayers more than $15 billion a year, according to
estimates by the Department of Health and Human Services and other Federal
agencies.

People have made fraudulent use of Social Security numbers to obtain tax
refunds, unemployment payments and Social Security benefits, the study said.
Social Security officials agreed with the auditors' statement that supplies of
application forms and blank cards should be kept under tighter controls.

A spokesman for Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who will be chairman
of the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources this year, said the
committee would hold hearings on the misuse of Social Security cards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 18, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS IN BAHAMAS FACE EXIT DEADLINE

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, the Bahamas, Jan. 17


The deadline for Haitians living illegally in the Bahamas to leave the country
is midnight tomorrow.  Yesterday, the Haitian Consul's office was packed with
thin, worried men and women seeking travel documents.

Although there are no official figures, at least 1,000 Haitians are believed to
have signed up for repatriation when transportation is available. Others are
seeking passports and work permits to allow them to stay.

The majority of the Haitians, who are believed to comprise a tenth of the
population of this small nation of 240,000, seem to be waiting to see what
happens next.

''The general perception elsewhere is that thousands of Haitians will hit the
beaches,'' an American diplomat said. ''I don't think this is going to happen.''

The Bahamian Government, which has received appeals from many religious
organizations in the United States not to expel the Haitians, has recently been
preoccupied with a teachers' strike.

Mass Arrests Not Expected

The Government has made it clear that it will not immediately begin mass arrests
and deportations.  ''The amnesty ends Sunday,'' Cyril Stevenson, a Government
spokesman said, ''but no date has been set for the apprehension and we don't
anticipate any date being set. The Government will simply apprehend them. We
know where they are.''

Nine days ago the Ministry of Labor and Home Affairs announced that it would
give special consideration to illegal immigrants who had lived in the Bahamas
for a long time, who had legitimate, presumably family, ties to the Bahamas or
whose employers applied for work permits for them.

''Some expatriate labor is vital to the nation's economy,'' the Government
noted.  This announcement drew praise from Alexandre Paul, the Haitian Consul.
''Mass arrests and mass deportations will never solve this problem,'' he said
yesterday as aides came in and out of his office with fistfuls of passports,
lately in such demand that the office ran out of them at one point. Haitians say
they pay $54, a week's wage, for a passport.

Bahamian Facilities Are Limited

''You take a man who has lived here 10 or 15 years and arrest him,'' Mr. Paul
said, ''this man is bound to come back and bring some other fellows with him.
You deport the man with no roots, he will not come back.

''We tell him: 'If you have no sponsor, you're not staying. If you want to play
dominoes, play in your own country.''' As a practical matter, Bahamian officials
have observed, the Bahamas has neither the facilities in which to detain many
Haitians nor the boats in which to deport them. In addition, every deported
Haitian needs a re-entry permit issued by the Haitian Consul here.

Under an agreement between the two Governments, about 400 permits a month are
being issued. Bahamian officials are trying to have that number raised to 600.

Except for Haitians who have been rescued from sinking boats and can be
considered shipwrecked, the Bahamian Government pays the cost of deportation,
which is estimated at $1,100 a person, including a stay in prison, where
conditions for Haitians have been criticized by diplomatic and church observers.


Previous Efforts Failed

Fox Hill Prison is being modified to hold 500 Haitians, and the project is
expected to be finished this month.  Haitian workers play a vital role in the
Bahamian economy, taking agricultural work at $6 a day, and hundreds of Bahamian
families employ Haitian handymen and gardners.

''I have a Haitian,'' said one Bahamian who did not believe he could get his
employee a work permit. ''I would like to keep him. I think everyone feels that
way - let me keep my Haitian and send the others away.''

The Bahamas has tried off and on since 1963 to get rid of illegal Haitian
immigrants by deporting them. In 1974 an amnesty was announced, and about 13,000
were reported to have signed up for voluntary repatriation. Only a few hundred
left.

The latest amnesty, announced Oct. 22, gave illegal immigrants until Sunday to
regularize their status or leave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Texan Convicted of Forcing Aliens to Work as Slaves

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 168 words

DATELINE: GALVESTON, Texas, Feb. 19


Benjamin Harrison Nelson, a processing plant operator, has been convicted of
kidnapping two illegal aliens and forcing them to work as slaves.

Federal District Judge Hugh Gibson allowed the 42-year-old Mr.  Harrison to
remain free on $50,000 bond pending sentencing. The maximum punishment would be
25 years and $22,000 in fines.

Mr. Nelson was found guilty yesterday of kidnapping for slavery purposes,
peonage, and aiding and abetting the transportation of an illegal alien.

Nicholas Martinez-Delgado of Houston is alleged to have taken illegal Mexican
aliens from Houston to Mr. Nelson's plant at Smith Point on Galveston Bay. He
faces trial for transporting illegal aliens.

Prosecutors contended that Mr. Nelson forced the aliens to work until each had
worked off a $100 cost for transportation. Aliens testified that they thought
they would get $300 a month and room and board, but knew nothing of any $100
fee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Rests Case in Trial Over Abuse of Mexicans

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 185 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Feb. 19


The Government rested its case today against 26-year-old Patrick Hanigan, one of
two brothers accused of torturing and robbing three Mexican illegal aliens.

Mr. Hanigan and his brother, Thomas, 23, are accused of abusing the illegal
aliens, who came to the United States in 1976 looking for work near the
Hanigans' ranch. The brothers were acquitted of state charges in 1977. After
protests by the Hispanic community, Federal charges of interfering with
interstate commerce were filed.

An initial Federal trial ended in a hung jury. The charges were refiled, and
Federal District Judge Richard Bilby transferred the matter from Tucson to
Phoenix. The brothers' cases were separated and two juries sworn.

Today the Federal prosecutor, Jose de Jesus Rivera, reviewed testimony by the
aliens, who said the brothers and their father, George, had kidnapped them,
ripped and burned their clothes, burned one's feet. robbed them of $36 and fired
a shotgun at them. He also cited the testimony of Connie Wright, a former
waitress, who said she had overheard Patrick Hanigan say, ''Well, we fixed them
wetbacks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 26, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Border Patrol Apprehends 55 Salvadorans in Texas

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Feb. 25


Agents of the United States Border Patrol apprehended 55 persons from El
Salvador who paid $350 each to be smuggled into the United States and taken to
Houston, a patrol spokesman said today.

The 41 men, 11 women and three children were found last night in the back of a
rented truck near the small community of Ranchito, 12 miles north of
Brownsville, said James Selbe, acting director of the patrol's McAllen sector.

''We have no real principal in custody at this time,'' Mr. Selbe said,
''although we will charge one of the El Salvadorans as being a guide.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 1, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
New Legal Weapon;
For Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 191 words


The Federal Government last week established a precedent that, if it survives
appeals, would add significantly to the arsenal of protections for illegal
aliens. In the first Federal prosecution of its kind, a jury in Phoenix
convicted Patrick W. Hanigan, a member of a prominent southern Arizona ranching
family, in the torture and robbery of three illegal Mexican alien farm workers
in 1976. A separate jury simultaneously acquitted Mr. Hanigan's brother, Thomas,
of the same charges.

It was the brothers' second Federal trial; the first ended in a mistrial.
Earlier, they had been acquitted in a state proceeding of kidnapping, robbery
and assault charges. The Justice Department initially said it had no legal
grounds for a Federal prosecution.  However, a nationwide protest ultimately led
to indictment of the Hanigans under the Hobbs Act, which prohibits interference
with interstate commerce and frequently has been used to prosecute organized
crime cases. Patrick Hanigan's attorney said his client would appeal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 19, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS GET 1ST SCHOOLING IN SPECIAL CLASSES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., March 18


Until two months ago, 9-year-old Julio had never held a pencil, used scissors or
sat at a desk. He still has trouble writing, cutting paper and speaking English.

Julio is one of 750 children of illegal aliens who are enrolled in local schools
for the first time this year under a Federal judge's order. Some, like Julio,
had never been to school, even in Mexico.

Before his family moved to this border city six months ago, he worked on a ranch
doing odd jobs. The nearest school was more than 10 miles away in Matamoros, by
often impassable roads.

Julio and 26 other youngsters are in a special program for children who lack
basic skills in either English or Spanish.

Problems Encountered Early

''These youngsters at first went into regular bilingual classrooms, but problems
emerged very clearly when teachers found the children had no skills,'' said
Cesar Cisneros, director of elementary education for the Brownsville Independent
School District. ''You can imagine the frustrations of teachers trying to
conduct a regular class when there's one who can't hold a pencil.''

Texas law prohibited free schooling for illegal aliens before a Federal judge
struck down the statute as unconstitutional in July 1980.

The Brownsville district set up special classes in January at three elementary
schools and it plans to start the program in two more schools when teachers are
available. Most illegal aliens entering school for the first time are in
regular, bilingual classrooms.

At the Cromack Elementary School, Blanca Betancourt teaches eight pupils, from
age 9 to 13, in the special program. Her classroom is reminiscent of a one-room
schoolhouse. A girl who normally would be in the second grade sits in front of a
boy whose peers are in the seventh.

Difficulties With Age Range

''It's unbelievable what can happen when a child doesn't get an education,'' she
said. ''I never realized there were children with no schooling at all.''

The wide age range causes difficulties; some children are sophisticated beyond
their years, like one 13-year-old boy who worked as a street vendor after his
parents died. He enrolled in local schools after moving in with an aunt and
uncle here.

All the children are from families with incomes below the Federal poverty line.
Their only experience with English comes in class, unless they follow the
teacher's orders to watch American television programs.

English for Instruction

Miss Betancourt uses English as often as possible for instruction but frequently
switches to Spanish to make herself understood.  However, these children with
little or no schooling often lack even a basic Spanish vocabulary.

''I must teach them the Spanish word so they will know what I mean when I tell
them the word in English,'' the teacher said.  Instructional materials include
first grade-level flash cards and a lot of improvisation. The setting is similar
at Egly Elementary School, not far away.

Betty Frausto has seven students, from age 10 to 13, including two who had never
been to school.

Three Years Without School

One of Mrs. Frausto's students, Oscar, lived in Brownsville for three years
without going to school. He had been in a Matamoros school before moving to the
United States.

''I would go with a friend all the time and try to find a job,'' the 13-year-old
said in Spanish. ''But they would tell me I was too young and needed an
education.'' Unable to enroll here because of the state law, he stayed at home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

JUSTICES TO WEIGH CURB ON SCHOOL FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 15, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4


In a key test of the constitutional rights of illegal aliens, the Supreme Court
agreed today to decide whether Texas can refuse to provide a free public
education for their children.

The case involves the constitutionality of a Texas law, enacted in 1975, that
cut off state reimbursement to local school districts for the costs of educating
illegal alien children. Under the law, local districts could bar the children
from school or could charge them tuition, an alternative that, given the poverty
of most illegal alien families, had the same effect.

The Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, on behalf of 16
children in the Tyler school district, challenged that district's imposition of
a $1,000 annual fee for each illegal alien child to attend its schools. At the
time of the suit, there were about 40 Mexican children in the 16,000-student
district.

Both the United States District Court and the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit agreed with the children's attorneys that the Texas law
violated the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. That clause forbids
a state to ''deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
the laws.''

State Sees U.S. Responsibility

The state and the Tyler school district appealed to the Supreme Court. The case,
Pyler v. Doe, No. 80-1538, has set off emotional debate throughout Texas, with
state officials arguing that Texas should not be made to bear the financial
burden of providing social services to those who are in the country only because
of the Federal Government's failure to enforce the immigration laws.

The children's advocates argue that illegal aliens are welcome in Texas as a
source of cheap labor and that many of them pay income, sales and property
taxes. They cite the opinion of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit last October, in which Judge Frank M. Johnson wrote: ''Denying a person
a basic education is tantamount to insuring that the person remains at the
lowest socioeconomic level of modern society.''

No one appears to know how many illegal alien children of school age live in
Texas. Estimates range from 20,000 to more than 100,000.  The fact that children
born in this country are citizens, even if their parents are in the country
illegally, complicates the task of estimating numbers. It also results in
differing status for some children within the same family.

Fifth Circuit Opinion

The Supreme Court has never ruled on whether the equal protection clause applies
to illegal aliens. The Fifth Circuit ruled that it does, with Judge Johnson
writing that ''aliens illegally within this country are clearly persons within
the jurisdiction of the state in which they reside and thus fall under the
simple language of the 14th Amendment.''

In its Supreme Court appeal, the state argued that a person who is in the
country illegally is technically not within a state's jurisdiction and is
therefore not covered by the clause.

Because the scope of the 14th Amendment is central to the case, the Court's
decision, expected sometime next year, could have a farreaching effect on the
rights of illegal aliens in many contexts beyond public education.

When the case was before the Fifth Circuit last year, the Justice Department
supported the children. The Reagan Administration has not yet taken a legal
position in the case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

3 MEXICANS FACE COAST TRIAL ON ALIEN ENSLAVEMENT COUNT

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 1


A married couple and their son have been ordered to stand trial on charges that
they kidnapped, enslaved and imprisoned illegal aliens in a Los Angeles home.

The order was handed down yesterday after a four-day preliminary hearing in
Municipal Court for Andres Coronado, his wife, Rita, both 43 years old, and
their 19-year-old son, Javier, all Mexican nationals.

The family had been charged with 10 counts each of conspiracy, enslavement,
false imprisonment, robbery and discharging a firearm.  At the end of the
hearing, eight other counts of kidnapping, false imprisonment and enslavement
were added against each of them.

Deputy District Attorney Jonathan Adler said the Coronados kept three illegal
aliens prisoner for three days at a house in southcentral Los Angeles, robbed
them of $1,490, deprived them of food, fired at them with guns and threw
chemicals at them.

The aliens were abandoned in nearby Mision Viejo, Mr. Adler said, and at another
unknown location. Two victims got in touch with the police, who arrested the
Coronados at the house on Feb. 17, Mr. Adler said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 23, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SALVADORANS HELD ON COAST AS ALIENS ASK REAGAN FOR ASYLUM

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 22


A group of 150 Salvadoran refugees, some of whom had been held as illegal aliens
for as long as nine months, petitioned President Reagan today for political
asylum.

Until Monday, 87 of the refugees had been held in several Federal detention
centers in southern California. Their release came through the efforts of
several religious and political organizations.

In addition to political asylum and an end to deportations, the refugees'
petition asks for the lifting of a requirement that as much as $5,000 be posted
with each application for asylum. It also asks that the Salvadorans be given
United States work permits and free medical care, that asylum be granted
individuals outside the United States who wish to rejoin family members here,
and that American intervention in El Salvador be ended.

A Plea to 'American Conscience'

The petition, presented at a news conference here, reads in part: ''We call upon
the conscience of the American people and of the United States Government to
stop all Salvadoran deportations and end the bond requirement for Salvadorans
with an asylum application pending. We demand an end to the inhumane treatment
of undocumented persons, a violation of our civil rights and an insult against
our dignity.''

Margo Cowan, executive director of El Concilio Manzo, a Tucsonbased immigrant
aid group that raised $275,000 to pay the refugees' bond requirements, said:
''This group is the first Salvadoran refugee delegation to make such a dramatic
appeal to the President himself.''

Robert J. Seitz, a spokesman for the western region of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said that the agency does not support a blanket
political asylum policy.

''We asked the State Department for an advisory opinion on what they think could
happen to the individual,'' he said. ''But we make the final decision. We think
each case should be treated subjectively. All cases must rest on their
individual merit.''

Refugees Greeted at Rally

The refugees, most of whom were already living in California and Arizona before
being taken into custody, were welcomed with a rally and a brief Roman Catholic
mass at a local restaurant after they were released Monday. Approximately 75
supporters, including some with donations of clothing, cheered as the two
busloads of ''Freedom Bus Refugees'' pulled into the parking lot.

One man, identified only as Luis and speaking through an interpreter, told
supporters about the murder of his family last December in El Salvador.

He said that the National Guard ''were really looking for me - they came into my
house without any investigation,'' and, he said, murdered his 21-year-old wife,
1-year-old daughter, and a family guest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 8, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SMUGGLERS' PLANES DODGE ALONG BUSY AIRLINES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 7


Smugglers carrying drugs and illegal aliens are dodging the authorities in
airplanes, mostly old, that fly without lights, skim low over the ocean and
''hide'' behind commercial aircraft, according to aviation officials.

Roger Jones, a Federal Aviation Administration official in Miami, said there
were not enough sm ugglers' planes to pose an immediate hazard, but one air
traffic controller told T he Miami Herald recentlythat he would not fly after
dark because of t hem.

The planes avoid radar detection by flying on the tails of commercial airliners
or carrying sophisticated radar-scrambling scrambling gear that befuddles air
traffic control as they cross the nation's southern borders.

''We know for a fact that the aircraft they're flying aren't airworthy,'' said
Milford Conarroe of the Federal Aviation Administration.

Flying Close to Airliners

''If they know there's a scheduled airline, they'll tuck in real close on him so
they'll show up on radar as a single blip. They get within a few feet of them
sometimes,'' Mr. Conarroe said from his office in El Paso, Tex., where he works
for the Drug Intelligence Agency.

The Federal agency, attached to the F.A.A. and the Federal Drug Enforcement
Administration, was set up six years ago to gather intelligence about drug
smuggling.

The east coast of southern Florida is lined with 38 airports from Key West to
Stuart. There are more than 8,000 takeoffs and landings daily, making the area's
airways about the fourth busiest in the nation, according to the aviation
agency. The figures do not include operations at airports without control towers
or at Homestead Air Force Base in southern Dade County.

Number of Drug Planes Unknown

No one knows how many planes carry marijuana and cocaine into Florida each week,
but officials say the number is high.  In 1980, 179 out of the 290 smuggler
aircraft seized in the United States were confiscated in Florida.  Besides
drugs, more and more illegal aliens, primarily Colombians and Haitians, are
being flown into the United States, immigration officials say.

Officials say drug runners buy old planes that can be ditched after one run or
go to Government auctions to bid on outdated military planes with special
navigational aids.

Mr. Connaroe said many of the pilots were unskilled. However, according to Stan
Kukla, a Miami air traffic control supervisor, no midair collisions have been
linked to illegal activities. .

But in addition to creating a risk, the smuggler planes put a strain on efforts
to control drug traffic.  Agents from Miami spend hours chasing zig-zagging
planes that ignore conventional flight patterns. Some are legitimate, but the
agents say they do not know which are until the planes land at an airport with
that has agents of the Customs Service.

Three Chases in One Day

One day this summer agents tailed three suspicious planes, a twinengine
Aerocommander carrying almost a ton of marijuana, a small plane believed jammed
with Haitian refugees and a third aircraft whose pilot, with agents hot on his
tail, landed without incident and was cleared through Customs.

The Aerocom mander, flying at night 100 feet over the ocean with no lights, was
p icked up as a blip on a radar screen in a Customs plane,according to spokesman
Jim Dingfelder, who was aboard the chase plane. The Ae rocommander was flying 25
miles west of the Bahamas, headed up the Atlantic coast.

Over Flagler County, just north of Daytona Beach, the plane appeared ready to
land, Mr. Dingfelder said.  ''He put his lights on and the next thing you know
he was nothing but a ball of fire. He apparently had run into a bunch of trees
out there,'' said Mr. Dingfelder.

Agents said they found 1,800 pounds of marijuana and a charred body in the plane
where it crashed in Flagler County. The body was seated on the co-pilot's side;
the authorities say they still do not know whether a second person might have
been on board and escaped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 9, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. BARS CHALLENGE TO A LAW RESTRICTING SCHOOLING FOR ALIENS

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8


The Justice Department has filed a brief in the Supreme Court backing away from
its previous position that a Texas law that would deny free public education to
illegal alien children should be struck down as unconstitutional.

The action drew applause from Gov. William Clements of Texas and charges that
the department was sacrificing constitutional principles to political expediency
from lawyers representing children affected by the law.

Solicitor General Rex E. Lee said in the brief that the department would take no
position on the politically charged issue of whether Texas is constitutionally
required to admit such children to its public schools, as two Federal District
Courts in Texas and the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
have ruled.

Mr. Lee said in the brief and in an interview today that the Federal Government
has no legal ''interest'' in the ultimate issue in the case, which is whether
the equal protection clause of the Constitution's 14th Amendment requires states
to provide free public education to children who are brought into the United
States illegally.

Political Motivation Charged

This was in sharp contrast to the department's arguments in lower courts during
the Carter Administration. Then it said that a 1975 Texas law unconstitutionally
''penalizes children'' for parental actions beyond their control and that the
law grew out of a ''long history of exploitation of Mexican immigrants'' in
Texas.

Today, lawyers representing illegal alien children in two cases consolidated
before the Supreme Court criticized the department's change of position. They
said the Reagan Administration was making a political gesture toward Governor
Clements, a Republican.

''The Constitution is the same as it was be fore November,'' when Presdent
Reagan was elected, observed Peter R oos, a lawyer with the Mexican-American
Legal Defense and Educationa l Fund in San Francisco who has worked on one of
the cases since 1977 .

''The Supreme Court may have some distaste for what they have done as being
purely political,'' he predicted, referring to the Reagan Administration.

Mr. Lee and a spokesman for Attorney General William French Smith denied any
political motivation. Mr. Smith did not return telephone inquiries on the
possible roles of Mr. Clements and the White House.

Governor Clements said today that he was ''extremely pleased to see the Federal
Government getting out of the state's business.'' He said that the Justice
department position and that of Texas are ''mutually reinforcing'' though not
identical. He said that the department's action ''confirms President Reagan's
pre-election position on all these matters of delegating more responsibility to
the states.''

The Governor, an ally of Mr. Reagan, has supported the law cutting off state
funding for the education of illegal alien children as a way of holding down
educational costs. He has met repeatedly with Attorney General Smith on
immigration matters and has urged him to reverse the position of the Carter
Administration in the case, Mr.  Smith's spoke sman said.
Partial Support for Texas

The department gave only partial support to the state's position in the brief
filed late Friday evening, however. It stopped short of urging the Supreme Court
to reverse the lower court decisions and uphold the Texas law.

Instead, the department supported Texas's position on some legal issues and
supported the position of the illegal alien children on others. It said that the
question of whether the Federal Constitution requires the states to provide free
public education to illegal alien children affects ''the State of Texas and the
school districts, not the United States.''

The two cases, which the Supreme Court accepted last spring, raise some of the
most important constitutional questions the Justices will face in the term that
begins next month.

The Court has never squarely decided whether aliens who enter the United States
illegally are protected against discrimination under the 14th Amendment,

Outside Texas Jurisdiction

The Attorney General of Texas, Mark White, has urged a ruling that illegal
aliens living in Texas are not protected by this language because they are not
''persons within its jurisdiction.''

On this point, the Justice Department brief disagreed. It asserted that illegal
aliens enjoy some legal rights under the Equal Protecton clause. At the same
time, it expressed no opinion on whether free public education is one of those
rights.

But it supported the contention that the Texas law denying school funding does
not interfere in an illegal fashion with Federal laws regulatng immigration. The
brief suggested that the Texas law was ''harmonious'' with Federal treatment of
illegal aliens, and stressed that ''education traditionally has been - and
remains - primarily the province of the states rather than the Federal
Government.''

Whatever the outcome of the case, the department said ''the Federal Government
will retain broad authority to provide for the exclusion from federally funded
programs of aliens who have entered or remained in the United States in
violation of the immigration laws.'' Congress has excluded illegal aliens from
participation in Medicare, food stamps, unemployment compensation, welfare and
other Federally funded programs.

A Change on Hispanic Isssue

Mr. Lee said in the brief that the department's decision not to take a position
on the constitutional issue represented a denial of a Carter Administration
contention that the Texas law discriminated against Hispanic persons ''on the
basis of national origin.'' That had been a basis for the Federal intervention
in one of the cases.

The 1975 Texas law permitted local school districts in Texas to deny public
education to children brought illegally into the United States by their parents
and to charge such children tuition. It withheld state funds, from local
districts, for educating the children. The law does not apply to children born
to illegal alien parents in the United States, because they are United States
citizens.

Federal District Judge William Wayne Justice, of Tyler, Tex., ruled the law
unconstitutional in September 1978. Federal District Judge Woodrow Seals, of
Houston, agreed in July 1980.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 14, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
NO INTEREST IN JUSTICE

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 13


The Reagan Administration has long since made clear its radical character: its
break from long-settled ideas of the public interest. Its policies on the
environment and public health are widely-observed examples. But for me the most
striking example came in a brief filed last week in the Supreme Court.

The Solicitor General, Rex E. Lee, told the Court that the Federal Government
has no legal ''interest'' in a pending constitutional question: whether, under
the 14th Amendment, Texas may exclude the children of illegal aliens from public
schools. The Government had argued earlier, and lower courts agreed, that the
exclusion was unconstitutional. But the brief said it would now take no
position, because the issue affects only ''the State of Texas, not the United
States.''

In so saying, the Administration broke with more than 30 years of history. In
countless cases, under both Democratic and Republican Administrations, the
Justice Department has told the Supreme Court that the United States has an
interest in the interpretation and enforcement of the 14th Amendment. It has
repeatedly - and successfully - urged the Court to hold states to the
Amendment's guaranty of equality in the treatment of aliens and minorities.

Many of the constitutional landmarks of the last several decades were state
cases in which the Justice Department gave its views in briefs filed as a friend
of the court. An outstanding example was the School Segregation Cases.

In 1952, under the Truman Administration, the Justice Department filed a brief
arguing that school segregation was unc onstitutional.  The leading b ook on the
cases, Richard Kluger's ''Simple Justice,'' says the brie f was crucial in a
particular idea it advanced: that theCourt would n ot have to order segregation
ended everywhere overnight.That relieved the anxieties of some justices.

After hearing the school cases, the Court in 1953 ordered them reargued. This
time it asked the Justice Department to take part in the oral argument. By now
the Eisenhower Administration was in office. In December, 1953, Assistant
Attorney General J. Lee Rankin argued for the Federal Government. Asked what the
Eisenhower Administration's view was on the basic issue of segregation, Mr.
Rankin replied:

''It is the position of the Department of Justice that segregation in public
schools cannot be maintained under the 14th Amendment.'' The Eisenhower
Administration and its Democratic successors also played a part in the
Apportionment Cases, which found that grossly unequal districts for the election
of state legislators violated the Constitution.

The Supreme Court first opened the way for courts to consider such issues when
in 1960 it found unconstitutional the racial gerrymandering of the city
boundaries of Tuskegee, Ala.. Lee Rankin, by then Solicitor General, filed a
brief arguing for that decision.

When the larger question of legislative apportionment came along, Mr. Rankin was
ready to file a brief saying that it, too, was appropriate for judicial
resolution. But the Kennedy Administration had taken office before the brief was
filed, by Solicitor General Archibald Cox in 1961. Mr. Cox made oral arguments
in that and the later apportionment cases.

All these cases were decided under the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th
Amendment, which says that no state shall ''deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.'' Because the clause refers to
''person'' rather than ''citizen,'' it has long been held to protect aliens.

One of the early state cases in which the Justice Department came in as a friend
of the court was an alien case, Takahashi v. Fish and Game Commission, in 1948.
The Department urged the Supreme Court to find unconstitutional a California law
denying commercial fishing licenses to aliens ineligible for citizenship. The
Court so held.

Solicitor General Lee, in his brief in the Texas case, suggested that the United
States lacked a legal ''interest'' when no Federal law but only constitutional
rights were at issue. But that has been true in many cases over these recent
decades. In 1947, in urging the Supreme Court to hold racial real estate
covenants unenforceable under the Constitution, the Justice Department explained
its interest in a passage that began:

''The Federal Government has a special responsibility for the protection of the
fundamental civil rights gu aranteed by the Constitution and laws of the United
States.''

The Texas case shows again how little the Reagan Administration deserves the
label ''conservative.'' Far from respecting precedent and continuity, it is
moved by politics and ideology.

To see a Solicitor General sign such a brief is especially sad.  That office is
a unique one, with responsibilities to the Supreme Court and to history as well
as to the government of the day. The Solicitor General speaks for the United
States in the Court, and the justices expect more from him than politics. If a
justice now asks Mr. Lee a constitutional question like that put to Mr. Rankin
in 1953, he will presumably answer: ''We don't care.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: op-e

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 28, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

OIL BOOM TOWN IS FUGITIV'S HAVEN

BYLINE: By WENDELL RAWLS Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

DATELINE: MORGAN CITY, La., Sept. 26


About 35 years ago this area welcomed a kind of unflinching breed, often those
men young and raw from the battlefields of World War II, cavaliers with a wilder
sense of adventure, unafraid to accept any dare or to face the unknown.

It was in 1947 that the first offshore oil well was drilled in the Gulf of
Mexico near here, opening for exploration a new frontier that has produced
riches surpassing those of the Klondike and that has attracted a succession of
entrepreneurs and engineers, welders and divers, roughnecks and roustabouts all
seeking a share of the black gold.

And over the years, others have come here to hide.  Jack Henry Abbott, the
convict-author who was apprehended last Wednesday in a 10-square-mile field of
oil pipe, was one of those.  Suspected in the knifing murder of an aspiring
actor in Manhattan last July, he had traveled the fugutive's underground avenues
until he burrowed into a day laborer's job in the ''oil patch'' of southern
Louisiana.

Mr. Abbott, a friend of Norman Mailer, the author, was sent to a juvenile
detention home at the age of 12 and remained incarcerated for all but 10 months
of the next 25 years until his book, ''In the Belly of the Beast: Letters From
Prison,'' was published last summer. Serving a 14-year term for killing another
inmate, Mr. Abbott, who was to have been paroled Aug. 25, was living in a
halfway house in Manhattan when he fled.

Fugitives and Runaways

Danny Dossett, a detective for the Morgan City Police Department and one of the
officers who arrested Mr. Abbott, said this area had become ''a haven'' for
fugitives, runaways and illegal aliens. About five interstate fugitives are
apprehended each week by the local authorities, he said.

Mr. Dossett and others say the area seems to attract such people because of the
easy availability of jobs, both skilled and unskilled; the low-profile nature
and remote locale of most of the work and the no-questions-asked attitude of
many employers who provide transient, day workers for the industries.

''If one employer asks too many questions,'' Mr. Dossett said, ''the roustabout
can go to another place and get a job from somebody who won't ask any questions.
He can go offshore or work 12 to 16 hours a day in some out-of-the-way place and
live in a bunkhouse. He can avoid the law for a long time, then he can pick up
and go at any minute.''

In addition to the fugitives, Mr. Dossett said, United States Customs Service
agents ''every day could fill up a schoolbus full of Mexicans'' who have entered
the country illegally and are working as laborers.

Round-the-Clock Operations

The offshore oil industry's appetite for workers is voracious.  Because of the
huge monetary investment in equipment and drilling expense, the facilities, both
on shore and off, operate around the clock seven days a week, 365 days a year.

According to the State Department of Employment Security, the unemployment rate
in the area is about 5 percent, but Kenneth Theriot, president of the local
Chamber of Commerce said that ''anyone who wants a job can get one.''

Ray Brussard, owner of Le Blanc Welding Company, says he has approached a wide
range of people, from unemplo yed auto workers to Indians from Arizona, with job
opportunities in which the take-home pay for an av erage workweek of 57 hours
exceeds $500. But he says those workers usually stay only 90 days in trailers he
provides before return ing home or looking elsewhere.

Although some parts of the area are scenic, with palm trees and water oaks
draped by Spanish moss along placid lakes, much of the area is drab, and the
climate is uncomfortably hot and humid for a good part of the year.

Many Leave Area

''A lot of people come into the area, stay a while and leave because they can't
find exactly what they are looking for,'' Mr.  Theriot said.

Such stories as Mr. Brussard's are not uncommon here, and they lend an aura of
bustling transience to this city of 16,000 permanent residents.

At the Chamber of Commerce office, 50 people a day come to pick up a listing of
rental properties. Along busy Highway 90, the bars attract bearded and booted
customers for 24-hour topless dancing; motels display no-vacancy signs and signs
warning against more than six in a bed; helicopters buzz overhead; tugs chug
along the intercoastal waterway, and at the platform fabrication and barge
construction facilities along the Atchafalaya River, sparks fly like
never-ending fireworks from the welding torches.

Banker Is Worried

Despite the prosperity, Milford L. Blum Jr., executive vice president of First
National Bank, the area's largest bank, is worried about the city's future. The
city is ''not as fat as it used to be,'' he said, and ''there are some leftover
scars from the boom.''

Although business failures here are rare and even automobile dealerships thrive,
he said, the city is losing population to other areas, especially its
white-collar population.

He finds it unsettling that criminals are able to hide in the ''oil patch.''
''Jack Abbott was not the first one to come here on the run,'' Mr.  Blum said.
''One man who hires roustabouts told me the only thing he checked was whether a
man's heart was beating.''

''The oil will last for a long time, at least 20 or 30 more years,'' he said.
''The banks are doing well in growth and profits; everybody can get a job; there
is plenty of money being made; but most of it seems to be leaving the area with
the transients or otherwise and the community is not benefiting from all this
properity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of an oil rig Map of Louisiana Photo of flop house

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

The Education of Alien Children

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words


To hear the moanings of Mark White, the Texas Attorney General, you would think
that rich state, awash in oil severance taxes, was bound for bankruptcy. If
public schools are obliged to admit the children of illegal aliens, he said in
Federal court last year, as many as 100,000 would pour in, costing the state and
local school districts a staggering $200 million annually, busting the state's
budget and jeopardizing the education of American children.

That prediction turns out to be the kind of hyperbole that not only Texans call
''bull.'' When Texas was required to let in alien children, only 11,000
enrolled. Even Gov. William Clements conceded recently that the state could
easily afford to educate these children. What remains is for the United States
Supreme Court to instruct Texas that it can ill afford not to.

Texas is probably pleased to have undocumented aliens augment its labor force;
that makes all the more shameful the reception its schools have given their
children. In 1975 the legislature authorized school districts to bar alien
children, or at least to charge them tuition. The Tyler Independent School
District later took the lawmakers at their word and refused to enroll some alien
children.  The Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the
Carter Justice Department came to their defense, charging in Federal court that
the statute denied them equal protection of the law. The children won that case
in the lower courts, but the Reagan Justice Department has now abandoned them
during the state's appeal to the Supreme Court. The department proclaims a
shabby neutrality. The United States, it says, has no interest in whether they
are entitled to the same education that native children receive.

Texas argues that it has no obligation to provide public services to people who
reside in the state illegally. The Federal Government, it contends, should pay
the price of a failed immigration policy and porous enforcement. Alien children
invariably need costly remedial services; to force school districts to bear
these costs risks diluting the education offered native-born and naturalized
citizens.

The lower courts properly rejected that position. Even the Reagan Justice
Department concedes that illegal aliens are ''persons'' with a constitutional
right to equal protection. They have no control over where they are reared. A
Federal Appeals Judge, Frank Johnson, wrote: ''A state's desire to save money
cannot be the basis of the total exclusion from public schools of a group of
persons who are entitled to the equal protection of the laws.''

Now that Governor Clements confesses that the expense is bearable, the main prop
under the state's case has collapsed. All the more reason for the Supreme Court
to hold Texas to its constitutional and moral obligations to every child within
its borders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 16, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN CHILDREN ENTITLED TO U.S. EDUCATION

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words


To the Editor:

Your Sept. 28 news article ''Conflict Over Rights of Aliens Lies at Supreme
Court's Door'' omitted one highly relevant point in the controversy over whether
the children of ''undocumented'' aliens are entitled to a free public education:
The rights of illegal aliens' children must not be confused with the rights of
or constraints on their parents.

I base this distinction on both the Geneva Declaration of the Rights of the
Child (1924) and the General Assembly Declaration of the Rights of the Child
(1959). These proclamations recognize children's entitlement to special
safeguards because of their exceptional vulnerability. As recently as 1979, when
we joined in the United Nations' celebration of the ''International Year of the
Child,'' the United States reaffirmed its commitment to the 10 principles in the
1959 declaration.

Two principles of that declaration are especially relevant to the rights of
children of illegal aliens.

* Principle 1 holds that ''every child, without exception whatsoever, shall be
entitled to these rights without distinction . . . on account of . . . race . .
. political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or
other status, whether of himself or of his family.''

* Principle 7 specifically embraces education rights: ''The child is entitled to
receive education, which shall be free and compulsory, at least in the
elementary stages. He shall be given an education which will promote his general
culture and enable him, on a basis of equal opportunity, to develop his
abilities, his individual judgment, and his sense of moral and social
responsibility, and to become a useful member of society.''

Clearly, the issue of the rights of illegal aliens' children poses a separate
problem from that facing illegal alien adults. The rights of these children are
protected and safeguarded by the declarations of 1924 and 1959. It would be a
travesty not to honor our pledge of commitment to all children.
CAROL M. STATUTO, Visiting Scholar, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.,
Oct. 5, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 30, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS IN DETENTION DROP HUNGER STRIKE; 100 ESCAPE FACILITY

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 29


A five-day hunger strike at a detention facility for illegal aliens here ended
yesterday after the fasting Haitians were made to understand they would not be
punished for eating, the Federal authorities said today.

Beverly McFarland, the spokesman for the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Miami, said the service learned yesterday morning that
''someone outside'' the camp had gotten the word around that the Haitians would
be arrested and imprisoned for one year if they broke the strike. Once that was
learned, Miss McFarland said, the service posted notices in Haitian Creole, the
language the group speaks, stating that everyone was ''free to eat without fear
of punishment.''

''Once the misconception was cleared up,'' she said, ''they went to lunch.'' The
service did not seek to find out who organized the fast, nor did its agents ask
who passed the message that the detainees would go to prison if they ate. In
effect, the Haitians are already in prison, but apparently the message had
compelling force because it is the general feeling among the camp population
that they will be let free once their cases for asylum move through the courts.

Value of Class Actions Disputed

It is the Government's opinion that a dozen class action lawsuits brought by
advocates for the Haitians' case have stalled the legal disposition of their
cases. It is the advocates' view that without the challenges, the Government
would summarily deport the Haitians.

Caught in the middle are the 2,500 Haitians being detained on the mainland, and
the 700 being held in Puerto Rico. In the middle of the hunger strike here, 150
Haitian men tried to escape while outside the front gate Haitian demonstrators
diverted the attention of security officers. In the end, 101 men were successful
in the Sunday break. Local police and immigration agents searched the area
surrounding the Krome Avenue Detention Facility, 25 miles southwest of Miami,
through yesterday afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

13 ALIENS,CAST OFF BY SMAGGLERS,DIE IN A BAKING DESERT IN ARIZONA

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: AJO, Ariz., July 6


At least 13 illegal aliens from El Salvador have been found dead in a baking
desert where they were abandoned with little water by smugglers who had brought
them across the border from Mexico, the authorities said today.

Thirteen others were found safe, though seriously dehydrated, by searchers using
horses and helicopters. It was thought that an additional two dozen or more
might still be wandering in the desert, said Franklin Wallace, superintendent of
the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument.

Mr. Wallace said tonight that the search probably would be scaled down tomorrow
because ''I don't think we're going to find any more survivors.''

Eleven of the bodies were found today and two were found yesterday, when the

Immigration officers on Mexican border say their defenses are the thinnest in
years. Page A12.
high temperature in the area was 109 de-grees. Most were found huddled in the
scant shade provided by bits of scrub brush, lying on ground that sheriff's
deputies said could have reached temperatures of 150 degrees.

None of the dead were identified, and Mr. Wallace said little information had
been obtained from the living, of whom three were found today and 10 yesterday.

''They beg for water when they see us coming,'' said the superintendent of the
516-square-mile park, which adjoins the Mexican border and the big Papago Indian
Reservation on the American side.

He said the Salvadorans were ''trying to tell us how many were in the group, but
none of them really know.'' ''It looks like it was a pretty disorganized group,
with no real leader,'' Mr. Wallace said. ''We'll probably never know how many
were involved.''

He said he had received unconfirmed reports that some members of the group had
reached a highway and walked or hitchhiked back to Mexico.

Four of the dead were men and nine were women, all in their late teens or older.
One member of the group said a 2 1/2-year-old child had died Friday night, but
the authorities had not confirmed the report.

Ten of the bodies found today were ''all close together'' in scrub brush, the
park chief said.  ''They were all trying to find shade under those bushes, two
under one bush and three under another,'' he said. ''But those bushes really
aren't big enough.''

The survivors, who spoke only Spanish, did not describe the men who had brought
them across the border, Mr. Wallace said, nor did they say how much they had
paid to be brought into the United States.  Some had been robbed of money and
jew-elry by the smugglers, according to offi-cials of the United States Border
Patrol.

The Salvadorans carried Mexican passports but no permits to enter this country,
he said, and they apparently walked about 30 miles through the park.

Most of the park is off-limits to motorized vehicles. O.F. Larson, an inspector
with the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, said the area is
a common border crossing spot for illegal aliens and drug smugglers.

Immigration officials have said an increasing number of non-Mexicans, especially
Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Nicaraguans are being detained as they attempt to
enter the United States through Mexico.

Mr. Larson said the survivors probably would be returned to the last country for
which they had valid entry permits. They were under treatment tonight at New
Cornelia Hospital in Ajo, 15 miles north of the park, where a spokesman
described them as suffering from ''a great deal of dehydration.''

The park has no water, except at a visitors' center, until summer rains arrive
in late July or August. Border Patrol officials said an average person walking
in such conditions loses a half-gallon of water an hour from the body.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: a map of Arizona on (A13)

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 21, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SMUGGLERS FIND ALIENS AS VALUABLE AS DRUGS ALONG MEXICAN BORDER

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2824 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, July 15


''Thirty-eight thousand dollars for a week's work,'' John Rockhill said, leaning
against the fender of his limegreen cruiser. ''You can't make that much running
dope. What fascinates me about alien smuggling is the money involved.''

Mr. Rockhill, who sports the deep copper tan of the veteran United States Border
Patrol agent, was talking about the ring of smugglers who, for $1,200 a head,
brought about 30 Salvadoran citizens across the border into the sunbaked Arizona
desert two weeks ago and left them there without water. Twelve of the
Salvadorans and a man believed to be one of their smugglers perished in the
infernal heat; Mr. Rockhill was among the officers who discovered their parched
bodies and rescued their companions, who were nearly dead.

But thousands of Mexicans and Central and South Americans are successfully
smuggled into this country each day by hundreds of rings trafficking in human
contraband.

As nations to the south continue to suffer economic and political troubles,
refuge in the United States is becoming one of the most valuable commodities in
the world, and the citizens of such countries, foremost among them El Salvador,
are increasingly willing to pay what for them are huge sums of money in return
for the opportunity to live and work in this country.

More and more, officials say, illegal aliens who once risked walking across the
border on their own are turning to smugglers for help with their illicit
journeys.

It is common in Ciudad Juarez, across the Rio Grande from here, to see
smugglers, who call themselves ''coyotes,'' negotiating deals for the transport
of groups of aliens, whom they refer to as ''pollos,'' or ''chickens.'' The
aliens are bought and sold like shares of stock on an exchange. Preceded by
spotters in radio-equipped ''scout cars,'' convoys of beer trucks, motor homes,
moving vans, horse trailers and vehicles of every description set out from the
border each night, most filled to overflowing with aliens who have paid the
standard tariffs in advance -$300 for delivery to Denver, $500 to Chicago, $750
or more to Detroit or New York City. Prices from Central and South America are
higher still.

A Growing 'Industry'

In 1975 the Immigration and Naturalization Service apprehended 76,000 smuggled
aliens; last year it caught 211,000, but officials estimate that two to five
times that number may have escaped detection.

As a result of such rapid growth, the organized smuggling of aliens has become
what one Federal investigator called ''a major industry'' along both sides of
the 2,000-mile Mexican-United States border.

Over the last five years, investigators say, the traffic in smuggled aliens has
more than tripled, and it is now so lucrative that it rivals the smuggling of
narcotics in profitability.

A big, well-organized ring, and there are a half-dozen of them in the El Paso
area alone, can move 500 aliens a week. At $500 each, that is a quarter of a
million dollars a week, $12 million a year.  Some narcotics syndicates are now
branching out, or switching entirely, to the smuggling of illegal aliens, where
the financial rewards are more certain and the possibility of stiff jail terms
far less.

Some rings specialize, supplying only prostitutes, for example, or restaurant
waiters. Investigators say that at least one organized crime organization has
lately entered the business, and the immense potential profits have even
attracted some more improbable individuals.

Marine Wives Convicted

Last year, for example, a group of wives of marines stationed at Camp Pendleton,
Calif., were convicted of transporting Mexican aliens from Tijuana to Los
Angeles, having taken them through the marine base to avoid the Border Patrol's
checkpoint on Interstate 5 at San Clemente.

An American customs officer and an air traffic controller from San Diego are
currently in the Tijuana jail, accused of having worked together to fly illegal
aliens across the border in a Government airplane. And a Roman Catholic priest
in Texas was found to have been supplying false identity cards to smuggled
aliens.

The priest, one official said, ''was looking at it as a humanitarian thing.''
But officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, whose 250
antismuggling agents are struggling against budgetary and investigative
restrictions to slow the inward flow, uniformly reject any suggestion that the
smugglers' crime is a victimless one, a humanitarian service to those who,
without their assistance, might meet the fate of the Salvadorans in the
forbidding badlands of the desert.

The Aliens are the Victims

''There's no such thing as a good smuggler,'' said E.J. Scott, chief of the tiny
Border Patrol station at Why, Ariz., near where the Salvadorans died. Other
officials agree.

The smuggled aliens, they say, are the ultimate victims, treated with a callous
disregard for their well-being and safety, held for long periods in vile,
windowless ''drop houses'' along the border that are often no more than shacks,
and then loaded with little food or water into trucks so crowded that there is
no room to lie down, or even to sit. In Houston last April, a beer truck stopped
by the police for a traffic violation was found to have 55 aliens inside.  The
aliens said they had been without food or water for two days.

Should anything go amiss on the trip, the officials say, the smugglers' first
concern is almost always for themselves. Aliens injured in highway accidents are
frequently left by the roadside, as happened last October at Truth or
Consequences, N.M. In another instance two years ago, two aliens locked in the
trunk of a car burned to death when the car caught fire and the smugglers fled,
and even the recent incident involving the Salvadorans was not the first of its
kind. The bodies of eight aliens were found in the desert near Yuma, Ariz., last
year, apparently left there by smugglers to die of thirst.

The smugglers nearly always surrender peacefully when they are apprehended, but
on occasion they try to evade their pursuers, sometimes with tragic
consequences. Last April, a pickup truck carrying 14 illegal aliens near Laredo,
Tex., tried to outrun two Border Patrol agents and two local sheriff's deputies.
In the chase, shots were fired at the truck and a 6-year-old girl, an illegal
alien, was killed. The two deputies later said they had seen one of the border
patrolmen point a shotgun at the truck and heard a report. A Federal grand jury
is investigating the matter.

'An Inhumane Situation'

Such incidents are not confined to the border. Earlier this year a boat captain
was convicted of manslaughter in Palm Beach, Fla., after he attempted to evade
arrest on smuggling charges by throwing a Haitian woman and her five children
into the sea. All drowned. ''It's just such an inhumane situation,'' said
Elizabeth Rogers, an Assistant United States Attorney here.

Though most of the aliens pay for their passage in advance, officials say, they
are sometimes held captive by smugglers until friends or relatives can come up
with more money than was agreed upon. Even after arriving at their destinations,
they are often forced to pay rent to the smugglers and even told where to shop
for food or clothing.

In instances where the owner of a business or factory has paid their
transportation, the aliens are held for weeks or months in a kind of economic
bondage, forced to work for reduced wages until their employer has been repaid.
Sometimes the bondage is real. Last November, Connie Ray Alford, a Truxno, La.,
chicken farmer, was convicted of peonage after it was discovered that nine
Mexican aliens smuggled to his farm from Kerrville, Tex., had been kept chained
by their necks until they had worked off the price of their passage.

For those aliens known to the Border Patrol as ''OTM,'' or ''other than
Mexican,'' the first contact with a smuggler usually comes in the homeland they
are preparing to flee, and the contacts are not difficult to make. Uncounted
bogus ''travel agencies'' that put together consignments of illegal entrants
exist in Mexico, Central and South America, and they are easy to find. A recent
issue of La Prensa Grafica, published in San Salvador, carried an obvious
classified advertisement. ''Passengers to Tijuana and Los Angeles,'' it read,
''telephone 25-0643.''

Although some smuggling rings are recognizing the advantages of the largely
unguarded Canadian border as a point of illegal entry - the aliens, officials
say, are first flown to Montreal - most of the illegal immigrants still pass
through Mexico on their journey to the north.

The Staging Areas

The Mexican Government allows residents of Central and South America to enter as
tourists, but it gives them visas that prohibit travel farther north than Mexico
City. The restriction is easily circumvented, however. The Salvadorans who died
in Arizona had such visas in their passports.

After the aliens reach cities along the Mexican side of the border, preparations
are made to bring them across.  The staging areas are big cities and little
towns alike, from giant Tijuana, south of San Diego, to tiny Sonoita, south of
Arizona.  Almost any day, a visitor to Ciudad Juarez can see the smugglers
gathering in the Plaza Monumental to put together their deals.

''They're like peddlers going around,'' said Robert L. Barber, who heads the
Border Patrol's antismuggling unit here. ''You can see negotiations being made
all over the place.'' While the ''coyotes'' deal, the ''chickens'' wait, crammed
a dozen to a room in cheap, shabby hotels like the Balcones, a favorite with
Salvadorans.

After a group is assembled it is led by a coyote, after dark, across the shallow
Rio Grande a few miles outside of town. More often than not the crossing is
successful, but even if they are captured the aliens are simply returned to
Mexico, free to try again the next night. Some smuggling rings give
''guarantees'' - a second crossing for free if the first one fails. ''It gets
them business,'' said Mr.  Barber. Other rings try to attract clients by
offering false documentation as part of their service, for example birth
certificates, Social Security cards, drivers' licenses -whatever is needed to
live and work in the United States.

Assistance from a smuggler is not necessary for crossing the river here.
Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Mexican aliens slip into El Paso each morning on
their own to work and then return to their families in Juarez at night. When the
aliens hire a smuggler, Mr.  Barber says, ''They're really paying to get away
from the border'' since travel beyond the border is ''very difficult for someone
unfamiliar with our country.'' And aliens who choose to cross at less heavily
patrolled but harsher parts of the border, into Arizona, New Mexico and the Rio
Grande Valley of Texas, are far more in need of experienced guides.

Hiding Points

Once safely across, the aliens are hidden in one of the ''wetback motels'' that
dot El Paso and the San Diego area, or in private houses rented by the
smugglers. The indictment here last month of 14 people charged with operating a
medium-sized smuggling ring that took in an estimated $1 million a year
identified an apartment on San Jose Road as the ring's ''drop house.''

Most of the 14 members of that ring are related to one another, a common
characteristic of such groups and one that makes it difficult for Federal
immigration agents to penetrate their operations. Agents sometimes pose as
aliens waiting to be smuggled into the United States, but most of their
intelligence comes from paid informants, such as hotel clerks and taxi drivers,
on both sides of the border.

While the trip northward is being arranged, the agents are content to wait. ''We
don't want to get aliens in a hotel,'' Mr. Barber said. ''We want to get the
smuggler who's going up the road with them.''

The Immigration and Naturalization Service tries to catch smugglers with their
''loads'' in a variety of ways, not all of them successful. The Border Patrol
maintains checkpoints, for example, on most major highways near the border, and
suspicious vehicles are stopped and searched. But the checkpoints do not always
operate, because of bad weather or a shortage of agents, and the smugglers keep
a close watch for those times when they are ''down.''

Another technique involves the use of the Border Patrol's authority, which it
acquired last year, to seize vehicles used to transport aliens. William Selzer,
the deputy Border Patrol chief in Chula Vista, Calif., south of San Diego, said
he believed the impoundments were beginning to slow the alien smuggling traffic
in his area.

But if the traffic is slowing, it is still substantial. In the first two weeks
of this month, 114 smugglers and 586 smuggled aliens were apprehended in the San
Diego area.

By Rented Vehicle or by Train

Bert Marino, who heads the Border Patrol's smuggling unit in Washington, said he
suspected that the smugglers, rather than risking their own vehicles, would now
begin renting trucks, and at least one ring in the El Paso area that specializes
in smuggling Salvadorans has begun buying its clients train tickets to Los
Angeles.

The loss of an aging truck or two is a small price for an organization involved
in such a lucrative business, even for an average-sized ring that might take in
$1 million or $2 million a year. Many rings are far more profitable. Last year
the authorities broke up a ring in the area that they said had grossed between
$10 million and $25 million a year, and several investigators recalled that the
leader of a group of Mexican women known as ''the blondes'' that operated in the
San Diego area had forfeited her bail of $250,000.

''The big operations make just as much as the drug smugglers,'' said Mr. Marino,
who spent 11 years with the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration before
coming to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''There are hundreds of
rings making money off of this, and there are scores of them making big, big
money.''

Mr. Selzer, the deputy Border Patrol chief, estimated that a quarter of the
active narcotics rings in his area were now also smuggling aliens, or
''co-mingling the loads'' as he put it.

The financial attractions of alien smuggling are many.  For one thing, smuggling
fees are paid in advance and even if the aliens are arrested the smugglers have
their money in hand. The smugglers of narcotics must first purchase the drugs,
and a profit cannot be realized until the drugs have entered the country and
been sold to a distributor.

In addition, most courts have treated alien smugglers, especially first
offenders, far more leniently than drug smugglers. ''We get a lot of probated
sentences,'' Mr. Barber said. Mr. Marino added that sentences average only 19
months in felony alien smuggling cases, for which the maximum penalty is five
years in prison. ''That leaves a lot to be desired,'' he said.

More smugglers are being arrested than ever before. Last year, some 18,500
smugglers, employed by about 300 rings, were apprehended, compared with 15,000
three years ago. About 6,000 of them were prosecuted, and about 2,000 ultimately
convicted.

But the impact on the alien traffic is far from clear.  Investigators say that
those who are caught and convicted are largely lower- and middle-level
operatives, guides, drivers, ''arrangers'' and those who run the drop houses. In
many instances the leaders of the rings, who may live abroad, seem beyond grasp.
Many of the rings have their headquarters in Mexico and, while the Mexican
immigration authorities have provided some cooperation in tracking smugglers
down, their efforts have been sporadic and directed mainly at the smuggling of
non-Mexicans through their country.

''The people they catch are not the people who are making the money off these
deals,'' said Terry Amdur, a Los Angeles lawyer who has defended a number of
accused alien smugglers. Those who run the rings may be sophisticated criminals
-''They're getting more sophisticated all the time,'' Mr. Marino said - but the
coyotes who work for them fit a far different description: young men in their
early 20's, most of them Mexicans who have been to the United States to work
illegally and who have found that they can use their knowledge of the country
and its customs to make far more money than a menial job will provide.

''They don't seem to be bad people,'' Mr. Amdur said. But Mr.  Barber disagreed,
recalling that he once seized a truck in Chicago in which aliens had been
stashed with only a sand-filled tin can for a toilet and scant food to sustain
them on their long journey from the Texas border, ''a few pounds of bologna, a
loaf of bread, a few jugs of water.''

Mr. Marino agreed: ''It's a human tragedy we're dealing with, the individual who
got to Chicago with his fingers frozen because he was left in a truck for 30
hours.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photos of a motel and an alien (A10)

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 22, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

TEXAS BAR TO ALIENS IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS VOIDED BY U.S. JUDGE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 21


A Federal judge today declared unconstitutional a 1975 Texas law that
effectively bars illegal alien children from attending the public schools.

In a long-awaited opinion that affects thousands of such children, Federal
District Judge Woodrow Seals wrote here that by excluding the children from
school, ''we are creating an enormous public cost, both financial and social, to
be borne in the not-so-distant future.''

''It is, of course, the prerogative of the State Legislature to saddle the
public with such a future public burden, provided they do so in conformance with
the Constitution,'' Judge Seals went on.  ''That they have not done.''

Suits Are Consolidated

In this, the judge sided with the attorneys for illegal aliens in 17 school
districts, who argued in a protracted trial this spring that barring the
children from school violated the Constitution's guarantees of due process and
equal protection of the laws. The 17 suits were consolidated into one proceeding
before Judge Seals.

The law struck down by Judge Seals prohibits illegal alien children from
attending school unless they pay a tuition that is frequently prohibitive - $162
a month in Houston, for example. Some localities, including Dallas, bar such
children from attendance altogether.

Texas is the only state to enact such prohibitions so far.But today's decision
was regarded as potentially important to other states with heavy populations of
illegal aliens, too, since such laws could be enacted elsewhere.

Urgency in Border States

The issue has taken on more urgency as the flood of illegal aliens across the
Mexican border increases, placing additional publicservice burdens on the border
states of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California. Attorneys for Texas argued
at the trial that the state would not have the resources to educate all children
properly if the illegal aliens were admitted, and that educational quality would
drop.

Judge Seals rejected this line of argument. ''The court finds that the state has
misstated the case,'' he said in his opinion.  ''Permitting undocumented
children to attend the public schools clearly would affect state and local
resources. The evidence does not indicate, however, that the state or the school
districts lack the necessary funds.''

In a formal order, the judge directed the state not to exclude any student aged
5 to 21 from the public schools ''on account of their status under United States
immigration law.'' Similarly, he enjoined the state from denying any of the
benefits of state educational funds to such children. And he prohibited the
state from charging tuition in the cases of illegal alien children.

In testimony at the trial, estimates placed the number of excluded illegal alien
children in Texas at anywhere from 20,000 to 100,000.  Judge Seals said that
without a reliable estimate of the numbers of such children, it was difficult to
gauge their financial impact.  ''Nevertheless,'' he wrote, ''the evidence
indicates that both the state and the local school districts together have
sufficient funds to educate the undocumented children.''

The judge based his ruling on the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment.
''The Constitution does not permit the states to deny access to education to a
discrete group of children within its borders when it has undertaken to provide
public education,'' he said in his opinion.

Excluded children from school ''suffer great harm,'' the judge said, stating a
fact stipulated by both sides in the case. But, Judge Seals went on, ''the
absolute deprivation of education prevents children from assimilating into
society.''

Asserting that most of the children are or will become permanent residents of
this country, the judge said that by denying them access to education, ''we
insure tht most of them will become wards of society.'' Further, he wrote, ''as
a country which is re-examining our history and future as a home for persons of
all nationalities and cultures, we cannot forget the role that the public
schools have played (in) providing unity to our community of immigrants.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 25, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SAYS 253 EMPLOYERS IN JERSEY EXPLOITED ALIENS

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, July 24


Thousands of workers, including Cuban refugees who settled recently in the Union
City area, were victimized by hundreds of employers in eight northern New Jersey
counties during the last year, according to Federal officials.

Frank B. Mercurio, regional administrator of the Federal Labor Department's
Employment Standards Administration, said a task force operating since last
August found 253 employers who took advantage of illegal aliens and other
workers by paying them less than the legal hourly wage, by cheating them on
overtime and by employing children in manufacturing jobs in violation of labor
laws.

The Government has found that more than $1.3 million is owed to 5,606 illegal
aliens and other workers and has recovered $500,000 for 3,906 workers to date,
according to a report released today. The balance is being sought through
lawsuits and administrative proceedings against the employers, Mr. Mercurio
said.

The Cubans were paid 77 cents an hour by two garment manufacturing concerns in
Hudson County instead of the $3.10 Federal minimum wage to which they were
entitled.

Illegal aliens, even though they are in the United States illegally, are
entitled to all the protection afforded by labor statutes. ''Once they get to
the workbench, they are entitled to the same protection as anyone born in this
country,'' Mr. Mercurio said.

''In the course of our investigations we found these workers to be decent,
honest people; all they want is a job,'' he said. ''They come to the United
States because of the dignity and respect we hold for our workers.''

Mr. Mercurio said aliens are usually steered to their jobs when they arrive in
the United States by well-meaning friends from their own ethnic community.
''They are told to keep their mouths shut and not to complain about not
receiving the minimum wage, or they will be deported,'' Mr. Mercurio said.

''The illegal aliens represent a moving labor force that is running scared,
moving from one loft to another, one street to another, one city to another and
one state to another,'' he said.

He said that although labor officials are cracking down on wage violations and
are not specifically interested in how the illegal aliens got here, most of the
workers who benefited monetarily from the enforcement policy have been reported
to immigration officials for further investigation and possible deportation.

Mr. Mercurio said there are between 5 and 10 million illegal aliens in the
United States, ''with more arriving every day.'' He said that by hiring and
intimidating these aliens unscrupulous businessmen got around labor laws.  The
illegal practices also increases unemployment among American citizens, who could
not be intimidated into foregoing wage and benefits due them, he said.

The companies found to have illegal aliens in their employ included garment
shops, hotels and motels, restaurants, retail stores, janitorial and cleaning
companies, farms, construction companies and concerns engaged in waterfront
activities.

In the case of the Cuban refugees, the Labor Department was able to obtain
$5,000 in back wages from the two garment shops for 20 workers. A large painting
contractor paid $13,000 to 21 employees after a visit from the task force, and a
janitorial company working in Federal facilities paid 32 workers $21,000 in
wages owed them for night work.

Mr. Mercurio said that in addition to restitution the companies were liable for
criminal prosecution if their violations were determined to be ''gross, willful
and repeated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 25, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif., July 24


Three illegal aliens were found shot to death a few miles inside the United
States, and scores of law enforcement officers and volunteers searched the
rugged canyons near here today in search of more victims.

The authorities said the aliens, whose bodies were found nine hours apart
yesterday, were apparently victims of border bandits.  The bodies of two young
men were found in a canyon and a third near a busy highway. The victims, all
Mexicans, were identified as Valenzuela Garcia, 26 years old; Dolores Hernandez,
in his 20's, and Froylan Juarez, 25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 4, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

HISPANIC GROUPS SEEK A NEW FEDERAL TRIAL IN ARIZONA ALIEN CASE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Aug. 3


Since the trial of two ranchers accused of beating and robbing illegal aliens
ended in a hung jury, Hispanic groups have begun efforts to persuade the Justice
Department to reprosecute the case.

Hispanic demonstrators called for a new trial in rallies in Phoenix yesterday
and in front of the Federal building here on Friday. In Washington, the National
Coalition on the Hanigan Case has urged Justice Department officials to bring
the case to trial again.

The Federal trial that ended Tuesday was the second prosecution of Thomas H. and
Patrick W. Hanigan of Douglas, Ariz. A 1977 trial in Cochise County Superior
Court, stemming from the same 1976 incident, ended in acquittal. The new charges
that resulted in the Federal trial were lodged after lobbying by Hispanic
groups.

The Federal jury deadlocked on whether the brothers interfered with interstate
commerce by allegedly beating three Mexicans crossing their ranch near the
border.

The decision on whether to re-prosecute is to be made jointly by Michael D.
Hawkins, the United States Attorney for Arizona, and Justice Department
officials in Washington. The determination is expected within eight weeks. The
Hanigan brothers have a motion before Judge Richard M. Bilby of United States
District Court, the trial judge, calling for a directed verdict of acquittal.
Judge Bilby's ruling is expected in September.

Mr. Hawkins said he would weigh community response, the desire of the three
Mexicans to undergo yet another trial and the effect upon the Hanigans in making
his recommendation. The three Mexicans are Bernabe Herrera Mata, Eleazar Ruelas
Zavala, and Manuel Garcia Loya.  At least two of them are known to favor
re-prosecution.

In an interview shortly after deliberations ended, a juror said that he thought
that ''by now, the Hanigans' guilt or innocence is a moot point'' and that he
opposed a new trial. The juror, one of the four who voted for acquittal,
requested anonymity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 4, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

BORDER SWEEPS OF ILLEGAL ALIENS LEAVE SCORES OF CHILDREN IN JAILS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1634 words


081

By JOHN M. CREWDSON

BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Aug. 3 - Looking very small and very frightened, 10-year-old
Sylvia Alvarado was led from her tiny cinderblock cell to talk with a visitor
about the events that had brought her to the Cameron County juvenile detention
center here.

Her odyssey began June 16, Sylvia said through an interpreter, when she left her
home in El Salvador in hopes of making her way to Virginia, where she thought
her mother lived. Sylvia and her grandmother crossed Guatemala and Mexico by
bus, arriving at the border a week ago. There they joined other Salvadorans and
hired a man who said he would smuggle them into the United States. Outside
Kingsville, Tex., 60 miles north of here, the Border Patrol caught up with the
group. ''I got scared,'' Sylvia said, her huge brown eyes welling with tears.

''She's very sad,'' said Juanita Alfaro, a probation officer at the center.
''She says she doesn't like it here. She's never been in a place like this
before. Her family's never been separated before. She wants to go home.''

But Sylvia cannot go home, at least not now. In its efforts to stem the
smuggling of illegal aliens into this country, the Justice Department each year
jails thousands of aliens, including hundreds of children who, like Sylvia, have
not been charged with a crime.

Sylvia's grandmother is being held as a material witness at the county jail in
case the Government needs her to testify against the man charged with bringing
her and Sylvia into the United States.  Although Federal prosecutors frequently
use juveniles as witnesses, Sylvia will not appear at the smuggler's trials. She
is locked up, immigration officials said, because there is nowhere else for her
to go.

Those held represent fewer than 10 percent of the 200,000 or so illegal aliens
known to be smuggled into the United States each year. According to the United
States Marshals Service, which has control of all Federal prisoners, in the 12
months ending next Sept. 30 about 15,000 aliens will have been jailed as
witnesses, some 900 of them juveniles.

The witnesses, most of them from Mexico but an increasing number from troubled
Central American countries like El Salvador, are held in a variety of facilities
from Federal alien detention centers to county work farms and tiny border jails.
In most instances relatives traveling together are separated while incarcerated.
But even when they are not, the experience can be a frightening one. ''These
people come from lands where being in jail is tantamount to a death sentence,''
said a lawyer with the Federal Public Defender's Service, which represents both
the smugglers and the aliens.

Infants in Foster Homes

The witnesses are not charged; entering the United States without permission is
a misdemeanor, but the Government almost always permits illegal aliens to return
home without penalty. Nevertheless, except for mothers with infants, who are
usually placed in foster homes, they are generally treated like ordinary
offenders.

''They're subject to a lot of harassment by the general jail population,'' said
Robert La Roche, the United States Marshal in Sacramento, ''and a lot of them
are young and naive.''

Last month, a group of women from El Salvador, held in an Arizona jail with what
one Federal official called ''hard-core'' female inmates, were subjected to a
brutal homosexual attack. ''It was real traumatic for them,'' the official said.

The jailing of Mexicans without charges has incurred considerable displeasure in
Mexico, where newspaper editorials have charged human rights violations. Last
year, the Mexican Government protested the jailing for 79 days of 20 Mexicans
found in a Dallas-area ''drop house'' where they had been hidden by smugglers.

Mexico asked that the Justice Department, based on its standard witness fee of
$30 a day, pay the aliens a total of $47,400 in compensation. The department
refused, but officials say they are not insensitive to the plight of the
witnesses.

Unable to Meet Bond

''The department has been very, very concerned about the holding of witnesses,''
said Lupe Salinas, a special assistant to Attorney General Benjamin R.
Civiletti, ''especially when, within hours, the accused smuggler is able to get
out on bail.''

Most of the aliens, Mr. Salinas said, were unable to meet their material witness
bond, which can range from $1,000 to $10,000, because ''they've given up their
last few hundred dollars to the smugglers, and they're broke.'' He said the
Justice Department had begun studying the matter ''to see if any more just
solution can be reached'' after the Mexican Government expressed its concern to
Mr.  Civiletti last May.

The alien witnesses frequently endure stays in jail as long as two months for
nothing, since many of those charged with having smuggled them eventually forgo
a trial and plead guilty. According to Federal prosecutors, however, the guilty
pleas are often made a day or two before the scheduled trial.

It is the incarceration of juveniles that has most distressed Hispanic rights
groups. Last February, Herman Baca, who heads the San Diego-based Committee on
Chicano Rights, sent a telegram to the White House calling the practice
''inhuman and barbaric'' and contending that when children were released the
authorities ''simply tossed them into Mexico without making any effort to insure
that the children are reunited with their parents.''

One such case involved a 14-year-old Mexico City boy arrested in Chicago last
year by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  According to Herb Cooper, a
Federal public defender in El Paso, the boy was returned not to his home but to
Juarez, on the Mexican border, where he knew no one and was forced to survive by
''garbagecan scrounging, living on rooftops and whatever.''

Case of Haitian Recalled

The problem is not confined to Hispanic aliens. Last year an eightyear-old
Haitian girl was discovered, barefoot and ill, in a Palm Beach, Fla. jail cell
by lawyers representing Haitian refugees there. According to Gerard Jean-Juste,
a Catholic priest who runs the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, the girl had
been locked up for two weeks, separated from her parents who had no idea where
she was.

The Haitian girl is the youngest known to have been imprisoned. But Rudy Diaz, a
Federal public defender in Los Angeles, said that ''there have been nine and
10-year-old kids in juvenile hall here,'' and children as young as 14 have been
held at the big Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in El
Paso. In smaller border towns children as young as 13 are sometimes held in
regular county jails for what one Federal official said was ''the lack of any
other place to put them.''

Because many smugglers are arrested far from Federal facilities, the Marshals
Service is forced to house witnesses in some 90 local jails around the country.

A few attempts are being made to reduce the long stays in jail, but they have
not been wholly successful. In Arizona, Federal prosecutors are now recording
the testimony of witnesses on videotape that can be replayed at trial. But the
average stay for material witnesses in Arizona is still a month, and the use of
videotape has been rejected by prosecutors in other states as cumbersome.

Work Release Suggested

J.A. Canales, the United States Attorney in Houston, has called the imprisonment
of witnesses ''deplorable,'' and that of children ''especially saddening.'' But
the Justice Department, the Marshals Service and the immigration service insist
that most of the witnesses would be likely to flee if they were released on bond
or placed in halfway houses.

Al Velarde, an immigration counselor for the United States Catholic Conference
in El Paso, said that the church had urged the Justice Department to adopt a
kind of work-release program for witnesses waiting to testify.

''The reason these guys wanted to come up here in the first place was to work,''
Mr. Velarde said, adding that if they were permitted to hold jobs for limited
periods, ''you wouldn't have hostile witnesses, which you sometimes have after a
guy's been incarcerated for four or five months.''

He said that jailed witnesses, unable to work, left their families back home
''many times on the brink of starvation.'' One pilot project involving juvenile
witnesses is under way in San Diego, and James R. Laffoon, the United States
Marshal there, said it had produced almost no runaways. Under the program, which
has been in operation for a year, witnesses between the ages of 13 and 18 are
placed in foster homes supervised by a Catholic Welfare Agency. The Marshals
Service is now hoping to set up a similar program in Florida.

'They Get Depressed'

But juvenile witnesses in San Diego are still held at the Federal jail for as
long as three days for processing, and P.D. Bowser, Mr.  Laffoon's chief deputy,
acknowledged that those juveniles deemed likely to run away were not placed in
the foster home program.

''Some of these 16-year-old kids from the other side of the border are pretty
sophisticated,'' Mr. Bowser said. ''If we were to place them in a foster home
where there were no restraints, most of them would split.''

Almost everywhere else, children are held in facilities similar to the Cameron
County Detention Center here, a modern institution run by sensitive
professionals that is, nevertheless, still a jail.

''They don't even know where they are in the United States,'' said Joan Macrum,
the center's director. ''They get depressed. They'll cry, they'll isolate
themselves from the rest of the group for long hours.'' The American children
locked up with them, Miss Macrum said, ''like to antagonize them, call them
wetbacks, that kind of thing.  We're very concerned about these kids.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Sylvia Alvarado

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 26, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ISSUE AND DEBATE ACCESS TO FREE EDUCATION FOR ILLEGAL ALIEN CHILDREN

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Aug. 25


As the question of whether Texas must educate illegal alien children free begins
its slow upward climb through the Federal appeals courts, the debate over this
perplexing political, moral and social question grows ever louder.

Last month, after a long civil trial, a Federal district judge here declared
unconstitutional a 1975 Texas statute, the only one of its kind in the nation,
that had effectively prohibited young illegal aliens, most of them Mexicans,
from attending public schools across the state. But just as school districts
from El Paso to Port Arthur braced for what school officials feared would be a
flood of new pupils in the fall, a Federal appeals court in Dallas stayed the
ruling pending the outcome of what is sure to be a protracted appeal by the
state.

The Background

A key element that emerged from the testimony delivered by both sides in Judge
Woodrow B. Seals's courtroom was that no one, neither the public-interest
lawyers who brought the lawsuits nor the state education officials and their
attorneys who challenged them, knows with any certainty just how many children
are currently living in Texas who have not been legally admitted to the United
States. The Texas Education Association put the number at 110,000 or more, while
the plaintiffs maintained that it was probably not more than 20,000.  The
problem with numbers is compounded because not all children of ''undocumented''
parents are themselves illegal aliens.

The law that Judge Seals considered in violation of constitutional guarantees of
due process and equal protection left it to individual school districts across
the state to decide whether to admit undocumented children to their classrooms.
The state provided no funds to pay for the education of such pupils but allowed
the districts to charge tuition, if they wished.

Some cities, like Dallas, chose to bar such children altogether. In Houston, the
children were charged fees of $162 a month, based on the $1,500 the state
estimates that it spends in a year to educate each child in its public schools.
Most families of illegal aliens, especially those with several school-age
children, found such sums prohibitive. The children were left to attend one of
the private ''alternative'' schools set up to educate them at far less cost or,
in most cases, simply to while away the days.

In his order of last July 21, Judge Seals directed the state not to exclude any
students in the future ''on account of their status under United States
immigration law,'' and he also prohibited the charging of any tuition.

On Aug. 11, the first undocumented children began appearing at Houston schools
to enroll for the fall term. The next day, however, the United States Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit stayed Judge Seals's ruling. Houston immediately
reinstated its $162 tuition, and other districts reverted to their previous
policies.

Against Free Education

Lawyers for the state asserted that admitting thousands of students who spoke
little or no English would severely tax existing educational resources, both the
thinly spread budgets of most Texas school districts and the already
understaffed bilingual education programs designed to teach Spanish-speaking
children basic subjects while improving their command of English.

The state said that if all of the 111,000 undocumented children it believed were
residing in the Texas were to enroll in school, the added cost might surpass
$100 million a year. Billy Reagan, the Houston Schools Superintendent, warned
that the admission of such children might require a 5 percent increase in the
city's school tax. (Judge Seals later criticized the state's estimates as
''unsound,'' and Mr. Reagan said later that no special tax would be required,
whatever the courts ultimately decided).

Apart from questions of money, what seemed to bother opponents the most was the
apparent contradiction in lawfully providing social services to individuals
living in the country unlawfully. Mark White, the state Attorney General,
accused the Federal Government of ''hypocrisy,'' declaring that ''the taxpayers
in this state should not have to pay for the mistakes of the Federal Government
in the enforcement of immigration laws.'' Gov. William P. Clements Jr.
suggested that the issue of educating undocumented children was a ''perhiperal''
one that should wait for resolution until Congress had reformulated the nation's
confused immigration policy.

Noting that some school districts in New Mexico, Arizona and California, where
no tuition laws or other restrictions exist, are now badly crowded with the
children of illegal migrant farmworkers and with young ''commuters'' from the
other side of the border, critics wondered what was to prevent hundreds or even
thousands of children from booming Mexican border cities like Ciudad Juarez or
Matamoros from crossing into El Paso or Brownsville each morning to attend
classes? And what was to prevent other Mexican families from moving from that
country's interior to areas closer to the Mexican side of the border in order to
take advantage of easy access to schools?

For Free Education

As the trial demonstrated, the central question is not whether Texas can afford
to educate undocumented children, but whether it wants to and ought to. The
state is one of the richest in the nation, with a current cash surplus of more
than $2 billion, but it also ranks 42d among the 50 states in per-pupil spending
for public education.

Judge Seals found that while the admission of undocumented children ''would
clearly affect state and local resources,'' there was no evidence that the state
lacked the necessary funds.

Even if the money is available, are illegal aliens entitled to ask the state to
spend it to educate their young? Many believe that they are. Illegal residents
pay taxes, according to some experts more than their share. In Texas as
elsewhere, state education funds are supplemented by Federal assistance
payments., and Federal income and Social Security taxes are frequently withheld
from the paychecks of illegal alien workers. In many cases the aliens do not
remain in this country long enough to receive the income-tax refunds and Social
Security benefits to which they are entitled.

At the state and local levels, aliens who own or, in most cases, rent their
homes, those who drive automobiles and those who shop in stores pay the same
property taxes, sales taxes, motor vehicle and gasoline taxes that any other
residents pay. To the extent that they are denied public schooling and other
social services financed by these revenues, they are overpaying.

That Texas refuses to educate alien children for free raises another question of
fairness in the minds of some critics of the state's policies, because for
decades, aliens from Mexico without proper immigration papers have been welcomed
in Texas, as they have across the Southwest, as an unending source of cheap,
willing, diligent labor. The state's critics see something niggardly in its
refusal to educate the children of the workers who have contributed so much its
brushfire growth.

The argument that apparently persuaded Judge Seals, however, was that, questions
of fairness aside, to deny education to such children is ultimately
short-sighted and risks the creation of an illiterate underclass, raising the
prospect of future social unrest or, at best, of an increased welfare burden for
the state in years to come. The judge endorsed this pay-now-or-pay-later
reasoning when he wrote that the state's existing policy was ''creating an
enormous public cost, both financial and social, to be borne in the
not-sodistant future.''

The Outlook

It will be months, and perhaps years, before the question is finally resolved.
Attorneys for both sides are currently challenging the Fifth Circuit's stay of
the order mandating free education for alien children in the United States
Supreme Court. Last week, the Justice Department filed a Supreme Court brief
saying that the state had not demonstrated that irreparable harm would result
from letting Judge Seals's order go forward. But whether or not the stay is
lifted in time to permit registration for the coming school year, the case will
have to be decided again by the appeals court and, in all probability, by the
Supreme Court itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 4, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Federal Judge Sets Oct. 7 Trial In Torture Case of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 64 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Sept. 2


Federal District Judge Richard M.  Bilby Tuesday ordered the third trial to
begin Oct. 7 in the case of two brothers accused of robbing and torturing three
illegal aliens. He also denied a defense motion for a judgment of acquittal.

The brothers, Patrick W. Hanigan and Thomas H. Hanigan, were acquitted in state
court three years ago. A Federal prosecution ended in a mistrial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 5, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
JUSTICE POWELL ORDERS TEXAS TO EDUCATE ILLEGAL ALIENS;
Justice Powell Orders Texas To Educate Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4


Associate Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. of the Supreme Court today ordered the
state of Texas to provide free public education for all illegal alien children
while the state appeals a lower court ruling that the children cannot
constitutionally be barred from school or be charged tuition.

Estimates of the number of school-age illegal aliens in Texas range from 20,000
to more than 110,000, most of whom are Mexican. Before the appeals court granted
the stay of the lower court order last month, 600 children from 26 countries
registered for school in Houston.

School districts in Texas have been authorized to charge tuition to the aliens
or to bar them completely under a five-year-old state law that prohibits the use
of state funds to educate children who were not ''legally admitted'' to the
United States. No other state has a similar law.

Justice Powell's order allows individual districts with ''exceptionally limited
resources'' or large numbers of alien children to petition the Court for an
individual stay during the appeals process,

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 14, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Children of Illegal Aliens Starting Texas School Year

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, Sept. 13


Thousands of children of illegal aliens, most of them from Mexico, will begin
their first full week in Texas's public schools on Monday, taking advantage of
bitterly disputed court rulings granting them free education.

Gov. William P. Clements Jr., who originally sided with those opposing admission
of the children, reversed position yesterday and said the pupils

National news is on pages 23-32, 54-64; political news appears on page

32.
posed no hardship for local school systems.  Two months ago in Houston, Federal
Judge Woodrow Seals struck down the Texas law prohibiting use of state funds to
educate illegal aliens. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
stayed Judge Seals's order last month, but Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. of the
Supreme Court set aside the stay Tuesday and left the original order intact.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICO'S COUNT OF MIGRANTS IN U.S. IS LOWER THAN OTHERS

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 12


A three-year Mexican Government study of migration has calculated the number of
Mexicans living illegally in the United States to be far fewer than previously
estimated.

The study puts the figure at 480,000 to 1.22 million, depending on the season.
This contrasts sharply with the Nixon Administration's frequent talk of six
million to 12 million ''illegals'' and the Carter Administration's more cautious
estimate of three million to six million.

The study, which involved four separate surveys and almost 150,000 interviews,
also found that most undocumented migrants cross the United States border with
the intention of returning to Mexico within a few months.

The Mexican findings seem certain to be disputed as self-serving by the United
States labor movement and other groups that maintain that illegal migrants are
partly responsible for high unemployment in the United States. Some one million
Mexicans were detained and returned to Mexico last year, although many were
''repeaters'' - migrants arrested several times before finally making it beyond
the border region.

Earlier Estimates Disputed

United States census experts, however, have apparently endorsed the method used
by the Mexican study. A United States select committee on migration, which must
present policy recommendations to the Carter Administration early in January,
has also taken note of the Mexican results in some of its preliminary reports.

''Earlier estimates were based either on tiny samples or on political
prejudices,'' a Mexican demographer said. ''This is the first time a massive
household survey has been carried out.''

After President Carter dropped his migration package, sent to Congress in August
1977 but never taken up in committee, the United States and Mexico agreed to
exchange detailed studies of the migration phenomenon before analysis of a
mutually acceptable policy.

But while the United States select committee concentrated on ways of preventing
undocumented aliens from finding employment, such as the institution of a
national labor identification card and sanctions against employers of
''illegals,'' Mexico's Labor Ministry study focused on the migrants themselves.

Interviews in Households

The first survey, in November 1977, involved the interviewing of some 10,000
Mexicans at United States-Mexican border crossings as they were returned here by
the United States Border Patrol. Two similar surveys - in August 1978 and in May
1979 - covered 75,000 more Mexicans being ''voluntarily returned'' from the
United States.

The principal study, however, consisted of detailed interviews in 58,000
households in scientifically selected rural and urban municipalities around the
country. Information was collected on a total of 350,000 people.

Some of the results merely confirmed the findings of earlier studies. For
example, more than half the Mexican migrants come from just four northern and
central states - Guanajuato, Jalisco, Chihuahua and Zacatecas - while more than
50 percent head for California and some 20 percent for Texas.

Taken in December 1978 and January 1979, during a holiday season in Mexico, the
household survey found only 405,000 Mexicans in the United States at the time,
though analysts allowed that this was perhaps a conservative figure. The survey
nevertheless confirmed the cyclical nature of the migration, particularly since
only 28 percent of those absent had been away for more than a year.

Most Migrants Are Men

The overwhelming majority of migrants are men (only one in seven is a woman) and
young (71 percent are between the ages of 15 and 34) although at least half the
men and women are married and, as a group, leave an average of 3.29 people in
Mexico dependent on their earnings in the United States.

Some United States studies have suggested that as much as $3 billion is sent or
brought home by migrants each year, but the household survey questioned this
figure. For those in the United States at the time of the interviews, it
estimated annual remittances to Mexico of some $310 million.

One of the most interesting findings was that the migrants are not among the
poorest and least educated of Mexicans. Although 78 percent come from rural
areas, three out of four had a job before deciding to gamble on higher earnings
north of the border.

Further, the migrants had a median education higher than the Mexican average -
four years' schooling rather than the national average of 3.1 years. Some 14.4
percent had seven or more years' education. But because this fell far below the
average education even of United States minorities, the Mexican analysts argued
that the migrants were not competing for jobs with Americans.

Migrants Called Scapegoats

Although the final Mexican report is not due until next year, the preliminary
findings hint clearly at the arguments Mexican officials will use in future
negotiations on the subject with the United States.

''Illegal migrants are always used as a scapegoat when unemployment rises in the
United States,'' a Mexican expert said, ''but we hope to show that there aren't
as many migrants as people thought, that they generally don't want to stay in
the U.S. and they don't take jobs from Americans.''

If President Carter is re-elected, the migration issue is expected to become a
major topic of relation with the Unitewd States. If he is not, however, Mexicans
officials are hopeful that elaboration of a new United States migration policy
will be indefinitely postponed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: map of Mexico

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 14, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

TEXAS SCHOOL DISTRICT BARS CHILDREN OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Oct. 13


School officials began turning away children of illegal aliens today who tried
to enroll in classes in the overcrowded Brownsville school district.

Federal District Judge Filemon Vela of Brownsville granted a temporary
injunction Friday, and a hearing is scheduled for Oct. 21 to decide if a
permanent injunction to stop the flow of alien children will be granted.

A deputy United States Marshal served the order on the first person who tried to
enroll a child of an illegal alien as a student, and school attendance officers
were given copies of the order to show to other people who brought their
children to enroll. According to school officials, many of the parents said that
they would consult lawyers to see what recourse was available.

The 557 children of illegal aliens already attending Brownsville's 33 public
schools apparently are not affected by the temporary order.  ''We are not going
to try to kick anybody out,'' said Tony Martinez, an attorney for the school
district.

School Uses Court Option

Justice Lewis Powell of the United States Supreme Court refused Brownsville's
request Oct. 2 for an exception to an earlier ruling that required Texas schools
to enroll children of illegal aliens.

But in turning down the request, the first made by a Texas school district,
Justice Powell had indicated the district was free to apply to ''an appropriate
district court'' for relief.

In his petition to the district court, Mr. Martinez contended that the flow of
illegal aliens would render the district ''unable to provide the standard of
education which it considers proper.''

By last Thursday 27,120 children were enrolled in the district. The district has
anticipated 26,000 pupils when the its budget was prepared last summer.

The school district said in its petition that permitting illegal alien children
into the schools would require the purchase of additional temporary facilities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 18, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Your Money;
Help Available;
For Aliens

BYLINE: DEBORAH RANKIN

SECTION: Section 2; Page 32, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 787 words


TYPICALLY, special tax issues facing aliens residing in this country are ignored
while professionals concentrate on the problems encountered by a more affluent
group, United States citizens working abroad.

But a new study that has just been completed by the New TransCentury Foundation,
a Washington consulting group, has found that many aliens, even those here
illegally, may be failing to apply for benefits under a variety of income
transfer programs such as Social Security because they are not aware that they
qualify. Indeed, the study, financed by the Ford Foundation, found that illegal
aliens were also eligible for three other major social benefit programs:
workers' compensation, temporary disability insurance and general assistance.

However, the study also found that, because of administrative inefficiencies,
many aliens remained undetected when they sought benefits in programs for which
they were not eligible.

''With the exception of a single program, legal aliens have almost as much
access to income transfer programs as United States citizens do,'' said David S.
North, a vice president of the foundation. ''But a fairly substantial portion of
the population really doesn't know what its rights are. Aliens know even less,
and illegal aliens are probably the least informed of their rights.''

Aliens make up a substantial portion of the nation's population.  There are six
million legal aliens and an additional four million to eight million illegal
aliens - those who have entered the country surreptitiously or have violated the
terms of their visas -residing here, according to informed estimates.

A significant percentage of these people qualify for Social Security, the
largest of the nation's income transfer programs, which pays out $105.4 billion
in benefits annually. But because of Congressional decrees, inconsistencies have
developed in the operating policies of the Social Security Administration that
discriminate against newly arrived illegal aliens who work full time.

These aliens are often required to pay Social Security taxes, currently 6.13
percent of the first $25,900 in earnings, or a maximum of $1,587.67 a year. But
they are not usually credited with their contributions because they cannot
obtain their own Social Security numbers since they are here without Govenment
permission.

The result, the study says, is a probable ''unplanned, illegalalien-generated
subsidy to the Social Security Trust Fund.'' Although there are no firm
estimates of the size of the subsidy, it could be as large as $1.67 billion a
year.

By contrast, illegal aliens who arrived in the United States several years ago,
before Congress barred such visitors from obtaining Social Security cards,
usually have no trouble obtaining benefits. If a worker has the appropriate
amount of earnings credited to his account, the Social Security Administration
normally pays benefits to the worker without question.

''The worker's civil status when the wages were earned is of no concern to the
Social Security Administration,'' the study said.  Workers' compensation, the
oldest of the nation's social insurance programs, is generally open to aliens
regardless of their legal status in this country. The program, which makes
payments to persons who are injured or made ill on the job, is available to
illegal aliens except in Vermont, according to the study.

Aliens can also qualify for general assistance, a state-funded welfare program
for low-income people who do not qualify for other more specific welfare
programs. However, the study found that it was open to illegal aliens in only 10
states: Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, North
Carolina, Ohio, Washington and Wisconsin.

Another welfare program that is open to illegal aliens in a few states is
temporary disability insurance, which is designed to replace part of the income
lost when workers suffer illnesses not related to their jobs.

California, Hawaii, New York, Puerto Rico and Rhode Island do not exlude illegal
aliens from making contributions or receiving benefits under the plan. New
Jersey, however, requires all workers, including illegal migrants, to contribute
but excludes them as beneficiaries, the study said.

Federal programs open to most legal aliens include Medicare and Medicaid, the
earned income tax credit (a type of negative income tax for the working poor),
aid to families with dependent children and food stamps.

The only exception is supplemental security income, a national program for
people who are low-income, aged, blind or disabled.  Because of past abuses,
these benefits are not available to newly arrived immigrants for their first
three years in this country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: table on income transfer programs available to aliens

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 19, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Carter Adviser Halves Illegal Alien Estimate

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 40, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 105 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Calif., Oct. 18


A member of President Carter's select committee on immigration said this week
that there were 3 to 6 million illegal residents in the United States, half the
number previously estimated.

Judge Alamo Cruz Reynoso of the Third Appellate District Court in California,
told the 17th annual meeting of the Inter-American Press Association on
Wednesday that half of the illegal aliens were from Mexico.

Mr. Cruz Reynoso said that previous administrations in Washington had estimated
the number of illegal residents at from six to 12 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 26, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Woman Asserts Scouts Planned to Hunt Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, No v. 25


The mother of two Explorer Scouts who were allegedly tau ght guerrilla warfare
techniques at Camp Puller, a ''survival ca mp,'' said troop leaders once talked
of a mission to theMexican borde r to spot illegal aliens entering the country,
The Houston Chron icle reported today.

Camp Puller, in Chambers County, is operated by Louis Beam, the Grand Dragon of
the Texas Ku Klux Klan, and Robert J. Sisente, ousted last month from the Civil
Air Patrol.

The paper reported in a copyright story that the youths said the plans called
for them to notify the United States Border Patrol by walkie-talkie if they
spotted any illegal aliens crossing the border.

''I have no idea what they were getting into or I would never have let them do
it,'' said the woman, who asked not to be identified because she feared
retaliation.

John Bryant, who helped former the Explorer post last month, said the report on
the border trip, which never took place, was misconstrued.

The Boy Scout Council of Houston today rejected the troop's charter request.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 18, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

12 ILLEGAL ALIENS WIN FARM WORKERS' SUIT ON COAST CONDITIONS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Dec. 17


Twelve illegal alien farm workers who were dismissed by a grower for complaining
about conditions will be rehired at $3.10 an hour and will get back wages
totaling $33,000 under a settlement reached in a lawsuit brought by a state
agency.

The agreement, signed yesterday by operators of Rancho California's vast avocado
groves, also applies to other workers, according to an attorney for the
California Agriculture Labor Relations Board, which brought the legal action on
behalf of the farm workers.

The attorney, Nancy Kirk, said that the ranch operators had also agreed to
provide work breaks, to pay overtime wage rates, to keep accurate records of the
pay and hours worked, to pay in checks instead of cash, to post notices telling
workers of their rights and to provide a 24-hour telephone for emergencies.

The 12 men were each promised $2,750 in full back pay to July 22, the day they
were dismissed.apiece.

$69 for 69-Hour Workweek

Attorneys from California Rural Legal Assistance and the State Agricultural
Labor Relations Board who had visited the workers were told that they were paid
as little as $69 for a 69-hour work week.

The 12 men who pursued the complaints range in age from 18 to 40.  Most of them
work in the Temecula area of southern Riverside County but are residents of the
Michoacan area of central Mexico.

''We make no distinction whether they are legally in this country or illegals,''
said Miss Kirk. ''We feel that might encourage hiring undocumented workers.''

The settlement must be approved by the state board, which is expected to meet in
Sacramento this weekend.  The agreement was signed by Anthony Paino, who, with a
brother, is half-owner of James Paino & Sons, and Allyn Rosetta, half-owner of
Western Agriculture Properties Inc. Paino also is quarter-owner of Western
Agriculture Properties. The agreement states that they will comply with all
state and Federal labor laws.

Hundreds of Mexicans work long hours in the avocado groves of northern San Diego
County and southern Riverside County, living in makeshift tents with dirt floors
and little protection from the weather.

Tens of thousands of illegal aliens live in similar conditions while doing other
types of farm work in the two counties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 30, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FRAUD TRIAL BEGINS TODAY FOR MAN U.S. HAS TRIED TO DEPORT SINCE '53

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 12, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 960 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 29


Carlos Marcello, who the Government says is a major organized crime figure, was
born in Tunis on Feb. 6, 1910, of Italian parents. He arrived in New Orleans
when he was eight months old and, despite a 1953 deportation order upheld by the
Supreme Court, has been in the United States ever since, except for a few weeks
in 1961, when he was taken to Guatemala by Federal agents.

Mr. Marcello had long been described by the Federal authorities as a leader of
organized crime in Louisiana. But for the last 28 years, with the assistance of
astute counsel, he has resisted Federal efforts to deport him. He and four other
men go on trial tomorrow in New Orleans on Federal racketeering, conspiracy and
fraud charges that arose from the undercover inquiry called Brilab. He is
charged with being involved in a scheme to obtain insurance contracts by bribing
public officials in Louisiana.

The verdict, insofar as it shows whether Mr. Marcello is a ''person of good
moral character,'' is likely to affect his legal battle to remain in the United
States. Under the immigration laws, the Attorney General may, ''at his
discretion,'' permit deportable aliens to stay in the country if they meet
certain conditions, including good moral character.

The Marcello case illustrates the many ways in which an alien can invoke Federal
immigration laws and the Constitution to entangle the Government in enough of
its own red tape to postpone deportation.  More than 20 years ago, the Justice
Department said that the case presented ''an unparalleled picture of legal
jousting'' and ''abuse of judicial process.'' Mr. Marcello is one of 22,800
aliens for whom deportation orders have been issued but not executed.

Ordered Deported in 1953

He was ordered deported on Feb. 20, 1953. The Supreme Court affirmed the
validity of the order in 1955. In January of this year, the United States Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which includes Louisiana, declared that an
administrative tribunal was correct in denying Mr. Marcello's request for
suspension of deportation.

But the case shows one of the fundamental limitations on a Federal judge in an
immigration proceeding. Neither Italy nor any other country has been willing to
take Mr. Marcello or to issue a passport or other travel document for him.

Meanwhile, in recent months, Mr. Marcello and his attorneys have obtained
Government documents suggesting possible misconduct by officials who had him
deported, albeit briefly, in 1961. Mr Marcello has filed the documents with the
Board of Immigration Appeals, the administrative tribunal, in support of his
request to reopen his deportation case.

A Federal Bureau of Investigation memorandum dated March 3, 1961, stated that
the head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Lieut. Gen. Joseph M.
Swing, felt that it was essential for Mr.  Marcello to be arrested and deported
immediately because ''any delay would enable Marcello's attorney to file legal
action which would preclude such immediate deportation.''

First Taken to Guatemala

Mr. Marcello was taken to Guatemala on a Government plane after he made his
regular monthly visit to the immigration service office in New Orleans on April
4, 1961, a visit made under the terms of his parole. Two days later, the chief
of the Justice Department's organized crime section warned that ''The United
States Government may be placed in the embarrassing legal position of having
made certain representations to the Guatemalan Government about Marcello's birth
record while it was in possession of information indicating that the birth
record was a forgery.''

The Federal authorities, after saying for years that Mr. Marcello was an Italian
national born in Tunisia, suddenly asserted in 1961 that he was a native of
Guatemala.

A Government informer, Carl Irving Noll, had told Federal agents in 1959 and
1960 that he had arranged for the birth record to be fabricated and had
expected, in return, to receive $25,000 from Mr.  Marcello. In proceedings
before an immigration judge, Mr. Marcello said that he had neither promised nor
paid the money.

Stops in El Salvador and Honduras

From Guatemala, Mr. Marcello was deported to El Salvador and then, after a
17-mile trek through the mountains, to Honduras. He has testified that he
re-entered the United States at the Miami airport in May 1961, but there is
apparently no record of his arrival.

Mr. Marcello has been trying for 20 years to get a judge to rule on the legality
of his deportation. Government lawyers have consistently opposed such a review,
contending that even if the 1961 action were ultimately proved improper, he
would still be deportable.

Mr. Marcello has been arrested many times in the last 50 years, but most of the
charges have either been dismissed or have resulted in acquittals. However, his
1938 conviction for violating the Marijuana Tax Act withstood all challenges,
and it was for that offense that he was originally ordered deported. Trafficking
in marijuana was not made a deportable offense until 1952, but the Supreme Court
ruled that the law could be applied retroactively.

Mr. Marcello is now asking the Board of Immigration Appeals to suspend his
deportation or grant him some other form of relief.  William Fliegelman, former
chief immigration judge, and Troy A.  Adams Jr., former district director of the
immigration service in New Orleans, both said they doubted that Mr. Marcello
would ever be deported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Carlos Marcello

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 22, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Ex-Fort Chaffee Guards To Be Retried in Assault

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: FORT SMITH, Ark., Oct. 21


Five former guards at Fort Chaffee who have been accused of mistreating Cuban
refugees will be retried on 14 assault charges in Federal court before the end
of the year, officials said today.

The guards, employed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, were found
not guilty Oct. 2 on 13 of 27 charges filed against them. A mistrial was
declared on the remaining 14 charges after four days of jury deliberations.

United States Attorney Larry McCord of Fort Smith said that the retrial must be
held before Dec. 11 to comply with a law that requires a retrial to begin within
70 days of the jury verdict.  Federal District Judge Oren Harris has not set a
trial date.

Mr. McCord said the decision to retry the former guards was made by the civil
rights division of the Department of Justice. The department contends that Cuban
refugees being detained at Fort Chaffee pending release to sponsors were
systematically and routinely assaulted by the immigration officers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 18, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS NEED A HELPING HAND ASHORE

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words


To the Editor:

Your recent report of El Salvadoran refugees who were reduced to eating the
sands of the southwestern desert in the vain hope of savoring a hint of moisture
was, to say the least, heart-wrenching.  That report, added to other articles
about Cuban emigres and Vietnamese boat people, raises questions concerning the
status of refugees and the role of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(I.N.S.).

Another group of refugees - the Haitians - is in dire need of help. Many
Americans may not realize that these Haitians who come to our shores are the
victims of a discriminatory U.S. refugee policy.

Risking political represssion at home and the lives of their families at sea,
they set off toward the south Florida coast in vessels which often could not
with conscience be called ''boats.'' At the mercy of unscrupulous boat
operators, many refugees never become statistics - their drownings go
unrecorded.

Those who make it to Florida do not get the welcome reception President Carter
extended to the Cubans. Instead, children as well as adults are taken to jail -
without trial - and are sent back to face the justice of Haitian dictator,
Jean-Claude Duvalier.

Federal District Court Judge James L. King ruled July 2 in Miami that the I.N.S.
had knowingly violated the constitutional rights of thousands of Haitian
refugees seeking political asylum in the U.S.  The judge verified ''wholesale
violations of due process.''

The persistence of the I.N.S. in dismissing Haitian refugees as mere
''economic'' refugees, rather than affording them political asylum, is clearly
discriminatory. Haitians have testified that just the act of applying for
political asylum in the United States puts them on the elimination list of
''Baby Doc'' (as he is called) Duvalier, Haiti's ''President for life.''

Public opinion leaders, the church, the media and the American public should
demand that the Haitian refugees be given political status and asylum. They
should also urge the United States Government to cease its long support of the
Duvalier regime. Our immigration policies must be based on equality and justice
- not on a person's income, race, sex or age.

I join others around the world who are praying that the greeting extended to
Haitian refugees not be the confines of a damp jail cell, but the welcome mat of
justice.
(Rev.) ROBERT RAY PARKS, Rector, Trinity Church New York, Aug. 8, 1980

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: op-ed

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 12, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE JUDICIARY MEMBERS RESIST IMMIGRATION SERVICE BUDGET CUT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11


Members of Congress from both parties told Attorney General William French Smith
today that they were deeply distressed by the Administration's proposal to
reduce the staff and budget of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They
said that the agency did not have enough resources to do its job even now.

Concern for the immigration agency was the theme most often expressed at a
hearing on the Justice Department's budget.  Mr. Smith, in his first appearance
before the House Judiciary Committee, said that the proposed cuts would not harm
the ''operational capability'' of the immigration service. He said there could
even be a modest increase in the strength of the Border Patrol.

The budget requested for the immigration service for the fiscal year 1982 is
$363 million. The total Justice Department budget request is $2.3 billion. The
Administration is seeking $21.6 million less for the immigration service than
the $384.6 million sought by the Carter Administration. A budget of $371 million
was authorized by Congress for the current fiscal year.

President Reagan's proposed budget, which was sent to Congress yesterday,
requests funds for 9,531 employees at the immigration service. That is 1,355
fewer persons than Congress authorized for the current year, 750 fewer than
President Carter requested for fiscal 1982 and 251 fewer than the agency said
were ''on board'' at the end of last month.

''On board or off board, please don't cut into muscle,'' Representative Henry J.
Hyde, Republican of Illinois, said to the Attorney General. Mr. Hyde called the
immigration service ''the worst agency of Government,'' an ''embarrassment,''
and recalled that it was unable to locate Iranian students and diplomats in the
United States last year.

Concern for More Attention

Representatives Daniel E. Lungren of California, Harold S. Sawyer of Michigan
and Hamilton Fish Jr. of upstate New York, all Republicans, joined Romano L.
Mazzoli of Kentucky and George E.  Danielson, both Democrats, in pleading for
more attention to the immigration service. ''It truly is a disaster area,'' said
Mr.  Danielson, who estimated that there were 200,000 illegal aliens in his Los
Angeles County district.

Mr. Sawyer said he had been ''horrified'' to learn that the immigration agency
''operates out of shoeboxes.'' Mr. Lungren said it was essential for the Federal
Government to do a better job because state and local officials had no authority
to police the border or enforce the immigration laws.

Several Congressmen said they were disappointed that the Justice Department
budget showed no money to match Mr. Smith's stated commitment to a more vigorous
fight against violent crime.  Representative William J. Hughes, Democrat of New
Jersey, said that the Administration was apparently ''not allocating any
resources to assist the states'' in fighting violent crime.

Mr. Smith noted that he had appointed a committee to advise him on that subject.
But Mr. Hughes said the results would not be available in time to guide Congress
in its budget deliberations.

The Attorney General confirmed that the proposed budget would eliminate the
department's entire juvenile justice program, which is designed to help local
governments prevent and control juvenile delinquency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 22, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION WORKERS PICKET TO URGE MORE AID AND STAFF

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21


Several hundred employees of the Immigration and Naturalization Service held
protests across the nation today, distributing leaflets or picketing outside
their offices to urge more money and manpower for the agency.

Michael G. Harpold, president of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
Council, which represents more than 5,000 of the 10,000 immigration service
employees, said the protests were meant to ''focus attention on the problems
created by uncontrolled immigration and the Reagan Administration's failure to
properly direct the agency and its employees.''

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the agency, said protests were held in many large
cities where the immigration service has district offices, including Washington,
Chicago, San Diego and Los Angeles. In New York, about 100 protesters held a
peaceful demonstration on Liberty Island near the Statue of Liberty, where they
marched and listened to speakers for about an hour. Mr. Jervis said none of the
protests disrupted Government work.

Leaders of the union, which is affiliated with the American Federation of
Government Employees, said they were not attempting to conduct a work stoppage
and that workers who took part in the demonstrations were on vaction time or
scheduled days off.

Lack of Leadership Assailed

Mr. Harpold said employees were disappointed that President Reagan had not yet
nominated anyone to serve as commissioner of the immigration service. The agency
has been under the direction of acting commissioners since Leonel J. Castillo
left office in September 1979. The current acting commissioner is Doris M.
Meissner.

In early June, Attorney General William French Smith asked Mr.  Reagan to
nominate Norman Braman, a Miami businessman, to be commissioner. Thomas P.
DeCair, a Justice Department spokesman, said today that announcement of Mr.
Braman's nomination was ''imminent.''

Union leaders also said they felt the agency's enforcement divisions were
understaffed and underfunded.

Reagan Requested Extra Funds

President Reagan announced a comprehensive immigration policy July 30. He asked
Congress to appropriate $110 million for the immigration service in the 1982
fiscal year: $40 million for enforcement, $35 million for the detention of
illegal aliens and $35 million for the construction of permanent detention
facilities. This would be in addition to the $363 million budget he had earlier
proposed for the agency.

The Reagan Administration's original budget proposals last March called for a
net reduction of $8 million in the immigration service budget for the next
fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.

Union officials asserted that there was no guarantee that the additional money
would be approved by Congress, and that most of the proposed additional funds
would go toward detention of illegal aliens, not on border enforcement.
Moreover, they said, there would still be a net reduction of personnel even
under the new proposals.

Charles C. Pappas, a union official in Boston, said that employees there had
presented a petition to the state's Congressional delegation today, asserting
that the agency was ''grossly understaffed and underfunded.''

''Quotas have been elasticized without limit and legal definitions perverted to
suit special interests,'' the petition said. ''We have been ordered to overlook
violations and rubber-stamp approval of immigration benefits.''

The petition urged Congress to set an annual limit of 350,000 on the total
number of legal immigrants and refugees who could be admitted to the United
States. Senator Walter D. Huddleston, Democrat of Kentucky, has made a similar
proposal. Legal immigration to the United States exceeded 800,000 last year.

Mr. Pappas and several other immigration service employees said they feared that
President Reagan's proposals to establish a ''guest worker'' program for Mexican
laborers and to grant a limited amnesty to illegal aliens would compound the
problem of illegal immigration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 19, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AMERASIAN BOY PLEADS FOR EASED IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section C; Page 9, Column 3; Home Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18


A teen-age boy who lived on the streets of Korea for much of his childhood has
pleaded with Congress to help other children left by American servicemen in Asia
become American citizens.

''My life is really happy now,'' said John F. Keller, whose Korean name was Cho
Jae Huyn, ''but I am here today to tell my own story because I don't want my
brothers and sisters who I had to leave behind to be forgotten, and to live with
people always calling them names.''

The young man, who estimates his age to be about 15 years, told Tuesday of
living inside a wooden box, begging and working in a movie house for two small
helpings of noodles a day. He and other witnesses before the House Judiciary
Committee's subcommittee on immigration, refugees and international law said
prejudice in Southeast Asia against children left by American servicemen
condemns them to lives of destitution and misery.

The youth escaped because he eventually wound up in St. Vincent's Home for
Amerasians in Seoul, an orphanage run by the Rev. Alfred V.  Keane. He came to
the United States two and a half years ago and lives with adoptive parents in
Georgia.

''For the Amerasian, those forgotten American children of Asia, life is just
misery,'' Father Keane testified. ''The harassment never seems to end. Sometimes
they are beaten, stoned, kicked and reduced to a subhuman status in ways I could
never begin to describe.''

The priest and the boy testified in support of legislation introduced by
Representative Stewart B. McKinney, Republican of Connecticut, which would
provide preferential admission into the United States for children of American
armed forces personnel.

Under the bill, an alien born in Korea, Vietnam, Laos or Thailand after 1950 who
was fathered by an American citizen on active duty with United States armed
forces would be given preferential admission status by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The alien would have to show proof of financial
sponsorship in the United States to be eligible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 23, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FOR A CARIBBEAN COMPACT

BYLINE: By Robert Pastor

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Reagan Administration has admirably tried to address the two difficult
issues of immigration and development in the Caribbean Basin - all the countries
in and around the Caribbean Sea.

These two initiatives generously leave Congress substantial room to improve
them, but the most serious flaw with these proposals is that they do not address
the relationship between the two problems.

To address them separately is shortsighted and could very well aggravate both
problems.  An effective policy that curbed migration would necessarily generate
uncontainable social and political tensions in the region.  Economic
development, which relies primarily on foreign investment and fails to address
the migration problem, could stimulate more illegal migration.

Moreover, the countries of the region will not with us in regulating the flow of
people without some compensatory policy, since that will probably mean they have
to support an overwhelmingly unskilled population while the United States
absorbs more of their skilled workers.

Since President Reagan will not completely unveil his Caribbean Basin initiative
until January, there is still time to correct this oversight and to fashion a
proposal that relates the two problems.

To use the Administration's own phrase, it ought to ''go to the source,'' and
propose a Caribbean Basin Compact, in which the United States and other donors
in the region or interested in it would double aid, expand private investment,
and guarantee access to their markets for textiles and other competitive
products.

The recipient countries, in turn, would agree to use their increased aid for
labor-intensive investments in agriculture and light manufacturing in regions
where emigration has been greatest.

All nations would formulate and agree to a Caribbean-wide development plan for
restructuring and relocating the region's manufacturing and agriculture during
the next 10 years.

The United States would accept more legal immigrants from the Caribbean Basin
and gradually curtail both the illegal flow and the ''brain drain.'' Returning
migrants would be given credits from a special bank established to assist small
businesses. Research institutes in the area would focus on developing
technologies to create employment. More money and attention should be given to
programs to limit population growth.

The compact would be a genuinely multilateral effort. It would not curb
migration by promoting development, but would expand opportunities in the
countries from which most migrants come so that they can cope with the
consequences of a new United States immigration law.

The United States should negotiate such a compact before Congress completes
action on curbing illegal migration.  Failure to do so would mean that the
United States would exchange one aspect of the problem for another -and later
find itself absorbing refugees fleeing violence instead of undocumented workers
seeking work. There is no escaping the links between migration, development, and
political change in the Basin.

During the last two decades, the Caribbean Basin became the largest source of
migration to the United States - approximately one-third of all legal
immigrants, two-thirds of all political refugees, and ninetenths of all
undocumented workers.

Ten percent or more of the population of many Basin countries already live in
the United States and contribute economically and culturally and in making
United States citizens more sensitive to the many sides of political change in
the region.

The possibility of negotiating such a compact will increase as nations like
Mexico begin to cope with illegal migrants from Central America.

They will also soon have to face the fact that their own ''escape valve'' to the
United States may be a short-term solution - releasing potentially explosive
tensions caused by high unemployment - and a long-term problem.

A nation that exports its problem of unemployment has little incentive to solve
it by making difficulty internal adjustments or investing more in
labor-intensive than capital-intensive projects.

By gradually closing the valve, while at the same time adding resources as part
of a comprehensive plan for the entire region, the compact would help these
countries employ those who remain as well as those who return.

The United States has a more powerful reason than anti-Communism for undertaking
this effort: Ours is a Caribbean nation.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Robert Pastor, who is author of ''Congress and the Politics of U.S.  Foreign
Economic Policy,'' served on the National Security Council staff during the
Carter Administration and is a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Cartoon

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 4, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Back to the Old Teeming Shore

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 297 words


By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron The acting commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service last week proposed adding one more
wrinkle to a system that, in the last decade, has been bent, folded and spindled
into all but complete disarray.

David W. Crosland, who has headed the immigration agency since October 1979,
said that aliens already in the United States who want to become permanent
residents - the first step toward becoming citizens - should be required to
return to their home countries to apply unless they are closely related to
American citizens. Such a requirement, he said, would negate the advantage that
such aliens now have over those applying from abroad and could reduce by more
than half the workload of the overburdened immigration agency.

Mr. Crosland acknowledged that much of that workload would simply appear in
another place - on the desks of State Department consular officers in foreign
countries. And a State Department official, Elizabeth J. Harper, said the plan,
which would be a reversion to the practice that generally prevailed before 1952,
would ''create unnecessary work'' for the consular officers and ''genuine
hardship'' for the affected aliens.

In 1978, the last year for which data are available, there were 103,638
applications from aliens for permanent resident status; 53 percent of those
would have been eliminated if only close relatives of American citizens were
considered, as Mr. Crosland proposes. The staff of the Select Commission on
Immigration and Refugee Policy, a 16-member body created by Congress, has made
the same proposal, which could be accepted by the commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 7, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

IDENTIFICATION CARD IDEA SHELVED BY A U.S. PANEL

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6


After months of intense lobbying and internal dissension, a Federal immigration
commission said today that it had decided American workers should not be issued
national identification cards.  The final vote on the identification proposal
was 9 to 6 against the idea, a spokesman for the 16-member Select Commission on
Immigration and Refuge Policy said. One commissioner abstained.  In a news
conference last month, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, chairman of the commission
and president of the University of Notre Dame, said a preliminary vote of 7 to 5
indicated that the panel might recommend the use of identification cards.  Mr.
Hesburgh, a strong advocate of "a counterfeit-resistant worker I.D. card," said
that the commission's recommendation to punish employers for hiring illegal
aliens was "meaningless" without identification cards.  But Hispanic Americans,
who asserted that the card would be discriminatory, and civil libertarians, who
protested the idea as an invasion of privacy by the Government, lobbied
vehemently against the proposal.  Elaine Daniels, the commission spokesman, said
that the commissioners had decided to recommend continued use of birth
certificates, driver's licenses, immigration cards and other usual forms of
identification to help keep track of illegal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
In The Times of Jan. 7 on proposals by a special commission on immigration
policy included incorrect information. A clarifying article appears on page B9.
wore a parka

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 25, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The New Jewish Immigrants

SECTION: Section 6; Page 70, Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 68 words


In the analysis of Jewish migration patterns, one loses sight of the crucial
problem (''America's New Wave of Jewish Immigrants,'' by Drora Kass and Seymour
Martin Lipset, Dec. 7). Without greater commitment to Jewish ideals, Jews will
''be lost to the Jewish world'' regardless of their points of origin and
destination. Most important, this includes Israelis living in Israel.
ERIC SEGAL, Teaneck, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 25, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section 6; Page 70, Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 48 words


I fail to understand the hostility of some American Jews toward the recent
Israeli and Russian immigrants. The new immigrants have come here for a better
life - precisely the same reason Jews immigrated to America two and three
generations ago.
DANIEL M. ADAMSON, Shaker Heights, Ohio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 31, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. MOVES TO EXPEL GROUP OF HAITIANS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30


The Immigration and Naturalization Service moved today to expel 3,900 Haitians
who have entered the United States since Oct. 11 last year.

David W. Crosland, Acting Commissioner of the immigration service, sent
telegrams to all agency field offices instructing district directors to begin
proceedings against ''those Haitians who were encountered on or after Oct. 11,
1980, in the Miami district.''

Mr. Crosland said in an interview that he had not discussed his order in advance
with the new Attorney General, William French Smith, or with other Reagan
Administration officials. The ''exclusion hearings,'' he said, will be the first
such hearings held for Haitians since 1976, when proceedings were halted because
of a judge's order.

Mr. Crosland said that the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,
in a decision last December, had removed legal barriers to resumption of the
hearings.

Aliens ordered to leave the country have extensive rights of appeal, and Mr.
Crosland said that he expected the Haitians to try to delay the proceedings that
he ordered. Mr. Crosland, who used to be a civil rights lawyer, denied that
there was any racial motivation for his order.

Policy Set Last Year

Mr. Crosland's order carries out a policy foreshadowed by the Carter
Administration last June. Under that policy, Cubans and Haitians who had arrived
in the United States from April 21 to June 19 were allowed to stay here with a
special legal status.

Victor H. Palmieri, President Carter's Coordinator for Refugee Affairs, said at
the time, ''New arrivals after the June 19 cutoff date can rest assured that
they will have to pass the strict test of asylum on a case-by-case basis.''

Mr. Carter extended the cutoff date to Oct. 10, and Congress voted to provide
special educational and other benefits for Haitians and Cubans arriving before
that date.

In Miami, Haitian refugees criticized Mr. Crosland's order today as a
continuation of a ''discriminatory'' policy adopted by the Carter
Administration. They noted that the directive referred to Haitians, but not to
Cubans, Nicarguans, Salvadorans or others seeking asylum in the United States.
The Haitians also voiced a suspicion, as they have in the past, that they had
been singled out for harsh treatment because they are black.

Janet R. Graham, a spokesman for the immigration service, said that only about
30 Cubans had arrived illegally since Oct. 10.  The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, who
operates a center for Haitian refugees in south Florida, said that instead of
trying to expel those already here, the Reagan Administration ''should focus its
attention on the political conditions which cause Haitians to flee their
homeland, the repression of the Duvalier regime.'' Only the elimination of those
conditions, he said, can stem the flow of refugees from Haiti.

The Haitians will be able to press their claims for asylum in the hearings to be
held before immigration judges. Under the law, asylum may be granted to a person
who has a ''well-founded fear of persecution'' upon return to his homeland.

The Carter Administration maintained that most of the Haitians here had left
their impoverished Caribbean homeland for economic rather than political reasons
and therefore did not meet the legal test for asylum. The Reagan Administration
has not announced any change in that policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 1, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION IN SUMMARY;
Cuban Offenders Get a Reprieve

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 246 words


Altogether, the 1,700 Cuban refugees being held in Federal prisons around the
country either have been convicted of or have admitted committing, in Cuba, 544
robberies, 20 armed robberies, 473 thefts, 333 burglaries, 222 assaults, 121
homicides, 61 narcotics violations, 39 cases of arson and 11 prostitution
offenses. Nevertheless, there were indications last week that the Justice
Department is planning to let at least some of them resettle here.

Officials said all of them would normally be barred from this country because
their crimes involved ''moral turpitude.'' But the Cuban government has shown no
interest in taking them back and a Federal court ruling forbids the Government
from holding them in prison indefinitely. So authorities were preparing a plan
under which the Cubans could be transferred next month to the Federal
penitentiary in Atlanta, where their cases would be reviewed. Those deemed to be
safe enough to be released could then be sent to a refugee camp to await
suitable sponsors. The rest would remain in prison, at least for time being.

Thirty-nine hundred Haitians who entered the United States since October are not
so fortunate, however. The Immigration and Naturalization Service last week
moved to expel them. The Carter Administration had said that the Haitians did
not qualify for asylum because they came here for economic, not political,
reasons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 7, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Suit in Florida Challenges U.S. Release of Refugees

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 6


Attorney General Jim Smith of Florida filed suit in Federal District Court here
today contending that the Immigration and Naturalization Service did not follow
its own policies when it classified refugees from Cuba and Haiti as ''entrants
pending status'' and then released them into the community.

About 100,000 Cuban and Haitian refugees have settled in the Miami area since
April 1. The suit, asking the transfer of all Cubans and Haitians now held in
Dade County jails and mental institutions, is aimed at relieving overcrowding in
those facilities, which Miami officials attribute to the improper release of
refugees into the community.

The suit contends that the failure to examine each case individually resulted in
the parole of many aliens who by reason of their criminal records or mental
conditions would be excludable refugees.

Don North, a spokesman for the Florida Attorney General's office, said, ''We say
these people should be taken into Federal custody, which would solve the jail
problems and the problems in the community.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 14, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Pledges to Free A Cuban Refugee in Atlanta

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., Feb. 13


The Federal Government has agreed to release a Cuban refugee who is the
plaintiff in a suit seeking freedom for 1,800 Cuban refugees from Federal
prisons.

Henri Watson and Dennis Goodden, attorneys for the plaintiff, Moises Mir, said
yesterday that the Government had approved his release from a Federal prison in
Atlanta.

The lawyers said they were notified yesterday of the agreement but that the
Immigration and Naturalizaton Service had said the decision was made more than
two weeks ago while Mr. Mir was still in the Federal prison at Leavenworth, Kan.
Mr. Mir was sentenced to eight years in a Cuban prison for stealing food and
clothing and sent to Leavenworth after he arrived in the United States last
year.

Janet Graham, an Immigration Service spokesman in Washington, said today that
about 135 of nearly 1,200 Cuban refugees held at the Atlanta prison have been
approved for release. The suit was filed in Mr. Mir's name Jan. 8 in Federal
District Court in Topeka, Kan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 26, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Orders 21 Iranians to Leave

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 12, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss., Feb. 25


Twenty-one Iranian students arrested for visa violations have been ordered this
week to leave the United States within 15 days. Janet Graham, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said 2,445 of the 64,000 Iranians in
the United States had been asked to leave and 757 had gone. She said 2,900 had
asked for political asylum, including three who were ordered to leave yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 26, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

A Federal Jury Indicts 2 In Immigration Scheme

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 222 words


A Federal immigration investigator and a Long Island businessman were indicted
yesterday on charges involving an immigration-fraud scheme in which the
investigator allegedly sold his influence to help foreigners enter or remain in
the United States. Law enforcement officials said the indictment was an indirect
outgrowth of the Abscam investigation of corruption.

A second businessman was cited as an unindicted co-conspirator in the alleged
scheme. The 15-count indictment was handed up by a Federal grand jury in
Brooklyn. The prosecutor in the case, Laura A.  Brevetti, said the three men had
been promised a total of $15,800 in payments and had received $7,300 from
various foreigners who were aided.

The defendants were identified as Gerard W. Gentile, 33 years old, of Commack,
L.I., an investigator for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and Manuel
Horacio Lima de Jesus, 40, of Great Neck, L.I., the businessman. The unindicted
alleged coconspirator was identified as Dieter Schmidt, 36, a former businessman
now living in Florida.

At their arraignment in Federal Court in Brooklyn last night, Mr.  Gentile and
Mr. de Jesus pleaded not guilty and were released pending further court
proceedings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 4, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

LOOKING BACKWARD, AND FORWARD;
America, Again

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words


Just last week the idea was expressed in gray, abstract words in the report of a
Federal commission on immigration: ''Historians, in their support of increased
immigration, have cautioned against overly restrictionist tendencies. They point
out that U.S. citizens have always been concerned about the arrival of
immigrants, but note that immigrants have always made contributions to U.S.
society.''

This week, the abstraction became flesh. One of the finalists in the annual
Westinghouse Science Search for outstanding student achievement was a
16-year-old Bronx boy who completed a complicated analysis of a problem in
numbers theory. Students from the Bronx, and from New York, always do well in
the competition. But this student is unusual. His name is Tan Dinh Ngo. He is a
refugee from Vietnam, and a year and a half ago he spoke no English.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 4, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

A 'ONE ROOM SCHOOL' TEACHES A NEW LIFE

BYLINE: By DENA KLEIMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1244 words


The children are from Taiwan, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Canton and remote mountain
villages of China. Some have never been to school before; others have never been
in a place with running water.

Today they sit together memorizing the English alphabet, juggling subtleties of
tense, learning to weave verbal fabric out of gerunds, pronouns and American
slang.

There are other lessons as well: How to flush toilets, use the telephone, eat
hot dogs, watch television, sing ''The Star-Spangled Banner.'' As with thousands
of immigrants who preceded them, much of what these youngsters learn at school
goes beyond the rules of phonetics or new vocabulary. Theirs is a subtle
education having to do with values and ways of life.

In what amounts to a one-room schoolhouse for Chinese immigrants, Sirat Golden -
who was once an immigrant herself - teaches 40 youngsters ranging in age from 6
to 12 and varying in ability from the first through sixth grades.

Cramped, Squalid Housing

Some have been in this country two years; others for several weeks. Most arrived
without ever having spoken a word of English or seen a Western alphabet. Their
parents are factory workers and busboys and live in the cramped, squalid
walk-ups that have housed new immigrants in this country for decades.

Now they sit in neat rows of desks in Room 220 at Public School 19, at 185 First
Avenue and East 11th Street, in a part of the Lower East Side that has become
predominantly Chinese in recent years, patiently awaiting their morning's
assignment.

One day recently, a group in the back of the room was reviewing the alphabet, an
older group was memorizing English prose, a third group was reading the morning
newspaper and a fourth was working on an exercise in grammar. The room was
silent amid the activity, the first and most obvious testament to the teacher's
strictness.

''This is serious,'' said Mrs. Golden, who looks upon her classroom as a kind of
intensive-care unit for those taking their first fragile steps in a new culture.
''In life you have to learn when time is for fun and when it's time to get down
to business. School is for business.''

The 'Transition' Approach

Her goal is to have her students fluent in English and able to enter a regular
classroom in three years - an approach to bilingual education known as
''transition.'' In New York City, where about 78,000 students are being taught
in bilingual classrooms in 11 languages, there are many other approaches as
well, some more controversial than others.

In some schools, for example, teachers who adhere to the so-called
''maintenance'' approach keep youngsters in bilingual classrooms long after they
have learned English - a practice some say is an abuse of the program's original
intent. In other schools, no English is spoken at all.

The city's Board of Education says the aim of bilingual education is to teach
youngsters English and to give them lessons in their native tongues only so they
do not fall behind in mathematics and other subjects while they are learning
English.

Mrs. Golden's class exemplifies such an approach. She speaks to her students
primarily in English, limiting her use of Mandarin and Cantonese -she speaks
five Chinese dialects and Thai in addition to French and Italian - to explain
subtleties that their command of English might not allow.

The Meanings of Names

One afternoon, for example, a group was reading a story about a girl named Molly
who was new to New York and had gone to the corner store for some groceries.
Suddenly, a girl raised her hand.

''What does Molly mean?'' asked 12-year-old Carrie Wang, who came to New York
from Taiwan less than two months ago. Mrs. Golden explained to a visitor that
all names have meanings in Chinese, so it is confusing at first for children to
hear names that mean nothing.

Mrs. Golden went to the board and wrote two Chinese characters.  ''Maw Li,''
Mrs. Golden said. ''It means 'admirable beauty.' '' In addition to mathematics,
social studies and grammar, Mrs. Golden makes sure her youngsters grasp the
concept of democracy, how Americans regard sports and other concepts -perhaps
more trivial but no less fundamental - that most American children take for
granted.

Cartoons as Homework

She has them learn the Mayor's name, how the President is elected, what a
football tackle is and the names of the city's baseball teams. She brings in
boxes of cake mix - a real novelty to most of the children - to prepare before
the class and assigns her students to watch popular American cartoons on
television as homework.

''Why do Americans make fun of their President?'' asked a boy who had seen a
television comedian ridicule former President Carter.  ''Could you do that in
Taiwan?'' Mrs. Golden asked.  ''No,'' the boy said, laughing at the notion.
''I'd get shot.'' ''In America there are many freedoms,'' the teacher said,
reminding the class about the Declaration of Independence. ''But there are
rules, too. If there are no rules, there is no freedom. Just as if there is no
sadness in life, how can you have happiness?''

Mrs. Golden, for her part, has many rules. Each student must keep three
notebooks: one for new vocabulary, one for penmanship and one for translations.
On the average, she assigns three hours of homework a day and expects students
to learn 25 new vocabulary words a day.

A Tedious Process

It is tedious work, full of long lists and rote memorization, and the students
spend much of the day working on their own. They copy pages from books, memorize
long passages and look up every new vocabulary word. Mrs. Golden, meanwhile,
moves from one group to the next, from a question about sentence structure to
one from a sixthgrade boy who wants to understand the logic behind President
Reagan's proposed tax cuts.

A student can go to the blackboard at any time to write a word he has come
across that he does not know how to pronounce, and Mrs.  Golden will stop her
lesson to pronounce it for the class. If the student cannot pronounce the word
later, however, he must write it 20 times.

Mrs. Golden - who grew up in Thailand and came to the United States when she was
16 - studied opera at the Manhattan School of Music and now teaches, among other
things, a course in kosher Chinese cooking.  She says she identifies with her
students and the confusions they feel about American life. Some, she said, had
never had a lock on their doors or been confronted with a plate of spaghetti,
while others are so frightened of strange faces that they do not speak for
weeks.

In the face of President Reagan's proposed budget cuts for bilingual education,
Mrs. Golden says, she fears that programs such as hers will be cut and that the
youngsters most in need will be left to fend on their own.

''I worry about them,'' the teacher says. ''Will they become dropouts? Will they
get to junior high and get lost? Will they just give up? I have to give them a
hope.''

''I love this country,'' she says. ''I tell them: 'There is a beautiful thing
out there. Go grab it. It's from here. From your books. From your desk. From
your school.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: 2 Photos of school childern

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 5, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ALLEGED NAZI ADMITS LYING FOR VISA

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, March 4


A Ukrainian immigrant accused of hiding his alleged background as a guard in
Nazi death camps admitted today at his deportation trial that he had lied on his
visa application, but he insisted that he had acted out of fear of being sent
back to the Soviet Union.

John Demjanjuk, a 60-year-old automobile worker from suburban Seven Hills, took
the stand today at his trial in Federal District Court to deny that he had ever
served as a guard in a German death camp and said that he had spent much of
World War II as a German prisoner.

'You Had to Shoot Yourself'

''I had been a soldier of the Red Army and there was a regulation that if you
were going to be taken prisoner, you had to shoot yourself and I had not done
so,'' Mr. Demjanjuk testified. Federal attorneys are seeking to strip Mr.
Demjanjuk of his citizenship and have him deported.

When Mr. Demjanjuk was asked by his defense attorney, John W.  Martin, if he had
spent any time as a concentration camp guard, he replied, ''No.''

He has been accused of being a sadistic guard known as ''Ivan the Terrible'' who
brutalized inmates at the Treblinka death camp and herded trainloads of Jews to
the gas chambers.

He is on trial not for committing atrocities but for lying on his application to
enter the United States and later on his application for citizenship. He first
admitted to lying in his visa application in a pretrial written statement to the
judge.

Mr. Demjanjuk, who testified in Ukrainian through an interpreter, also said that
he had never been in a concentration camp where civilians were held. He said
that he was drafted in the Soviet army in 1940, was later captured by the
Germans and then spent the rest of the war in various prisoner-of-war camps. He
insisted that he did forced labor for the Nazis from the time of his capture
until the Germans' surrender.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of John Demjanjuk

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 19, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

The City;
More Inspectors Asked for Kennedy

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 89 words


The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey asked for a 25 percent increase in
the number of immigration inspectors at Kennedy International Airport to reduce
delays in the clearance of foreign visitors, especially during the summer.

Morris Sloan, deputy aviation director for the authority, said before a
Congressional hearing in Washington that 30 inspectors should be added to the
complement of 120 that worked at Kennedy last summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 24, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
41 Cubans Who Fled Plane In Miami Seek U.S. Asylum

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 23


Forty-one Cuban refugees who posed as tourists traveling to a Mexican holiday
and then abandoned the flight on a Miami stop, have asked for political asylum,
officials said today.

The refugees, who had been living in Spain, were among 500 flown there in the
aftermath of the takeover of the Peruvian Embassy in Havana last April by more
than 10,000 people seeking asylum. They were aboard Aeromexico flight 541, from
Madrid to Mexico City, which made a scheduled stop at Miami International
Airport late Saturday night.

''They would have had to kill me to take me back into that plane,'' said
Mercedes Blanco.  Her husband, Enrique, said that the Cubans had devised the
plan as the fastest, easiest way to enter the United States.  Joe D. Howerton,
an officer with the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
that members of the group were filing applications, ''which will be sent to
Washington for a State Department opinion.''

Mr. Howerton said that the matter ''will be handled as expeditiously as
possible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 25, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Court Blocks Freeing Of Cuban Refugee in Kansas

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: DENVER, April 24


The United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit today blocked the
release of a Cuban refugee in a case that could affect other refugees who were
jailed after arriving by sea from Cuba.

Federal District Judge Richard Rogers ruled in Topeka, Kan., yesterday that
Pedro Rodriguez, 48 years old, had been unlawfully detained since his arrival
last spring and was entitled to immediate release. Judge Rogers said that Mr.
Rodriguez, who is now being held in Topeka, posed no threat to the public
despite his conviction in Cuba on charges of theft and escape.

The judge delayed his order for 24 hours to allow time for an appeal, and
Government attorneys immediately asked the appeals court to block the release
pending resolution of the case.

The appeals court stayed Judge Rogers's order without comment late this morning.
Oral arguments are to heard in the week of May 11.  The United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service has said that Mr. Rodriguez and 1,500
other Cubans who were imprisoned after arriving on the boatlift last spring were
not entitled to immigrate because they had committed crimes of ''moral
turpitude.'' The refugees were imprisoned pending a decision on their
disposition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 27, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

YEAR LATER, 1,800 CUBANS WAIT IN U.S. JAILS

BYLINE: By PAUL L. MONTGOMERY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1697 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Jorge Morales Alfonso says he has thought about the moment a thousand times,
worrying over each detail of it at night in his cell at the Federal Penitentiary
here.

It was last spring, at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida. Mr. Morales was in the
immigration line in a hastily assembled processing center at the base, having
just arrived in the vanguard of the 124,789 refugees who came by boat from Cuba
in 1980. He remembers that the sun was as hot as the sun on the island he had
come from and that he was thinking about the new life he was going to start at
the age of 31.

''The man in front of me had murdered somebody on the street in Havana,'' Mr.
Morales recalled being told by the man's friends.  Managing a smile at the
imminent irony, he continued: ''The officer asked him if he had ever been in
jail. He said 'No.' He was sent on.  The officer asked me the same. I didn't
want to begin in this country with a lie - I said 'Yes.' You see where I am.''

Where Mr. Morales is is in detention, along with about 1,800 other refugees from
last year's influx who are still being held by the immigration authorities
because of alleged criminal records.

In a case that may affect them all, a Federal appeals court is to hear arguments
on a contention by a compatriot of Mr. Morales, Pedro Rodriguez, that the
Government has unlawfully detained him in Topeka, Kan., without right of review.
A number of other cases are in the lower courts.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service contends that these refugees are
ineligible for admission to this country because they have records of felonies
or crimes of ''moral turpitude.'' In Mr.  Rodriguez's case, it was a record of
theft and escape charges in Cuba.

Mr. Morales was first arrested as a teen-ager in Cuba and served three years in
prison for evading the draft. Later, while working in a state factory making
shoes for export, he was convicted of embezzlement; he received a 10-year
sentence and served eight.

''We were selling the shoes to friends,'' he explained. ''It was not a small
thing, $50,000 worth, but everybody was doing it. I think they did a put-up job
on me because of my trouble with the army.''

Applied for Emigration

In 1979 Mr. Morales was free, working as a construction helper in Havana, with a
wife and two children. Last April he heard of the possibility of emigrating and
applied to the authorities. ''I presented myself and they gave me the pass,''
Mr. Morales said. ''My family was not able to come.''

Under immigration law, convicted felons or those convicted of a crime of moral
turpitude, such as prostitutes, embezzlers, petty thieves, cannot be admitted to
the United States and must be returned ''to the country whence they came.''

But the Cuban prisoners, almost all of whom are being held at the
maximum-security Atlanta Penitentiary, cannot be deported because the Cuban
authorities refuse to take them back; in many cases those authorities forced
former prisoners, mental patients, homosexuals and others they regarded as
undesirable to board the boats.

Talks between the governments were broken off in January and have not resumed,
pending a re-evaluation of Cuban policy by the Reagan Administration.

Law Is Under Challenge

Meanwhile, the situation has produced intensive questioning of immigration law
by attorneys representing the prisoners. In the past, courts have upheld the
Government's position that it has virtually absolute power over people not yet
granted admission to the United States, but the attorneys have sought and won
some modifications in behalf of the Cubans, and civil liberties lawyers expect
more.

For example, courts have affirmed the refugees' right to a speedy hearing on
detention and periodic review.  Other matters under challenge by the refugees
include previous rulings that such prisoners, since they are technically not in
the United States, do not have ordinary constitutional rights. Many, like Mr.
Morales, were incarcerated on their own admission, since the United States has
no access to Cuba's criminal records. The prisoners' right to summon and
cross-examine witnesses at their exclusion hearings is limited, and the burden
of proof is on them to show they are worthy of entering the country rather than
on the Government to show they are not.

Even though most had completed their sentence in Cuba for the crimes allegedly
committed, the law does not provide for their release.

In January, the Carter Administration proposed that a review panel be set up,
similar to a parole board, that could have permitted the release of refugees no
longer regarded as dangerous. However, the Reagan Administration is reviewing
immigration policy and an interagency panel is preparing a report.

About 50 prisoners who had records of minor crimes or who were jailed by mistake
have been released, and a source in the Bureau of Prisons said that 175 more
would probably be eligible if the proposal for the review panel was revived.

Problems at Fort Chaffee

While the refugee prisoners have their problems, 2,600 other refugees are still
at the resettlement camp in Fort Chaffee, Ark.  Almost all of them are young,
single, black men with limited education and skills, the type of refugee most
difficult to find sponsors for. And many have been in at least minor trouble
with the law in Cuba; the immigration authorities say that 16,170 of the Cuban
refugees told them of involvement in minor crimes or acts that are considered
crimes in Cuba but not in this country.

Several hundred are resettled throughout the United States in an average week
and officials are now talking of being able to close the camp in June. More than
400 of the hard-to-place have been sent to halfway houses established by the
National Catholic Conference. The Government pays about $2,000 to volunteer
agencies such as the Catholic Conference for each resettlement, in addition to
plane fare for the refugee.

Among those remaining at Fort Chaffee are 137 mentally retarded people and 330
people receiving psychiatric treatment. (There are also 59 people classified as
violent mental cases being held at St.  Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington.) The
Government has been trying to contract with public or private institutions to
remove them from the camp.

Forced to Cut Sugar Cane

Lieut. William Boggs, a camp psychiatrist, said treatment had been complicated
by an undue reliance on drugs instead of therapy in Cuba. He also said a number
of patients had said in interviews that during sugar harvests in Cuba they had
been trucked to the fields to cut cane and that they had been given stimulants
to get them working and tranquilizers to calm them at night.

There are also about 200 homosexuals among the Chaffee refugees awaiting
placement. Most homosexual refugees have been resettled in Los Angeles and San
Francisco, many through the efforts of the Metropolitan Community Church, which
has a largely homosexual congregation. Robert M. Falls, the pastor of the
church, said that sponsors had been found in the San Francisco area for 171
homosexuals. He said most were working and a few were doing well enough to move
out on their own, but that two of the group were in jail for assault and 20 more
were ''people who have made no effort to help themselves - people who want to
party all night and sleep all day.''

The waiting for placement has been blamed in part for recurrences of violence at
Fort Chaffee.  According to Mike Sweeney, a spokesman, the camp has been sending
about a dozen refugees a week to the Atlanta Penitentiary because of involvement
in the disturbances and in attacks on one another. ''I guess the rights of the
few have to be made subordinate to the rights of the many,'' Mr. Sweeney said.
''We just can't afford violence here.''

Attorneys representing the prisoners argue that such disciplinary transfers mean
that the Cubans are, in effect, being tried and punished without Constitutional
safeguards.

Among other refugees transferred to Atlanta recently was Mr.  Rodriguez, the
prisoner originally suing because of his detention in Topeka, Kan.

'In a Cage Like an Animal'

At the 79-year-old Atlanta prison, which was made an all-Cuban facility at the
turn of the year, the authorities have tried to establish recreation and work
programs tailored to the Cubans, but they acknowledge that the size and sudden
arrival of the group has made things difficult. They say that there are periodic
disciplinary problems and that makeshift knives and clubs are frequently found
among the inmates.

''The treatment by the officers is very good, but we have had trouble among
ourselves,'' said Mr. Morales, a small man with a gentle voice. ''When you lock
a man up in a cage like an animal, he starts to act like one.''

Mr. Morales, who makes $7 a month working in the prison kitchen, has taught
himself to read English, though he has found speaking the language is
maddeningly difficult. He is resigned to returning to Cuba if that becomes
possible, though he still hopes for release here.

''Maybe one day I'll be free,'' he said. ''That is what I came to this country
for.'' Mr. Morales is also a poet, writing tough-minded laments about the
troubles that have come to him. This is an excerpt from ''It's Raining,'' his
first poem in English: I seek in my memory A clear sky with the rumble of some
foliage Where the melodies of the birds project And I take her in my arms. But
my memory fails In its lost search on the naked and cold Wall of this place
Where only fear sings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: 3 photos of Cuban refugees (Page B6) photo of a Cuban
refugee

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 30, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
39 Cubans Are Ordered Sent From Miami to Spain

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 29


A Federal judge yesterday ordered 39 Cubans deported from Miami to Spain, where
lawyers for the Cubans say they will face persecution.

The 39 entered the United States illegally by walking off a Spainto-Mexico
flight on a stopover in Miami last month.  Federal Immigration Judge Henry
Scroope turned down the Cubans' bid for political asylum and ordered them
returned to Spain.  Attorneys for the 39 plan to appeal the decision. If they
are unsuccessful, the refugees will be among the first Cubans refused admittance
to the United States through a third country since refugees started fleeing the
island 22 years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 2, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

NAZI GUARD SEEKING TO LIVE IN SOVIET

BYLINE: By A.O. SULZBERGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1


Feodor Fedorenko, a former guard at the Nazi death camp of Treblinka whom the
United States has been trying to deport since 1977, has applied for permission
to live permanently in the Soviet Union.

Mr. Fedorenko, who was born and raised in the Ukraine, was stripped of his
citizenship last January, a necessary step in the deportation process. The
Supreme Court ruled that he concealed his past when he entered the United States
as a refugee after World War II.

Deportation proceedings are scheduled to begin Monday in New Haven, Conn.,
before an administrative judge of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Mr. Fedorenko's attorney, Brian M. Gildea, will ask that the proceeding be
halted until the Soviet Union makes a decision on Mr. Fedorenko's request for
permanent resident status.

Mr. Fedorenko, who has a wife and two sons still living in the Ukraine and has
visited the Soviet Union at least three times since 1973, faces no charges in
the Soviet Union.

Soviet Called Only Choice

''He indicated that if he had to be deported, the Soviet Union is the only place
he'd like to go, someplace where he still had some family and friends,''
explained Mr. Gildea. On one of Mr.  Fedorenko's visits, Mr. Gildea said, he was
detained by Soviet intelligence for four or five days, was questioned and was
then released.

As well as having a family in the Soviet Union, Mr. Fedorenko was married in
this country. His American wife is now dead.  He was captured by the Germans in
1941 while serving in the Soviet Army, trained as a concentration camp guard and
assigned to Treblinka. In 1949, while in West Germany, he applied for a visa to
enter the United States under the Displaced Persons Act, which excluded from
eligibility anyone who had ''assisted the enemy in persecuting civilians.'' He
signed a sworn statement saying that he had been a farmer and a factory worker
during the war and was granted a visa. He became a naturalized citizen in 1970
and is now retired and lives in Waterbury, Conn.

If the Soviet Union refused to grant him a visa and Mr. Fedorenko was ordered
deported, he would be allowed to select the country to which he would go,
assuming the host nation and the United States both concurred. It is conceivable
that no nation would accept Mr.  Fedorenko.

No one has actually been deported against his or her will on the basis of Nazi
war crimes. One former concentration camp guard, Hermine Braunsteiner Ryan,
voluntarily renounced her American citizenship and was extradited to West
Germany to stand trial.

Mr. Gildea said that Mr. Fedorenko did not face charges anywhere else in the
world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 6, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

JOB KICKBACKS REPORTED IN SEATTLE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, May 5


Municipal authorities are investigating allegations that a small group of
Seattle city employees who were born on the Pacific island of Tonga collected
kickbacks from fellow Tongans seeking city jobs. But officials say they are not
sure whether there has been a crime or simply a cultural misunderstanding.

''It could be a major case, from what we've seen,'' Assistant Police Chief
William Kramer said yesterday.  But the city personnel director, Susan Pavlou,
who said she had not seen the police findings, said, ''My own gut feeling is
that even if there is a problem, it's emanating from cultural differences.'' She
added that even if there had been kickbacks, ''it might be an accepted thing''
among Tongans.

The police investigation began last November after a Tongan immigrant complained
that a large portion of his paycheck was going to other Tongans who had helped
him get a city job. The King County prosecutor's office is reviewing the police
report and has not yet decided whether to file charges.

Interrelationship of Islanders

About 100 people from the small South Pacific island nation live in Seattle.
Most are related to each other and most have at one time worked for the city,
said Tongans questioned by newspaper reporters.

City officials began noting that an unusually large number of Tongans were being
given temporary jobs, mostly for about six months on road crews and at garbage
dumps and utility stations, according to John Franklin, administrator for city
employment services.

There is a long waiting list for such jobs, which pay $5 to $7 an hour, but the
Tongans did such good jobs that city departments asked for more of them, he
added.

However, officials said that concern had grown when it was noticed that the same
few signatures kept appearing on the back of endorsed paychecks given the
Tongans.

Investigators found that several of the Tongans had been notified of temporary
jobs by telephone at the house of two Tongans who are regular city employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 6, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRANTS REVITALIZE CITY, BUT STRAIN ITS RESOURCES

BYLINE: By MICHAEL GOODWIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2101 words


Immigrants are coming to New York City from virtually every country, territory
and island on the globe, creating a city more diverse in race, language and
ethnicity than it was at the turn of the century when immigrants from Europe
poured through Ellis Island.

The new influx, ranging from Europeans to Orientals and including Indians, South
Americans and natives of the Caribbean, has brought vitality and a new
entrepreneurial spirit to the streets of New York and new strength to its
neighborhoods. But the surge of immigrants has also put a strain on the city,
particularly its educational, health and police services.

The 800,000 aliens who registered in New York State last year listed 164
different countries and dependencies as their places of birth, the Federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service reported.  While the Immigration Service
does not keep separate statistics for New York City, other estimates for the
total number of foreign-born people who have come to the city in recent years
range as high as two million.

''Certainly the notion that New York is a melting pot is more true now than ever
before,'' said William F. Hill, regional director of the Bureau of the Census.
''People are coming here from every corner of the globe. Everywhere you go, you
see it. In the streets, on the subways.''

The growing diversity has come about in two basic ways. First, groups that had
almost no presence here - such as the Indochinese, of whom there are now about
5,000 in the city - have gained a foothold in the last 10 years and appear to be
establishing substantial, tightly knit communities.

Second, other groups, such as people of Hispanic descent from numerous
countries, Orientals, Indians and Caribbean blacks, have grown dramatically from
scattered small communities to a point where whole neighborhoods are becoming
ethnic enclaves.

In something of a change from previous patterns of immigration, the new arrivals
have included substantial numbers of rich and highly skilled or educated
immigrants, such as fashionable and privileged Europeans seeking opportunities
for investment and entertainment.

At the same time, many immigrants are impoverished. Among them, for example, are
many Salvadoran and Haitian families fleeing repression and war.

Others have come to New York for the time-honored reason: to make a new start in
the land of opportunity. These include a substantial merchant class, especially
among Koreans, Indians, Greeks and Albanians, many of whom can be found owning
and operating businesses from fruit and vegetable stands and newsstands to
coffee shops and apartment buildings.

While the city profits from the hard work of many immigrants, it also suffers
because of them.  City schools are particularly strained. For example, there are
70,000 students in city schools whose first language is not English.  Most of
these students are being taught in their own languages by 3,500 teachers at a
cost of $48 million a year, $40 million of which comes from the Federal
Government. The city expects to lose some of that money because of budget cuts
by the Reagan Administration.

Growing Backlash Is Seen

And a report issued in the mid-1970's said that 25 percent of those in custody
of the Department of Corrections were of Hispanic descent. Hospital emergency
rooms serve virtually the same function for the poor, many of them immigrants,
that private doctors do for the middle class.

''There is a growing backlash against immigration in this country,'' warned
Auxiliary Bishop Anthony J. Bevilacqua of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn
yesterday at a conference called by Mayor Koch to discuss the problems of
immigrants. He and others asserted that this backlash had led to a reduction in
services to immigrants.

Despite these concerns, however, Joseph Fitzpatrick, a professor of sociology at
Fordham University, echoed a commonly expressed idea that the positive
contribution of the immigrants outweighed the problems they caused. ''Just look
at the intensity and character of street life throughout the city,'' he said.
''It's like an open bazaar everywhere. The tremendous number of people are
providing a new vitality on the streets, which is traditionally characteristic
of immigrant populations.''

An Inexact Accounting

Exactly how many foreign-born people are in the city, either permanently or on
extended stays - attending school, for instance - is the subject of considerable
debate among Federal and city officials and private researchers. It is generally
agreed that many are here illegally. The Census Bureau put the city's 1980
population at slightly more than seven million. However, the city is challenging
the count in court, saying the bureau missed upward of 750,000 people.

And a spokesman for the Immigration Service said it assumed that many legal
aliens ignored the requirement that they register annually. The service also
assumes that illegal aliens do not register.

Nonetheless, even if there were as many as two million foreign-born people now
in the city, the total still would not rival the records set near the turn of
the century, when millions of Irish, Italians, Germans and Poles passed through
the immigration office at Ellis Island.

From 1901 through 1910, for example, more than seven million immigrants entered
New York through Ellis Island. In 1907 alone, more than one million came.

Differences Within Groups

Those who have worked with immigrant groups say that outsiders tend to
categorize the groups along broad racial and ethnic lines, but that there are
often great differences within those groups.

Mr. Fitzpatrick, who has extensively studied Hispanic culture and influence in
the Eastern United States, said: ''To outsiders, all Hispanics may appear the
same. But within the Hispanic community, there are great differences among the
groups.''

He and others cited the city's Hispanic population, which the Census Bureau has
put at about 1.4 million, as perhaps the clearest example of the growing
diversity in the city. A decade or so ago, virtually all city residents of
Hispanic descent were Puerto Ricans.  Now, greatly increasing numbers are
arriving from abroad, especially from Santo Domingo, Colombia, Ecuador and Cuba.

At the same time, some observers believe that more Puerto Ricans are leaving the
mainland than are arriving, and that they number about 900,000, as they did in
1970.

Thus, if there are at least 1.4 million people of Hispanic origin in the city,
the official increase of 500,000 in the last 10 years has come from groups other
than Puerto Rican.

Dominicans Becoming Dominant

''There are about 12,000 to 15,000 Dominicans coming here legally each year
alone,'' said Douglas Gurak, a researcher at the Hispanic Research Center at
Fordham University. He said there were 300,000 Dominicans in the city, ''give or
take 100,000.''

It is widely believed that many Dominicans are here illegally. Jim Sleeper, an
aide to Carol Bellamy, the City Council president, said that Dominicans had
replaced Puerto Ricans as the dominant Hispanic group in some areas, including
the south Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. Nearly half of the Dominicans there,
he said, are in the United States illegally.

The situation is similar among the city's Chinese population. In the past, most
Chinese immigrants came primarily from Canton, but many of those rapidly
swelling the New York community - estimated to include 100,000 who were born
outside the United States - now come from Taiwan and Hong Kong. In addition,
Charles Wang of the Chinatown Planning Council said, ''In the last year and a
half, since the U.S.  and China resumed diplomatic relations, we've been getting
a lot of people from the mainland.''

A More Difficult Adjustment

Before that, several thousand ''boat people,'' ethnic Chinese expelled from
Vietnam, came to New York. In addition to language, culture and finances, they
had the added burdens of the ordeal they endured. This, along with the fact that
they were immigrants for a second time, has made their adjustment much more
difficult than most, according to Paul Martin, director of the Indochinese
resettlement program at the Catholic Charities.

''Some had relatives from China living here, and they reverted to the Chinese
spelling of their names,'' Mr. Martin said. ''But they didn't exactly fit in
with either the Vietnamese or the Chinese community.''

James Haggerty, an official with the United States Catholic Conference, said he
was amazed at the constant variety of immigrants he dealt with.

'The List Goes On'

''Recently we've been getting a lot of Egyptians,'' Mr. Haggerty said. ''We've
had about 4,000 Salvadorans register with us in recent months. And we've had
refugees from Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Uganda, Poland, Hungary, Chile, Guatemala.
The list goes on.''

One result of the increasing diversity of points of immigration is that there
are many groups with communities roughly similar in size, at least by official

The Immigration Service estimates that New York State at present contains 81,000
Dominicans, 59,000 Italians, 44,000 from the United Kingdom, 40,000 Jamaicans,
30,000 Chinese. Scores of other groups are thought to range from 5,000 to
20,000. But city officials are also skeptical about the accuracy of any numbers.

''You have the problem of how many are here legally and how many are here
illegally,'' said Evelyn Mann, director of the the city's office of population
research and the city's census coordinator. ''It would be futile to try to
attempt to quantify any group too accurately.''

The Census Bureau, which asks for country of birth, has not yet compiled its
1980 answers to that question.

Visible Changes in City

The obvious evidence of the city's changing character includes a proliferation
of Indian restaurants on the Lower East Side, the takeover of large segments of
Brooklyn by immigrants from numerous islands in the West Indies, and the brisk
business many newsstands are doing in Spanish-language and African publications.
Many Israelis, estimated four years ago to number 150,000 in the metropolitan
region, have taken to driving taxicabs.

Also, New York, apparently cured of its most serious fiscal ills, has become
more than ever a mecca for international business. There are about 150
foreign-owned banks in the city and trendy Italian and French boutiques
increasingly dot midtown streets.

There are less visible effects as well.  ''A sub-marginal garment industry has
sprung up'' using undocumented immigrants, according to Victor Gotbaum,
executive director of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees. ''Nobody has ever made a serious study of what
these immigrants have meant to marginal and service industries,'' he said.

Last month, an investigation by the United States Department of Labor found that
many sweatshops were operating in Chinatown and that some employed children as
young as 10 years old, in violation of labor laws.

Crime Also Affected

That many immigrants are involved in crime, either as victims or those who
commit crime, comes as no surprise to many sociologists.  Dr. Marvin Wolfgang, a
professor of sociology and law at the University of Pennsylvania, said that the
city's growing mix could mean even higher crime rates. He said the fact that
many immigrants are poor could be an obvious contributor to crime, especially
with the cost of essentials such as food and shelter being so high.

Also, Dr. Wolfgang said, the diversity could make it difficult for ethnic groups
to establish tightly knit neighborhoods that are essential havens of support for
those having troubles with language, culture and money.

''As you increase the diversity in small spaces, the informal social networks
begin to break down and disappear,'' Dr. Wolfgang said. ''When that happens,
relationships break down and alienation sets in. Then the crime rates will be
higher.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: 2 photos of immigrants (Page B4) 3 photos of immigrants

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 19, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
80 Haitians Are Detained After Arrival in Florida

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 18


Immigration officials were holding six Haitians today on smuggling charges and
74 others were being detained at a refugee camp after they were arrested on
their arrival here yesterday.

A Border Patrol officer, Gary Hatmaker, said the refugees arrived aboard the
Marizia, a 65-foot boat equipped with secret compartments to hide refugees.

Mr. Hatmaker said the Marizia was the third ship in a week to dock at Habrew
Maritime International with smuggled Haitians. Crewmen of the other two ships
were indicted by a Federal grand jury yesterday.

The officer said the crewmen forced the refugees into secret compartments when
they passed land or other boats on their way from Port-de-Paix, Haiti, to Miami.

Tonight a Coast Guard cutter towed a homemade sailboat with more than 90
Haitians aboard into New Smyrna Beach. That group was also to be taken to be
refugee camp near Miami.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 22, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Notes on People;
Chinese Dancer Granted 'Green Card' by U.S.

BYLINE: By Albin Krebs and Robert McG. Thomas

SECTION: Section C; Page 26, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 120 words


Things continue to go nicely for Li Cunxin, the Chinese ballet dancer who was
detained in his country's consulate in Houston last month after he married an
American woman.

Mr. Li, a soloist with the Houston Ballet since 1979, has been granted
permission to remain in the United States by the Immigration and Natualization
Service.

Immigration officials said Tuesday that the 20-year-old dancer had been given a
''green card,'' the Government's identification document for resident aliens.

Three days before his authorization to remain in the United States expired, Mr.
Li married Elizabeth Mackey, of West Palm Beach, Fla., a student at the Houston
Ballet Academy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

A Police Chief Says He Rejected Smith Plea on Immigration Post

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, May 28


Police Chief Bill Kolender said today that he had rejected a personal request
from Attorney General William French Smith to reconsider and take the nation's
top immigration post.

Mr. Kolender, 42 years old, said that although he withdrew his name from
consideration as Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization last week, Mr.
Smith called him Tuesday and asked him to reconsider.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 3, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK;
THE REFUGEE EXPERIENCE

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 461 words


The driver of the limousine that recently took me home from an evening meeting
in New Jersey was a political refugee from Spain, a Basque physician. When not
chauffeuring he was cramming for examinations to qualify for medical practice in
the United States.

He said he would have to answer the same basic science questions put to recent
graduates of medical school. Practicing medicine for many years does not help on
such a test, he said, and ''when you're almost 60, it is not as easy to study
the things you learned as a student. It is hard.''

As it happened, this was a familiar story. My father, too, was approaching 60 in
1939 when he arrived in the United States from Germany. He had been a prominent
physician in private practice and also a contributor to medical journals, none
of which helped through the obstacle course erected by a profession that did not
welcome competition from European

Why Can't Professions Test Immigrants Humanely?
refugees. That fear was hidden, of course, behind a public concern for
protecting professional standards.

Instead of driving a car, my father supported himself by selling cardboard
boxes, making strenuous daily rounds of shipping clerks.Though a fine doctor, he
was a terrible salesman and turned to memorizing medical-school biology and
chemistry only after long and frustrating days.

My father's medical skills were suddenly rediscovered, without these tests, only
when the United States mobilized for war and the doctors' draft depleted the
ranks of civilian medicine. He was appointed supervising physician in his
specialty at a major public hospital. But as his ''emergency'' license seemed
precarious, he continued to sit up late every night, after his rounds, cramming
for the day when he would take the examinations to become a full-fledged
physician again.

That day never came. He died at the age of 63 of a cerebral hemorrhage. The
pressure took its toll. As my Basque driver said the other evening, ''when you
are almost 60, it is not easy to study'' and earn a living at the same time.

Now as then, the United States remains a haven for political refugees. But the
professional establishments still seem unable to find more appropriate and
humane ways to test the competence of men and women with a lifetime's
experience. I recall my father sighing, in rare moments of bitterness, how easy
it would be to demonstrate his skill with real patients or in an operating room.
FRED M.  HECHINGER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 11, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS REPRIEVED FROM DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 10


A group of 76 Haitians scheduled for deportation to Port-au-Prince by charter
flight at 6 A.M. today got a reprieve late last night from Federal District
Judge Eugene P. Spellman, who granted an emergency stay until a hearing could be
held on a motion to stop the deportations.

That motion, filed by attorneys for the Haitian Refugee Center Inc. and the
American Civil Liberties Union, is scheduled to be heard Friday morning by
Federal District Judge Alcee Hastings.

Attorneys for the Haitians contend that the refugees have not been informed of
their right to counsel, their right to political asylum or their right to a
hearing that is open to the public.

Says Client Became Hysterical

Steven Forester, an attorney for Marie Lucie Jean, one of the Haitians awaiting
deportation, said that she was taken to the airport with a group of 11 that was
sent back to Haiti last Thursday but did not realize she was on her way to Haiti
until she was strapped into her seat on the airplane.

Mr. Forester said his client, who had never been on an airplane before, thought
she was to be released and resettled. When a fellow passenger told her they were
bound for Haiti, Mr. Forester said, she became hysterical and had to be taken
off the plane.

Spokesmen for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said they would look
into the matter but were unable this afternoon to confirm that the incident had
occurred.

In a prepared statement issued yesterday afternoon, the immigration agency said
that the 76 persons scheduled for deportation indicated that they were not
afraid to return to Haiti, had waived their right to an attorney and had decided
not to appeal the order excluding them from the United States.

Shouted Down by Guards

The motion asking that the deportations be stopped contends that attorneys
seeking to assist the Haitians have been shouted down by Immigration and
Naturalization Service guards when they have tried to talk to the refugees on
their way to the hearings.

Last week, when hearings for 136 Haitians were held, according to the
immigration agency, 26 cases were continued so that lawyers could be obtained,
and 14 were continued so that claims for political asylum could be filed.

Attorneys for the Haitians who were ordered to be deported contend in their
motion that in last week's hearings, from which the lawyers and the public were
barred, the Haitians were brought to court through back stairwells and back
doors and that when the immigration agency's guards saw the lawyers in the
hallways they ordered the Haitians to run from the stairwell to the court
chambers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

MORE HAITIANS ARRIVE IN FLORIDA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 39 words


Some of the nearly 100 Haitians who arrived Saturday in Key Biscayne wait to be
interviewed by immigration officials. Some area residents who were boating
nearby offered them food from picnic lunchboxes; others shouted ''Go home!''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 20, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 144 words


AROUND THE WORLD;
7 Nicaraguans Say Cubans Are Running Their Nation

TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras, June 19 (AP) - Seven Nicaraguans who said they were
soldiers in Nicaragua's Army asserted today that their nation was being run by
Cubans and that ''hundreds'' of Soviet advisers were there. The seven are
seeking asylum here.

The Soviet Union maintains an embassy in Nicaragua, but there have been no
confirmed reports of Soviet troops or advisers there except for two helicopters
and pilots lent to Nicaragua by Moscow to aid in a literacy program.

----

MIAMI, June 19 (UPI) - Jaime Pasquier, Nicaragua's representative in the United
Nations office in Geneva, said here today that he had left his post to seek
asylum in the United States because Nicaragua is ''a dictatorship.'' His wife,
Ileana, the Nicaraguan consul in Geneva, said she had also resigned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 8, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Around the World;
U.S. Accepts 1,100 Poles Who Stayed in Austria

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 124 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, July 7


The United States has accepted some 1,100 Polish emigres in the last 10 months
and may allocate more money to help refugees resettle in the West, an American
diplomat said today.

The diplomat, Randolph M. Bell, who is the State Department's coordinator for
refugees, said the United States ''was doing everything possible within the
framework of its immigration laws to ease the troubled refugee situation in this
small neutral country.''

He referred to an appeal by Interior Minister Erwin Lanc of Austria, who asked
the United States, Canada and Australia to increase their immigration quotas
because of the influx of emigres from Poland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 12, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AMERICA NEEDS FEWER IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By Richard D. Lamm

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

DATELINE: DENVER


One of the major problems in making public policy is that politicians, like von
Clausewitz's generals, always tend to fight the last war. It is deceptively
simple to define the future in terms of our past. Abraham Lincoln said it so
well: ''As our case is new, so we must think and act anew. We must disenthrall
ourselves.''

Few issues facing the United States are as important as the question of
immigration and in no other issue are we so blinded by our past myths.

As children and grandchildren of immigrants, we have made immigration such a
part of our mythology and folklore that it is immensely difficult to come to
grips with the new realities that face us.

But history plays strange tricks on civilizations. Yesterday's solutions becomes
today's problems. The historian Arnold Toynbee said that the same elements that
build up an institution eventually lead to its downfall. When the United States
was an empty frontier, it needed immigrants to people an empty continent. Those
days are gone, never to return, yet the myth lingers on.

Frontier America is gone, replaced by an America of 7.6 percent unemployment,
with dramatically higher unemployment in many industries and appallingly high
unemployment among youth who are minority-group members. Our increasingly scarce
resources, our own severe economic problems, and our own social fabric demand a
rational immigration policy.

Immigration is already at the highest level in our history: 808,000 legal
immigrants in 1980 - including the special status given to the Cubans and
Haitians. That is twice the number of immigrants accepted by all the rest of the
world combined.

In addition to these legal immigrants, illegal immigration is at a high, though
not a quantifiable, level. We do know that we had more than one million
apprehensions of illegal immigrants in the last few years - 10 times the level
of apprehensions in the early 1960's with the same level of enforcement.

It is usually not recognized but the nation's largest number of immigrants came
not in 1911 or 1893 but in 1980. Legal and illegal immigration accounts for half
the United States' population-growth rate and a rising percentage of its crime
and welfare statistics.

When Jimmy Carter ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport
Iranians who had entered this country to study and then dropped out of school,
the agency had to admit it had no idea how many Iranian students were in the
United States, or who or where they were.

Whatever the pressures are now, they will soon grow dramatically worse. The
demographers tell us we will add one billion people to the world's population in
the next 11 years.

The population of Mexico has nearly tripled since 1945 and is expected to double
within the next 20 years. Mexico has a labor force of 19 million people - of
whom 50 percent are unemployed or seriously underemployed. And by the year 2000,
it will be 45 million. Considering the great discrepancy between per-capita
income in Mexico and in this country, the pull is tremendous.

We have to get our hearts in line with our heads and our myths in line with
reality. We know we cannot accept all the people who want to come to the United
States. We know our immigration policy has to be designed in the interest of the
United States.

We hate to say ''no'' to that worthy individual from the povertystricken country
who just wants to do a little better. It seems selfish to us to set limits. The
Lady in the harbor would not understand. However, I believe dramatic reform is
necessary and inevitable, and that the sooner we recognize this, the better off
we will be.

As others have observed, every year the United States is importing a new poverty
class.  This year, with the bipartisan cooperation of Senator Alan K.  Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L.  Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky, who are chairmen of subcommittees studying immigration reform, it is
possible to amend our immigration laws to achieve realistic limits on legal
immigration and realistic powers to curtail illegal entry.

America owes its first duty to our own disadvantaged, unemployed, and poor to
maintain the strength of the United States.  We can only meet our commitments by
placing realistic limits on immigration. The Lady in the harbor symbolizes
iberty, not immigration. We must, like Abraham Lincoln, ''disenthrall
ourselves'' from our past myths and deal with the realities of the ''stormy
present'' - which means not overwhelming the Lady in the harbor with more
immigrants than she can absorb.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Richard D. Lamm, a Democrat, is Governor of Colorado.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: op-ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 16, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SCHOOL OFICIALS INDICTED IN STUDENT VISA CASE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15


Five school officials and a college recruiter were indicted yesterday, charged
with using fraudulent visas to bring Iranian students into the United States.
The Justice Department says the inquiry is continuing.

One of those indicted pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor today and was fined $500.
The six, including the presidents of two small colleges, were named in a
26-count Federal indictment charging conspiracy and fraud in 1976. Each count
carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $10,000 fine.

The indictment, handed up in Scranton, Pa., said that school officials signed
blank immigration forms that should have been signed for specific, qualified
Iranian applicants.

Charge He Worked for Commission

A recruiter, who was promised a commission of 15 percent for any tuition paid by
Iranians, went to Iran and sold the blank immigration forms for as much as $500
each, the indictment said.

Students then filled in the forms and used them to enter the United States, the
indictment said.  Those named in the indictment were: Gus Turbeville, president
of Emerson College in Boston in 1976, now president of William Penn College in
Oskaloosa, Iowa; Darcy C. Coyle, president of Nichols College in Dudley, Mass.,
in 1976, now president of Upper Iowa University in Fayette, Iowa; Peter Galonis
of Scranton, president of International Education Services, a student recruiter,
who was named in all 26 indictments; Charles K. Avery, director of the Shaw Prep
School in Boston; John L. Bove of Falmouth, Maine, admissions director in 1976
for now-defunct Ricker College of Houlton, Maine, and M. Fred Mullinax of Pippa
Passes, Ky., director of admissions for North Greenville Junior College in
Tigerville, S.C., in 1976. It was Mr. Mullinax who pleaded guilty to a charge of
causing the illegal entry of an alien through concealment of facts. This plea,
entered in Scranton, means that he will not be prosecuted on the felony charges.

Mr. Turbeville, Mr. Avery and Mr. Bove said they had used Mr.  Galonis to help
improve sagging enrollments but denied doing anything illegal. Mr. Coyle
referred questions to his lawyer, who was unavailable for comment. Mr. Galonis
could not be reached for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 23, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

OUR MULTIPURPOSE LADY IN THE HARBOR

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 387 words


To the Editor:

In his July 12 Op-Ed article ''America Needs Fewer Immigrants,'' Gov. Richard D.
Lamm of Colorado makes an argument nearly as old as the Republic: Some Americans
have always wanted to pull the ladder up after them.

But in the course of his article he appeals to ''the Lady in the Harbor'' (his
cozy phrase for the Statue of Liberty), saying that, after all, ''she symbolizes
liberty, not immigration.''

She does and she doesn't. Her creator, the sculptor Frederic Auguste Bartholdi,
and his mentor, the French historian and liberal pamphleteer Edouard de
Laboulaye, intended her as a centennial gift to the United States, a handsome
way of rekindling French-American amity strained by French imperial adventures
in Mexico and flirtations with the Confederacy during the Civil War.

But, then as now, fund-raising proved slower than anyone had initially believed,
and the statue was not dedicated until 1886, fully 10 years after the first
target date. Already there was confusion as to just what she stood for.

At the unveiling, President Grover Cleveland said she represented Liberty - but
three years earlier Emma Lazarus had set forth her role as a welcoming beacon to
the earth's ''huddled masses yearning to breathe free.'' The poet James Russell
Lowell saw the power of this imagery instantly: ''Your sonnet,'' he wrote to
Miss Lazarus, ''gave its subject a raison d'etre which it wanted before....''

As the ''Mother of Immigrants,'' she welcomed millions to New York and America.
During World Wars I and II she took on still another role - as a symbol of
national mobilization, standing vigilant watch over American boys as they went
overseas to fight.

As the architectural historian Marvin Trachtenberg has written, what Bartholdi
had ''unwittingly wrought'' was the ''Statue of America.'' At any given time she
means what we mean, and if we mean to turn away ''that worthy individual from a
poverty-stricken country who just wants to do a little better,'' as the Governor
seems to want us to do, I suppose the statue can be made to mean that, too.

It is true, as Governor Lamm writes, that Abraham Lincoln urged us to
''disenthrall ourselves'' from old myths. But he also warned us that ''we cannot
escape history.''
GEOFFREY C. WARD, Editor, American Heritage, New York, July 13, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 24, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
PUERTO RICO THANKED BY REAGAN ON HAITIANS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., July 23


President Reagan telephoned Gov.  Carlos Romero Barcelo today to thank him ''for
making the politically difficult decision'' of accepting 800 Haitian refugees at
Fort Allen, the Governor's press office said.

Governor Romero Barcelo told the President, ''The people of Puerto Rico were
almost unanimous in their support of the decision.'' The President phoned him
after an announcement by the Justice Department that an agreement had been
reached to detain the 800 Haitians at Fort Allen, an unused Navy installation on
the island's south coast.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is expected to transfer Haitians to
Fort Allen from Miami's overcrowded Krome North detention center.

Meanwhile, in Atlanta, Federal District Judge Marvin Shoob said today that he
would soon begin ordering the release of some Cuban refugees detained at a
Federal prison there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 25, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

KENNEDY AIRPORT SEEKS TO CUT INSPECTION LINES

BYLINE: By DOROTHY J. GAITER

SECTION: Section 2; Page 26, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words


Federal officials at Kennedy International Airport are trying to cut the long
waits in inspection lines this summer with the addition of more temporary
inspectors, but their hopes for a more permanent solution to the seasonal
logjams rest on an abbreviated inspection system to be tested at two other major
airports.

On July 1, the Immigration and Naturalization Service added the first of 70
additional inspectors, 20 more than last summer, to its lines at the
International Arrivals Building at Kennedy and at the Trans World, Pan American,
American Airlines and British Airways terminals there.

The extra workers brought the total number of inspectors to about 165 -''more
inspectors than at any other time in the history of this service at the
airport,'' said Thomas M. Roland, assistant officer in charge of the Immigration
Service at Kennedy.

''We're hopeful,'' he said, ''that with the addition of these extra people we
can demonstrate that we can handle the problem ourselves.''

Customs Service Augmented

The Customs Service has added 100 temporary employees, the same number as last
summer, to augment its regular work force of 146 cargo inspectors and 125
passenger inspectors.

The agencies that handle international travelers and the industries that benefit
financially from them are concerned that tourists irked by long lines and missed
connections may not return to the New York area.

The delays also have a ripple effect: High-value freight shipments are held up
by the slow-moving lines, as are airplanes that only make money in the air.

''The additional inspectors have to provide some relief, but how much we don't
really know,'' said Jack K. Gartner, assistant manager of the public service
division of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the
airport.

''This is a temporary quick fix,'' he said, ''just for this summer as far as we
know.''

A 'Disaster' Last Summer

''Last summer was a disaster for Kennedy Airport,'' Mr. Gartner added. He said a
total of 236 aircraft had to be held on the ground during the summer,
''inconveniencing 70,000 passengers.''

This, he said, occurred because inadequately staffed inspection lines inside the
International Arrivals Building, which processes half of the passengers from
international flights, were jammed with tourists and their baggage.

It took some passengers as long as three hours to get through as inspectors
struggled to check thoroughly for illegal drugs and disease-bearing foods or
plants as well as foreign visitors who were considered likely to overstay their
visas.

Port Authority staff members have been participating in the state's ''I Love New
York'' promotional campaign for the travel industry in South America, Britain
and several major European cities. ''The single biggest complaint heard at these
seminars,'' Mr. Gartner said, ''was about the extensive delays and the
inconvenience of the Federal inspection process.''

A Change in Travel Market

The long delays began a few years ago when the devaluation of the dollar
reversed the traditional composition of the travel market - to 60 percent
foreign travelers and 40 percent Americans - and the hiring of inspectors did
not keep up with the growing number of noncitizen travelers.

While there seems to be universal agreement about the need to do something to
eliminate the delays, there is continuing discussion locally and nationally over
how to maintain inspection standards while reducing the lines.

Some favor adding more permanent inspectors, which runs counter to the Reagan
Administration's plan to economize by trimming the Federal work force. Others
support a streamlined inspection system proposed by the General Accounting
Office, which some say might make it easier for contraband to be brought into
the United States.

Kennedy Airport officials had hoped that it would be one of at least two
airports permitted to test the accelerated inspection system this summer. Last
year, it handled 6.3 million arrivals, or 31 percent of all international
passengers arriving in the United States by air. But despite an intense lobbying
effort in Washington, Kennedy lost to Miami International Airport, which handled
4.3 million international arrivals last year, and to Los Angeles International
Airport, which processed 2.8 million.

'Could Be Disastrous'

''New York was on the list to be considered, as were other major airports, but
was ruled out because of the problems we could have,'' said Sidney Reyes,
director of the passenger processing division of the Customs Service's Office of
Inspection in Washington. ''It is such a large airport that anything untested
could be disastrous if it didn't work.''

''If the tests prove to be a success,'' he said, ''then steps will be taken to
consider implementing it at J.F.K.'' The test system provides for a one-stop
procedure for all passengers at a primary inspection line staffed by inspectors
who are ''crosstrained'' to screen for the Immigration Service, the Customs
Service and the Agriculture Department.

At that line, the declaration statement filled out by each passenger would be
reviewed and their carry-on baggage would be inspected.

Those requiring additional inspection would be sent to a second inspection line,
while others could pick up their checked baggage and leave. Secondary
inspections would be based on pre-established passenger profiles, the origin of
the flight and sampling or random selection.

Mr. Gartner estimated that more than 90 percent of the passengers would be free
to leave after the first inspection.  ''We can't stick our head in the sand and
say we're just going to continue things the way they've been for umpteen
years,'' said Dennis H. Murphy, a spokesman for the Customs Service. ''We're
putting our heads together and trying to be innovative.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Kennedy Airport

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 30, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

1980 CENSUS FINDS CHINESE SURPASSING JAPANESE AS NATION'S LARGEST ASIAN GROUP

BYLINE: By JOHN HERBERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1025 words


The number of Chinese in the United States has grown so rapidly in recent years
that they now total more than 800,000 and have surpassed the Japanese as the
leading population of Asians in this country, according to 1980 census figures
announced yesterday.

The rapid increase in Chinese and in people from Japan, Korea, the Philippines,
India and Vietnam reflects a surge of immigration in the first decade after the
lifting of restrictive quotas on Asians in the late 1960's.

The people from those six countries make up the majority of the Asian population
in the United States. They have almost doubled since 1970 and now total more
than three million, as measured by the 1980 census.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service confirms the growth. It reported that
1.5 million Asians were legally admitted in the 10 years ended Sept. 30, 1980.

In the decade the number of Chinese increased 85 percent for a 1980 total of
806,000, according to the Bureau of the Census.  A decade earlier, Japanese were
the predominant Asians in America, with 591,000. They grew 19 percent in the
decade, to 701,000 in 1980, but were surpassed not only by Chinese but by
Filipinos. The Filipinos increased their numbers 126 percent, for a 1980
population of 775,000.

Koreans showed the most phenomenal growth, increasing from 69,000 in 1970 to
355,000 in 1980, a growth rate of 413 percent.  Asian Indians numbered 362,000
and Vietnamese 262,000 in 1980.  Neither had ever before been counted before by
the Census Bureau.  But immigration officials said the vast majorities of both
had come to the United States in recent years. Most of the Vietnamese were
refugees who came in under immigration quotas eased especially for those
displaced by the Vietnam War and other disruptions in Southeast Asia.

The increases were made more dramatic by the moderate increase shown by the
United States population as a whole in the 1970's: 11.4 percent. The Census
Bureau announced earlier that according to the count in April 1980, Asians and
Pacific islanders who designated their nation of origin numbered 3.5 million, or
1.5 percent of the population.

Some Groups Not on List

This, however, did not include Asians from certain countries, including
Thailand, Laos, Indonesia and Pakistan. Question 4 of the census form asked
residents to classify themselves as one of 14 designated groups or to check
''other'' and write in what classification they placed themselves in.  These
were the preliminary results: White 188,341,000. Black 26,488,000. American
Indian 1,362,000. Eskimo 42,000. Aleutian Islander 14,177. Chinese 806,000.
Filipino 775,000. Japanese 701,000. Asian Indian 362,000. Korean 355,000.
Vietnamese 262,000. Hawaiian 167,000. Samoan 42,000. Guamanian 32,000. Other
6,737,000.

Improved Methods a Factor

The bureau is to present a breakdown later on those in the ''other'' category.
But it is estimated that 40 percent of those who listed themselves in that
category were Hispanic Americans who consider themselves neither black nor white
but as belonging to a nationality not included on the census form. Many in the
''other'' column were Asians from various countries.

Some of the increase in the major groups was attributed to improved methods of
counting by the Census Bureau, but the census report said most of the increase
was due to ''a high-level immigration.''

For 40 years Asians and Africans were virtually excluded from entering this
country by numerical limitations first prescribed by the Quota Act of 1924,
which allocated entry on the basis of the national origin of the white
population.

Enactment of that law followed expression of fears by some white Americans of
being overrun by hordes of people of a different color, religion and customs. It
was repealed in 1965 and discriminatory quotas ended by 1968.

Current laws permit the entry of 270,000 persons a year, with each nation
limited to 20,000. Exceptions have been made, however, for refugee groups such
as those from Southeast Asia and Cuba, and the quotas do not include relatives
of immigrants who have come into the country legally. Also, there has been a
large increase in recent years in the number of illegal immigrants.

Changes Rule Out Precision

The result is that a much larger percentage of the population is now of Asian,
Latin American or African extraction, even though the Census Bureau's changes in
classifications between 1970 and 1980 prevent precise comparisons. Some persons
who listed themselves as Mexican or Puerto Rican, for example, were listed by
the bureau in 1970 as white.

Bureau officials said a large increase of American Indians, to 1,362,000 from
569,000 in 1970, was a result not only of high birth rates among Indians but
especially of improvements in census procedures in counting people on
reservations. The heaviest concentrations of American Indians were in
California, Oklahoma, Arizona, New Mexico and North Carolina.

Asians have tended to concentrate largely in the West, with California having
the largest number by far of Chinese, Japanese, Filipinos, Koreans and
Vietnamese. surpassing any other state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: table on populations of five Asian ethnic groups in U.S.
in 1970 and

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

WHY GABRIEL ISAHAROV WAS MADE A U.S. CITIZEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words


To the Editor:

I write for the purpose of correcting any misunderstanding that may have been
created by the fact that I permitted Gabriel Isaharov to be naturalized as a
U.S. citizen in my courtroom on July 22 (news story July 23).

It was the position of the Immi-gration and Naturalization Service that the
petitioner Gabriel Isaharov is barred under Section 312(1) Immi-gration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. - 1423(1) by reason of his inabil-ity to read, write
or speak the Eng-lish language. This is the correct legal position in this type
of case, and one which the court would ex-pect the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to take and to pursue.

The court, however, has previously permitted naturalization under circumstances
similar to those in the case of Gabriel Isaharov, and undoubtedly the court will
do so in the future. If the petitioner in the case before the court had been a
much younger person, I would have required an ability to read, write or speak
the English language.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is to be commended for the superb job
done by its personnel in naturalization procedures before the U.S. courts.
HENRY BRAMWELL, U.S. District Judge Brooklyn, July 24, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Justice Steven Extends Ban On Expulsion of Mexicans

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens yesterday acted to allow thousands of
Mexican immigrants to remain temporarily in the United States.

Justice Stevens extended an order by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit barring the Government from expelling the immigrants on Aug. 1
when a temporary injunction expires. His order remains in effect until he or the
full Court take further action. If the Court eventually decides to take up the
case, it could develop as a test of Congress's immigration policies.

The Mexicans, who are applying for visas to stay in the country, argued that the
Government imposed unlawful limits on Mexican immigration in 1977. The
Government's actions, they maintained, resulted in 13,366 visas being withheld
from immigrants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN'S STATEMENT ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


Following is the text of a statement by President Reagan today on immigration:
Our nation is a nation of immigrants. More than any other country, our strength
comes from our own immigrant heritage and our capacity to welcome those from
other lands. No free and prosperous nation can by itself accommodate all those
who seek a better life or flee persecution. We must share this responsibility
with other countries.

The bipartisan select commission which reported this spring concluded that the
Cuban influx to Florida made the United States sharply aware of the need for
more effective immigation policies, and the need for legislation to support
those policies.

For these reasons, I asked the Attorney General last March to chair a task force
on immigration and refugee policy. We discussed the matter when President Lopez
Portillo visited me last month, and we have carefully considered the views of
our Mexican friends. In addition, the Attorney General has consulted with those
concerned in Congress, and in affected states and localities, and with
interested members of the public.

Proposal With Eight Principles

The Attorney General is undertaking administrative actions, and submitting to
Congress, on behalf of the Administration, a legislative package, based on eight
principles. These principles are designed to preserve our tradition of accepting
foreigners to our shores, but to accept them in a controlled and orderly
fashion:

- We shall continue America's tradition as a land that welcomes peoples from
other countries. We shall also, with other countries, continue to share in the
responsibility of welcoming and resettling those who flee oppression.

- At the same time, we must insure adequate legal authority to establish control
over immigration: to enable us, when sudden influxes of foreigners occur, to
decide to whom we grant the status of refugee or asylee; to improve our border
control; to expedite (consistent with fair procedures and our Constitution)
return of those coming here illegally; to strengthen enforcement of our fair
labor standards and laws; and to penalize those who would knowingly encourage
violation of our laws. The steps we take to further these objectives, however,
must also be consistent with our values of individual privacy and freedom.

Ties With Canada and Mexico

- We have a special relationship with our closest neighbors, Canada and Mexico.
Our immigration policy should reflect this relationship.

- We must also recognize that both the United States and Mexico have
historically benefited from Mexicans obtaining employment in the United States.
A number of our states have special labor needs, and we should take these into
account.

- Illegal immigrants in considerable numbers have become productive members of
our society and are a basic part of our work force. Those who have established
equities in the United States should be recognized and accorded legal status. At
the same time, in so doing, we must not encourage illegal immigration.

- We shall strive to distribute fairly, among the various localities of this
country, the impacts of our national immigration and refugee policy; and we
shall improve the capability of those agencies of the Federal Government which
deal with these matters.

- We shall seek new ways to integrate refugees into our society without
nurturing their dependence on welfare.

- Finally, we recognize that immigration and refugee problems require
international solutions; we will seek greater international cooperation in the
resettlement of refugees, and, in the Caribbean basin, international cooperation
to assist accelerated economic development to reduce motivations for illegal
immigration.

Immigration and refugee policy is an important part of our past and fundamental
to our national interest. With the help of the Congress and the American people,
we will work towards a new and realistic immigration policy, a policy that will
be fair to our own citizens while it opens the door of opportunity for those who
seek a new life in America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 4, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Ukrainian Youth Seeks Permanent Residency

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 3


A 13-year-old boy and his adult sister who have been granted political asylum in
the United States filed a formal request today for permanent residency. However,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service said that no decision on the request
would be made until a battle over the custody of Walter Polovchak is settled in
court.

The case began last July when the boy ran away from home after his parents, who
had lived here for six months, decided to return to the Soviet Ukraine. Pending
before the Cook County Circuit Court is the question of whether Walter was
properly granted political asylum and a request by his parents asylum order be
withdrawn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 5, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ADVISER IN MEXICAN GOVERNMENT ASSAILS REAGAN IMMIGRATION PLAN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4


Mexico's leading expert on migration, Jorge Bustamante, criticized President
Reagan's immigration proposals today, saying they served the interests of United
States employers and would institutionalize the inferior status of Mexican
workers in this country.

The proposal for a guest worker program, combined with a new legal status for
some of the Mexicans already here without visas, would ''insure employers the
availability of cheap labor,'' Dr.  Bustamante, director of the border studies
program at El Colegio de Mexico, a respected research institute in Mexico City,
said at a news conference here.

The Mexican Government has not officially commented on the Reagan proposals,
which were announced last week. Dr. Bustamante, a sociologist who sometimes
advises the Mexican Government, said that the Reagan Administration policy would
perpetuate a ''subclass of workers'' and would establish a ''reserve army of
labor that will be at the disposal of employers.''

The Administration proposed to admit 50,000 Mexicans a year as temporary workers
in a two-year experimental program. Illegal aliens wishing to regularize their
status could apply to become permanent residents after living here 10 years. In
the waiting period, they would pay Social Security and income taxes but could
not bring their spouses or young children and would not have access to welfare,
food stamps or unemployment insurance.

Plan Is Defended

Attorney General William French Smith said today that he did not pay much heed
to criticism of the Administration's program because it was all directed at
individual elements and because the critics rarely offered a comprehensive
alternative.

Mr. Smith said that the program was designed to deter illegal immigration while
modestly expanding opportunities for legal employment of aliens in the United
States.

However, Dr. Bustamante said: ''All parts of the program are conducive to an
increase in the flow. The announcement of a guest worker program will increase
expectations on the part of Mexican would-be migrants. These persons would come
in larger numbers. This will increase competition and diminish wages.''

For more than 100 years, Dr. Bustamante said, ''Mexican labor has been defined
and conceived by many employers as a natural resource of the Southwest.'' But
''Mexican labor is not cheap by nature,'' he said. ''It is made cheap by the
laws of the United States and the practices of employers.''

'Safety Valve' Theory

The labor market in the Southwestern United States has often been described as a
''safety valve'' for the Mexican economy. But such a view, according to Dr.
Bustamante, ignores the value of the foreign workers to businesses in this
country.

''The United States needs the migrants as it needs energy,'' he said. ''But
undocumented persons are not the same as barrels of oil.  They are human beings,
they have rights.''

Dr. Bustamante said that ''employers of the Southwest would go into bankruptcy
in less than a week'' if the border was closed and all undocumented workers were
sent back to Mexico.

As an alternative, he recommended that ''organized labor in Mexico get together
with organized labor in the United States to define the dimension of the real
demand for migrant workers'' in this country.  Labor leaders, in turn, could
negotiate wages and working conditions with groups of employers in various
industries, he said.

Dr. Bustamante, who holds a Ph.D. from the University of Notre Dame, spoke at a
news conference sponsored by the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a private,
nonprofit group with a liberal political orientation.

He criticized the Administration's proposal to double the quota for legal
immigration from Mexico on the ground that most of the additional visas would go
to skilled and semiskilled workers of the very type most needed in Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 6, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

UKRAINIAN BOY SEEKS PERMANENT U.S. RESIDENCY

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL SHEPPARD Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 5


The year-old custody battle between the State of Illinois and the parents of
Walter Polovchak, a 13-year-old Ukrainian boy who does not want to return with
them to the Soviet Union, has taken a new turn with the boy's request for
permanent residency in the Untied States.

The legal dispute has already captured international attention because of the
boy's age and because of the political and diplomatic questions the dispute
raises about the rights of one country to take custody of a child from another
country with differing political and social conditions.

Federal officials have tried to remain in the background of the dispute by
denying any direct involvement, but Federal intervention began two days after
the boy ran away from home, when the Immigration and Naturalization Service
granted him religious asylum.

State Department's Role

Asylum was granted ''on the strength of a State Department request,'' according
to Lloyd Bishop, the agency's acting director here. ''The State Department was
contacted immediately after he applied for asylum,'' Mr. Bishop added, ''and the
decision was made after high-level consultations.''

Spokesmen for the department have maintained since last February that it ''has
taken no direct role in the Polovchak case, which is properly a matter for the
Illinois courts.''

''It is rare that a child of this immaturity would be granted asylum,'' Mr.
Bishop said, adding that although Walter signed his application for asylum,
responses to questions on it appeared to have been printed by someone else.

The application for asylum lists six categories under which aslyum may be
requested, including race, religion, nationality, political opinion and
membership in certain groups.

On the boy's application, the religion and nationality categories were
specified. One question asked: ''If you base your claim for asylum on current
conditions in your country, do these affect your freedom more than the rest of
the country's population?'' Walter's response was, ''Yes, believe freedom of
worship would be denied.''

Another question asked: ''What do you think would happen to you if you
returned?'' The response was, ''Prevented from receiving higher education,
considered suspect, restricted mobility.''

The grant of religious asylum became part of a series of unusual legal actions
that removed Walter and his 18-year-old sister, Natalie, from the custody of
their parents, Anna and Michael Polovchak.

In January 1980, the Polovchak family immigrated to the United States in search
of a better life. Within six months, however, the Polovchaks became
disillusioned with life in America and decided to return to the Soviet Union.

After Mr. Polovchak had indicated his intentions, a nephew who was then living
with them on Chicago's West Side rented an apartment that he offered to share
with the boy and his sister.

Walter and Natalie accepted the offer and ran away from home. The parents
reported them missing and the police found them the next day. However, when the
parents went to pick up their children, Julian E.  Kulas, a Ukranian-born
Chicago lawyer, showed up at the police station and said that the children had
run away to avoid returning to the Soviet Union.

Instead of turning Walter and Natalie over to their parents, the police prepared
a ''minor in need of supervision'' petition and continued to hold them. State
officials filed the petition in juvenile court and, after several days of
hearings, Judge Joseph C.  Mooney of Cook County Juvenile Court placed the
children in the temporary custody of the state. They were later placed with
foster children.

Court testimony verifed that the children had fled because they did not want to
return to the Ukraine. There was no documentation that they were not being
properly cared for by their parents.

Illinois law allows children to be taken from their parents when the child's
''welfare or safety or the protection of the public cannot be adequately
safeguarded without removal.''

A second phase of the juvenile court proceedings will determine the disposition
of the case; that is, who will be given custody of Walter.

The parents have said that they would not fight Natalie's decision to remain in
the United States but they insisted that Walter was too young to make such a
decision. The Polovchaks have another son, who is 7 years old, but no efforts
have been made to remove him from their custody.

Walter has given no direct exposition of his views because attorneys on both
sides have refused to allow him to do so. His parents have insisted that their
son has been ''kidnapped'' by the United States for propaganda purposes.

Mr. Bishop, the immigration official, said that Walter's application for
permanent residency would not receive special treatment except that no final
decision would be made until after the courts had decided on custody.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Walter Polovchak

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 7, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Iranians in Protest Face Deportation

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 130 words


NEWARK (UPI) - Deportation proceedings were begun yesterday against 60 Iranian
hunger strikers arrested at an Englewood apartment for failing to identify
themselves to Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service officials.

The 60 men, who took part in a hunger strike from July 30 until Wednesday in New
York in protest against the regime of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, were arrested
Wednesday. They were charged with failing to show the date, place and manner of
their entry into the country, according to a Government official.

As the deportation proceedings began before immigration judges in Newark, three
dozen Iranian men, women and children demonstrated peacefully outside the Peter
Rodino Federal Building.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 14, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SOVIET PARENTS ASSAIL SON'S STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 13


The parents of a 13-year-old Ukrainian boy who left his family in Chicago a year
ago rather than return to the Soviet Union arrived in Moscow without him today
and offered a nightmarish account of what they called the ''kidnapping'' and
possible drugging of their son by United States officials.

When Anna and Mikhail Polovchak arrived on an Aeroflot flight from Washington
with their younger son, Mikhail, 7, they were accessible only to Soviet
reporters. The resulting accounts were carried by the official Soviet press
agency, Tass.

The couple's elder son, Walter, has been in the custody of the state of
Illinois, living with Chicago foster parents, since last July. Their oldest
child, Natalya, 18, who traveled to the United States on her own passport,
became an adult while in the United States and chose to stay.

Disillusionment After 6 Months

Walter and his sister left their immediate family in Chicago last summer to live
with a cousin when their parents, who had arrived in the United States in
January 1980, became disillusioned with life in America and decided to return to
the Ukraine. They had petitioned for years for the right to emigrate.

The boy's future appears to rest with the Illinois Court of Appeals, which is to
rule on a custody suit brought by his parents with the assistance of the
American Civil Liberties Union after Walter was granted religious asylum by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. He has now applied for permanent
resident status.

Tass quoted his parents as saying on their return here that the legal processes
were a sham to cover up an official American plot to seize the boy and exploit
him for political purposes.

The one element in the Tass account that foreign reporters could confirm was
that Mrs. Polovchak was weeping as she was led through the arrivals hall at
Sheremetyevo Airport here.

Tass said that the couple chose to leave before the Illinois court ruling
because they could no longer bear ''the fascinations of the 'American paradise.'
'' The Soviet agency contended that ''Ukrainian nationalists and Baptists'' in
Chicago had enticed their daughter and ''abducted'' Walter, then enlisted United
States officials in a skein of ''pettyfogging details and procrastinations'' to
avoid ''the absolutely clear question of the return of the boy to his parents.''


Helsinki Violation Is Charged

Tass said that American actions in the affair ''grossly violated United States
laws'' and abrogated United States commitments under the 1975 Helsinki agreement
on security and cooperation in Europe, under which 35 nations undertook, among
other things, to facilitate the re-unification of families separated by
political borders. The latter point is a keenly sensitive one for the Soviet
authorities, who have sent dozens of Soviet dissidents to labor camps for
engaging in what are considered anti-state activities, including criticizing
Soviet performance under the human rights provisions of the Helsinki accord.

''I am crying for my children taken away from me,'' Tass quoted Mrs. Polovchak
as saying on her return. ''I know that Volodya wants to come back home,'' she
said, using the diminutive for the boy's Russian name, Vladimir, ''but he is
being prevented from doing so.''

Mrs. Polovchak said that Walter had occasionally been brought to see his
parents. ''He was brought by two extremely gloomy characters,'' she was quoted
as saying. ''They hardly allowed him to speak. Volodya was extremely lukewarm,
somewhat senseless, as if not alive. They surely poison him with narcotics. It
is quite clear that they detain him by force.''

Mr. Polovchak was quoted as saying that he had been promised that his children
would be returned and he would be given ''a lot of money and a house'' if he
gave up his intention to return home and took part in an organized anti-Soviet
show.

''I refused,'' he said, ''and they took away my children for that.  I shall
continue to struggle and will not be quiet until they return my children to
me.''

Mr. Polovchak, 43, a bus driver in the Ukraine, worked as a janitor in Chicago,
but Tass said he had been ''illegally sacked,'' forcing the family to live on
what his 39-year-old wife earned as a hospital cleaner. The agency quoted him as
saying that it had become ''simply too dangerous'' to remain in the United
States lest the authorities take his other son away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Anna and Mikhail Polovchak and son Mikhail in
Moscow

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Cold War Family

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 503 words


What's to be done with young Walter Polovchak?  In January, 1980, Walter's
father, a Ukrainian bus driver, emigrated to the United States with his wife and
three children. He soon grew disillusioned: he couldn't find a job he liked; he
didn't get along in Chicago's Ukrainian-American community.

So a year ago, he announced plans to return to the Ukraine. His two older
children, Natalie, then 17, and Walter, 12, objected and left home to live with
their 24-year-old cousin in another part of town.  The parents decided Natalie
was old enough to make up her own mind, but they wanted Walter back.

At first, the United States Government helped prevent his return.  The
immigration service granted asylum to Walter, now represented by a prominent
Ukrainian-American lawyer. The Polovchaks, with the help of the American Civil
Liberties Union, challenged the ruling. And the State of Illinois, heeding
urgings to keep Walter in America, persuaded a juvenile court to declare him a
runaway, make him a ward of the state and place him in a foster home. The
parents are appealing.

Last week the Justice Department retreated from its original involvement; it
said it would not defend Walter's asylum if the Illinois court returns him to
his parents. At the same time, however, the distraught parents left for the
Soviet Union.

Walter's lawyers hint darkly that the parents are part of a K.G.B.  plot. And
Soviet officials are milking the case for propaganda. A Tass dispatch had
Walter's father saying that American authorities promised return of the children
along with ''a lot of money and a house'' if he would stay in the United States.
When Walter was allowed to visit after they lost custody, according to Tass, his
mother found him escorted by ''two extremely gloomy characters ...  they surely
poison him with narcotics.''

Now really. Does the K.G.B. recruit bus drivers for international operations,
and the C.I.A. little children? This looks more like a family affair gone
political. Besides complaining about difficulties in Chicago, Walter's father
complained bitterly about his nephew's efforts to lure the children from their
parents, introducing them to American teen-age life and the Baptist church. This
was particularly dismaying to the older Polovchaks, devout Catholics.
(''Ukrainian Catholics,'' says a lawyer for the parents, ''look upon American
Baptists about the way we look upon the Moonies.'') And 13-year-old Walter, as
any parent can testify, is at an age that richly enjoys the role of pain in the
neck.

American officials are to be commended for backing away from involvement in the
case. Whether Walter belongs with his parents is for the courts to decide. But
this is no place for cold-war politics. Even if Soviet officials continue to
exploit one family's unhappiness for propaganda, Americans should know better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 19, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

INDIANS GRANTED DELAY ON OUSTER

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ROBBINS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: BERWYN, Pa., Aug. 18


Shailesh K. Patel seemed stunned. He had just learned that, instead of facing
deportation Sunday, he and his family had 60 more days before an expulsion order
issued by the Immigration and Naturalization Service would go into effect.

Besides that, he was told today, there was a chance for a permanent stay.  ''I
guess I can sleep tonight,'' said Mr. Patel, pausing between chores at his
gasoline station here, where he services automobiles of his Main Line customers.

Mr. Patel, 34 years old, entered the country on a student visa 16 years ago and
has been fighting a legal battle to stay here almost ever since his graduation
from Villanova University. Having exhausted all his appeals, he had been almost
certain that he, his wife and their three children, who are American citizens,
would finally have to go to India.

Many of his customers and neighbors had reacted to the family's plight by
helping pursue last-minute efforts for help.

Specter Announced Relief

The family had already begun to pack up, Mr. Patel said, when word of the
temporary relief, granted by the immigration agency, was announced in Washington
today by Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania. The Senator had
protested what he termed ''the unconsionable hardship'' for the Patels and had
filed a plea with the agency for reconsideration of its order. Thus far, his
office said, the Senator has had no reply to that appeal except the temporary
postponement of the deportation.

Mr. Specter said he would visit Mr. Patel at the service station and talk with
the family in their home in West Goshen Township in suburban Chester County
tomorrow to determine the degree of hardship and to prepare for possible
introduction of a private bill to gain permanent relief for them in the event
that no other solution could be gained.

President Reagan has proposed an amendment to the immigration law that would
grant amnesty to most aliens now living in the United States, even those who had
entered the country illegally. However, Mr. Specter said today, ''I am concerned
that this extension will not allow sufficient time for passage of the
Administration's proposal.'' For that reason, he added, ''My introduction of a
private bill may be necessary.''

Married in Bombay

Mr. Patel, who holds a degree in mechanical engineering, returned to his native
Bombay after graduation and married, then brought his wife, Premlata, here.

Although the Patels' children were born in the United States, they face possible
forced immigration with their parents to a land whose language they hardly
understand.

Mr. Patel and his wife have been fighting a legal battle to stay, primarily on
the ground that his investment in a service station had met a special-preference
provision of immigration law that was then in effect but has since been
eliminated.

An appeal from an adverse ruling by the immigration agency has been rejected
without a hearing by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in
Philadelphia.

''Oh, that is good news!'' exclaimed Mrs. Patel in her home as she heard word by
telephone of the temporary relief.  Now, she said, she could stop packing, at
least for a while.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 21, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ISRAEL TIGHTENS EMIGRE POLICY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 195 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Aug. 20


Israel has moved to make it more difficult for Jewish emigrants arriving in
Vienna from the Soviet Union to go anywhere else but Israel.

Nearly 85 percent of the emigrants reaching Vienna with visas for Israel have
gone elsewhere in recent months. Of these, 90 percent went to the United States
as refugees.

The Jewish Agency for Israel, which handles immigration to Israel, this week
began giving assistance to emigrants to go elsewhere than Israel only if their
motives are to join parents, children or spouses. Others are being offered the
option of flying to Israel or remaining in Vienna.

Arye Dulzin, chairman of the agency, said in Jerusalem today that only 700 Jews
had left the Soviet Union last month compared with 2,000 in July 1980 and 4,000
in July 1979. ''The dropouts are sealing the fate of tens of thousands of Jews
who wish to leave Russia,'' he said.

Mr. Dulzin said that the Austrian Government was informed of the change in
policy two weeks ago.  He said prospective emigrants in the Soviet Union have
also been apprised of the new situation through the Dutch Embassy, which looks
after Israeli interests in Moscow, and through other means.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Practical Traveler;
CLEARING CUSTOMS: STILL A HURDLE

BYLINE: By PAUL GRIMES

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2077 words


If, when international flights are operating normally, you enter the United
States at Kennedy International Airport in New York, you may be walking out of
the arrivals terminal less than half an hour after your plane parks at the
arrival gate. But you stand an equal chance of being delayed two hours or
longer. You may spend perhaps 45 minutes of that time in the parked plane
because a lot of wide-bodied jetliners have landed within a few minutes of each
other and the terminal facilities are jammed.

These estimates come from a variety of sources: Federal and trade surveys,
customs and immigration reports and the observations of airline executives
stationed at Kennedy. According to the latest figures of the United States
Customs Service office in New York, the average time it takes to clear all
formalities at Kennedy, including the claiming of baggage, is 45.5 minutes.

All sources agree that delays are most likely to be encountered in late
afternoon and early evening, when most planes from Europe arrive. The busiest
time of the year is right now, when international travel is normally at its
peak. Despite increased inspection staffs, delays are often ''tremendous,'' in
the words of Donald Burns, manager of public services at Kennedy for the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey.

Federal authorities are, however, trying to speed up the customs and immigration
procedures at Kennedy, as well as at other major gateway airports. A system
intended to speed immigration procedures for U.S. citizens has already been put
into effect at Kennedy, and an experimental program in which one inspector does
both customs and immigration clearances is being tried in Miami and Los Angeles.
Other improvements, like adding more airports to those - such as those serving
Toronto and Bermuda -where customs and immigration procedures are completed
before boarding the plane, are being studied.

Earlier this year the Federal Office of Management and Budget had proposed deep
cuts in the budget for customs and immigrations inspections. Following protests
by the airline and tourism industries the Customs Service was permitted to have
its normal 176-inspector summertime complement at Kennedy, and the immigration
staff was increased from the usual 150-inspector complement to 170.

While the short-term prospect is for attempts to be made to improve the system
as it now exists, more sweeping changes may be on the way. Last June David A.
Stockman, director of the Office of Management and Budget, wrote to Attorney
General William F. Smith to say, ''The time is ripe for an overhaul of the
inspection process.''

Jacobus J. Dekker, vice president and general manager for the United States for
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, is chairman of a group called European North Atlantic
Carriers, representing 13 airlines that fly to and from this country. In this
capacity, he recalled to a House subcommittee in June that many of the present
immigration and customs rules and procedures were established in steamship days
when intercontinental travel was leisurely and relatively rare.

''Travel to the United States,'' he said, ''was typified by a few businessmen,
well-to-do vacationers and the great masses sometimes referred to as the
'wretched refuse' from those 'teaming shores' overseas. In those days, customs
and later immigration procedures could develop leisurely approaches to the
problem. Today, however, wide-bodied aircraft bring more passengers into the
United States in a few hours than came in over months by steamship.''

Mr. Dekker's committee - in fact, virtually everyone I questioned except United
States officials - favored what insiders call the ''red door/green door''
inspection system. According to a list provided by the International Air
Transport Association, it is used at international airports in 41 countries,
ranging from underdeveloped New Caledonia in the Pacific to
super-security-minded Israel to virtually all countries in Western Europe.

Under this system a passenger with something to declare is directed by red signs
to a declaration area, where the appropriate duties are collected. A passenger
with nothing to declare walks under a green sign labeled ''nothing to declare.''
He proceeds through a series of gates and aisles, past observing customs
officials who, based on their training, pick out individuals here and there for
spot checks.

Mr. Dekker says that after the system was adopted in Amsterdam, customs revenues
there surged at a rate 28 percent higher than they had been before and that
''substantial increases'' under the system had also been reported elsewhere. The
gains, he said, ''have been attributed by some to the fact that individuals tend
to feel a greater sense of responsibility when customs responsibilities are
placed directly on them.''

Mr. Dekker added, ''It would seem that previously in Europe, when every
passenger had to privately confront a customs official, as they still do in the
United States, some passengers apparently took the position that it was the
customs official's responsibility to find that extra bottle of liquor or that
bologna sandwich. The red door/ green door system relies on the passenger's
desire to avoid the more public embarrassment of being found with the extra
bottle of liquor while standing under the green sign.''

The main United States objection to red door/green door is based on our rigid
agricultural and narcotics laws, under which customs officials feel that at
least some contact between a passenger and an inspector is essential. James R.
Gorson, director of facilitation for the Air Transport Association, an
organization of the American airline industry, says that while his group favors
red door/green door, it recognizes that the United States ''has a $5 billion
agricultural resource to protect.''

A high European airline official, who declined to be quoted by name, retorted
that many other countries have heavy dependence on agriculture and very strict
health controls. He said baggage checks at airports did little to deter the
spread of agricultural disease or narcotics. ''Most crackdowns against drug
traffickers,'' he said, ''come from tipoffs and international police
cooperation, not from inspecting luggage.''

The six-month test program that began Aug. 4 in Miami and Los Angeles (and was
soon impaired by the air controllers' strike) is a sort of compromise between
red door/green door and rigid American procedures. As described by Sidney Reyes,
director of the passenger processing division at United States Customs Service
headquarters in Washington, the program, which bears the name ASIST - the
acronym for ''accelerated special inspection system test,'' works this way:

Certain immigration and customs inspectors are trained to do each other's job.
When a passenger leaves a plane, he is first interviewed by one or the other,
and all hand baggage is inspected thoroughly for agricultural problems. The
interview determines what happens next: Most travelers pay any assessed customs
duty, then are cleared to pick up their checked baggage and head for the exit; a
few are asked to undergo further inspection. Everyone who has been cleared,
however, must pause briefly at the exit gate, and those without a clearance card
or who have aroused suspicion may be turned back.

The anticipated saving in time lies in the fact that the arrival interview takes
place before delivery of checked baggage. The onus is on the airline, therefore,
not the Government, if baggage is not available when the interview ends. A few
days after the test began, however, George Spofford, deputy director of the Dade
County (Fla.) Aviation Department, complained in an interview that inspection of
hand luggage was so much more rigorous in Miami than earlier that new delays
were occurring.

While the experimental programs in Miami and Los Angeles were just getting under
way when the air controller's strike began, the socalled ''citizens' bypass''
program has been in effect at Kennedy for about a year. Airport officials say,
however, that the the Kennedy program has had very little effect. Under the
''citizens' bypass'' procedure, United States nationals have been exempted from
the immigration procedures imposed on foreigners. Baggage, however, has to be
picked up before customs clearance, and delays at claim areas often mean that
foreign passengers frequently catch up with Americans by the time checked
baggage is available. This severely taxed customs inspection and creates delays
for all. According to a Customs Service survey, it takes arriving foreigners an
average of only 3.6 minutes longer than Americans to clear all formalities at
Kennedy.

As one way to speed arrivals in the United States, the Air Tranport Association
is advocating preclearance operations such as those under which, by
international agreement, travelers go through American immigration and customs
procedures at airports in Canada, Bermuda and Freeport and Nassau in the
Bahamas. Mr. Gorson cited Tokyo as a departure gateway where American
preclearance might be feasible, since flights leave there for Guam, Honolulu,
Los Angeles, Seattle, San Francisco, Anchorage, Chicago and New York.

Mr. Dekker of KLM cautions, however, that an American traveler making connecting
flights to return home from Europe would, under a preclearance system, ''have to
request his luggage be unloaded at his last European stop, wait for the luggage
to come down the carousel, stand in a customs line, then load his baggage once
again.'' He sees this as a waste of time and effort by the passenger and a
substantial cost to airlines.

While Government agencies study procedures to speed up the inspection and
clearance process, committees made up of industry, government and airport
officials have been formed to improve procedures generally, notably the
unloading of baggage and its ground transport, two procedures that frequently
cause long delays.

A particularly nettlesome problem, in these days of wide-bodied jets and
computerized ticketing, is the shortage of shopping carts.  Innumerable
passengers, in letters to newspapers and complaints reported by Federal
agencies, have told of frequent scarcities of shopping carts in the
International Arrivals Building at Kennedy, where passengers must claim their
baggage themselves and carry it through customs; porters are not permitted
inside the inspection area. ''It isn't a case that physically we don't have
enough carts,'' said Mr. Burns, the public services manager. ''It's a problem of
having them in the right place at the right time.'' He said it often was a
problem of getting carts from the customs-inspection area, where passengers
abandon them, back to the baggage-claim area, where newly arrived travelers need
them.

Until some improvements in the customs and immigration clearance system are
firmly installed, Mr. Gorson says, passengers should do as much as possible to
help themselves. He urges travelers to:

- Be alert to the requirements of each country they visit, including their own.

- Be aware that they can speed up American formalities considerably if they do
not carry fruits or, say, ''a tasty sausage from Italy,'' which could serve as a
trigger to customs inspectors to search their belongings thoroughly.

- Be sure that foreign-made cameras that they take from home are registered with
customs before they leave. The registration slip will prove that the cameras are
not dutiable upon one's return home.

- Keep a list of purchases abroad, including prices paid. Receipts also may be
helpful.  For detailed tips there is nothing better than the periodically
updated Customs Service leaflet ''Know Before You Go.'' You can get a free copy
by asking for it by name on a 12-cent postcard addressed to the United States
Customs Service, P.O. Box 7118, Washington, D.C.  20044.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CAMP IN GREECE A HALFWAY POINT FOR REFUGEES

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

DATELINE: LAVRION, Greece, Aug. 18


Twenty-year-old Teresa, from Gdansk, Poland, has been waiting here for seven
months to get clearance to begin a new life in Toronto.

Teresa, who asked that her last name not be used, says she left Poland because
of economic hardships and the fears of a Soviet military intervention. She lives
in a refugee camp in this dusty coastal town, 40 miles southeast of Athens. With
her are more than a hundred other refugees, mostly from Eastern Europe and the
Middle East.

Almost daily, either individually or in groups, refugees cross Greece's borders
on foot from Albania, Yugoslavia or Bulgaria or swim across the Maritsa River
from Turkey, or simply arrive here with passports.

For most of the 2,500 refugees who arrive every year, the Lavrion camp is a
halfway point between their former homelands and what they hope will be a better
life. Most have come in search of a democratic system of government, religious
freedom, or simply - as one puts it - ''because they want a full refrigerator.''
Most are heading for the United States, Canada or Australia. For all, the most
tormenting aspect is the uncertain wait.

Speeding Up of Process Sought

''We want a quickening of the process,'' says a former Ethiopian civil servant
who has drifted through various countries and has spent five years trying to
find a new home. ''I was approved to go to the United States in March, but I am
still here. This waiting can drag me into mental sickness. All I want is to be a
loyal American citizen.''

Foreign Minister Constantine Mitsotakis of Greece said, ''Greece has always been
a country of asylum, and will continue its policy of giving asylum to anyone who
requests it, without discrimination as to their nationality or the social regime
from which they come.''

He says the only delaying factor as far as Greece is concerned is in the checks
it carries out to determine whether those who arrive are foreign agents posing
as refugees, but he concedes that this has rarely proved to be the case.

Lesley Goodyear, representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, says that ''the Greek approach has been more than generous.'' He says
most people coming for political reasons are granted asylum and anyone whose
request is refused has the right to an appeal.

Biggest Problem Is Boredom

The Lavrion center consists of a series of fairly new, if somewhat sparse rooms,
designed to house either families or individual refugees, a dining hall, a
television room and two classrooms for the four hours of English lessons
provided each day.

The refugees seem generally satisfied with the services provided and there are
no restrictions on their movement. But they worry about their families back home
and most fear retribution if their names were to appear in the press.

''The biggest problem is boredom,'' says a Rumanian computer programmer, ''and
it is particularly upsetting when someone leaves before you, although you have
been waiting longer.''

None of the organizations involved feel they can do anything to speed up the
process. Ralph Johnson, an immigration attache at the United States Embassy,
says that immigration formalities are completed in a short time.

''The problem is to find sponsors for these people in the United States, and
that has nothing to do with us,'' he says. ''It is up to the church
organizations and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to do
that.''

Mr. Goodyear, the United Nations official, says the problem of finding sponsors
has been aggravated by the recent increase in Vietnamese and Cuban refugees in
the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CALIFORNIA BECOMES MELTING POT OF 1980'S

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1742 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 21


Over the last decade, California has all but supplanted New York as the
principal ethnic melting pot of America, according to data from the 1980 census.

In a tide of immigration that is reshaping the social, economic and political
life of the nation's most populous state, California has become the port of
entry for tens of thousands of refugees from economic and political troubles
abroad.

''California,'' says Dr. Bertram Brown, a psychiatrist and population researcher
for the Rand Corporation, ''has become the Ellis Island of the 1980's.''

As New York's Ellis Island was the gateway for the great trans-Atlantic tide of
immigration 80 years ago, California's proximity to Latin America and the
Pacific has made it the gateway for the immigrants of the 1980's.

European Immigration Recalled

According to demographers, not since the turn of the century, when millions of
immigrants from southern and eastern Europe flocked to America and settled in
New York and other cities along the East Coast, have so many alien immigrants
from so many countries gravitated to a single region of the country.

There are refugees from Southeast Asia, Cuba, Ethiopia and the Soviet Union, as
well as Taiwanese, Samoans, Koreans, Cubans and uncounted legal and illegal
aliens from Latin America and elsewhere, all shouting, figuratively,
''California or bust,'' as the immigrants from ''back East'' did a hundred years
ago.

Because much of the immigration is illegal, no one knows how many newcomers are
arriving here from abroad. Based on data from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, however, the legal migration to California from abroad last year is
believed to have ranged from 150,000 to 200,000, including about 50,000
Southeast Asians. The state's total population growth was about 450,000.

Decline in White Proportion

Pat Johnson, a Census Bureau analyst, says that one of the most significant
elements measured by the 1980 census regarding California's population was the
emergence of its polyglot character.

From 1970 to 1980, according to the bureau's figures, the proportion of
California residents who are ''Anglos,'' that is, those whose ethnic roots are
predominately in Western Europe, declined to 76 percent from 89 percent. The
proportion of virtually every other ethnic category increased substantially.

Asians and Pacific Islanders, for example, formed the category that grew most
rapidly, increasing 140 percent, to 1.25 million. The number of Californians
with Hispanic roots, the fastest-growing category in terms of total numbers,
increased 92 percent, to 4.5 million. The state's overall population increased
18.5 percent, to 23.7 million, in the 1970's.

In the same decade California recorded a 30 percent increase in blacks, to 1.8
million, and a 118 percent increase in American Indians, bringing the total to
198,000, more than any other state.

Diverse Cultural Textures

The new wave of immigrants to California is adding diverse cultural textures to
the fabric of life here, providing labor for many industries, affecting and
sometimes overloading social services and public schools, and adding a new, if
uncertain, dimension to the state's political life.

Elected officials have been wondering for years when Hispanic Americans, who now
make up 19 percent of California's population, would be able to transfer this
strength to the ballot box. So far, the state's few Hispanic leaders have not
been very successful in broadening their influence, but politicians here say
they expect them to have at least limited success in current negotiatons over
Congressional redistricting efforts as a result of the census.

The immigration has had a variety of effects on life in California. In places
like Beverly Hills and Marin County, north of San Francisco, money brought by
immigrants from Korea and Hong Kong has been cited as one reason for
California's hyperinflated real estate market over the last six years.

In other areas, those that attract the far larger proportion of immigrants who
come without much money, officials say that tensions are rising between
different ethnic groups because of competition for jobs and housing.

Tensions Likely to Increase

Some officials expect the tensions between people at the lowest rung of the
economic ladder to increase as the size of the minority population grows.

''It's like a keg of dynamite with a one-inch fuse,'' said Fred Koch, a deputy
superintendent of schools in Los Angeles County, who sees tensions mounting,
especially among blacks, Hispanic Americans and Indochinese refugees.

Many of the new immigrants, like their predecessors of 80 years ago, have
settled in California's big cities, and they are creating distinctive ethnic
neighborhoods.

Whole areas of San Francisco look as if they had been transferred from Southeast
Asia. Here in Los Angeles, a city long noted for its freeway-oriented blandness,
local schools now teach students with more than 70 different native tongues. The
city's increased cosmopolitanism has brought an appealing diversity in
restaurants and neighborhoods that are reminiscent of New York.

Much of downtown Los Angeles is now the principal shopping district of its large
population of Mexican immigrants. Along Olympic Boulevard are dozens of shops
and restaurants that cater to a population of Koreans estimated at more than
100,000.

Influx of Indochinese

In the suburb of Monterey Park more than one-third of its residents are Chinese.
More than 10,000 Samoans live in and near the suburb of Carson.

Near San Diego, the semi-rural suburb of Linda Vista has seen its population
increase by almost 50 percent since 1975 because of an influx of more than 7,000
Indochinese refugees.

In Orange County south of here, officials estimate that there are more than
50,000 Indochinese. Some local residents have dubbed the community of
Westminister ''Little Saigon;'' about 6,000 of its 71,000 people are Vietnamese.

Lois Wax, the Orange County refugee coordinator, said the county's public
schools had nearly 10,000 Indochinese children, ''many of whom speak little or
no English.''

America's 'Third-World State'

Representative Mervyn M. Dymally said three years ago, when he was California's
Lieutenant Governor, that the state was on its way to becoming the nation's
first ''third-world state,'' in which a majority of the population would be
members of American racial minority groups.

His prediction has not been fulfilled yet, but population trends are moving in
that direction.  To a large extent, what is happening in California mirrors a
national trend. The 1980 census showed that in the 1970's the proportion of
Americans classified as belonging to racial minorities - essentially, blacks,
Hispanic Americans, Asians, Pacific Islanders and American Indians - increased
to 16.8 percent of the population from 12.5 percent.

In California, the census showed that Asians accounted for 5.3 percent of the
total population. The proportion has undoubtedly grown this year, says Dorothy
Hoag, a state demographer, because of the continuing influx of Indochinese
refugees, who now total almost 200,000.

From 3,000 to 4,000 Indochinese refugees are still being resettled in California
each month, she said, and at least 1,000 a month are moving here on their own
after being resettled in other states.

Rise in Hispanic Population

In terms of net population growth, the number of Hispanic Americans is
increasing even faster; the 1980 census found that they comprised 19.2 percent
of the total population, or about 4.5 million, and blacks comprised almost 8
percent of the total, about 1.8 million.

Statistical trends seem to indicate that these patterns will continue and may
accelerate, demographers say.  As a group, they say, ethnic minorities have a
significantly higher birth rate than the Anglo population; thus, their
proportion of the population is likely to grow at a faster rate than that of
whites.

In 1979, the last year for which figures are available, members of minority
groups made up 40 percent of the students enrolled in the state's public
schools, up from 36.5 percent two years earlier.

Isabel Hambright, a demographer for the State Department of Finance, predicts
that the percentage of minority students will continue to increase. The
proportion of minority children in the population, she said, ''is like a very
broad pyramid,'' with the youngest at the bottom. While Hispanic Americans make
up 19 percent of the state's population, she said, they account for 25 to 30
percent of children under the age of 5.

Larger Share of Immigrants

Besides the natural growth in population, researchers say California is likely
to continue getting more than its share of immigrants; last year the state, with
about 10 percent of the nation's population, accepted at least 20 percent of the
total legal immigration.

Some were Europeans and Canadians. But they were dwarfed statistically by the
much larger tide of immigrants from Latin America and Asia. Indeed, there were
more permanent legal aliens living in California last year from one Asian
country alone, the Philippines, than from all of the nations of Europe.

Dr. Brown, the Rand researcher, said, ''It's like Brighton Beach or Coney Island
in the 20's and 30's,'' a melting pot with a diverse texture of peoples from
different countries and speaking different languages. But in California, he
added, ''they're not European.''

However, Doyce Nunis, a professor of history at the University of Southern
California, said that so far the state's new immigrants are ''more ghettoized''
than ''melted together.''

About 85 languages are now spoken in California, he said. ''What do you do when
there are Vietnamese who don't read or write even their own language? There's no
way to melt them together.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photos of vietnamese students receiving and oral exam

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

DETAINED CUBANS: POLICY IN CONFUSION;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By REGINALD STUART

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Aug.23


In its seven months, the Reagan Administration has sought with some success to
give the impression that it knows what it wants to do about an issue and moves
swiftly to get the job done. It has not been able to sustain that image in the
legal wrestling match over a group of Cuban refugees here.

In their debate with a Federal judge over the status of 1,800 Cubans who came to
this country in the spring of 1980 and have been detained since at the Federal
prison here, Government officials have presented a picture of extreme caution,
indecisiveness and confusion.

The uncertainty is reflected in the courtroom exchanges between Federal District
Judge Marvin H. Shoob and attorneys for the Government and refugees, as is shown
by a review of legal documents on file and interviews with Government employees
involved in the politically sensitive Cuban refugee situation.

Finding a consensus in Washington on immigration policy is far from an easy
task. A Justice Department official said: ''When it comes to immigration
questions, even in the case of one individual, there are so many competing
immigration agendas that there's almost a schizoid atmosphere.''

Agencies' Competing Agendas

''Immigration and Naturalization has its agenda,'' the official explained.
''State Department has its agenda; Health and Human Services has its agenda;
Justice has its agenda, and so on.'' As for the Government's assertion that it
intended to deport Cuban detainees ''whenever the opportunity arises,'' the
official said that that represented yet another competing agenda. Each agency
has someone attempting to coordinate with the others, the official said, but it
is often difficult to determine who has ultimate authority, and thus it is
difficult for the Government not to appear unorganized and unprepared when it
argues against a mass release of the refugees held here.

The Cubans here were part of a boatlift that brought more than 124,000 Cubans to
this country last year. Most of those detained here are accused by immigration
officers of having been involved in some crime in Cuba and therefore being
ineligible for admission to this country. A smaller number of Cubans were sent
to the prison here after being accused of crimes at the detention camps where
they were housed until sponsors could be found.

The accusations range from entry into the U.S. without proper papers, a
widespread violation in the days of the flotilla, to stealing chickens, to more
serious offenses such as rape and murder.

It was probably by pure accident that many of the detainees wound up in prison.
Usually, a much smaller number of refugees are involved and Government agencies
in Washington with competing plans have time to arrive at some consensus on a
specific case or two. But the boatlift, which brought as many as 5,000 people to
American shores in a single day, was an unprecedented means of immigration to
this country. The sheer mass of people flocking to the shores caused immigration
officials at Florida ports to resort to makeshift screening procedures.

The result, Government officials now admit, was that many Cubans who probably
should be in jail have been free since they came to the U.S. and some were
detained who should not have been.

''We never condoned the entry of the Cubans, but the fact of the matter was that
once the flow hit us, once human beings were here, we could not run them back
into the ocean,'' said Jack Watson, counsel to former President Carter and at
the time of the flotilla voyages one of those formulating policy.

President Carter came under fire, particularly from Floridians, for his handling
of the refugee resettlement. But after the disintegration of the initial effort
to control the influx while maintaining the American tradition of welcoming
immigrants, the Carter Administration set forth a plan for carefully screening
the small percentage of Cubans who had been detained.

With only minor modifications, the Carter plan for screening the detainees here
was reactivated by the Reagan Administration in July, about the time several
Federal judges were becoming highly critical of the Government delays in
determining which refugees should be allowed to go free and which should be held
in prison because of a determination that their crimes were serious.

Debate Over Legal Status

Further complicating resolution of the cases of the detained refugees are
differing opinions on whether the detainees are ''refugees'' or ''illegal
aliens'' in a legal sense. If they are adjudged to be refugees, the detainees
could have grounds for release and parole; if they are found to be aliens, the
Government could have grounds to exclude them from the country. The problem with
that is that Cuba has steadfastly refused to accept the return of any of those
who took part in the boatlift.

Meanwhile the Administration is under pressure from several Federal judges who
contend that the Government has recognized since it began detaining the refugees
that it would have to do something besides temporarily detaining them. And Mr.
Reagan's Administration, argues Judge Shoob, has had sufficient time to move
with speed now in making its decisions.

Judge Shoob ordered 381 of the detained refugees to be freed as soon as sponsors
were found. But in response to a signal from the Government that it would move
quickly, he allowed it to use the Carter-Reagan review plan for screening some
of those ordered released, so long as it took no more time than it would take
under his order. Two Federal panels of three members each have begun tackling
that task.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 26, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AND ISRAEL DISAGREE ON GIVING SOVIET CHOICE WHERE TO SETTLE

BYLINE: By BERNARD GWERTZMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1089 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25


The State Department and a leading American Jewish refugee organization said
today that they opposed an Israeli plan to curtail the flow of Soviet Jews to
countries other than Israel.

The statements, by the State Department and United Hias Service, the immigrant
aid group, reflect a dispute over the growing number of Jews from the Soviet
Union who decide to move to the United States.

Emigration Seen Jeopardized

The Israelis contend that the refusal of many Soviet Jews to settle in Israel
jeopardizes the emigration of others, and Israel has therefore decided to put
pressure on emigres by not helping them go elsewhere unless they have close
family ties in other countries.

State Department officials assert that Israel's new policy derives from its
traditional effort to foster immigration and its frustration at seeing so many
Soviet Jews reject settlement in Israel.

The refusal of the United States Government and Hias to go along with the
Israeli policy will probably offset its impact, a Hias official said, since Jews
would still be able to come to the United States against Israel's wishes.

Israeli and Hias officials said about 85 percent now chose to go from Vienna,
the transit stop, to places other than Israel. Most of them end up in the United
States, and a few in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Western Europe.

The United States Government is involved because it pays most of the costs
associated with the resettlement of Soviet Jews. It pays Israel, via the United
Israel Appeal, $25 million yearly. It also spends about $1,000 per emigrant
going to countries other than Israel. This came to $15 million last year,
a State Department official said, for a total of $40 million.  Arye Dulzin,
co-chairman of the Jewish Agency, which handles immigration for Israel, said
Thursday that no assistance would be given to Soviet Jews wishing to go anywhere
but Israel. The only exceptions, he said, where those with close relatives
elsewhere,

Before going to Austria, Mr. Dulzin had informed Hias and other Jewish groups
privately of the new policy.  Ambassador Ephraim Evron of Israel conveyed the
same information to Walter J. Stoessel, the Under Secretary of State for
Political Affairs.

Emigration is generally restricted for all Soviet citizens, and Jews have been
in the unusual position of getting permission to leave in substantial numbers.
Some ethnic Germans and Armenians have also been allowed to emigrate.

The Israelis contend that the Soviet Union is allowing Jews to leave on the
ground that they are being reunited with relatives in Israel. As a matter of
administrative practice, Soviet travel documents issued to emigrating Jews list
Israel as their destination. According to the Israeli view, the flow of emigres
to the United States and other countries may deprive the Soviet authorities of
the family reunification rationale and induce them to curtail emigration.

Until last week, Soviet Jews arriving by train in Vienna were met by
representatives of the Jewish Agency. Those expressing a preference for
countries other than Israel were referred to Hias and the American Joint
Distribution Committee, another aid group.

Hias took care of the paperwork involved in travel to the United States or some
other third country. The Joint Distribution Committee handled the living
problems of the emigres, who were usually transferred to Rome to await
processing, a matter of about five weeks.

Edwin Shapiro, president of Hias, said the group had decided that it ''is not
prepared to refuse its services to Soviet Jewish emigrants who have not been
specifically referred by the Jewish Agency.''

The State Department said Israel had not consulted the United States in advance
of announcing the new policy. It said that American policy ''has always been and
will continue to be that Soviet Jewish refugees arriving in Vienna should have
freedom of choice with regard to where they wish to resettle.''

''Once the Soviet refugees have arrived in Vienna, we see no reason why they
should be obliged to go to Israel if other countries are willing to offer
refuge,'' the State Department said.

The following table shows the numbers of Soviet Jews who emigrated and the
percentages of them who went somewhere other than Israel in each of the last 10
years: 1971 13,000 0.4% 1972 31,000 0.7% 1973 34,000 4.1% 1974 20,000 19 % 1975
13,000 37 % 1976 14,000 49 % 1977 16,000 50 % 1978 28,000 58 % 1979 51,000 66 %
1980 21,000 65.4%

Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union has been a major political issue
involving Israel, the United States and the Soviet Union. Limits on the flow
have produced restrictions on United States trade with the Soviet Union, and the
numbers of emigres seem to have been an indicator of the state of
Soviet-American relations.According Leonard Seidenman, Hias executive vice
president, Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union is now running at the lowest
rate since it began in significant numbers in 1971. Up to the middle of August,
7,800 Jews have left the Soviet Union this year, he said.  Mr.  Seidenman said
many reasons were being given for this trend, one being the snowballing effect
of large numbers of immigrants attracting others to the United States.
Furthermore, people first going to Israel find it difficult later to get
permission to emigrate. People coming first to the United States, on the other
hand, can always change their mind, Mr. Seidenman said. Other reasons given deal
with job opportunities and economic conditions in the two countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 27, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRANTS' PRIORITY

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 142 words


To the Editor:

In his denigration of education as a cure for poverty (''Justice and Poverty:
Noncauses, Noncures,'' Op-Ed Aug. 12), Thomas Sowell asserts that ''a detailed
study of the occupations of Jewish immigrants showed that they rose to affluence
first, and then were able to afford to send their children to college'' (his
emphasis).

I wonder which Jewish immigrants Mr. Sowell studied. It certainly wasn't
affluence that sent me and so many other World War II refugees to college, but
rather a total commitment by parents who had lost everything except their
absolute determination that their children obtain a higher education. In an
atmosphere which placed education as the highest family priority, the parents
sacrificed, the children strived and countless Jews educated themselves up the
ladder.
ERNEST BROD, Brooklyn, Aug. 14, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 1, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Firebombs Strike Home of Accused

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I.


Four gasoline bombs were thrown early yesterday at the home of a Long Island man
accused by Federal authorities of having persecuted Jews in Latvia during World
War II, authorities said.

The bombs were thrown about 2:30 A.M. at the home of Boleslavs Maikovskis in
Mineola. The Nassau County police said that no one had been hurt, though one of
the explosive devices had broken a window and ignited a curtain. Mr. Maikovskis,
who was entertaining three guests, extinguished the blaze, the police said.

A man who said he was a representative of the Jewish Defense League phoned The
New York Post shortly after 2:30 A.M. and had said the league was responsible
for the bombing, according to the police.

Repeated telephone calls to the New York offices of the league yesterday and
last evening were not answered.  A deportation hearing for Mr. Maikovskis is to
resume today in Manhattan. The Justice Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service have charged him with misrepresenting his background on a
visa application.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 11, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AGENCY DELAYS HAITIAN DEPORTATION ACTION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that it had temporarily
stopped all deportation proceedings against Haitians not represented by
attorneys.

The action followed the issuing of a temporary restraining order last night by
Federal District Judge Alcee L. Hastings in Florida that suspended deportation
hearings for several hundred Haitians who have been detained at Fort Allen,
P.R.; Big Springs, Tex.; Morgantown, W.Va., and Lexington, Ky.

The order, which is effective for 10 days, can be extended. It directly affects
700 to 800 Haitians, according to Ira J. Kurzban, a Miami lawyer who represents
some of the Haitians and has sought access to others.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration agency, said that Government
lawyers here had not yet received a copy of Judge Hastings's order. ''In the
meantime,'' he said, ''we are not holding hearings on Haitians who do not have
attorneys representing them.''

2,235 Haitians Detained

Until now, Mr. Jervis said, the Government has been holding deportation hearings
for Haitians who waived their right to an attorney. These proceedings have been
suspended so that immigration lawyers can study the Hastings order, he said.

In late May, the immigration agency began detaining Haitians who arrived in the
United States without visas or travel documents.  There are now 2,235 Haitians
being held at seven places, including Federal installations in Brooklyn and at
Lake Placid and Otisville, N.Y.

The Reagan Administration has proposed to make the detention of illegal aliens a
major element of its immigration policy. Attorney General William French Smith
said on July 30 that the Administration would seek $35 million to build
permanent detention facilities where aliens could be held pending deportation or
the granting of asylum.

Mr. Kurzban, who is affiliated with a group called the National Emergency Civil
Liberties Committee, said that Judge Hastings had issued the order last night to
''preserve his jurisdiction'' in the case. In the absence of such an order, Mr.
Kurzban said, it was possible that some of the aliens might be returned to
Haiti, where they would be beyond the reach of United Sta tes courts.

Lack of Creole Interpreters

Mr. Kurzban and Dale Frederick Swatz, a lawyer here who has represented Haitians
in prior litigation, contend that the Government has purposely dispersed the
Haitians in places where they could not easily obtain legal help.

Even where lawyers are available, they said, there may not be enough Creole
interpreters to help the Haitians understand the proceedings.

Under the Refugee Act of 1980, an alien must demonstrate a wellfounded fear of
persecution in his own country to qualify for asylum in the United States. The
Reagan Administration, like the Carter Administration, contends that most of the
Haitians left their homeland for economic reasons rather than political reasons
and therefore cannot qualify for asylum.

An alien making an asylum claim has the right to be represented by a lawyer, and
40 Haitains at the Federal prison near Lake Placid have requested attorneys. But
the Haitians cannot afford to pay, and there are no lawyers in the Lake Placid
area to represent them without charge, according to an immigration service
official in Buffalo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 11, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ASIAN IMMIGRANTS CHANGING THE CHARACTER OF CALIFORNIA'S CITIES

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1444 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 10


Bright-eyed Nhan Dung is fascinated by the words com ing out of the earphones he
is wearing, even though he does not know what they mean.

''He hugged the bug,'' says the machine, and Dung repeats it, finding the whole
business very funny. He laughs and the whole room seems to light up. For reasons
of his own, perhaps to determine if there is a small man inside who is doing the
talking, he lays his head on the machine, listens closely, and laughs again.

Nhan Dung is 5 years old, a Vietnamese refugee who, along with thousands of
others, is being evaluated for bilingual classes in California's increasingly
polyglot educational system.

Engaging, penny-bright and quick as a squirrel, Dung is something of a symbol of
the ethnically changing character of San Francisco and of urban California as a
whole. It is a character that is increasingly Asian as, over the past decade,
California has become a magnet for a rising tide of immigrants from all over the
world, legal and illegal: the ''Ellis Island'' of the 1980's, as a Rand
Corporation researcher put it.

More Growth Since Census

According to the most recent census data, 1.5 million Asians were legally
admitted to the United States in the decade ended Sept. 30, 1980, almost
doubling their number in this country. Their impact has been felt to some degree
around the country, but nowhere so intensely as in California, where the Asian
population stood at 1,253,987 in the 1980 census and has grown rapidly since
then.

It is a palpable presence. In San Francisco, the population is now 21.7 percent
Asian, up sharply from the 13.3 percent in 1970. For example, in the city's
Sunset District, a middle-class community of 25-year-old tract homes, a quiet
pair of Buddhist monks, shavenheaded and gray-robed, stroll along streets where
15 years ago Mr. O'Malley might have tipped his hat to Mrs . Schwartz.

Along Irving Street, the district's major shopping area, what once was the
Russian Bakery is now Sheng Kee Chinese Bakery. The building of the Calvary
Methodist Church is also home for the Chinese Gospel Church, and there are two
pastors, the Rev. Wendy Pomery and Lan Nochi Huang. Services in Chinese are at
9:30 o'clock each Sunday morning, in English at 11 o'clock. Christ United
Presbyterian has a service in Japanese and Korean United Presbyterian has
services in Korean.

Along Noriega Street in the Sunset District, or along Clement in the Richmond
District north across Golden Gate Park, a venturesome diner can sample Korean
braised chicken, Filipino stuffed grape leaves, Thai lemon grass beef salad,
Vietnamese Imperial Roll, Japanese sashimi, Szechuan Chinese prawns and Indian
curried lamb.

Problems With Jobs and Housing

But along with the stir-fry of ethnic diversity, pungent as Asian spice, there
are problems. The sharp rise in the number of Asians, their often deep cultural
differences, their high visibility and their language difficulties have strained
social services and created tensions over jobs and housing.

Nhan Dung and his family are one example. Neither he nor any of his seven
brothers and sisters speak more than a word or two of English.  Neither do their
parents. In Saigon, which the family fled 15 months ago, the father ran a
clothing store. Here neither he nor anyone else in the family is employed.

At the beginning of April, when Federal support for the special welfare programs
for destitute Indochinese refugees was cut back, 96,000 people in California
were getting such assistance.

California's Secretary of Health, Marios Obledo, said the change meant that
refugees like the Nanhs were ''virtually dumped into'' the state's hands. The
state expects to have to spend $10 million more on welfare this year, $25
million more next year and $51 million the third year as a result of Federal
cutbacks.

Bilingual Education Programs

The state school system now operates bilingual programs in Chinese, Filipino,
Japanese, Korean, Spanish and Indochinese languages.  ''We have about 30,000
youngsters who speak another language at home,'' said Dr. Ana Horta, manager of
the bilingual program. ''Of those, 15,000 have limited English capacity, and of
that 15,000 about 30 percent are Chinese, 25 percent Hispanic, and now another
30 percent are Indochinese, the majority Vietnamese.'' Ten percent more are
Filipinos and a small number are Japanese.

The San Francisco Police Department is actively recruiting Chinesespeaking
officers, and there are about 30 on the 1,200-member force.  Nelson Lum, the
department's training officer in Chinese and English, said that bilingualism was
probably less important than giving the Chinese community ''a sense of
belonging.''

''When I was growing up cops were al ways white,'' he said.  Gloria Loui e, a
staff member of a citizens' group called Chinese for Affirmati ve Action, said
the Chinese community wanted more bilingual off icers.

She complained that the department had been ''very resistant'' to employing
Chinese-speaking officers and observed that 1979 litigation mandated the current
hiring program.

Although there have been some complaints about the influx of industrious,
property-oriented Chinese who seem ready to pay any price for real estate in
California's superheated market, the more apparent strains have emerged around
the Southeast Asian refugees, particularly those from the countryside, where
traditional ways of life stand in sharp relief to those of urban California.

In San Francisco, for example, there was consternation when the authorities
learned that the mysterious disappearance of ducks that had paddled the pond
waters in Golden Gate Park was traceable to the conviction of some hill-country
Asians that ducks were to eat, not to watch.

The health authorities are concerned about a rise in the tuberculosis rate in
California over the past decade, a period in which the disease was declining
elsewhere. Gloria Wall, chairman of the environmental health committee of the
American Lung Association of Santa Clara-Benito Counties, said the increase was
largely a result of the influx of legal and illegal immigrants from countries
where the disease was still common.

Lois Wax, refugee coordinator for Orange County, which has attracted many
Asians, said the refugees were a strain on the county's resources.

''We already have a shortage of low-income housing,'' she said.  ''We're
concerned about developing community tension. There haven't been any incidents
but the atmosphere is there.''

Fred Ko ch, deputy superintendent of Los Ang eles County Schools, said: ''The
Asian population is almost equal with the Hispanic population. How well they
assimilate depends on the age group -K-3 make a very good transition, junior
high, goo d, but by the time they get to high school, well, they never really m
ake the transition.''

Two Programs to Aid Assimilation

As a result, the state has set up two programs to aid assimilation, one in
Westminster, where 6,000 of the 71,000 residents are Vietnamese, and another in
Santa Ana, where there are tensions between Asian and Hispanic residents.

''It's like a keg of dynamite with a one-inch fuse,'' Mr. Koch said. ''And I'm
not just hollering fire.'' While there have been no major incidents, he said
tensions were building.

In Westminster, Asians slowly took over a failing shopping center on Bolsa
Avenue, and have since developed a mile-long stretch of commercial enterprise
dotted with Asian-owned retail and professional shops.

Clark Trainer of the Westminster Chamber of Commerce said, ''We have a joint
committee with the mayor's office with some of the prominent Vietnamese
businessmen who are bilingual and we're attempting to assimilate the Vietnamese
business community into the Westminster community.''

Nonetheless, 150 signatures have been gathered on a petition asking the city not
to grant any more business licenses to Asians.  ''We did admit the petition,''
said Mayor Kathy Buchoz, ''but in my own personal judgment, I determined that it
was unconstitutional, un-American, illegal and a lot of other things besides.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: table on population of Asian ethnic groups in
California, 1970 and 1980 photo of 5-year-old Vietnamese refugee Nhan Dung

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

GIVING IMMIGRANTS A NEW START

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DEITCH

SECTION: Section 11; New Jersey; Page 2, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words


EAST ORANGE ''GO TO Millburn.'' That is what many Soviet Jews advise each other
after being allowed to emigrate. It is not Millburn itself that is talked about,
but the Jewish Counseling and Service Agency here. It cares for Soviet Jews as
an agent of the United Hias Service, the international resettlement organization
familiar to millions of Jewish immigrants for more than a century.

The agency provides up to six months of basic help, including all expenses,
needed by immigrants in their long and usually difficult effort to start a new
life.

Elliott R. Rubin, the agency's executive director, said that his staff would
care for 150 newly migrated Soviet Jews in New Jersey this year.

The release rate from Russia ''is down to a trickle,'' he said, adding that last
year, 650 immigrants, from babies to people in their 90's, were processed.

''How many are let go depends on how the Russians perceive U.S.- Soviet
relations,'' Mr. Rubin explained.Most of the immigrants have settled in Essex,
Hudson, Morris, Somerset and Union Counties, the area served by Mr. Rubin's
organization. A few also have settled in other parts of the metropolitan area.

Although the resettlement center in East Orange is one of the nation's largest
and most experienced local operations of its kind, adjustment is never easy for
the newcomers, Mr. Rubin said.

The first hurdle they face, he said, is culture shock, part of which is
adjusting to the reality that cards st amped ''Jew'' need no longer be car ried.

Some might have been brilliant students, engineers or researchers in the Soviet
Union. As immigrants, they have lost all status and ''social linkage''; although
Jews, they at least had belonged to a country.

Also, there is the ''severe problem of job transferability and retraining.''
Finally, having lost everything and arrived in the United States penniless,
there is often serious depression.  These often well-educated, cultivated and
highly motivated people usually are in need of the ''basics.'' To help, a
clinical social worker is assigned to each family, taking responsibility for it
from the day it arrives to the day it is considered self-sufficient.

Money is given immediately for food, shelter, clothing and transportation.
Health insurance is arranged, and the immigrants have their own clinic,
including a translator, at Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark.

One of the most important parts of the ''basic training'' consists of 30 hours
of instruction a week in ''surviv al English.'' Also, all children are enrolled
in Jewish day schools t o help them ''reclaim their heritage.''

They are expected to be ''among the prime teachers of their parents on how to
become Jews,'' Mr. Rubin said, explaining that ''the Soviets did their utmost to
make sure that Jews did not practice their religion.''

Adults also learn about Judaism during lunch-hour instruction at the East Orange
resettlement center. Most are eager to learn about, and practice, their
religion, Mr. Rubin said, adding: ''There is no arm twisting.''

Children get more religious training at the Jewish summer camps.  After
attending regular Jewish schools for two academic years, they are free to enroll
in public schools. However, only 10 percent do.

As Bernard Berman, coordinator of resettlement services for the agency, put it:
''Our overall aim is to make this immigration successful with the least damage
to the people. Every aspect of life has been thought of and is supported,
including a one-year membership at the West Orange Y.M.H.A. and free synagogue
membership.''

Amid the din of voices practicing English, Mr. Berman said: ''The people you now
hear came over as Russians. It may take a great many years before they think of
themselves as Americans. For some, never.''

Having lived under oppression, where manipulation and bribery are a way of life,
the Soviet Jews show an initial wariness and suspicion, Mr. Rubin said.

''It can take up to six months to a year before they begin to trust us,'' he
observed. ''Our mission is to help, theirs to use the help.  ''Some of them
can't understand that help is available, whether they try to manipulate or not.
They're always looking for an angle that does not exist. And understandably,
considering how they had to live in Russia.''

The agency tries to place the emigres as closely as possible to the jobs they
held in Russia, or something better.  Sometimes, they are taken advantage of,
Mr. Berman said, citing as an example a Soviet Jewish engineer who got a job at
an aircraft company at $25,000 a year, where others doing the same work are
getting twice that.

Migration, Mr. Berman said, begins with a letter of invitation from a relative
in another country. The letter is taken to the local police station for official
action. The police inform the prospective migrant's employer that this person is
now ''an enemy of the state, a social parasite, a cosmopolitan, a Jew.''

Employment ceases. If the migrant has children, they are publicly ridiculed.
Pending migrants sell their belongings to live. Then comes a notice: ''You have
30 to 60 days to leave Russia.'' From the Soviet Union, they go by train to
Vienna, where they are met by Jewish Agency of Israel officials. Those who do
not choose Israel as their future home are accompanied to Rome by a Hias
representative.

Next, the United States Consul there must approve a request to migrate to
America. Before the flight to the United States, there is security and health
processing.

It is in Vienna and Rome that the Jewish Counseling and Service Agency in
Millburn becomes a frequent subject on the emigre telephone network, Mr. Berman
said.

At a beginner's class, a teacher held up cards showing people doing things.
''He is vacooming,'' a middle-aged woman said. ''Vacuuming,'' the teacher gently
corrected her. In a class on telephone problems, a man wrote o n the blackboard:
''If I get a wrong number, what do I do?'' The class dis cussed the question.

Later, Gary (formerly Igor), age 28, and his wife, Alla, 23, both chemical
engineers, and Rafail, a pediatrician, and his daughter, Marina, 16, talked
about America and Russia. It took Gary and Alla, who had lived in Moscow, two
years to get to the States. The doctor and his family, who are from Odessa, had
to wait four years.

The physician is improving his English to prepare for a medical examination and
licensing. Alla has already taken a mathematics and chemistry examination.

''It was ridiculously easy,'' she said.  At the center, special classes are held
after five years for those who want to apply for American citizenship. Everyone
attends except the aged, of whom Mr. Berman said: ''It's enough that they got
here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Soviet Jews learning English in agency in East
Orange photo of sign telling immigrants to speak English

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SOVIET JEWS CHOOSING U.S. PUT ISRAELIS IN A QUANDRY

BYLINE: By DAVID K. SHIPLER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Outsiders who deal with the opaque bureaucracy of the Soviet Union often imagine
that they have found the formula to smooth the way. Western businessmen and
politicians have frequently shunned contact with dissidents in Moscow. Some
American professors and film-makers in need of official cooperation have avoided
being seen with controversial American correspondents. Likewise, Israel, despite
vilification in the Soviet press and the absence of diplomatic relations, has
cautiously sought to maintain the momentum of Soviet Jewish emigration. In the
mid-1970's, for example, Jerusalem sent warnings through travelers to Jewish
activists in Moscow to stay away from Andrei D. Sakharov, the physicist and
human rights advocate, fearing that association with him would endanger the
emigration movement.

Now Israel is making another adjustment that it hopes will appeal to the Soviet
Union and advance Israeli interests. It is trying to deter Soviet Jews from
choosing the United States instead of Israel as their new home. Israel's Jewish
Agency, which assists emigres transiting through Vienna, wants the
American-funded Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society to stop helping Soviet Jews in
getting plane tickets and visas to the United States, unless they have children,
parents or spouses there.

The degree of cooperation by American Jews will be partially determined this
week when the board of the Council of Jewish Federations, a coordinating body
for community agencies, meets in New York. The State Department, which
contributes $25 million a year to resettle refugees in Israel and spent $15
million last year on Jews going elsewhere, has opposed the Israeli plan. It
intends to funnel money through other, mostly Protestant and Roman Catholic,
agencies that already help Soviet Jews get from Vienna to Europe and North
America.

Israel's approach has grown out of profound sorrow and bitterness as the Zionist
dream of Jewish ingathering has been rejected by most Jews who make it out of
the Soviet Union. The proportion of those whom anguished Israelis call
''dropouts'' has risen from 4.1 percent of the emigres in 1973 to 65 percent
last year and 85 percent in June and July. This compounds the pain Israelis feel
at seeing so few Jews from New York, London or Paris arriving to stay, and
watching so many Israelis themselves emigrating. The Ministry of Labor and
Social Welfare recently reported that 510,528 Israelis had left from 1969 to
1979; the departures were only partly offset by 384,000 immigrants. The Central
Bureau of Statistics believes that some of the departees will eventually return,
but how many, no one seems ready to guess.

Israel's new plan is also a tactical effort to conform with Moscow's sole
pretext for letting Jews out - to reunite them with family in the Jewish state.
Arye Dulzin, co-chairman of the Jewish Agency and prime mover in the Israeli
policy, began warning two years ago that the Russians would be provided with an
excuse to curtail emigration if large-scale movement to the United States
continued. Now, as departures dropped to 400 in August, the lowest since the
emigration phenomenon began a decade ago, he has cited private statements by
Soviet officials linking the reduction to the ''drop out rat e.'' But Mr.
Dulzin's prophecy may also have been selffulfillin g. It presented Soviet
propagandists with a welcome argument and suggested how acceptable his
explanation for the reducedflow would be to Western activists who are usually
critical of Sovietbehavior. Tha t the Russians seized upon this has been
indicated by Mr. Dulzin's admission that most exit visas are currently going to
Jews in citie s such as Odessa and Kiev, where 90 percent have left for the
Unite d States, while communities with high proportions of Israeli-bound Jews
receive few visas, if any.

Soviet concern has never seemed to focus on whether the emigres eventually ended
up in Israel. Instead, fluctuations in emigration have long appeared as the
function of a complex equation in which internal domestic considerations
dominated, while other factors such as Soviet-American relations played a lesser
role. East-West tension has inevitably allowed the more fearful, conservative
impulses in the Soviet hierarchy to surface, heightening sensitivity to the
danger that emigration poses to its control. Because the idea of emigration
embodies the concept of free choice - to accept or reject the Soviet system - it
must be contained and surrounded by taboos. For Jews, this has been accomplished
by branding those wishing to leave as aliens, militarists, Zionists or unworthy
misfits who somehow were never part of the nation and thus may be hatefully
expelled. To establish this fiction, Jews must formally apply to go to Israel,
but as in many Soviet activities, it is the formality that counts, not the
reality. Since Moscow has no diplomatic ties with Israel, Jews applying to go
there must voluntarily relinquish Soviet citizenship, a cleansing ritual
equivalent in Soviet minds to confession in a political trial.

The Russians have never granted Israel's re quest for direct Moscow-Tel Aviv
flights. And when Soviet offi cials have wanted non-Jewish dissidents out of the
country -suc h as Valentin Turchin, amathematician and Sakharov disciple, and
Andr ei Amalrik, author of ''Will the Soviet Union Survive Until 1984?'' - they
have often harassed them into applying for exit visas to Israel, knowing that
the dissidents had no intention of going ther e. Furthermore, the growing
preference for American residence may reflect a demographic change difficult to
reverse. The prospect of emigration has spread from the relatively few who were
powerfully d evoted to their Jewishness, and now reaches into broader rank s of
Soviet citizens less interested in religious identity than in careers and
material comfort as well as political freedom. Many ar e likely to persist in
their determination to live in the United Sta tes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: graph of Jewish emigres from the Soviet Union

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Police Report Murder-Suicide Over a Dispute on Emigration

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 21, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 169 words


Radoslav Ostojic wanted to return to Yugoslavia; his wife, Ivanka, did not. The
police said yesterday that the 29-year-old immigrant stabbed his wife to death
and then took his own life while their 4-year-o ld so n slept in another room of
the couple's home in Ridgewood, Qu eens.

The bodies of the two were discovered shortly before 7:30 A.M.  yesterday by
Mrs. Ostojic's brother in the bedroom of their home at 61-09 Madison Street, the
the police said.

They said the killings took place sometime after 11 P.M. Friday, when Mr.
Ostojic, a self-employed painter, talked on the phone to his wife's brother,
whom authorities would not identify.

Police Officer Gilbert Starkey said a suicide note written by Mr.  Ostojic in
Serbo-Croatian ''roughly translated into saying he was sorry.'' The note was
also said to have indicated the couple had long argued over his desire to return
to Yugoslavia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section 10; Page 26, Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 178 words


Clearing Customs To the Editor: The Practical Traveler column (''Clearing
Customs: Still a Hurdle,'' Travel Section, Aug. 23) covered a wide range of
problems one encounters when going through customs in the United States. I would
like to add that as a resident alien residing in New York, I frequently travel
to London to visit my family, and my return to New York is always marred by the
terrible hassle of going through immigration at Kennedy International Airport.
The lines are extremely long because the immigration officer must check each
visa number manually in a book he has in front of him.

It would seem that in this age of computer technology the Immigration Service
could introduce a more efficient method of handling this par ticular aspect of
internatio nal travel.  ROSALIND J. HERSTEIN Nanuet, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 23, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

EX-FEDERAL AIDE GETS FOUR YEARS IN ABSCAM CASE

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 422 words


A former Federal immigration investigator from Long Island was sentenced to four
years in prison yesterday for his bribery conviction stemming from the
Government's Abscam inquiry into official corruption.

The term was imposed on 32-year-old Alexander A. Alexandro Jr. of Commack, after
a Justice Department prosecutor contended in Federal District Court in Brooklyn
that Mr. Alexandro knew of ''corrupt acts'' by other employees of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The prosecutor, John H. Jacobs, implied to Judge Mark A.  Costantino, that the
prospect of a ''stiff sentence'' might induce Mr. Alexandro to tell the
authorities what he knew in the hope that his sentence would be lightened.

Outside the courtroom, Mr. Jacobs confirmed that prosecutors wanted to bring Mr.
Alexandro before a grand jury and question him further about state me nts he had
made to Federal undercover agents indicating corrupt behav ior by others in the
immigration agency.

Mr. Alexandro's 1979 meetings with the undercover men - from whom he took a
$2,000 payoff in an immigration deal - were surreptitiously videotaped.

Calls Term 'Pretty Harsh'

Mr. Alexandro later called the term ''pretty harsh.'' His lawyer, Joel Winograd,
termed it ''coercive.'' Mr. Alexandro faced up to 15 years. He remained free
pending the outcome of his appeal.

Mr. Jacobs reaffirmed earlier statements that the Government wanted to bring
before a grand jury a Long Island businessman convicted of conspiring with Mr.
Alexandro. Mr. Jacobs said that prosecutors wanted to investigate statements
that the businessman, Alfred Carpentier, had made to the Abscam agents about
what was said to have been corruption or potential corruption involving
political figures whom Mr. Jacobs declined to name.

The sentencing of Mr. Carpentier, a 56-year-old East Meadow man, was postponed
until Oct. 13. Mr. Jacobs said the Justice Department might ask that a hearing
scheduled in connection with the sentencing be closed to the public because of
the ''nature of the allegations'' that Mr. Carpentier had made.

Mr. Carpentier's lawyer, James A. Pascarella, said his client had simply been
name-dropping in discussing the political figures with the undercover men.

Mr. Carpentier faces up to five years for his conviction in the immigration
case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 1, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AND HAITI PLAN TO END FLOW OF MIGRANTS

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30


The United States and Haiti announced an agreement of cooperation today to stop
the flow of illegal Haitian migrants to this country.

Acting under this agreement, which took the form of an ''exchange of notes,''
according to the State Department, President Reagan yesterday ordered the Coast
Guard to begin intercepting ships in international waters if the vessels are
suspected of carrying illegal migrants. Previously the United States had
challenged vessels only in American territorial waters.

A Coast Guard cutter will begin patrolling an area off the northwest coast of
Haiti ''within days or wee ks,'' according to Arthur Brill, a Justice Department
spokesman who briefed reporters atthe State Department.

A Coast Gua rd officer present at the briefing, who declined to be identified, s
aid that the cutter would be of the Hamilton class, a 378-foot ''hi
gh-endurance'' ship. Serving with its normal crew of about 135 or 140 would be a
Haitian naval officer and officials and interpreters of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Ship to Stay Close to Haiti

The cutter will have one helicopter aboard and will also be assisted by spotter
aircraft, the officer said. It will have the right, under the agreement, to
''transmit through'' but not actually operate in Haitian waters. The officer
said the ship will stay ''very close'' to the Haitian coast.

Mr. Brill reiterated the Administration's position that Haitians who come to the
United States illegally are seeking jobs for economic improvement and therefore
cannot be classified as refugees. He said that the Administration believed it
was acting within international law. But officials who would not be identified
said later that they expected legal challenges to the action.

Both the Haitian and the United States Governments say that the targets of the
new searches are ''traffickers'' who have been luring Haitians into boats
unsuited to the trip and misleading them -as well as risking their lives - in
assuring them that they will be taken to Florida. ''We will stop traffickers and
return them to Haiti for prosecution,'' a State Department official said.

'We Need Some Help'

An official of the Haitian Embassy, who asked that his name not be used, said
today of the would-be emigrants that ''we think 80 percent of these people must
die when they take that trip.''

''We don't have the resources to patrol all the coast of Haiti,'' the official
said. ''We don't have planes, either. We need some help.  ''People are paying
$1,000 for a place on a boat,'' he said. ''They sell their homes, they sell
their land in order to get to the United States, because they want a better
life. Sometimes the boat owners just take them from one part of Haiti to another
and put them down at sea, saying they are off Miami.''

The Haitian official said that it was an offense to leave Haiti without proper
documents, but that he did not know what penalty that crime carried. A State
Department official said this morning that the United States had ''unqualified
assurances'' from Haiti that the Government of President Jean-Claude Duvalier
would not prosecute people who are returned, apart from the traffickers
themselves.

Haitians Will Be Interviewed

State Department and Coast Guard officials say that when a suspicious vessel is
intercepted, any Haitians seeking political asylum will be interviewed by
immigration officials aboard the cutter.

Those seeking asylum will be taken to Guantanamo, the United States Navy base in
Cuba, or to other unspecified locations for further interviews before a decision
on asylum is made.

The United States has granted asylum to only about a dozen Haitians in the last
few years, the State Department official said. About 2,600 Haitians are in
custody in the United States on charges of illegal entry. American officials say
they arrive at the rate of about 1,000 a month.
----

Refugee Aides Criticize Pact

Special to the New York Times

MIAMI, Sept. 30 - The executive director of the Haitian Refugee Center here
today denounced President Reagan's order to intercept and turn around ships
suspected of carrying illegal immigrants to the United States.

''The United States, one of the greatest governments in the world, is
cooperating with one of the most fascist, criminal governments in the third
world,'' said the director of the center, the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste. He
continued: ''We find ourselves in the unfortunate situation of trying to
consider some action to stop the situation.  In case the Government wants to go
on with that kind of interdiction which we consider modern piracy we will have
to find ways to take the Government to court.''

In San Juan, Puerto Rico, Jean-Claude Bajeux, coordinator of the Inter Regional
Council for Haitian Refugees, called the proposed Coast Guard action ''piracy''
and ''a violation of the freedom of traveling on international waters.''

He went on: ''The real solution is to obtain a change in Haiti. I think the
Reagan Government is turning its back to the real problem.  While the Duvaliers
are there, there's no sen se in taking measures against the migratory wave.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 5, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

'BRACERO PROGRAM NO. 3

BYLINE: By Tom Miller

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: T UCSON, Ariz.


President Reagan's new immigration proposal is certain to be a topic of
conversation for the 10 United States and Mexican border-state governors who
meet in El Paso, Tex. today and tomorrow,

The Reagan proposal, scheduled for hearings this fall in the House and the
Senate, is packaged to appeal to the widest audience.  It calls for
strengthening the Border Patrol and fining employers who knowingly hire workers
who enter the United States illegally.  This will please 65 percent of the
public, who, according to an Associated Press-NBC News poll last August, want
tougher restrictions on immigration. It offers an opportunity to foreigners here
without residency papers to remain and eventually enter mainstream America,
which sounds humanitarian. It lacks the much discussed national worker
identification card, which satisfies civil libertarians. And it calls for an
experimental program to import 50,000 ''guest workers'' from Mexico, which gives
the impression of regulating the south-to-north traffic in humans.

The Reagan program, however, fails to address the problems that plagued the last
two bracero programs, from 1917 to 1922 and 1942 to 1964: abuse of the imported
worker.

For the first four years of the second program, the Mexican Government
blacklisted the state of Texas, refusing to allow campesinos (''field workers'')
to contract for work there ''because of the number of cases of extreme,
intolerable racial discrimination.'' Even today, when brutality against Mexican
field workers anywhere in the United States is discussed in Mexico, it is called
sadismo texano - ''Texas-style sadism.''

The migratory patterns of workers coming up from Mexico's interior to pick crops
in the United States Southwest dates from before the mid-19th century, when the
land was all Mexico and, before that, New Spain. The patterns continued through
the mid-1920's when the border was first patrolled, and despite efforts to stop
migration these patterns are still as natural as the eddies in the Rio Grande
and ''dust devils'' in the Sonoran Desert, along the border. To double law
enforcement on the border will not significantly reduce migration; conversely, a
sizable cutback in border patrolmen will not noticeably increase the numbers.

Historically, braceros - ''contract workers'' - have been used to break strikes
and to maintain poor working conditions and low wages for all agricultural
workers. In both earlier bracero programs, Government enforcement of the wage
scale was so lax that employers established virtually whatever pay they wanted.
The Reagan plan contains no guarantees that this will not be repeated.

The Carter Administration, without a comprehensive policy of its own toward
newcomers, created a commission to study immigration and refugee problems. Mr.
Carter's people lacked an understanding of the situation as a whole, despite
their concern for the plight of Mexican farm workers in the United Sta tes.

The Reagan Administration, on the other hand, shows great compassion for those
who own and manage the great agribusiness holdings in California and elsewhere.
They want their fields tilled and their crops harvested by the most efficient
and least expensive equipment, whether mechanical or human. In this free-market
approach to labor, the new program benefits them by furnishing a cheap, steady
source of nonunion field workers.

The new bracero program will almost certainly encourage new illegal migration.
Tens of thousands of workers will be attracted to the border to take part; most
of those who don't become ''guest workers'' will enter on their own. Coupled
with the declining value of the peso - now worth less than 4 cents - and general
patterns of unemployment, migration to the United States will increase, and
border towns will bulge still further.

The Reagan plan fails to take into acount the forces that compel Mexicans to
temporarily leave their honeland and travel north. It institutionalizes current
patterns in migration but neglects the source. As such, it can do no better than
equal the fate of the previous bracero programs.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Tom Miller is author of ''On the Border: Portraits Of America's Southwestern
Frontier.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Cartoon

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Haitian Patrol Spends Quiet First Day at Sea

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 11


A Coast Guard cutter patrolling the Windward Passage for boats smuggling illegal
Haitians into the United States spent its first full day watching tankers go by
without spotting any suspicious vessels, the Coast Guard reported tonight.

''They've sighted vessels, but they're just big tankers going through,'' said
Lieut. (j.g.) Neal Armstrong of the Coast Guard's operations center in Miami.

The cutter Hamilton, designated to enforce President Reagan's order to curb the
tide of illegal refugees on the high seas, began its patrol of the passage
between Haiti and eastern Cuba late yesterday.  The chief task of the 378-foot
cutter and i ts 165-member crew is tointercept island freighters that ferry
thousa nds of Haitians from their impoverished island nation to south Flo rida
for fares exceeding$1,000 apiece. The ship has orders to interce pt and board
all boats suspected of ferrying illegal immigrants to t he United States.

Refugees judged to be fleeing political persecution are to be brought to Miami
for a hearing, while those fleeing poverty are to be turned back.

The Hamilton took up its station in the 60-mile-wide Windward Passage, a major
shipping channel between the Caribbean and Atlantic, after taking on supplies
and fuel at the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 17, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

FOR HAITIAN CHILDREN, A BITTERSWEET NEW LIFE

BYLINE: By PAUL L. MONTGOMERY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: MILLBROOK, N.Y., Oct. 16


Three months ago, Eugenie L. was pressed to the rail of a leaky sailboat in the
Florida Straits, straining for her first sight of the United States after her
boat's clandestine departure from Haiti and a month at sea.

Today, the 17-year-old sat in a neat classroom here laboring over her penmanship
while the Dutchess County hillsides outside the big windows were ablaze with
autumn color.

''It is true that sometimes I feel sadness,'' she said of her time under
supervision at the school here. ''It is very nice, but I would rather be with my
brother in Miami.''

Eugenie is one of 150 Haitian teen-agers at the 1,500-acre Hope Farm campus of
Greer-Woodycrest Children's Services, which has the look of an exclusive private
school. All came as ''unaccompanied minors'' on the boats and some have been
here 10 months while authorities seek relatives or sponsors to whom they can be
released.  For fear of reprisals against the residents' families in Haiti,
Federal authorities asked that the children's last names or pictures of their
faces not be used.

The program here, which started on a small scale in December under a contract
from the Federal Office of Refugee Resettlement, has cost at least $1.6 million
and has resulted in the release of fewer than 50 children. A three-month
extension costing $1.3 million and covering October through December was
recently approved. Officials of the school put the daily cost for each child at
$60.

According to officials of the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, who toured the
Hope Farm facility this morning, placement of the teenagers has been frequently
snarled by changes in immigration policy and the position of Florida authorities
that no more refugees are wanted in that state.

The refugee center officials also said that the recent Immigration and
Naturalization Service practice of incarcerating the Haitian boat people in
Federal prisons and detention centers such as those at Otisville, N.Y., and Ray
Brook, N.Y., may have separated families and made placement more difficult.

The refugee center officials said they had no complaints about the Hope Farm
facility, set in rolling dairy country six miles from Millbrook, or about the
obvious affection and attentiveness of the staff of 150. ''But it might be
better for the children to be a little dirty and live with their real
families,'' said Marie Poitier, chairman of the center's steering committee.

Grace Sum, the program director at Hope Farm, said she believed that word about
the school had got back to parents in Haiti and that some were putting their
children on the boats with the knowledge that they would get medical care,
education, job training and other amenities when they arrived.

More than half the arrivals, most of them between 15 and 17 years old, had never
been in school before. Of the current population of 152, only two had fillings
in their teeth or other signs of dental or medical attention.

Allowances Sent Back Home

In addition to attempts to teach the teen-agers English and simple arithmetic
before their release, the school has a work-study program under which the
students work in the kitchen or rake the campus's never-ending supply of leaves
for $1 an hour. Those who don't work get an allowance of $2 a week.

Miss Sum said many of the children sent back their earnings or allowance money
to their impoverished families in Haiti. For those with ready cash, she said,
the top priorities appear to be inexpensive watches, big radios and gold chains.
When the teen-agers first arrived, she said, they bought chicken and rice for
impromptu disco parties in the residence cottages, but now tastes run more to
potato chips, cupcakes and other supermarket staples.

The residents are taken on supervised shopping trips and excursions for roller
skating and movie-going but are not allowed to leave the campus by themselves.
Several, however, have walked the six miles each way into Millbrook to shop,
Miss Sum said.

The residents live in two-person rooms, a dozen or so in each cottage scattered
through the trees. There are also a gymnasium, swimming pool, soccer field and
other amenities. In the painting classes, many of the works of the children show
sailboats with tattered sails afloat on the blue sea.

Some Normal Depression

Some of the children know they have relatives in the United States,but do not
have a current address or, in some cases, even a name. The school uses Haitian
radio stations and newspapers, and sources in Haitian communities in Brooklyn
and Spring Valley in an attempt to track them down.

Miss Sum said the children frequently showed sadness and depression, which they
manifested by sleeping all the time and crying. She noted that their new
environment could not be more different from the one they left less than a year
ago, and that their sadness did not surprise her. ''If they didn't get
depressed, I would worry,'' she said. ''But they are also very strong and very
flexible, much more so than American kids.''

The program director said follow-up reports from those released to families or
sponsors indicated that the teen-agers generally adjusted well to American life
and showed an ability to get along in a strange language. There was some
evidence of that the other day when one of the youngsters appeared at the office
and asked to use the telephone. It turned out he wanted to call a girl from New
Jersey whom he had met at the skating rink.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitian refugees on campus at Hope Farm photo
of Marie Poitier

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 22, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN TO REQUEST NEW ALIEN CURBS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21


The Reagan Administration has sent Congress a package of proposals for
immigration bills that would grant the President broad emergency powers to keep
unwanted aliens out of the country.

The legislative proposals, which are circulating among members of the House and
Senate judiciary committees this week, were designed to solve legal problems
discovered after the boatlift of more than 125,000 Cubans from the port of
Mariel to Florida last year.

But Congressional aides said tonight that the Administration proposals would go
considerably beyond the measures outlined last summer by Attorney General
William French Smith.

Emergency Sealing of Ports

One bill, they said, would grant the President the power to seal off ports,
harbors and airports to prevent aliens from entering the United States if the
President declared an immigration emergency.

Another proposal would sharply curtail the power of Federal courts to review the
administrative actions denying requests for asylum. At present, if an officer of
the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service denies such a request
and moves to deport an alien, the alien may appeal to a Federal judge for
relief.

Under the Refugee Act of 1980, an alien may obtain asylum in the United States
if he can demonstrate a ''well-founded fear of persecution'' in his homeland.

The Immigration Service has a backlog of thousands of asylum applications from
Haitians, Iranians, Salvadorans, Nicaraguans and other aliens seeking refuge in
the United States. The number of asylum applications has increased sharply in
recent years.

Powers to Be Held in Reserve

Justice Department officials emphasized that President Reagan had no immediate
plans to invoke the emergency powers sought from Congress. They said that he
wanted to have the authority available in the event of another great influx of
aliens.

The bills drafted by the Administration had not yet been formally introduced by
a member of Congress, and they would be subject to extensive hearings and debate
before they could become law.

The Administration is also requesting the power to seize boats or to board
vessels used for bringing aliens without visas or travel documents to the United
States. Attorney General Smith had already said that the Administration wanted
to build detention facilities in which to hold illegal aliens who arrived
without the necessary travel documents.

In addition, the Administration is proposing to exclude aliens from eligibility
for many of the social welfare and benefit programs to which they now have
access. Immigration lawyers said that this proposal, if adopted, could have
major financial implications for state and local governments, which would
probably have to assist many of the aliens.

Other bills would establish a procedure for legalizing the status of illegal
aliens, authorize the admission of ''guest workers'' from Mexico and specify the
legal penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 25, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Essay;
LAST GASP OF THE 1960'S

BYLINE: By William Safire

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 24


Crime buffs up North are thrilled and horrified by the running gun battles of
political terrorists, the early investigations of whom caused the decade-long
harassment of F.B.I.  officials. Times have changed: the lawmen are once again
the good guys, and we give as much encouragement to enforcing the law as to
upholding the law. It took until the early 1980's to bring the 1960's to an end.

Crime buffs down South have an even gorier story, of a ''voodoo death boat,'' to
tell: Two Haitian boat captains, illegally running immigrants into the U.S.,
have been accused of carving up perhaps 16 of their starving passengers with
machetes and throwing the bodies overboard. Because the alleged crimes took
place outside the 12-mile limit of the United States, prosecutors have merely
been able to charge ''smuggling that involved the use of murder and privation,''
which is not a capital crime.

You don't have to be a crime buff, however, or be caught in a running gun battle
or a death ship, to be touched by crime. It is not the televised crime that
frightens most people, it is the single, not-very-newsworthy weapon pointed at
them that counts. Here in Miami, one person in ten was victimized by criminals
last year.

''Miami Beach has gone from being the fun and sun capital of the world,'' says a
local politician, ''to the slum and bum capital.'' Seven out of the ten worst
urban crime rates in the nation are in Florida, from Miami to Gainesville to
Tallahassee.

Police officials explain that their crime figures are inflated because of
visitors, but they cannot deny the alarming increase over past years with the
same percentage of tourists. The breakdown in law enforcement was best shown by
Gregory Jaynes, a New York Times reporter, in a single figure: gun dealers
reported sales up 46 percent from the year before. These are not guns for
criminals; in the main, these are guns bought by frightened citizens who feel
the need to protect themselves.

Chamber of Commerce types are torn between the desire to downplay the crime
wave, lest it damage tourism, and the urge to holler for help to protect small
businesses from holdups. Tourists are understandably nervous, even though this
season's more conservative swimsuit fashions offer more room to pack a rod.

What is causing the shadow of crime to fall across the Sunshine State? A local
narcotics war is drilling some holes in some heads, but that's normal. Some
blame the sharp increase in violent crime on the emptying of Fidel Castro's
jails upon the population of Florida, and suggest this goes hand in hand with
Cuban support of Weathermen terrorists in a campaign to harm the United States.

The Senate Intelligence Committee should investigate why that campaign has been
so poorly investigated by the F.B.I. and C.I.A.  For more than a decade, the
emphasis has been on the protection of the privacy rights of the accused; now we
should have ways of probing terrorist activities without undermining the
Constitution.  Using grand juries and search warrants, lawmen should be
proceeding to break up terrorist rings and track down any overseas connections
without undue fear of being prosecuted or sued themselves.

Another reason given for the crime wave in Florida is the influx of Haitians,
fleeing from hunger and overcrowding at home. The Federal Government is now
stopping the illegal traffic on the high seas, to the cluck-clucking of far-off
media. We should go further and tie aid to Haiti to its cooperation with a
voluntary blockade of its coast, thereby curtailing the need for odious
detention centers here and stopping terror aboard the ''death ships.'' The
peoplesmuggling will stop when it becomes clear that illegal immigrants will be
towed home and the boat owners, captains and crews jailed in Haiti.

But immigration cannot be the primary cause of a crime wave; more often, the
immigrants are the scapegoats. The Federal Government should pay for policing
the nation's borders, and for boarding or detaining those for whom exceptions in
immigration policy are made.  The citizens of Florida can then look to their
state and local officials, who would have no place to pass the buck for
inadequate law enforcement. Epidemics require emergency measures; the best quick
answer is more local police and tougher juries and jurists, which must come from
aroused local citizens and not from Washington.

In the spectacular crimes North and South, there is an interesting contrast in
motives.  The romanticized revolutionaries, often from well-to-do homes, see
themselves as the subject of future Bonnie and Clyde movies, and have pledged
their lives, fortunes and sacred dishonor to the hatred of American values; they
probably intended to symbolize their defiance by the murder of lawmen. The
hungry immigrants who braved the savagery of sadistic captains were breaking our
immigration laws to taste the freedom and opportunity that only this country
offers.

Why is it that nobody commits the crime of breaking into Cuba or the Soviet
Union? Because what the Weather Underground seeks to destroy, the world's
underclass pleads for the chance to share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: op-ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 1, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Nonfiction in Brief

BYLINE: By Martha Bayles

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1360 words


TODAY'S IMMIGRANTS, THEIR STORIES A New Look at the Newest Americans.  By Thomas
Kessner and Betty Boyd Caroli.  317 pp. New York: Oxford University Press.
$16.95.

Newcomers to America from Europe are now outnumbered by those from other
continents, as the lifting of national-origin quotas has widened the stream of
immigration. And modern communication and transportation have enabled it to flow
around as well as through the legal gates. This book succeeds not only in
measuring the stream but in conveying its human texture.

Faced with the stories of hundreds of individual immigrants, the reader will
find it hard not to sympathize with their struggles, even to admire their
circumvention of the law as the latest manifestation of the enterprising spirit
of immigrants to America.  But the reader will also find it hard not to think,
for each story raises important moral, legal and sociological questions. Yet the
stories do not deal well with the ensuing tension between sympathy and thought.
They're not meant as prototypes, clearly explicating group characteristics. Nor
are they meant as case studies, deeply probing the complexities of individual
responses to life in America. They are too brief and too frequently interrupted
for the sake of discussion that is itself brief, and interrupted in turn for new
and different stories. The authors also engage in extreme and sometimes bizarre
compression: the reduction of entire cultural histories to what would fit on a
T-shirt or occupy conversation between two subway stops.

The authors are both historians living in New York, and their book is focused
exclusively on New York. They do not reach any conclusions, and in the absence
of any definite statement on the part of the authors, the book leaves the
impression that all roads lead to Manhattan, there to be reconciled. Such is the
result of using no method beyond ''oral testimony'' - which is really ''human
interest,'' the journalistic device of adding color to black-andwhite fact.
Perfectly acceptable in small doses, it can be frustrating in a book.

LADIES OF THE LEISURE CLASS The Bourgeoises of Northern France in the 19th
Century.  By Bonnie G. Smith.  Illustrated. 303 pp. New Jersey: Princeton
University Press.  Cloth, $22.50. Paper, $9.95.

In the early 19th century, the bourgeois women of northern France took an
active, sometimes dominant part in their home-based family businesses. With
industrialization, however, home and business became separate, and a new
generation of women adopted the purely domestic role considered traditional
today.  Bonnie Smith contends that although social historians disagree on the
significance of this role, they agree that it was the product of forces beyond
the control of the women themselves. The purpose of her book is to refute such
determinism, in particular the feminist view of domesticity as simple
oppression: the exploitation of women by men under capitalism.

Using archival sources, especially the debates over the secularization of
educational and charitable institutions, Miss Smith portrays the struggle to
modernize French society as having occurred largely between men who believed in
reason, Republic and the individual, and women who believed in religion,
monarchy and the family. She further introduces anecdotes, letters and
photographs, obtained through personal contact with several families of the
Nord, to reinforce her argument that for many of these women domesticity was not
a fate but a cause - the basis of a principled and politically organized
opposition to the dismantling of the ancien regime.

Yet having successfully refuted one feminist idea, Miss Smith allows her work to
be distorted by another: the notion of an autonomous ''women's culture,''
radically distinct from its socialhistorical context. She tries to find a unique
and systematic ''female symbolism'' in such varied phenomena as truffles and
bustles, the worship of Mary, and sentimental novels, and embroiders her text
with terms from anthropology, linguistics and psychoanalysis. This part of the
discussion is ingenious, but unless the reader is already persuaded that
19th-century women were a premodern people encapsulated in male civilization, it
may seem like so much frippery added to sensible cloth.

CHRISTINA ROSSETTI A Divided Life.  By Georgina Battiscombe.  Illustrated. 233
pp. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston. $16.95.

Readers attracted by this title are likely to be somewhat disappointed, because
although it suggests deep divisions in the life of the great English poet
Christina Rossetti, the book does not plumb them. Recoiling from an earlier,
more speculative biography by L.M.  Packer, Mrs. Battiscombe makes a point of
fastidiously observing the limits of the existing evidence - notably with regard
to Mrs.  Packer's hypothesis that in order to have written certain of her early
poems, Rossetti must have been in love with the painter William Bell Scott.

Quite rightly, Mrs. Battiscombe objects to ''this method of deducing fact from
poetical references.'' And in the same spirit, she rejects critical
interpretations by Mrs. Packer and others that would reduce the religious
meaning of many poems to a mere function of sexual frustration. She does
Rossetti the honor of taking her work at its lucid, extraordinary word.

Yet the story of the Rossettis does give rise to speculation, especially in the
area that seems at first to be Mrs. Battiscombe's main concern: the divisions
felt by Christina as the child of an Italian family living in England. It would
seem of psychological importance that the daughter of a highly demonstrative
father would grow up to encounter courtship in the distant Victorian style, and
even more of artistic importance that a poet of Rossetti's stature would inherit
two linguistic and literary traditions.

These issues are suggested by the title, and exquisitely raised in Chapter 1,
but beyond a superficial discussion of ''Italian blood'' and ''cultural
streams,'' they're not addressed. The focus of the book keeps shifting back to
the matter of Mrs. Packer's hypothesis.  It is too bad that the effort to
discredit someone else's speculation leads Mrs. Battiscombe to neglect the more
interesting possibilities of her own approach.

TERRAINS OF THE HEART AND OTHER ESSAYS ON HOME By Willie Morris.  265 pp.
Oxford, Miss.: The Yoknapatawpha Press. $12.95.

A native of Mississippi, Willie Morris has made a distinguished career of
conjuring and defending its spirit to the rest of the country. This book
includes some of his writings on the subject, as well as other essays meant to
conjure the spirit of other homes - for he has spent much of his life outside
Mississippi. The non-Mississippi essays have some strength, particularly when a
person or place comes into sustained focus. But they are limited by Mr.
Morris's reluctance to look beyond the obvious fact that Texas, New York and
Washington, D.C., are not Mississippi. And when he does, he tends to see only
the commonplace: the impersonality of commuter trains, loose morals on Capitol
Hill, black crime as a legacy of racism, and suburban Long Island's aversion to
New Jersey license plates.

Elsewhere, Mr. Morris has articulated his hope that Mississippi will achieve
racial justice before the North, because it possesses both a cultural heritage
shared by blacks and whites and a tradition of moderation that has survived
extreme conflicts. Elsewhere, he has rejected the ''homogeneity'' of the new
South as a threat to the mythic land he loves in memory and literature.
Elsewhere, he has described the down-to-earth accommodations of schoolchildren
in the desegregated schools of his hometown, Yazoo.

But these central concerns do not appear in the present volume.  Perhaps because
it is organized around the theme of ''home,'' the book describes his comings and
goings - meetings with friends, football games -in a self-absorbed manner far
less complex and passionate than the vision of his home state conveyed by his
earlier works. A bit too long on rhetoric and short on perception, it draws an
imperfect map of this heart's true terrain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: review

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 12, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ROCKIES ADJUSTING TO A YOUTH BOOM

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1185 words

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 11


The Rocky Mountain region, holding the promise of a booming job market and
unspoiled recreation, is riding the greatest wave of youthful immigration in the
country.

Even as the rest of the nation focuses on the gradual aging of the population,
people in their 20's and 30's are settling in this area in numbers that have
forced public services and markets to adjust to their needs.

Many young adults come to Denver to live near the mountains and then look for
work.  ''I had a friend who offered a place to stay, so I just moved here from
Chicago,'' said Karen Jarard, who is 24 years old. She says she is working
temporarily as a receptionist at an apartment and condominium complex in
suburban Denver while she looks for something better. ''Not only are there jobs
here,'' she observed, ''but you've got everything from skiing to a great night
life.''

'A High Spending Sector'

''The quality of population growth we are seeing in the area has widespread
economic implications,'' said Tucker Hart Adams, who is chief economist at the
United Banks of Colorado. ''People in these age groups are generally in their
most productive years. They are a high-spending sector of the population that
exhibits a strong demand for a wide range of goods, from refrigerators to baby
cribs.''

In the Denver metropolitan area, young and single homebuyers entering the
condominium market accounted for nearly 44 percent of all residential real
estate sales in 1979, according to statistics gathered by the United States
League of Savings Associations. And in Wyoming, a rising birth rate has
increased the demand for hospital obstetrical services and forced the state to
expand elementary classroom facilities. In some counties, grade school
enrollments have increased more than 20 percent since 1975.

Median Age Is 27.9

Because of the aging of the post-World War II baby generation, the median age in
the country as a whole climbed from 28.1 to 30 over the last decade. But the
median age in the eight-state Rocky Mountain region, which accounts for barely 5
percent of the total United States population, grew from 26 to 27.9. In Wyoming,
the median age actually declined over the past decade, from 27.2 to 27.1.

Demographers, economists and public officials in the region expect that as long
as demand for fossil fuels remains high, most of the Rocky Mountain States will
continue to grow at a rate in excess of the national population, as they did in
the last decade. One study by the United States Bureau of Economic Analysis
estimates that Wyoming, Utah, Montana, Colorado and Idaho will grow twice as
fast as the rest of the country from 1978 to 1990.

Dr. Michael Greenwood, an economist at the University of Colorado in Boulder,
said that such growth would have a ''double-barreled'' impact on the region,
since most of those moving into the Rocky Mountain States are in the prime of
their child-bearing years.

Twofold Impact Foreseen

''They are going to create a baby boom of their own which will have a secondary
impact on public services, particularly education programs,'' Dr. Greenwood
said.

He suggests that while the expansion of resource-based industries is one
important factor in the region's growth, recent studies similarly suggest that
increasing numbers of people, particularly younger ones, will be drawn to the
region by what he calls ''environmental amenities,'' such as a pleasant climate
and opportunities for skiing, backpacking and outdoor recreation.

Such trends in the region mark a sharp reversal of growth patterns recorded as
recently as the 1960's, when states like Montana, Idaho, Wyoming and New Mexico
grew at rates well below the nation's and younger people left the region,
presumably in search of better job opportunities in more densely settled parts
of the country.

But in the 1970's growth rates in Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, Wyoming, Utah,
Nevada, Idaho and Montana, which make up what the Census Bureau refers to as the
Mountain Region, far exceeded the 11.5 percent increase calculated for the
nation as a whole. With the exception of Montana, which grew by 13.3 percent,
all the other states recorded population increases of more than 27 percent in
the past decade. And the census data show that the largest component of that
increase was people 20 to 39 years old.

Study on Migration Trends

A study by the Harvard-Massachusetts Institute of Technology Joint Center for
Urban Studies concluded that migration into the region accounted for more than
three-quarters of this growth. In the 1960's, less than one-fifth of the area's
growth came from immigration.

In Wyoming, for example, there were 116 percent more people 20 to 29 years old
counted in the 1980 census than in the 1970 census.  Analysts say most of the
immigrants were unmarried men seeking jobs in Wyoming's booming energy
industries. Over all, the state grew 41.6 percent in the last decade, as against
a growth rate of less than 1 percent in all of the 1960's.

Similarly, in Colorado, the number of people 30 to 39 years old grew 76.4
percent in the last decade, or at more than twice the state's overall growth
rate of 30.9 percent.

As a result, social scientists conclude that the region is serving as a magnet
not only for people in their 20's, usually the most mobile segment of the
population, but is also attracting migrants in their 30's.

Dr. George Masnick, a co-author of the Harvard-M.I.T. report, ''Regional
Diversity: Growth in the U.S., 1960-1990,'' said that census data from most of
the Rocky Mountain area showed this statistical ''bulge'' of people in their
mid-30's, suggesting that those in this age group ''not only were attracted to
the region but tend to stay on.''

Nature of Attraction

Dr. Masnick speculated that this trend might reflect people in their 30's who
were looking for job changes or a place to put down roots, and regarded the
region's peculiar mix of ways of life and employment opportunities as especially
attractive.

This point was underscored by Marjorie Fay, who is vice president of staff
relations at the First National Bank of Denver. Mrs. Fay said the bank recently
ran a one-day advertisement in The Wall Street Journal, seeking to fill a senior
banking position in western Colorado.

''We received about 90 resumes,'' said Mrs. Fay, who described the response as
overwhelming. ''Typically, these people would say they were dying to live in
Colorado. They were very anxious to move to this part of the country.''

Similarly, Mrs. Fay says the bank's personnel offices are regularly beseiged by
young business college graduates from the East and Middle West who ''just show
up on our doorstep and beg for work because they want to live here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: charts

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 15, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

778 HAITIANS SEE NO END TO ODYSSEY

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1386 words

DATELINE: JUANA DIAZ, P.R., Nov. 9


On the perimeter of Fort Allen, where the inexorable tropical vegetation tries
to take back its own, vines ease over the barbed wire and thick vegetation hides
the old military installation from view. Grass grows knee-high in the shady
gardens of the abandoned officers' quarters, and there is a certain lushness in
the midst of the isolation and decay.

In the four compounds that hold 778 Haitian refugees, however, there is not a
blade of grass, not a tree, only asphalt shimmering in the heat and wire fences
topped with shiny new rolls of barbed wire.  For shade, there are dormitory
tents of canvas stretched over plywood frames. For seating, there are cots
inside the tents.

Since Aug. 12, the Haitians have been waiting at Fort Allen for the end of the
odyssey that for many began months earlier when they fled Haiti in small boats.
As the delay grows, so does the sense of desperation and the conviction that
they have been forgotten.

Last week, the normally impassive refugees shouted and shook the fences when
they were unable to speak with a representative of the Puerto Rico Bar
Association who was touring the camp. He said he felt he had not been granted
enough time and planned to come back. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
said the disturbance lasted 30 minutes.

On the same day, 19 women drafted and signed an open letter in which they said,
''If we have not been freed by the end of November, a good number of us are
going to commit suicide.''

Although several efforts have been made to make the camp more comfortable,
boredom and uncertainty are overriding problems, according to Marshall Mehlos, a
spokesman for the immigration service. The agency operates the camp, which was
opened to relieve overcrowding at a Miami detention center.

There Is Not Much to Do

Going to the health clinic is the principal diversion at Fort Allen. There is
little else to do. A few basketball hoops dot the grounds. There are church
services, regular visits from nuns and four camp telephones from which the
refugees can call the outside world collect. At midmorning, there is a sense of
lassitude, of time suspended.

''The torture is not that they are tortured - they have three meals a day and
are not badly treated,'' said Dr. Jean Claude Bajeux, a university professor and
the general director of the Inter-Regional Council for Haitian Refugees in San
Juan. ''It is that they are doing nothing. They tell me, 'I am like an animal.'

''They don't understand why they've not been picked and others have been
released,'' he went on. ''They have a feeling of bad luck. Many of them have
sisters or brothers in New York or Miami. Resettlement isn't a problem; in two
or three days we could resettle them. The point is to give a lesson to the
Haitian people.''

Carlos Garcia, one of only a handful of lawyers willing to make the three-hour
round trip from San Juan, said: ''I find it unbelievable that they have a big
American flag flying over the place. The place is a concentration camp. There's
no other way of describing a place designed to process people into leaving the
United States. Due process and law are incidental.

''These people aren't allowed what convicted criminals are allowed,'' he
continued. ''The Government has, with this camp and the interception of Haitian
ships, been trying to set an example to deter other people. I think it's been
calculated in every detail.''

U.S. Refusing to Grant Asylum

Under the Reagan Administration, a Coast Guard cutter stationed near Haiti has
been attempting to intercept vessels carrying illegal aliens. Those who manage
to get through are detained pending exclusion hearings. The Administration has
contended that virtually all Haitians are fleeing because of economic conditions
and are not political refugees entitled to asylum.

On a tour of the camp, Mr. Mehlos said he felt the ''concentration camp''
comparison was grossly unfair. He pointed to a cook tent, where a lunch of
turkey stew, rice, vegetables and fruit cocktail was being prepared and said
that the dietitian had been making an effort to combine good nutrition with food
that the Haitians like to eat.

At one of the compounds, there is a tent where Haitians take their health
complaints and a dispensary. Lary Schneiderman, director of the United States
Public Health Service operation here, said there had not been a case of dengue
fever, malaria, tuberculosis or any communicable disease in the camp, although
about 25 percent of the refugees suffer from digestive diseases. He said a
specialist in internal medicine had joined the staff that day.

'Hold Them Overnight and Hope'

A few of the Haitians come in with psychiatric complaints, usually anxiety, he
said. There are six beds in the dispensary, ''and we hold them overnight and
hope they can get themselves together again,'' he said. If problems are severe,
the Haitians can see a psychiatrist who comes on Fridays.

Shortly after the refugees arrived, Carlos Noel, the Haitian consul in San Juan,
visited the refugees in the camp.  ''I went at the invitation of the immigration
service,'' Mr. Noel said in a telephone interview. ''I greeted the group. I
said, 'You haven't been rejected by Haiti, you left looking for better
conditions.' I said, 'If there are some people who want to return to Haiti of
their own will, I'm disposed to give help with the paperwork needed to return.'
''

Mr. Garcia, who said he was present, contended that Mr. Noel told the refugees
that if they stayed in Puerto Rico, they were causing problems for the Haitian
Government, making it difficult to obtain financial aid.

''He said if they went back, they would be given money - perhaps $20, perhaps
$15, $5 or only $1 - but they would be given something,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''If
they stayed here, they would be kept in Fort Allen to rot.''

Mr. Noel denied saying anything of the sort. ''I said nothing, nothing,
nothing,'' he said when asked of those allegations. ''I am at peace with my
conscience.''

Mr. Garcia also contended that the refugees had been told that their
political-asylum claims would be investigated in Haiti. To date, 97 refugees
have filed claims for political asylum, and 70 of those have been rejected by
the State Department. Since the camp opened, 87 refugees have returned to Haiti
voluntarily and 224 have signed up to go home.

A group called the Citizens United to Help the Haitian People has organized to
try to provide sponsors for refugees who want to settle in Puerto Rico, and
several prominent Puerto Ricans have signed a statement asking the United
Nations to intervene on behalf of the refugees.

Ines Munoz Marin, widow of former Governor Luiz Munoz Marin, wrote a letter to
local newspapers about the opening of Fort Allen.  ''Haitians are not
contaminated dogs,'' she wrote. ''They are the descendants, today humiliated, of
the patriots who made the first great blow for liberty in America. These thin
and dying blacks have in their history heroes and patriots; they have a culture,
art, music; they have wise men and poets. Dictators have, year after year, been
stealing their soul, their land, their life - to the indifference of all
America. We would be accomplices in a crime against humanity, fencing them in
like animals. We would, deep in our souls, be a little less Puerto Rian. No, a
lot less. Let the United States accept its historical responsibility. Do not
force us to be jailers.''

----

Haitians Are Ordered Home

MIAMI, Nov. 14 (AP) - A Federal judge ordered today that 55 Haitians being held
at Fort Allen in Puerto Rico be immediately flown back to Haiti.

The Haitians, who originally sought refuge in the United States, told the
Government that they no longer wished to enter the country.  District Judge
James W. Kehoe issued the order after hearing a report from a Miami lawyer, Joel
Hirschhorn, who visited Fort Allen and talked with 58 Haitians. Mr. Hirschhorn
said three of the Haitians still wanted refuge in the United States.

Judge Kehoe had appointed Mr. Hirschhorn as a special master to talk with the
refugees, who filed documents with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
saying they wanted to return to Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitian refugees at Fort Allen, Puerto Rico
(page 28) photo of Haitians welcoming visitors to Fort Allen (page 28) map of
Puerto Rico showing location of Fort Allen (page 28)

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 22, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CUBA AIDED DOOMED HAITIANS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21


The 33 Haitians who drowned off the coast of Florida last month had spent nearly
four weeks in Cuba, where they received food supplies and other assistance
permitting them to continue their journey to the United States, Federal
investigators said today.

However, a senior Justice Department official, William P. Tyson, said the
department had concluded after a thorough investigation that ''there was not a
'mother ship' which carried the Haitians into Florida waters.''

The conclusions were based on interviews with survivors and other evidence.  The
33 Haitians died Oct. 26 when their 30-foot boat capsized in choppy waters just
north of Miami. Local officials said the next day that there was strong evidence
that the Haitians had been carried to the Florida shore in a freighter or
''mother ship'' operated by smugglers. But now the local officials say they tend
to accept the Justice Department's conclusion.

Federal agents investigating the case
said the Haitians spent 27 days in Cuba, got food supplies there and resumed
their voyage with the assistance of a Cuban vessel, which towed them out to sea
for two to four hours. The investigators said they had not determined whether
the vessel was owned by the Cuban Government.

Immigration officials believe that the Haitians did not intend to stop off in
Cuba while on their way to the United States but rather that they were forced to
by bad weather.

Jack Stearn, an Immigration and Naturalization Service investigator, said the
Haitians were ready to return to their homeland after trying three or four
times, without success, to sail north away from Cuba.

Mr. Stearn said several Cubans had encouraged the Haitians to continue their
voyage to Florida, with one Cuban saying: ''Why do you want to go back to Haiti?
It's closer to the United States.''

Thirty-four Haitians survived the accident, swam to shore at Hillsboro Beach,
Fla., and were taken to a Federal detention facility for illegal aliens. Mr.
Stearn has interviewed many of the survivors.

The Cubans, he said, would not permit the Haitians to remain in Cuba but helped
repair their boat so it could sail on to Florida.  The United States does not
have formal diplomatic relations with the Cuban Government. However, a spokesman
for the Cuban interests section of the Czechoslovakian Embassy, Miguel Martinez,
asked to comment on allegations that the Haitians had spent four weeks in Cuba,
said, ''That is the first information I have on that point.''

Contrary to Initial Findings

The initial, widely publicized findings of the local officials in Florida that a
''mother ship'' had helped the Haitians were based in part on the findings of
Dr. Ronald Wright, the medical examiner of Broward County. He performed
autopsies on the victims and found that they had consumed large cooked meals
just before drowning.

The meals, he said last month, could not have been cooked aboard the Haitians'
30-foot boat and the food was fresh, so he concluded that it must have been
served on a mother ship, which transferred its passengers to the smaller vessel.

Dr. Wright was away from his office and could not be reached for comment Friday
or today. The chief investigator in the office, D.P.  Hughes, generally
concurred with the Justice Department's conclusion.

''We have no physical evidence that the Haitians were dropped off in a mother
ship,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''We haven't found anything that can positively tie
them in to another craft.''

Mr. Tyson described the results of the joint Federal-state investigation in a
letter to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who had urged
the Justice Department to prosecute anyone found to be responsible for the
tragedy.

Did Have a Hot Meal

In a letter, Mr. Tyson said: ''Reports that the Haitians had been fed a hot meal
shortly before their boat was wrecked, even though the boat had no stove, are
correct. However, the meal was not provided by a mother ship.''

Mr. Hughes, the chief investigator for the medical examiner in Broward County,
said the food found in the stomachs of the Haitian victims may have come from
cans that the Haitians obtained in Cuba.  The food may have been cooked before
it was put into containers, he said, or it may have been cooked on board the
boat. The Haitians were able to burn wood under a steel plate that they used as
a grill, the investigator said.

On the Haitians' boat, Mr. Hughes said, investigators found ''a can of milk with
Russian markings.'' The Haitians ''probably had more canned food on board,'' he
added, ''and it is logical to assume that they wanted to finish off the
remaining food before they went ashore, not knowing where they would get their
next meal.''

Concerning possible criminal charges, Mr. Tyson said, ''When the bodies were
identified, it was learned that the captain and members of the crew who were
instrumental in smuggling the people out of Haiti were killed when the ship
overturned. Although one crew member may have survived, there is no conclusive
evidence for a homicide prosecution, and the state has closed the
investigation.''

Mr. Tyson, as director of the executive office for United States attorneys,
supervises Federal prosecutors throughout the country. Mr. Kennedy is the
ranking Democrat on the immigration subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.

Still Collecting Evidence

Although the state authorities have closed their homicide investigation, Federal
agents still are collecting evidence for possible presentation to a grand jury.
The evidence concerns the activities of a surviving crew member and a person in
Haiti who may have helped the migrants begin their journey.

Mr. Hughes and C. Brian McDonald, the principal assistant United States attorney
in Miami, said that despite the findings in this case, which suggested only a
small-scale smuggling operation, they believed that organized rings of smugglers
were transporting Haitians to the United States.

On Oct. 22, a Federal grand jury in Miami returned an indictment charging that
two men had conspired to bring more than 200 Haitians to Florida last July in
violation of United States immigration laws.  The indictment said the defendants
had received sugar and water from the Cuban Navy off the coast of Cuba.

Meanwhile, a Federal district judge in Florida, Norman C. Roettger Jr., has
dismissed a challenge to the Reagan Administration's policy of intercepting
boats loaded with Haitians bound for the United States. Judge Roettger ruled
last Tuesday that the plaintiff, the Haitian Refugee Center, an unincorporated
association of more than 1,200 Haitians, did not have a legal basis upon which
to challenge the policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 26, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

UKRAINIAN BOY'S FREEDOM QUEST FACES LONG FIGHT

BYLINE: By DAVID M. MARGOLICK, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1225 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


When a 12-year-old boy runs away from home, it usually is not a Federal case.
Yet, almost from the moment in July 1980 when Walter Polovchak left his home in
Chicago with his 17-year-old sister, Natalie, to live with a cousin rather than
return with his parents to the Ukraine, the Federal Government has been involved
in his life.

Today, 16 months later, Mr. and Mrs. Polovchak are back in the Soviet Union with
their younger son, Mikhail, 7. Walter, now 14, is living here with foster
parents, and last week petitioned a Cook County court to allow an uncle and aunt
in California to adopt him.

But Walter, who has said he wants to stay in America with his friends and new
bicycle, remains the center of a dispute between two nations and, partly as a
result, is the beneficiary of a solicitous Federal Government.

But as the underlying legal issues emerge from the rhetoric in the Polovchak
case, Walter and Federal officials may be in for a difficult court battle.

Custody Decision Expected Soon

Authorities on juvenile law and immigration matters say that the Reagan
Administration's stance is an unprecedented Federal intrusion into the sanctity
of the family. Moreover, they dispute Justice Department assertions that a grant
of asylum should take precedence if the Appellate Court of Illinois grants
custody to Walter's parents. The court is expected to rule soon.

''I don't think it necessarily follows from the grant of asylum that parents
lack the power to take a child back home to some other country,'' said Robert H.
Mnookin, a professor at Stanford University Law School and author of ''Child,
Family and State.'' ''If the parents have legal custody, the tradition is that
they can determine where the child lives,'' he said.

Federal intervention began shortly after the boy ran away from home. His
parents, Mikhail and Anna Polovchak, who were planning to return to the Soviet
Union after six unhappy months in the United States, decided that Natalie was
old enough to make up her mind, but they wanted Walter back.

As soon as the boy was tracked down, Warren M. Christopher, then Deputy
Secretary of State, ordered that he not be returned to his parents. In three
days, the Immigration and Naturalization Service granted religious asylum to the
boy, who had abandoned his parents' Roman Catholicism to become a Baptist.

Strained Ties to Washington

Since then, Walter Polovchak's ties to Washington, like those to his parents,
have sometimes been strained. In August, the United States Attorney in Chicago
and the Illinois division of the American Civil Liberties Union, counsel for the
parents, agreed that Walter could return to the Soviet Union if the Illinois
court granted custody.

But that agreement was scuttled, as its political repercussions became clear.
The Administration now says it will ''defend vigorously'' the Government's
decision to grant asylum.

Soon after he left his parents, Walter was deemed a ''minor in need of
supervision'' by the Cook County Juvenile Court and declared a ward of the
state. In seeking custody, the boy's parents have argued that, without a showing
of gross neglect or physical or mental abuse, the juvenile court's decision
infringes on the constitutional right to raise and educate a family.

Soon after the Polovchak case began to receive nationwide attention, a spokesman
for the immigration service said that the grant of asylum could not affect the
parents' custody rights and, implicitly, their power to compel Walter to return
to the Soviet Union. But that view has been rejected by the Justice Department.

The Administration contends that Federal authority over immigration matters and
foreign policy severely curbs the discretion of the Illinois court. Government
lawyers cite the supremacy clause of the Constitution, which says in part that
Federal laws bind state court judges. This interpretation, they say, forbids a
state court to vitiate the Federal grant of asylum or to allow Walter's return
to the Soviet Union.

U.S. Attorney Suggests 2 Options

''The grant of asylum is an integral part of this country's immigration law,
international law and the foreign policy power of the executive,'' United States
Attorney Dan K. Webb of the Northern District of Illinois argued in a brief
submitted to the Appellate Court of Illinois. ''The judiciary is foreclosed from
nullifying or subtracting from that grant.''

The Federal Government, Mr. Webb submitted, took no position on how the Illinois
court should decide the custody question. But he suggested two options: denying
the parents custody, or barring them from taking their son to the Soviet Union
against his will.

Polovchak lawyers have challenged the Government's assertion of the limitless
power to grant asylum, even to minors. They contend that the asylum award made
to a 12-year-old without any consultation with his parents is a ''grossly
unreasonable and unwarranted invasion of the privacy and integrity of the
family.''vacy and integrity of the family.''

More generally, A.C.L.U. lawyers and experts in juvenile and immigration law
contend that, by tradition and precedent, the Federal Government ranks far
behind the family itself and the state in domestic problems. The Administration
knows little about the boy's psychological situation.

''Traditionally, disputes involving domestic relations, including child custody
and adoption proceedings, have been thought to be wholly within the province of
the state courts,'' the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
said in 1978. ''The cases recognize the 'local' nature of domestic relations
problems, the strong interest of the states in addressing such questions without
interference and the expertise of local agencies and courts in monitoring and
resolving'' such matters.

That attitude was endorsed by the

The Illinois court, in fact, rejected the Federal Government's brief in the
custody case, although it is unclear whether it considered the Justice
Department wrong or simply tardy, since the brief was filed more than 90 days
after oral arguments.

Long Legal Battle Expected

Both Mr. Mnookin, the Stanford law professor, and Charles Gordon, former general
counsel to the Immigration Service, contend that asylum simply means that the
Federal Government itself lacks the power to deport the child and says nothing
about custody.

''Normally, the immigration authorities would abide by the state
determination,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''There should be no deviation from that
principle.''

All parties to the Polovchak dispute agree that the matter is likely to remain
in the courts for some time.  ''One thing that no court can control is Walter
Polovchak's aging and maturing process,'' said Alan M. Dershowitz, a Harvard law
professor who has broken with most civil libertarians and is listed as an expert
witness by the boy's attorneys. ''Eventually, he's going to reach the age of 16,
and he'll probably reach it here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Walter Polovchak

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS: WE'LL KILL OURSELVES

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 879 words


Following are excerpts from an open letter to the United States Immigration
Service from 'The Unhappy Refugees of Enclave IV'-a group of Haitians held at
Fort Allen, Puerto Rico. In it, they threaten suicide. The letter was handed to
a New York Times reporter.

Dear Readers, Gentlemen, Civilian, and Military Authorities, For the last few
months we have been imprisoned without knowing what outcome our fates would
have.  You can imagine that if we risked our lives by leaving our country on
sailboats and planes it was in order to find a haven on the soil of America,
which we thought was capable of re-ceiving us, since it is a large power in the
world.

Since 1957, we have endured atro-cious suffering due to the lack of a good
government. But now it is worse, and we cannot stand it. This is why we are
forced to emigrate in larger num-bers. At home if we manage to get work, we
cannot collect our salary. If we claim our rights, our life would be in danger.
Not only one's own, but also that of the entire family, which would be
implicated by the authorities.

To our great surprise, upon arriving to the Immigration Center in Miami, we were
made to wait for several hours during which time we were in-terrogated on one
single topic, to wit, ''Why did you come to the United States?'' Since our
answer is positive and always the same, we were finally accepted although we
were told that we would have to spend a few days in the Krome (detention center)
for formalities.

Upon arriving, our eyes widened with fear and surprise at the conditions of
life. We thought we were throwing ourselves into a stable. One thousand persons
are jammed into one and the same cell.  It reminds us of black slavery. But
alas, after shedding many tears and imploring God to come help us, we finally
resigned ourselves to accepting this sufferance for a few days. Because we did
not want to go back. Each day that would go by was one day less for us. We hoped
that maybe in 8, 10, or 15 days we would be called to be freed.

One day around 4 p.m., we (women) were all gathered at the sound of whistles. We
spent a day and a night awaiting our fate, after having been tagged with a
plastic ID bracelet. After that we were made to parade in the nude in front of
men and women. We were splashed, badly dressed. Stripped of our own clothes and
belongings, we were made to sit in a room where we were to spend the night. In
this distress, the room was like a wake, where sad songs were being sung. At
that moment an enormous chill would run down the spine.  Around 5 a.m., we were
jammed into a bus which was to drive us to the airport. This is how we left
Miami for Puerto Rico.

If sometimes a few of us misbehave, it is not their fault. You must understand
that all of us don't have the strength, the same understanding, nor the same
degree of education, and that we all suffer a lot from the behavior of others.
Life at Fort Allen has been very hard for us.

When we left Miami, we were led to believe that we were only going to Puerto
Rico for a few days. And until now we have been suffering for eight months
without knowing why. Each day we hear only one thing: those who wish to return
to Haiti can come give their names.

Since we arrived on American soil, we have been mistreated. We have been made to
suffer and we have accepted it all, we have endured it.  We have left at home
relatives who are relying on our help. How can we return to Haiti now, empty
handed and stripped of everything? Oh no, it would be the greatest injustice. If
the Americans did not want to take us in, they should have sent us back the very
same day. And now, instead of making us suffer, why not send us to other
countries like Russia, Cuba, France or Canada, who are willing to take us in
with open arms?

We are Christians. We have blood in our veins and thoughts like all the other
people who are free. We want our freedom because we have been suffering for five
months, because we left our relatives in order to help others get out of the
lion's mouth in Haiti.

Our situation is pitiful. We have been locked up behind barbed wire from Miami
to Puerto Rico. The days are always the same for us. We don't know what the date
is. Sometimes we are hungry and cannot eat.

We have needs and cannot satisfy them. Is this the better life we are seeking?
We took refuge in the United States in the hopes of filling our voids. Can we
not fill them? Where are we going?

Now we cannot stand it any more. It is too much. If we have not been freed by
the end of November, a good number of us are going to commit suicide. Because we
have sworn to die in the United States.

We are asking why you treat us this way. Is it because we are Negroes? Why are
you letting us suffer this way, America? Don't you have a father's heart?
Haven't you thought we were humans, that we had a heart to suffer with and a
soul that could be wounded? Give us back our freedom. Why among all the nations
that emigrate to the United States have only the Haitians known such suffering?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: op-ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 6, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AIDES SAY THAT SEA PATROL HAS SLOWED HAITIAN ENTRIES

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 940 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 5


The Federal authorities say that the number of Haitian refugees headed for the
United States has decreased dramatically in a year. They are crediting the
Reagan Administration's decision to interdict these refugees at sea as well as
widespread word in Haiti that coming to this country without proper documents
means a loss of freedom.

Since the Government announced the interdiction policy in August, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has taken 1,960 Haitians into custody. In
the same four months last year, the agency picked up 6,906. In all of 1980, the
Government caught 15,093 Haitians, while in 1981, through Dec. 1, 8,023 had been
detained. Last month only 47 were picked up as they reached Florida shores, as
against 1,021 in November 1980.

Though Coast Guard cutters patrolling the Windward Passage between Haiti and
Cuba since September have interdicted only one boat, and that one sinking with
57 Haitians on board, a spokesman for the immigration service here said,
''That's where the word 'deterrent' comes in.''

The spokesman, Beverly McFarland, said that the presence of the Coast Guard off
Haiti's coast, the Administration's ''detention posture'' and the attention the
Haitian press paid the drownings of 33 refugees off a Florida beach Oct. 26 were
three major reasons for the ''tremendous drop-off.'' She added that the
Government's decision to establish Fort Drum, a 107,625-acre military
installation near Watertown, N.Y., as a permanent detention facility for illegal
aliens may have contributed.

The Fear of Siberia

Of Fort Drum, she said: ''A side effect may well be that there has been so much
press about it being Siberia that it may have caused people to think twice. But
it was not an intentional deterrent.''

A spokesman for the Haitian community in Miami discounted the Government's
belief that the number of Haitians heading here had decreased. ''They're still
coming,'' said the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, executive director of the Haitian
Refugee Center Inc. ''They're just not caught. They drift in and I meet them
every day myself.''

The Federal authorities concede that as many as 50,000 Haitians have eluded
officials in the last 10 years and entered the United States illegally. Hundreds
still do, the immigration agency believes, but the theory is that if 1,000 were
apprehended in a month a year ago, with less manpower and less attention to the
situation, then, given this year's resources and local awareness, if fewer than
50 are picked up in one month, it must mean fewer are coming.

''The Mariel boatlift threw everything into high relief,'' said Miss McFarland,
referring to the 1980 Cuban refugees. ''There is no ignoring any boat that comes
in with people who are illegal now.''

Most Living in Misery

There are about 2,500 Haitians in detention in Florida, Texas, Kentucky, West
Virgina and New York. Some 700 others are at Fort Allen, P.R., under an
agreement with the Puerto Ricans that the number will not exceed 800. By all
accounts, the detainees are miserable.

Here in Miami, at the Krome Avenue camp on the eastern edge of the Everglades,
there was a small riot Sept. 3. Two weeks ago, 45 men escaped over the 12-foot
chain-link fence and the two-feet of barbed wire that tops it; 15 were
recaptured. The night before Thanksgiving, 15 to 20 men shoved a guard against a
wall and went over the fence; two were recaptured. In the next two nights, 21
fled.

The immigration agency added 12 Border Patrol guards to its 26-man security
detail at Krome. There have been no breakouts in a week.  Immigration officials
here say that Christmas may be a reason for tensions at Krome. The Haitians,
nearly all of them Roman Catholics, have begun to realize they will be neither
free nor home by the holiday, and to keep the place calm through this month the
Government is allowing local clergymen to say mass and is negotiating with
relief organizations for entertainment.

An ordinary day at Krome means standing around on the coral rock ground. There
are no recreational facilities, nor at Fort Allen in Puerto Rico.

More than 100 Haitians have voluntarily left Fort Allen and been flown back to
Haiti. Their places at Fort Allen have been filled by transfers of Haitians from
Krome, which, at a population of 803 Friday, was filled to capacity.

Refugees at Fort Allen said today that they had found a 30-year-old father of
five dead in his bunk, and they said they would refuse to let the authorities
remove the body until they were allowed to see lawyers or the press, United
Press International reported. The refugees said by telephone that they had found
the body of Innocent Miclisse, a 30-year-old married man and the father of five.

The Government contends there would be no need for detention if a handful of
lawyers had not taken more Haitian cases than they could handle and had not
clogged the works with delaying tactics. The civil libertarians contend that the
Haitians are political refugees, not solely economic refugees, as the
Administration holds, and that their rights are being violated. There are a
dozen unresolved suits in Federal courts in Miami. Another went to trial in
Federal District Court in Manhattan Friday.

Next month, the Haitians are to be moved to Fort Drum, issued mittens and
parkas, and taught to walk on ice and look for signs of frostbite. After that,
Krome, a missile base thrown up in the 1962 Cuban crisis, is to be a processing
facility, from which aliens will be shipped home or to Fort Drum.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: map of southern Florida photo of beds in detention
center photo of wire fence surrounding detention center photo of guard tower

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 18, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

MOON CHURCH FOLLOWER AGREES TO LEAVE U.S.

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio, Dec. 17


A 20-year-old Australian woman, who came to the United States for a vacation but
spent the last 14 months in the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church, agreed
today to leave the country voluntarily rather than face deportation as an
illegal alien.

Her parents, who had flown here to try to bring their daughter home, at one
point had her committed to a mental institution to remove her from the church's
influence.

The woman, Angela Hamersley, a former reservations clerk for Qantas Airlines,
was arrested today in Akron by officials of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Miss Hamersley arrived in this country in October 1980 for a vacation but did
not return to Australia. Her visitation papers expired in April.

Say She Was Brainwashed

Her parents, John and Julie Hamersley, first flew here from Perth, Australia, a
month after her arrival. They later hired an Arizona ''deprogrammer'' to try to
reclaim their daughter. Although Miss Hamersley told her parents she had joined
the religious group of her own free will, they said they believed she had been
brainwashed.

An Australian consul also journeyed to Akron from Chicago to assist in getting
Miss Hamersley's cooperation to leave the country.  ''I am very happy,'' Mr.
Hamersley said after his daughter agreed not to fight deportation. He said
Thursday's session with Government officials and lawyers was ''the first time
we've seen her behave like a normal person'' since she joined the Moon church.

For the Hamersleys, the ordeal began in October 1980, when their daughter, then
18 years old, phoned them from San Francisco saying that she had canceled her
flight home and was staying in the United States.

'Nice Set of Friends'

''She said just that she had met this nice girl who had a nice set of friends
and that she had invited her to stay with them,'' Mrs.  Hamersley said.

Mr. Hamersley, a pharmacist, said he was ''shocked'' at his daughter's decision
because ''she was an extraordinarily sensible and level-headed girl.''

The Hamersleys said they learned the truth about their daughter's whereabouts
after distant relatives in this country helped them check the address their
daughter had given where she could be reached and found it was a warehouse
leased by the Mr. Moon's Unification Church.

As soon as they could get passports, they journeyed to San Francisco and told
Unification Church officials they wanted to see their daughter.

Slept on Floor of Hut

The Hamersleys said they found their daughter was living in a wood hut with
about a dozen other young girls and was sleeping on the floor. After several
visits, the Hamersleys were unable to persuade her to return with them.

Miss Hamersley then moved to New York with the Unification Church and then to
Akron, where she lived in the church commune and worked for the church at a
store in a shopping center.

The Hamersleys returned to the United States several days ago, this time aided
by a deprogrammer and some lawyers.  They succeeded in getting a court order to
have her temporarily committed to a mental hospital, where she was held for
several days.  The Hamersleys had told the court their daughter suffered from
hypoglycemia, a disorder involving low levels of blood sugar, and that her
sudden gain of about 25 pounds jeopardized her health.

By the time the mental hospital was ready to release her Thursday, immigration
officials had been alerted and were prepared to arrest her.

Peter Reilly, the Australian consul from Chicago, said foreign travelers in the
United States were often targets of religious cults. ''It is becoming an
increasing problem, the difficulties that Australians have encountered with
cults,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 26, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Haitians Refuse Dinner In Second Day of Strike

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 117 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 25


About 650 Haitians refused a Christmas dinner of turkey, fried plantains, red
beans and rice today as a hunger strike at a Federal immigration camp entered
its second day.

The refugees began the strike Wednesday night to protest their internment at the
Krome Avenue detention center where they are awaiting immigration processing.

Two Haitian men fainted early today and were given liquids to ease dehydration
in the 74-degree weather.  A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service said the strike showed no signs of abating, but added that some refugees
were believed to be sneaking snacks from the vending machines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 26, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Six Poles Jump Ship In Alaska

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Dec. 25


Six Polish sailors who jumped from their fishing vessel into a tugboat in Kodiak
Harbor on Christmas Eve spent Christmas with families of Polish descent on their
first full day in America.

A Roman Catholic church helped place the sailors with Polishspeaking families in
the Anchorage area until the Federal authorities can determine whether to grant
the men asylum.

Peter Gordon, an inspector with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
that the State Department would have the final word on whether the sailors would
be eligible for asylum, but added, ''There's no thought of sending them any
place at this time, certainly not back to Poland.''

The sailors jumped from the Polish fishing ship Grinwal to a commercial tugboat
that had been dispatched by the Coast Guard to ferry two crewmen suffering from
abdominal bleeding to Kodiak, where an ambulance was waiting. While the ailing
sailors were being lowered into the tug, the six jumped aboard the tug and asked
for asylum.

Coast Guard escorts flew the six to Anchorage, where they were handed over to
immigration officials, who allowed the men to be placed with Anchorage families.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 28, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section B; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 433 words


CAMP DISTURBANCE STAGED BY HAITIANS

MIAMI, Dec. 27 (AP) - Chanting ''liberte, liberte,'' more than 200 Haitian
immigrants broke through security lines and stormed the fences of a Federal
immigration camp here today in an apparent attempt to free 700 detained
countrymen.

Using clubs and tear gas, immigration security guards and Metro Dade police beat
back what one officer described as a ''mob-type'' rush while about 300 other
demonstrators shouted support for the charge.

''The plan seemed to be to help break out the interned entrants,'' said Beverly
McFarland, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''They
stormed past the security line and were climbing the fences to get in.''

As the demonstrators fled the tear gas, several began setting fires in the
surrounding Everglades underbrush, said police Sgt. Joe Wiche. Twelve acres of
the Everglades burned, and more than 10 fire units were required to bring the
fires under control.

About 30 Haitian detainees escaped in the confusion, but 20 returned voluntarily
or were recaptured, said Miss McFarland.  She said no injuries were reported,
but Vera Weisz, an attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center, said the police had
used unnecessary force in subduing the crowd.

The Haitians inside the compound apparently were not involved in the
demonstration. Many of the 742 aliens at the camp have been detained for several
months awaiting immigration hearings or deportation.

Most of the male detainees have been boycotting meals since Christmas Eve. The
51 Haitian women in the camp are accepting food.  Miss McFarland said the
Haitians had never given a reason for their food boycott, but others said the
refugees were protesting their confinement.

The Haitians contend they are political refugees, while Federal immigration
authorities say the Haitians are coming to this country for economic reasons and
should not be granted asylum.

----

Cuban Refugees Protest Arrests

FORT CHAFFEE, Ark. Dec. 27 (AP) - Two small groups of angry Cuban refugees
carrying rocks gathered at the Fort Chaffee resettlement center today to protest
the arrests of two refugees that they thought had been mistreated.

Capt. Adrian Droke of the Federal Protective Service said that 25 Cubans formed
one group and that 15 others gathered about half a block away. He said the
refugees did not throw the rocks. The demonstration followed a scuffle between
police and two unidentified refugees, Captain Droke said.

The Cubans at Fort Chaffee are the last prisoners of the thousands who arrived
in the Freedom Flotilla boatlift.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of a guard subduing a protestor

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 28, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SOVIET JEWS POSE U.S.-ISRAEL PUZZLE

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, Dec. 27


With the number of Jews allowed to leave the Soviet Union dropping sharply, a
dispute has erupted between United States and Israeli organizations helping to
settle the emigrants.

The Israelis accuse the Americans of provoking a new hard line from the Soviet
authorities by enticing the emigrants away from Israel, the destination that is
listed on their exit visas.

The Americans defend what they describe as the principle of free choice of
destination, and assert that the decline in the number of Jews leaving the
Soviet Union is linked solely to tensions in East-West relations.

The American and Israeli groups, which have jointly handled more than a
quarter-million Soviet Jewish emigrants in the last decade, agree on predictions
that the departures will become a trickle in the next few years. The number of
emigrants is expected to fall below 10,000 this year for the first time since
the exodus started in 1969.

'Broad Hints of Dissatisfaction'

The rift between the groups became evident when the Jewish Agency, which
oversees immigration to Israel, decided last August to change its assistance
program after receiving what it said were ''broad hints of dissatisfaction''
from Moscow at the high rate of emigrants settling in countries other than
Israel.

Until then, the agency had referred all emigrants arriving in Vienna who chose
not to go to Israel to two United States Jewish organizations, Hias and the
Joint Distribution Committee.

Under its new procedures, the agency directs such emigrants to the two American
groups only if they have immediate relatives, such as parents, children or
spouses, in the United States.

In the month that the new policy was put into effect, the rate of departures to
Israel rose from 20 to 30 percent of the total, according to Barbuch Minkovitz,
the agency's director in Vienna. Mr.  Minkovitz accused Hias of breaking an
agreement on the issue shortly afterward.

'They Cannot Force People'

But Dr. Merryll Rosenberg, the society's director in Vienna, said: ''We don't
want to be accused of stealing people. But people who did not want to go to
Israel were literally evicted onto the street, so we helped them. They cannot
force people to go to Israel.''

Mr. Minkovitz denied that his agency was forcing Soviet Jews to go to Israel.
''We don't want to force anybody,'' he said. ''But we don't want to be forced to
help those who harm our interests.''

He said the Soviet Union ''has made it known on several occasions that it will
let fewer Jews out if more go to the United States.'' Eighty percent of the Jews
leaving the Soviet Union have gone to the United States this year, he said,
''and look what happens - last month we had fewer than 400 arriving here for the
first time in 10 years.''

''To get a visa for Israel, and then decide in Vienna, when all pressure is
gone, to go to America, is cheating the Soviet authorities,'' he said. ''This
slowly closes the door, and could liquidate Soviet Jewish emigration
altogether.''

At Least 200,000 Jews Seek Visas

Mr. Minkovitz estimated that 200,000 to 400,000 of the two to three million Jews
in the Soviet Union want to emigrate and have received the invitations from
relatives in Israel that they need to apply for visas.

The Jewish agency also objects to the United States granting refugee status to
Soviet Jewish emigrants.  ''As a lawyer, I simply cannot understand how someone
with a visa for a free country can be considered a refugee,'' Mr. Minkovitz
said.  He said Israel had repeatedly asked the Soviet Union to put Jewish
emigrants aboard direct flights to Tel Aviv, rather than use neutral Austria for
transit, but without success.

He said he had asked thousands of emigrants whether they would have left the
Soviet Union if they had known that they could go only to Israel, and none had
said no.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

DISPLACED TRIBE IN PAKISTAN SEEKS HOME IN ALASKA

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

DATELINE: PESHAWAR, Pakistan, Oct. 5


A small group of Kirghiz tribesmen who were forced out of the Soviet Union in
the 1930's and out of China in the 1950's have fled Afghanistan to refugee camps
in Pakistan where their elders are planning another migration - this time to
Alaska.

Philip Covington, the United States Consul here, said that the tribe's leader,
Rahman Qul, had been in contact with Senator Mike Gravel, Democrat of Alaska,
about the possibility of taking the 978 surviving members of the tribe to an
Alaskan island. The consul said the idea had been brought to the attention of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service and that Mr. Qul was pursuing his
case through the appropriate agencies.

The main body of the Kirghiz people form a republic in the Soviet Union. There
is also an autonomous Kirghiz district in China, across the border.

The tribal leader is living at a camp in Gilgit, 240 miles north of here, and
could not be reached. However, Andre Singer, a film maker who made a documentary
about the tribe several years ago, visited Mr. Qul recently and quoted him as
saying that his people sought resettlement in a familiar cold climate.

The Kirghiz originally herded their yaks in the 15,000-foot-high valleys of the
Pamirs, which stretches from northeast Afghanistan into Soviet Tadzhikistan and
China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region. In the Stalinist period a group of the
Kirghiz, including Mr. Qul's people, battled army and police units and were
ultimately driven out of the Soviet Union.

Reason to Leave Afghanistan

In 1950 the Chinese closed their borders to the Mongol nomads. Mr.  Qul told the
American consular officials and Mr. Singer that after the 1978 coup that brought
the first of three pro-Soviet leaders to power in Afghanistan, he sensed that
the tribe was threatened because of its historic opposition to Communism and its
clashes with Soviet patrols.

The group then set off for Pakistan in a caravan that included 1,136 tribesmen,
10,000 sheep, 200 yaks, 17 camels and 16 horses. In Pakistan the people were
scattered in several camps, and most of the animals had to be sold. The people
suffered in the relatively warm weather of the much lower valleys near Gilgit,
which are 6,000 to 8,000 feet above sea level. Over 150 tribesmen have died in
the last two years, Mr. Singer said.

Mr. Qul saw in Alaska an end to his tribe's problems. Some years ago he was told
about Alaska by a United Nations wildlife specialist. Mr. Qul has told consular
officials his people would find the frozen expanses hospitable.

He has written to scholars in the United States, including Louis Dupree, an
anthropologist whom he knew when Mr. Dupree lived in Afghanistan. He asked Mr.
Dupree to help obtain visas for his people. Mr. Dupree got in touch with Senator
Gravel, who before his defeat in the primary election in August was said to have
responded enthusiastically.

----

Officials Report No Action

Special to the New York Times

WASHINGTON, Oct. 11 - Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said the agency had not received a formal request to
help the Kirghiz tribesmen from Senator Gravel or the State Department.

A State Department official said the tribal leaders had not applied for visas or
begun the paper work to immigrate.  Heida Boucher, administrative assistant to
Senator Gravel, said the Senator was interested but had not done anything since
losing the primary.

Louis Dupree, reached in Princeton, N.J., said he still wanted to help the
tribe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 30, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL FLOW OF HAITIAN IMMIGRANTS INTO FLORIDA IS REPORTED TO INCREASE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 29


While the flow of Cuban refugees into the United States has slowed to a trickle,
officials say the number of Haitians who enter the country illegally has
increased to an average of about 200 a day.

About 1,500 Haitians have arrived in southern Florida since last week, when the
Government of the Bahamas ordered the 25,000 Haitians living there to come
forward for deportation to Haiti.

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service believes that a large
percentage of the current wave of Haitian immigrants are coming from the
Bahamas, the agency's district director, Raymond A.  Morris, said today.
Processing of the immigrants has not been completed, however, ''so we don't
really know at this time,'' Mr.  Morris added.

''When the Bahamian Government puts pressure on the Haitians to leave, we can
expect an influx here,'' he said. He said that only about seven Cubans arrived
in the United States in the previous week.

Face Prosecution in Bahamas

A Bahamian Government spokesman, Bill Kalis, said the Ministry of Home Affairs
announced Oct. 22 that Haitians in that country would be given a 12-week period
to agree to leave. Haitian residents who do not come forward will face
prosecution, Mr. Kalis said.

Most of the illegal entries to the United States have been by boat, but 41 of
the 330 Haitians who arrived Monday and yesterday came aboard commercial
airplane flights from the Bahamas. Maria Linares, spokesman for the State
Department's Cuban and Haitian Task Force here, said the refugees turned
themselves over to immigration officials and were taken to the Krome Avenue
processing center west of Miami.

By last night the processing center held more refugees than at the peak of the
''freedom flotilla'' boatlift from Cuba. There were 1,278 Haitian refugees at
the center today, 278 more than the facility held at the height of the Cuban
influx.

Justice William J. Brennan Jr. of the United States Supreme Court last week
temporarily blocked the Government's plans to transfer refugees from the
processing camp to Fort Allen in Puerto Rico.  Justice Brennan told the Carter
administration Friday to postpone the transfer until it hears from the full
Supreme Court. The Puerto Rican Government has filed suit to block the plan.

More than 125,000 Cubans have arrived in the country since the Cuban boatlift
began in April. As many as 40,000 Haitians have sought refuge in the United
States in recent years, and most of them have settled in southern Florida, along
with the majority of the Cubans.

----

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 9, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Increasing Role for Immigration Seen in U.S. Population Growth

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 42, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8


A private study group has predicted that immigration will play an increasing
role in United States population growth in coming years.

Currently, according to the report from the Population Reference Bureau,
immigration accounts for nearly half of the nation's population increase. The
country receives about 700,000 legal immigrants annually, plus illegal arrivals
estimated at between 100,000 and 500,000, said the report, made public Thursday.

If combined legal and illegal immigration proceeded at a total of about one
million a year, the report by Leon F. Bouvier said, and if there was no change
in current low fertility rates, the population would reach more than 310 million
in 50 years.

Because the current fertility rate of 1.8 is not sufficient to replace people
who die, immigration would eventually become the sole source of increase, the
report says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

JERSEY'S CUBANS LOOK TO U.S. FOR HELP IN AIDING REFUGEES

BYLINE: By ALFONSO A. NARVAEZ, Spec ial to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words

DATELINE: WEST NEW YORK, N.J., Nov. 13


Last spring tens of thousands of Cuban refugees survived a perilous flight from
their country in small boats and, with the help of an earlier surge of
immigrants, many of them settled here and in neighboring Union City.

But, unlike the earlier wave of Cubans who poured into the United States in the
early and middle 1960's - most of them from Cuba's prerevolution middle-class,
well-educated and eager to do well in a new country - many of the new immigrants
are poor, lacking education and job skills.

Now, the very people who had welcomed the new immigrants say that hospitality
has turned into a burden and that the Federal Government must step in.

Jobs and Housing Scarce

''We did our part,'' said Gaston Rodrigues, a businessman in Union City who,
along with four colleagues, raised $150,000 to aid Cuban refugees who fled to
Peru and the United States. ''When the need was there, we went all out. A lot of
us saw our businesses begin to go down because we were devoting so much time to
the refugees. We did what we could.''

The new arrivals - about 21,000 of them -have moved to areas already suffering
from high unemployment and overburdened government services. Jobs are scarce,
housing is expensive or nonexistent, and the refugee children have swollen
already overcrowded classrooms.  Some of the refugees are suspected of
contributing to a rising crime rate.

West New York and Union City are second only to the Miami area in their numbers
of Cubans and Cuban-American residents.  Some were drawn to the United States by
glowing tales of prosperity from relatives in Miami and New Jersey. Others,
according to social workers assisting in resettlement, did not want to leave
Cuba but were expelled.

Some Cuban-American businessmen in Union City say that crime has increased along
Bergenline Avenue, the heart of the business district.

Sponsorships Break Down

The police say burglaries and robberies have increased with the latest influx of
Cubans and social agencies say they have been overwhelmed.

''Many of those arrested seem to be without homes,'' said Edward C. Megill, the
deputy first assistant prosecutor in Hudson County. ''It appears that many of
the sponsorships have broken down and these men are out on the streets and don't
know where to turn.''

Michael Leggiero, the executive director of the North Hudson Community Action
Corp, which has assisted more than 5,000 refugees in the last six months, said,
''We're getting 60 to 75 people a day looking for jobs, for food stamps or for
emergency aid.''

Housing is also in such short supply that some refugees have been found sleeping
in cars and hallways. More than 900 refugee families have applied for welfare
assistance and for food stamps at the county level and hundreds of other cases
are being handled by the municipalities themselves.

Schools Hard Pressed

Meanwhile, school officials in West New York and Union City say they must
receive promised Federal money if they are to cope with an influx of refugee
children that has forced them to put as many as 50 students in a classroom.

More than 1,100 refugee children were enrol led in the two school systems in
September, long after budgets for the school year had beenadopted. Officials
were hard pressed to find teachers and classroom space for them.

''I had 51 students in my bilingual mathematics class when school started,''
said Juan Rivello, a teacher at Memorial High School here. ''I was able to move
some of them into another class when a new teacher was hired but I still have 29
here. I have 38 others in a science class. That's just too many. We usually have
no more than 25 students in a class.''

In a bilingual history class with 41 students, Daniel Valdes reviewed
Spanish-language material on Columbus's first trip to the New World. The
students waved their arms vigorously to get the teacher's attention and
animatedly answered his questions in Spanish.
'Weak in the Basics'

Mr. Valdes said most of the students in the class were re fugee children, of
which there are 476 in the West New York system. The high school c ontains 150
of them.

''They're weak in the basics and they do not have much discipline,''he said.
''From what I have seen on television programs dealing with the school system in
Cuba I expected them to be more regimented but they tell me that in Cuba their
teachers were often absent and they could cut classes whenever they wanted.''

In Union City, 667 youngsters came into the school system. Robert Menendez,
secretary to the Board of Education, said bilingual classes had grown from 25
students to 36 or 37.

On Oct. 10, President Carter signed a bill designating up to $200 million over
three years to aid communities hard hit by an influx of refugees from Cuba,
Haiti and Indochina.

The money is to provide up to $1,200 for each student enrolled in an
overburdened school system, and additional reimbursement for social service
costs. Officials say they have not been told when the money is to arrive.

Fourteen Arrived in October

Meanwhile, refugees are still arriving from reception centers in other parts of
the country. Last month, 14 Cubans, who had spent more than four months in
Arkansas and Wisconsin, were brought to Paterson under the auspices of Catholic
Family and Community Services. Officials hope to find jobs, housing and sponsors
for them.

The men, who range in age from 19 to 50 years, were among the approximately
4,000 hard-to-place men and women still at Fort Chaffee, Ark.

The Rev. Robert J. Vitillo, executive director of the of the program, said most
of the men were unskilled, uneducated and had little work experience in Cuba.
But he added that they were eager to learn and to get jobs.

Despite their months at the reception centers, the men had nothing but kind
words and gratitude for their treatment in this country.  They placed the blame
for riots at the camps - including one at Fort Chaffee in which four buildings
were burned down - on former convicts expelled by the Castro Government.
A Welder Gets Ahead

Some refugee leaders point out that despite problems encountered by a few,
thousands have been absorbed peacefully by the two New Jersey communities, where
the earlier immigrants donated food and clothing and spending money and made
space in their homes for them.

One who got help and fit in smoothly is Vicente Ramsay, who came to Union City
in May.  Mr. Ramsay, a 46-year-old welder, left his wife and three children in
Havana. Members of the Cuba-Peru Crusade gave him clothing, some expense money
and were able to find him a job, all within a week of his arrival in Union City.

Since then, Mr. Ramsay has received a modest raise, and he now earns $6.25 an
hour at his job at a marine terminal. He has also bought some new clothes,
rented an apartment and he is looking forward to having his wife and children
join him.

''It's lonely,'' he said, ''but it's worth it. Here I have freedom. Nobody is
spying on me or telling me what to do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Nelli Valentin and Cuban refugees photo of
students at West New York's Memorial High

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NEW AMERICANS, YOUNG AND OLD

BYLINE: By NATHAN GLAZER; Nathan Glazer, professor of education and sociology at
Harvard, is the author of ''Beyond the Melting Pot'' (with Daniel P. Moynihan),
''American Judaism'' and ''Affirmative Discrimination.''

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words


AMERICAN MOSAIC The Immigrant Experience in the Words of Those Who Lived It.  By
Joan Morrison and Charlotte Fox Zabusky.  457 pp. New York: E.P. Dutton. $19.95.

ONE approaches with some trepidation the numerous books that are made these days
out of tape recordings: They are so long, and it takes so much time to get to
the point, if there is a point. But ''American Mosaic'' is something of a
triumph of this new form. It is consistently fascinating and consistently rich
in significant details about the great and complex story of immigration to the
United States and adaptation to American life.

The authors interviewed 140 immigrants from perhaps 50 countries.  The earliest
came as far back as 1895, the latest in 1979. Some of their stories take up
seven or eight pages, others are represented by a short passage. Sophie
Zurowski, a 109-year-old woman who immigrated from Poland in 1895 and was
interviewed in a nursing home in Gary, Ind., briefly tells us: ''My husband
worked in the steel mill all his life. ... None of my boys ever went to work in
the steel mill.  The one that got to be a druggist, when he was going to
collegehe went over there to make a little money, and he said, 'Daddy, I don't
know ho w you can stand that place!' My husband said, 'Well, I could stand i t.
If you want to make a living, you have to stand it.' ''

But one doesn't have to go to a nursing home to reach back to the immigrants of
the 19th century. One finds Joseph Baccardo, an Italian immigrant who came in
1898, still working as a barber in the shop he opened in a small town in
Pennsylvania in 1902; Gunnar Johanson, an immigrant from Iceland in his 90's,
still working his 200-acre North Dakota farm; and Pauline Newman, who came from
Lithuania in 1901 and is today, at the age of 86, the authors tell us, the
educational director of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union.

Is there a thesis? One of the virtues of ''American Mosaic'' is that just about
every thesis that has been proposed about American immigration can find some
support in these accounts. Life was hard, terribly hard ... and yet the son who
was shocked by the steel mill his father worked in is now a druggist. But in
this new form of oral history no point need be insisted upon. And one has no
sense that the immigrants in the book were selected according to a thesis. They
include the successful and the unsuccessful, those who met prejudice and those
who found complete acceptance, the rebels and revolutionaries and the
conservative and quiescent.

That one can reach back into the experiences of immigrants who came here in the
1890's - and that these experiences are still so vivid and are recounted by
people who are still at work - is astonishing.  Here are the people Willa Cather
and Ole Rolvaag wrote about. These are their ''true stories,'' and they are
still here. It is perhaps for this reason that I found the first of the three
sections into which this book is divided, ''The Last of the Old: The Traditional
Immigrants,'' the most interesting. Their stories make an epic: These are the
people who left the Europe in which they struggled to gain their livelihood from
worn-out fields, who can even remember life under a feudal order, and who came
to a country in which hard work assured them livelihood and sometimes more.

One is surprised at how often, along with their accounts of a kind of hard labor
we can no longer imagine, the immigrants paused to tell us what good times they
had. Here is Pauline Newman, after describing her 14-hour working days as a
child in the notorious Triangle Shirtwaist Factory: ''But despite that, we had
good times. In the summer we'd go to Cent ral Park and stay out and watch the
moon arise; go to the Palisades and spend the day ...  and remember, in that
time you could go and h ear Caruso for twentyfive cents.'' No wonder that, a few
pag es after telling of all the changes the union and time have brought, she
muses: ''Only now, I'm a little discouraged sometimes when I see the workers
spending their free hours watching television - trash.  We fought so hard for
those hours and they waste them. We used to r ead Tolstoy, Dickens, Shelley, by
candlelight, and they watch the ' Hollywood Squares.' Well, they're free to do
what they want. That 's what we fought for.''

Or here is Anna Ohlson, from Norway, after describing her incredibly hard life
on a Dakota farm at the turn of the century: ''But, you know, it was fun.''
Still, one has to remember, as Oscar Handlin properly and soberly reminds us in
his introduction, ''The interviews are not records of what actually happened,
but retrospective accounts of a deep human experience, as recalled by those who
lived through it.''

A proper caution: these are the survivors, after all, as we are so frequently
reminded in these narratives, of difficult voyages, of accidents in mine and
factory, of disease and epidemic. So many of the stories focus, at one point or
another, on a sister or a brother, a father or a mother who died very young.
Death was as ever present as work. And yet, as Pauline Newman and Anna Ohlson
remind us, there were good times and fun, vividly remembered, of a kind that
seems to have been integrally related to the hard lives they lived, and perhaps
therefore of a kind we can no longer experience.

The following two sections of the book are much darker in coloring. Part two,
''The Wartime Influx: Heroes, Victims, Survivors,'' is dominated, despite its
subtitle, by the terrible stories of the survivors of the Holocaust - and by the
morally ambiguous accounts of those among whom they suffered and died, many of
whom also became immigrants. Here too are the war brides, and those who were
famous or became famous - Alexandra Danilova, Edward Teller, Eugene Wigner,
Denise Levertov, W. Mich ael Blumenthal. This is still a pr edominantly European
immigration, but the immigrants nowcome from mor e varied backgrounds and
countries and have more varied stories. Only the background of Fascism, Nazism,
Communism and war iscommon. The e pic and innocent qualities of the earlier
immigrant accounts have disappeared.

In the final section of the book, ''Immigration: A Continuing Process,'' the
canvas broadens. The immigrants now come from countries that did not exist
before World War II, from Latin America and the West Indies, from Africa and
Asia, as well as from Europe.  They come for all the old economic reasons, as
well as for newer reasons. So many of them have suffered from the ferocious
racial, religious and political persecution that make the experience of the
pre-World War I years (except for the genocide of the Armenians) mild in
retrospect. If it is hard to find a thesis in the first two sections of
''American Mosaic,'' it is even harder in this final section.

Yet one assumes there was art and intention as well as a sense of chronology at
work in placing at the end of the book the stories of recent Jewish immigrants
from the Soviet Union, the story of Vio Thi Tam, a Vietnamese who survived the
awful ordeal of the boat people, and finally the story of a young married couple
from South Africa, Ali and Johanna Patel - he an Indian, she an Afrikaner - who
came here to escape the apartheid laws. America, we are being told, is still, at
least -whatever else it is not - the land of refuge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: drawing

TYPE: review

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 4, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
HYPOCRISY WINS AGAIN

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 3


Last Oct. 2 Jeane Kirkpatrick, United States Ambassador to the United Nations,
spoke in the U.N. General Assembly about what she called the ''savagery'' of the
Marxist regime in Ethiopia. In graphic terms she denounced assaults on human
rights that have occurred since Col. Mengistu Haile Mariam took over in the
revolution of 1974.

''It is estimated that some 30,000 persons in Ethiopia were summarily executed
for political reasons between 1974 and 1978,'' Mrs. Kirkpatrick said, crediting
Amnesty International as the source of the figure.

''Twelve-year-old children were among those immersed in hot oil, sexually
tortured or flung out of windows and left to die in the street.''

The outrages were continuing, Ambassador Kirkpatrick charged.  ''There are at
least 300 to 400 arrests every week in Addis Ababa alone,'' she said. ''Many of
those arrested simply disappear and are presumed executed....''

Powerful words. But at about the same time Mrs. Kirkpatrick spoke them, Reagan
Administration officials were preparing action to send the 20,000 or 30,000
Ethiopian refugees in this country back to Ethiopia.

The action was taken by the Justice Department's Immigration and Naturalization
Service. In the Boston area, a letter signed by the District Director, Paul E.
McKinnon, went individually to Ethiopian refugees on Oct. 30. I have a copy and
it says:

''Dear -----: ''This is to inform you that because of the stabilization of
conditions in Ethiopia, your voluntary departure status in the United States is
being revoked.

''You are being granted until Nov. 30, 1981, to depart the United States
voluntarily. You should notify this office on or before Nov.  19, 1981, of the
travel arrangements you have made. If you fail to depart as directed above,
consideration will be given to the institution of deportation proceedings.''

According to one arm of the Reagan Administration, then, conditions in Ethiopia
are ''savage.'' According to another, they are ''stabilized'' - so amiable, in
fact, that we give refugees from the Mengistu regime a mont h to go voluntarily
or face deportation to Ethiopia.

The letter added that a refugee could seek relief under a provision of law
helping aliens who would face death or imprisonment at home for political
reasons. But the legal burden of proof is heavy in such cases, and authorities
have indicated that few of the Ethiopian refugees would be able to meet it.

It is always hard for an individual, except a politically prominent one, to
prove that he will be tortured or killed or persecuted by a tyrannical regime.
But there is every reason in common sense for the Ethiopian refugees here to
expect trouble if they return home now.  They are Westernized, highly educated,
many of them children of officials in the Haile Selassie Government overthrown
by Col.  Mengistu.

There is a particular political callousness in the move against these refugees.
In the Haile Selassie days the United States regarded Ethiopia as one of its
best friends in Africa. Since the revolution the U.S. has stopped aid and shown
sympathy for Ethiopia's traditional enemy, Somalia, even when Somalia tried to
seize Ethiopian territory by force.

Some think American antagonism to the Mengistu regime has made matters worse.
U.S. refusal to deliver arms that had been paid for when Somalia attacked
certainly encouraged Ethiopia to turn to the Soviet Union and to invite Cuban
troops in. B ut whatever the wisdom of our political attitude toward Col.
Mengist u, it is utterly inconsistent with the decison to expel the Et hiopian
refugees.

The episode can be seen as one more example of lack of coordination in the
Reagan Administration's foreign policy, this time one that not only embarrasses
us but has immediate human consequences. But it signifies something more, I
think.

This is an Administration that bristles with talk about the cruelties of
Communism. When it comes to invective about the Soviet Union and its friends,
few can beat Jeane Kirkpatrick or Alexander Haig, or for that matter Ronald
Reagan. But the same Administration has shown itself in many ways insensitive to
human suffering.

Again and again the Reagan people have tried to undo American efforts to
alleviate the cruelties of right-wing tyrannies. It fiercely resisted
Congressional moves to continue human-rights conditions on aid to such murderous
Governments as those of Guatemala and Argentina. It has said nothing audible
about the Turkish military Government's demand for the death penalty in a
pending prosecution of 52 trade union leaders.

But the two-faced treatment of Ethiopia and Ethiopian refugees is an especially
glaring case. It adds a cynical note to the message broadcast to the world by
President Reagan on New Year's Day: ''Our hearts go out to those who suffer
oppression.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

VISA DISPUTE IMPERILS U.S. MEXICO TIES

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 10


A decision by the Reagan Administration to cancel the temporary immigrant visas
of tens of thousands of Mexicans living in the United States has provoked loud
protests in Mexico and is threatening the first storm in relations since
President Reagan took office.

The Government has recalled its Ambassador to Washington, Hugo B.  Mar gain, who
will brief President Jose Lopez Portillo and Foreign Minister Jorg e Castaneda
de la Rosa on the controversy this week.  Mexican labor groups have also
asserted that the Immigration and Naturalizatio n Service is planning ''mass
deportations'' of Mexicans in the United States.

So far, however, both the Reagan and Lopez Portillo administrations have been
careful not to let the problem grow into a major crisis.  ''The issue, as
presented publicly, has been blown out of all proportion to the real facts,''
the American Ambassador, John Gavin, insisted last week. The Mexican Government
said it had been assured there would not be ''massive deportations or
roundups.''

Court Decision Is Root

Yet despite the evident political good will existing between the two
administrations, Washington's freedom to be flexible is limited by legal
constraints. If the law is applied strictly, relations will unavoidably be
strained.

The issue has its roots in a decision by a United States district court in
Chicago accepting the argument of a Mexican national, Refugio Silva, who
maintained that the United States Government's practice of deducting the number
of immigrant visas granted to Cuban refugees from the Western Hemisph ere quota
di scriminated against applicants from other countries.

The court ordered that a similar number of visas - 144,999 - be issued to
citizens of the Americas in addition to the 120,000-person annual quota and the
single country limit of 20,000 a year. This was to take place between Nov. 9,
1979, and Nov. 9, 1981.

Around 200,000 Mexicans were eligible to apply for the new visas and, once they
had become ''Silva class applicants,'' they were allowed to stay and work in the
United States and receive welfare benefits. Of these, however, only 115,271
Mexicans eventually received permanent resident status.
Judge Ends Injunction

On Dec. 24, a district court judge took note that the required number of
additional visas had been issued and he lifted the injunction imposed on the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, which effectively protected the ''Silva
class applicants'' against arrest and deportation.

Soon afterwards, letters started being mailed to those applicants who had not
benefited from the Silva program asking them to go to the offices of the
Immigration Service to discuss their status.  Immediately, protests began to be
heard from Hispanic leaders in the United States and labor groups in Mexico

Until Ambassador Margain was received by a State Department official last
Wednesday, however, the Mexican Government had received no information from the
United States on the subject. ''This is an internal matter of the United States,
but we would have expected to have been warned as a courtesy,'' a Mexican
Foreign Ministry official noted.

Estimates of the number of Mexicans affected vary from 70,000 to 100,000 and,
according to the Mexican Foreign Ministry, Ambassador Margain was told that as
many as 50 percent of those may still be granted immigrant visas through
ordinary channels as a result of having wives, children or other close relatives
who are now United States citizens. ''As for the other 50 percent, each case
will be studied individually,'' the ministry statement said.

Confrontations 'Can Be Avoided'

Faced by a wave of alarmist reports in the Mexican press suggesting an imminent
offensive against ''Silva class applicants'' and other illegal immigrants,
Ambassador Gavin issued a statement last Thursday stressing that ''they are not
being rounded up an herded to the border.''

''Unfortunately, many people speak out on this sensitive and emotional issue
before they know the facts,'' Mr. Gavin said.  ''Others, some of them in the
United States, frequently take advantage of confusion to inflame passions for
their own purposes. If we speak to each other calmly, based on a knowledge of
the facts, these confrontations can be avoided.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Notes on People;
A New Citizen Marks 100th Birthday

BYLINE: By Albin Krebs and Robert McG. Thomas Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 168 words


A follow-up: Last July 22, Gabriel Isahar Isaharov, a 99-year-old immigrant from
the Soviet Union who had been in this country only three years, was granted
citizenship by a Federal judge even though Mr. Isaharov was unable to speak or
write English.

The exception was made for Mr. Isaharov, who said through an interpreter that he
had dreamed of coming to this country for 65 years, because of his advanced age.

That was a happy day for Mr. Isaharov, and so was yesterday, when he celebrated
his 100th birthday at the Queens Jewish Center.  ''I plan to live longer,'' said
Mr. Isaharov, noting that his father, a native of the province of Uzbekistan,
ate yogurt, drank a glass of wine daily, and lived to be 118.

Asked about his plans, Mr. Isaharov, a widower, said he would like to visit his
five children and 70 grandchildren and greatgrandchildren in the Soviet Union.

''I'd also like to marry again,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Briefing

BYLINE: By Francis X. Clines and Bernard Weinraub

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 905 words


T HE wrenching plight of children of the Orient fathered by American servicemen
is scheduled to reach Congress in the next few weeks, and Representative Stewart
B. McKinney, who has been championing their cause, is faintly optimistic that
the House will finally approve his bill.

Mr. McKinney, Republican of Connecticut, is sponsoring a measure that would
change the ''not-preferential'' status of the children and allow them to apply
to enter the United States under the Immigration and Nationality Act's ''first
preference'' status for unmarried children of American citizens.  The change
would also require the applicants to have American sponsors, but that would not
be very difficult since a range of groups, such as The Pearl S. Buck Foundation
and Save the Children, are actively involved.

''These children will not be coming here to find fathers,'' said Mr. McKinney,
whose earlier bill concerning the children died in the House. ''Many of these
kids are abandoned.''

The Congressman said that both the Carter and Reagan Administrations had been
chilly to his proposal to assist the children, of whom there may be as many as
80,000 in Vietnam, Korea, Thailand, Laos and the Philippines. Officials of the
Reagan Administration have expressed worry about fraud and abuse, Mr.  McKinney
said, and have proposed that any immigration effort should wait until each child
received a blood test, a notion he called ''ludicrous.''

Mr. McKinney said that the measure would not open the doors to mass immigration,
but ''would simply place the Amerasian in his or her proper reference
classification, based on their legitimate claim as a child of a U.S. citizen.''

With 155 co-sponsors in the House, and with a Senate bill supported by such
Republican conservatives as Jeremiah Denton of Alabama and Paul Laxalt of
Nevada, Mr. McKinney is hopeful that his measure will triumph.

''I don't think you can see the pictures and hear the stories of these kids and
not become involved,'' he said.

I N this day of tight Federal budgets and a war on waste in the Pentagon, the
Defense Department's chief spokesman, Henry E. Catto Jr., was asked the other
morning to justify an annual subsidy to the National Rifle Association to
promote target practice. Caught unaware, Mr. Catto asked how much was involved.
Told it was $440,000, he said, almost with a straight face: ''You can't call tha
t a cheap shot, can you?''

A S if the State Department didn't have enough worries, along comes The Crisis
in the American Embassy in Bangkok.  For the last few years, the former American
Ambassador, Morton I.  Abramowitz, maintained a somewhat informal diplomatic
atmosphere.  Most of the senior staff called the Ambassador ''Mort.'' His door
was inevitably open to anyone who wanted to chat. Unlike most ambassadors, Mr.
Abramowitz would dial the telephone himself and invite American journalists over
for a movie or a quick lunch. Around the embassy, many of the men wore
short-sleeved shirts, open at the neck, because of the pulsing heat.

Mr. Abramowitz departed last year; he is now scheduled to take over the American
Embassy in Indonesia. His replacement, John Gunther Dean, promptly made it plain
that the informal days were over.

Mr. Dean, a former Ambassador to Cambodia, Denmark and Lebanon, prefers to be
called ''Sir,'' or ''Mr. Ambassador.'' An embassy officer who showed up
Saturday, his day off, to clean up his desk, was admonished by Mr. Dean because
of his casual appearance.

Mr. Dean even has a young political aide pouring tea now, whenever the
Ambassador has a guest in his office. Mr. Dean prefers his tea hot.

J O-ANN GASPER, a self-described ''pro-family leader'' who edited a publication
called, ''The Right Woman,'' and who opposes Federal assistance to battered
wives and abused children, has just been appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Social Services Policy at the Department of Health and Human Services.

''People for the American Way,'' a Washington-based organization seeking to
counter the influence of Moral Majority, takes note in its current bulletin of a
column that Mrs. Gasper wrote in the March, 1980, issue of the Conservative
Digest, whose publisher is Richard A. Viguerie, the direct-mail expert for many
New Right organizations.

In the column titled, ''Beating Up on the Family,'' Mrs. Gasper wrote that the
concept of domestic violence was so vague that it can mean ''any form of
'belittling' or 'teasing' or 'failure to provide warmth' (whatever that may be -
I guess if you don't set the electric blanket high enough in the winter).''
Francis X. Clines Bernard Weinraub

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 16, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
U.S. Deports First Cuban Since Castro Took Over

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 15


A man believed to be the first Cuban refugee ever to be deported from the United
States to Havana under the Castro regime was flown to Havana today, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

Andres Rodriguez Hernandez, 20 years old, was returned to Cuba after

National news apears on

pages 7-10 and 15.
the agency turned down his application for asylum. He was sent back on a
previously scheduled American Airways tourist charter.

''He failed to prove a well-founded fear of persecution on the basis of race,
creed, political opinion or political activity,'' said Beverly McFarland, a
spokesman for the immigration agency.

Mr. Rodriguez, a stowaway on a Panamanian ship, sailed into Miami Wednesday
morning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 22, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

2 I.R.A. LEADERS ARRESTED WHILE TRYING TO ENTER U.S. ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: By LES LEDBETTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 600 words


Two leaders of the Irish Republican Army - in what appeared to be a coordinated
effort to reach New York City in time for a fundraising dinner tonight - were
arrested in separate incidents last night as each was trying to cross into the
United States illegally from Canada, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
said.

One of the arrested I.R.A. leaders, Owen Carron, is a recently elected member of
the British Parliament who last summer was refused a visa to enter the United
States because of his support for violence in Northern Ireland.

Mr. Carron, an unemployed high school teacher who has been identified as a
hard-line republican, was elected to Parliament in August to replace Robert
Sands, the I.R.A. official who won the seat in April while on a fatal hunger
strike in Maze Prison outside Belfast.

The other I.R.A. official who was arrested was identified by the Immigration
Service as Danny Morrison, the I.R.A.'s director of public relations.

Irish Panel Denounces Arrests

The arrests were denounced early this morning by the Irish Northern Aid
Committee as ''censorship'' by the United States State Department ''at the
request of the British'' to prevent Mr. Carron and Mr. Morrison from speaking at
a testimonial dinner in New York City this evening.

A statement issued by the committee said, ''The State Department has apparently
decided at the request of the British that free speech does not apply to those
who oppose the British presence in the north of Ireland.''

The committee said that while it ''no advance knowledge'' of the attempts at
illegal entry into the United States, ''it is obvious that both m en intended to
speak'' at the dinn er and ''to confront'' a loyalist group currently in this
country.  The spokesman for the group would not elaborate.

Antismuggling experts in the Immigration Service had been aware ofthe presence
of the two I.R.A. officials in Canada, according to officials of the Federal
agency, and it was expected that they would make attempts to reach New York City
before the dinner.

Mr. Carron, believed to be 29 years old, was arrested along with a Canadian man
shortly before 9 P.M. as they tried to cross into the United States at Niagara
Falls, said Benedict Ferro, district director for the Buffalo office of the
Immigration Service.

At about the same time, Mr. Morrison, was arrested along with a Canadian
national as they tried to enter the United States across the Peace Bridge in
Buffalo, Mr. Ferro said.

Mr. Carron falsely told immigration officers in Niagra Falls that he had landed
immigrant status in Canada, permitting him to enter without a visa, according to
Mr. Ferro. Mr. Morrison presented officers in Buffalo with a Canadian
citizenship certificate that was not his, he said.

'We Knew They Would Try'

Alerted by members of the service's antismuggling squad, the border officers
were waiting for the two Irishmen and arrested them and their companions.

''We had the information for days and knew they would try,'' Mr.  Ferro
explained in a telephone interview.  All four men were arrested on criminal and
administrative charges in connection with giving false information and attempted
smuggling, according to Mr. Ferro. He said they would be held in upstate jails
while it was determined whether to try them on the charges or initiate
deportation proceedings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 23, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

POLICE AIDE ON COAST SAYS SPIES MAY POSE AS JEWISH EMIGR ES

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 22


Daryl Gates, the Los Angeles police chief, said today that intelligence reports
indicated the Soviet Union was sending ''dangerous criminals'' to this country,
posing as Jewish emigres and that they might attempt to disrupt the 1984 Summer
Olympic Games here.

In a report distributed to business leaders and news executives, Mr. Gates noted
that the annual quota for immigration of Soviet Jews was recently increased to
50,000 a year and said that investigators had determined that some immigrants
entering this country under the quota were not Jewish.

''Many knowledgeable people,'' he said, ''are of the opinion that the Soviets
are selecting dangerous criminals and sending them to the United States as
refugees via the Jewish immigraion quota. The Soviets realize they can aggravate
our already serious crime problem in this manner. Intelligence agents and spies
are infiltrating in the same way.''

Mr. Gates later said at a news conference that the report was speculation but
that he ''saw nothing in here so out of line it shouldn't have been stated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 23, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

2 I.R.A. SUPPORTERS RRMAIN IN CUSTODY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Jan. 22


Two prominent Irish republican activists remained in c ustody here today after
trying to enter the United States illega lly from Canada in separate cars.

The men, Owen Carron, a Member of the British Parliament, and Danny Morrison,
identified as public relations director of Sinn Fein, the political arm of the
Irish Republican Army, were arrested Thursday night. Mr. Carron was seized at
the Whirlpool Bridge in Niagara Falls, which carries traffic from Niagara Falls,
Ontario; Mr. Morrison, at the Peace Bridge in Buffalo, which carries traffic
from Fort Erie, Ontario.

According to Benedict J. Ferro, district director of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Buffalo, Mr. Carron and Mr. Morrison
were on their way to a dinner tonight in Astoria, Queens, sponsored by the Irish
Northern Aid Committee.

Both were charged with making false statements to Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials. The charge is punishable by up to five years in prison.

Two Canadians Also Seized

Officials said Mr. Carron had identified himself at the bridge as having
landed-immigrant status in Canada and showed a driver's license that was not
his. Mr. Morrison, officials said, had reportedly showed border authorities a
Canadian citizenship certificate that belonged to someone else.

In addition, two people who were said to have been driving the two activists
across the border were charged with attempted smuggling, according to Roger P.
Williams, interim United States Attorney here.  They could receive as much as
two years in prison if convicted.

They were identified as Patrick Morrell, reported to be an Irish native who is a
naturalized Canadian citizen living in Niagara Falls, Ontario, who was driving
Mr. Carron, and Helen McDonald Quigley, an Australian citizen, who is a resident
of Hamilton, Ontario.

All four were brought before Magistrate Edmund F. Maxwell, who set a preliminary
hearing for 2 P.M. Tuesday and set $10,000 recognizance bond for each of the
four. They were then turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
No date was set for a civil hearing on their status, according to the
immigration agency.  Normally, this hearing is held after the criminal charges
are disposed of.

2 Claim to Be Political Prisoners

Immigration agency officials declined to say where the four would be held.  Both
Mr. Carron and Mr. Morrison claimed to be political prisoners when they appeared
without lawyers before Magistrate Maxwell.  Mr. Ferro said the immigration
agency was waiting for the two to try to enter the country. He said the American
border authorities had been watching a pattern of Irish republican activists
traveling in Canada during an 18-month investigation.

''This investigation made us aware they would be coming,'' he said, adding that
a special immigration agency squad was waiting at the border crossing when the
attempts were made.

---- 'Publicity Stunt,' Paisley Says

LONDON, Jan. 22 (AP) - The Rev. Ian Paisley, the militant Northern Ireland
Protestant leader, said today that the arrest of two Roman Catholic Irish
nationalists in the United States was ''all a publicity stunt.''

''It doesn't suprise me at all,'' Mr. Paisley said without elaboration.  Mr.
Paisley made the remarks to reporters upon returning from a weeklong visit to
Canada to publicize the Protestant position in Northern Ireland and combat Irish
Republican Army sentiment.

Mr. Paisley said his trip to Canada was an ''outstanding success.'' ''What I had
to say was carried on more than 800 radio and television networks,'' said the
55-year-old Protestant leader, who is a Member of the British and European
Parliaments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Owen Carron in Buffalo courthouse

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                           January 2, 1980, Wednesday

SECTION: Page 20, Column 1

LENGTH: 50 words

About a thousand Haitian refugees have found shelter at Friendship Missionary
Baptist Church, Miami, Fla.  Rev James Emmanuel Jenkins, who agreed to sponsor
some refugees, says he never expected to be inundated.  Immigration and
Naturalization Service district director Raymond Morris comments (S).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 2-80-

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              338 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                           February 9, 1980, Saturday

BYLINE: BY ALFONSO A NARVAEZ

SECTION: Page 11, Column 3

LENGTH: 49 words

Comment on large number of illegal aliens working as domestics in NJ.  Raid by
Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service at Port Authority Bus Terminal
(NYC) recently netted 85 illegal aliens working as domestics without required
work permits in suburban communities of Essex County (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 40-80

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              339 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                           February 11, 1980, Monday

BYLINE: BY JOHN M CREWDSON

SECTION: Page 1, Column 1

LENGTH: 340 words

Justice Dept is probing allegations arising from Federal undercover
investigation that Mario T Noto, former Deputy Immigration Comr, had acted
improperly by trying to help lift travel restrictions on Carlos Marcello of New
Orleans, reputed organized crime leader who has been under deportation order
since '53.  Noto had reportedly been offered, on Marcello's behalf, guarantee of
'plush job' after he retired from immigration service.  Marcello become subject
of 'Brilab' (bribery-labor) inquiry after undercover agents posing as insurance
executives began setting up insurance deals, implicating political figures in
Louisiana and Texas.  Allegations against 2 other immigration service employees
have turned up in this and in similar major undercover operation focusing on
members of Congress.  Law-enforcement sources say that immigration service
employee Maron J Sheehi had come under investigation for allegedly expediting
immigration permit for doctor from Dominican Republic who eventually won
immigration service's permission to intern at a Florida hospital.  Other
immigration-related allegations being investigated involve Philadelphia attorney
Howard L Criden, who allegedly accepted briefcase containing $50,000 in cash
intended for Repr Frank Thompson Jr from undecover agents at hotel at Kennedy
International Airport where agents discussed with Criden and Repr John M Murphy
how a nonexistent Arab sheik could be admitted to residency in US.  Repr Raymond
F Lederer, who allegedly spoke to undercover agents of introducing private
immigration bill in Congress on behalf of shiek and who allegedly accepted
$50,000 from agents.  Repr John W Jenrette, who allegedly was given $50,000 in
cash and promised $50,000 more in return for his promise to sponsor private
immigration bill for sheik.  Repr John P Murtha, who allegedly said that he
would accept $50,000 in return for his help with sheik's immigration problems.
There are no indications that any of Congressmen took steps to pave way for
sheik's entry into US (L).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 42-80

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              340 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            March 13, 1980, Thursday

BYLINE: BY ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Page 1, Column 3

LENGTH: 131 words

Federal immigration officials report that some 11,000 Iranians entered US on
various types of visas since Americans were taken hostage at embassy in Teheran
4 months ago.  Say that fewer than 25% of 226 Iranian diplomats who were
supposed to leave US have actually left or are preparing to do so.  35 others
have been given permission to remain in their diplomatic posts.  Muriel Watson
(spokesman for National Border Patrol Council, union of Border Patrol agents)
and Michael G Harpold (immigration adjudictor and president of union
representing immigration employees other that Border Patrol agents) score
continued admission of Iranians.  Verne Jervis, Immigration and Naturalization
spokesman, maintains that agency has no basis for excluding Iranians who hold
valid visas (M)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 72-80

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              341 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            March 18, 1980, Tuesday

SECTION: Section 2; Page 3, Column 3

LENGTH: 48 words

NYS announces reorganization at Manhattan Psychiatric Center on Wards Island,
NYC, to improve quality of services and end recent wave of escapes.  25 nurses
will be added to evening and midnight shifts and 15 guards to troublesome sites,
including booth at island side of footbridge (S).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 77-80

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              342 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                             April 8, 1980, Tuesday

BYLINE: BY ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Page 1, Column 5

LENGTH: 131 words

Immigration and Naturalization Service acting commissioner David Crosland says
Pres Carter's restrictions on visas for Iranians will apply primarily to people
outside US and to diplomatic personnel who will be expelled.  Says Iranians in
US may have to leave when their visas expire unless they can show that they will
face special hardships.  Says no Iranians will be allowed to enter US unless
they have their visas revalidated by State Dept. Says Iranians will be allowed
to enter US if they need emergency medical care or if they have some claim to
asylum and can give exact address where they plan to stay in US.  Over 11,000
Iranians have entered US since seizure of US Embassy Nov 4 and immigration
officials believe that militants occupying embassy have been issuing visas (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 98-80

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              343 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            April 10, 1980, Thursday

SECTION: Page 17, Column 1

LENGTH: 58 words

Immigration and Naturalization Service considers proposal under which some
Iranians will be required to leave US before their visas expire.  Proposal will
affect Iranians in US on business and tourist visas more immediately than
estimated 57,000 Iranian students, who are secure under current law as long as
they maintain their student status (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 100-8

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              344 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            April 10, 1980, Thursday

SECTION: Page 17, Column 1

LENGTH: 58 words

Immigration and Naturalization Service considers proposal under which some
Iranians will be required to leave US before their visas expire.  Proposal will
affect Iranians in US on business and tourist visas more immediately than
estimated 57,000 Iranian students, who are secure under current law as long as
they maintain their student status (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 100-8

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              345 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            April 12, 1980, Saturday

SECTION: Page 6, Column 2

LENGTH: 25 words

Immigration and Naturalization Service says only 118 of 226 Iranian diplomats in
US have been located, response to inquiry by Repr Dan Quayle (S).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 102-8

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              346 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            April 12, 1980, Saturday

BYLINE: BY GRAHAM HOVEY

SECTION: Page 20, Column 1

LENGTH: 68 words

Iranians trying to avoid mandatory repatriation and others uncertain of their
status file petitions at State Dept and Immigration and Naturalization offices.
Norwich University (Vt) students and faculty members circulate petition to Pres
Carter protesting 'arbitrary deportation' of 85 naval cadets.  Alyssa Keough,
daughter of American hostage in Iran, says departing Iranians are her 'best
friends' (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 102-8

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              347 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            April 12, 1980, Saturday

BYLINE: BY GRAHAM HOVEY

SECTION: Page 20, Column 1

LENGTH: 68 words

Iranians trying to avoid mandatory repatriation and others uncertain of their
status file petitions at State Dept and Immigration and Naturalization offices.
Norwich University (Vt) students and faculty members circulate petition to Pres
Carter protesting 'arbitrary deportation' of 85 naval cadets.  Alyssa Keough,
daughter of American hostage in Iran, says departing Iranians are her 'best
friends' (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 102-8

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              348 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                             April 13, 1980, Sunday

BYLINE: BY ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Page 14, Column 1

LENGTH: 66 words

Immigration and Naturalization Service says it will not permit tens of thousands
of Iranian visitors to extend their stays in US or to become permanent
residents, except for 'compelling humanitarian reasons'.  Says Iranians on
business and tourist visas may be required to leave US by end of year.  Says new
restrcitions will not immediately affect estimated 57,000 Iranian students in US
(M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 103-6

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              349 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                             April 13, 1980, Sunday

BYLINE: BY ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Page 14, Column 1

LENGTH: 66 words

Immigration and Naturalization Service says it will not permit tens of thousands
of Iranian visitors to extend their stays in US or to become permanent
residents, except for 'compelling humanitarian reasons'.  Says Iranians on
business and tourist visas may be required to leave US by end of year.  Says new
restrcitions will not immediately affect estimated 57,000 Iranian students in US
(M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 103-6

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              350 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            April 22, 1980, Tuesday

BYLINE: BY JANET BATTAILE

SECTION: Page 7, Column 1

LENGTH: 114 words

Cuban exiles in Florida, with apparent backing of Cuban Government, takes 2
small boats to a port near Havana and return to Key West, Florida, with group of
about 40 refugees.  Rescue effort is acknowledged by American State and Justice
Departments and Immigration and Naturalization Service.  It does not have
Washington's sanction.  State Dept declines to say whether US will accept 40.
Immigration district director Raymond A Morris says Government deferred
inspections of group on arrival, permitting them to enter country temporarily.
Exile leaders Felix Diaz and Napoleon Vilaboa say Pres Fidel Castro gave them
permission to come to Cuba by boat to pick up relatives (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 112-8

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              351 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            May 14, 1980, Wednesday

BYLINE: BY ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Page 10, Column 1

LENGTH: 110 words

Victor H Palmieri, US coordinator of refugee programs, urges Cuban-Americans to
impose a moratorium on 'freedom flotilla' carrying exiles from Cuba to Florida.
Plea comes as members of Congress continue criticizing Carter Administration's
refugee policies.  Palmieri endorses idea of moratorium after it was suggested
at Congressional hearing by Repr Elizabeth Holtzman, who is chairman of House
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and International Law.  Repr
Robert McClory urges Administration to clarify its refugee policy.  Pres Carter
says he will meet with advisers to review Administration policy toward Cuban and
Haitian refugees (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 134-8

              Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              352 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 4, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ISRAELI EMIGRATION INSPIRES ANGER AND FEAR

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


With ''descents'' rising and ''ascents'' declining, each to record levels, 1980
was a bitter year for Israel. The mystical character of the words Zionists use
to describe, respectively, emigration of a Jew from Israel or his immigration to
the Jewish state shows the high degree of emotion contained in demographic
statistics in this country and explains the bitterness.

Definitive emigration statistics are unavailable in Israel, as is the case in
all open societies that do not require from their citizens an accounting of
their intentions every time they leave.  But immigration authorities keep track
of the total number of Israelis who depart and who return; emigration estimates
are based on the difference between them. The difference last year was about
30,000.

The previous record year was 1974 when, following the 1973 war, 25,000 more
Israelis left than returned. When a resident has been gone for four years, the
Central Bureau of Statistics lists him as an emigrant. The record total was
again in 1974, 16,400. Last year is likely, four years hence, to surpass that
record.

The bottom year of 1974 was followed by a contraction of emigration; the
difference between departures and returns was down to 7,000 in 1979. Thus, last
year's 30,000 total was not only a record but also marked a dramatic reversal in
the trend of outflow.

Perhaps even more dramatic than the rise in departures was the decline in new
immigrants. Last year's total of about 21,000 represents a drop of more than 40
percent from 1979. Even more frightening to Israel, last month was the first
month in the 12 years in which fewer than 1,000 Jews made their ''aliyah'' or
ascent.

Not all of the drop is due to a lack of desire among Diaspora Jews to come here.
The Soviet Union, through the 1970's the principal source of immigration, has
reduced the outflow of Jews by more than half. In 1979, 51,317 Jews left; the
total for the first 11 months of last year was 20,583. The percentage of Soviet
emigres who chose to come to Israel remained steady at about 35 percent.

''It's nothing short of a disaster,'' said a senior official of the Jewish
Agency, the semi-official body responsible for attracting and settling
immigrants.

Although both the rate of arrival and of departure cause great concern, the
principal focus recently has been on Israelis who leave. One reason was the
leaking of an internal report by a Jewish Agency official on Israelis in the
United States. The document put the cumulative total at as high as 500,000, or
roughly one-sixth of Israel's Jewish population.

The Central Bureau of Statistics rejects this estimate. Its records indicate
that about 350,000 Israelis have left the country for all destinations since its
founding in 1948. But whatever the statistics, emigration is clearly on the
increase, and therein lies the deeper reason for the anguished and angry debate.
In a country founded within recent memory and based on an act of faith that is
under increasing challenge from the non-Jewish world, departure from Israel,
particularly of Israeli-born Jews, not immigrants who have found the going too
tough, is a defection from an embattled cause. An Irishman or Italian who leaves
his country in hard times for a land of greater economic opportunity is not seen
as deserting or endangering the existence of Ireland or Italy. ''Yeridah,'' the
descent of a Jew from Israel, is viewed as all of that and more.

Resentment From Those Who Stay

''A person leaving the country denies his personal role in the rebuilding of the
Jewish state and contradicts the raison d'etre of the Jewish state,'' said the
Jewish Agency official, an academic who weighs and moderates his words. ''The
Diaspora is a disease, and we should have nothing to do with Israelis who join
it,'' said Geula Cohen, an ultranationalistic member of the Knesset, in an
inconclusive parliamentary debate last week. Former Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin, a man not given to verbal excess, once referred to yeridah, in
contemptuous Hebrew, as ''the dropping off of the weaklings.''

Israelis deeply regret the sharp decline in aliyah, and extremists like Mrs.
Cohen no doubt equate the failure of all of the world's Jews to gather in Israel
with disloyalty to Jewishness. But there is a vast difference in mainstream
Israeli perception between Jews who prefer to remain in the Diaspora - the
majority - and those who, in effect, take the active step of rejecting the
Jewish homeland.

A usually mild-mannered Israeli, forgiving of human failings and understanding
even of Israel's Arab enemies, surprised a friend with an unwonted note of steel
in his voice when he said, ''Let them go, those who don't want to say.'' And
jabbing the air with a clenched fist, he added, ''but don't make it easy for
them to come back.''

Israeli anger is keenest at the native-born citizens who leave. No figures are
available, because of the paucity of emigration data collected, but New Yorkers
know that Hebrew has become a frequently heard language and the sabra accent in
English has a familiar ring on Manhattan's West Side.

While the decline in new immigrants is conceded by Israeli officials to be at
least in part due to Israel's isolation and the decline in its international
standing, Israelis of all political stripes ascribe emigration entirely to
economic factors. Runaway inflation, which when last year's figures are
tabulated will show a rate of at least 135 percent, Government budget cuts that
affect employment opportunities and reduce Government investment and support for
the private sector, a serious housing problem and a decline in public confidence
that the economy can right itself are factors that enter into all decisions to
leave. A high proportion of emigres are middle class people for whom
opportunities for self-improvement in a richer economy - more university posts,
more and better equipped laboratories, more research grants - abound in the
United States.

Looking desperately for a silver lining, the Jewish Agency official said,
''Given the situation in which Israel has found itself for almost 33 years, one
often wonders why the rate of emigration isn't higher still.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Geula Cohen

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 8, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Bahamian Officials Order Vesco To Leave the Country by Jan. 20

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 17, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, the Bahamas, Jan. 7


Bahamian immigration officials who want to deport Robert L. Vesco have given the
45-year-old fugitive financier a new deadline of Jan. 20 to leave their country.
Mr. Vesco was served with a deportation order yesterday at his home here.

A previous order was served on Mr. Vesco's son, Anthony, last Wednesday when
officers found that the financier had left Nassau for an undisclosed
destination, reportedly a remote island in the Bahamas, to spend the New Year's
holiday with his family.

Mr. Vesco, who has applied for political asylum in the Bahamas, returned here
Sunday but was not available for comment. Last week, in a statement released to
reporters by his attorney, Mr. Vesco said he would fight Bahamian efforts to
deport him.

Mr. Vesco has been sought by the authorities in the United States since the
early 1970's. The United States contends that he looted Investors Overseas
Services of $224 million while he headed the investment company, and that he
tried to have charges in the case dropped by contributing $200,000 in 1972 to
President Nixon's reelection campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

TROUBLE, TROUBLE

BYLINE: By LORE DICKSTEIN; Lori Dickstein is a freelance writer bases in New
York City.

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10, Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 915 words


LOVE By Susan Fromberg Schaeffer.  390 pp. New York: E.P. Dutton. $14.95.

ALES of immigrant family life - with their large historical scope, clashes of
cultures and generations, and personal stories of people displaced into a new
world - are rich, fertile ground for novelists.  The best books in this genre -
such as Henry Roth's ''Call It Sleep,'' and I.J. Singer's ''The Family
Carnovsky'' - achieve a literary brilliance that lasts long after the story
itself fades from memory. (The genre is not confined to the Jewish novel: Maxine
Hong Kingston's two memoirs ''The Woman Warrior'' and ''China Men'' attest to
that.) But these books are rare achievements. For the most part, the traditional
immigrant novel mines its historical and social material with little artistic
restraint, spewing forth large chunks of the past wrapped in sentimental,
sometimes bathetic, tales of woe that run on, generation after generation, for
hundreds of pages.

Susan Fromberg Schaeffer's fourth novel, ''Love,'' is the story of Esheal Luria,
a Russian-Jewish immigrant whose life is ''blessed with catastrophe.'' To begin
with, Esheal has a lot of trouble with women. While a small boy, he is abandoned
by his widowed mother, who runs off with her new husband. When he later rejoins
her in America, she foists him off on an aunt who raises him. Esheal falls in
love with an unavailable older woman, Sarah Romanoff, and then with one of her
daughters, Diana, who marries someone else. By default, Esheal ends up marrying
Diana's sister Lily, who has been rejected by another suitor. Although Esheal
becomes a successful, even wealthy druggist and is a decent person, he is
unappreciated and mocked by his wife and her family.

Esheal's adult life is a series of disasters: His mother dies two days after he
returns from his honeymoon. One of his children is born hydrocephalic and dies
of spinal meningitis in childhood. During a jealous (and groundless) rage,
Esheal pulls a gun on Lily and she leaves him, taking their two daughters with
her. Oy vey, you think, but there is more. Old grandparents die in melodramatic
ways - one is hit by a falling brick, another run over by a cart. Someone is
always running to the morgue to identify a body, or is hacking away with TB or
double pneumonia, or is bloated by kidney failure. Two people are disfigured by
burns. Relatives end up in prison. Money secreted away is stolen. Finally,
Esheal himself is killed in a holdup.

These kinds of troubles are the stuff of life to immigrant novels and one of the
elements that has made them (like soap operas) so appealing: Other people's
troubles, whether minor or catastrophic, are always gratifying to hear about -
they are not ours. But this novel is unremitting in its bleakness.  There is
little of the biting folk humor found in the early works of Bernard Malamud, or
even in Irving Howe's nonfictional ''World of Our Fathers.'' Where are the small
triumphs of life? There is not one truly happy person or event in the 390 pages
of this book.

Why this novel is entitled ''Love'' is puzzling; little love is found here. In
its place is an obsession with the past. Esheal's granddaughter Emily, the
ostensible author of ''Love,'' sees the lives of her family as a ''dance of the
genes'' in which she is ''only a new step in the continuing dance.'' Her dead
ancestors speak to her ''as living people who have refused to go until they have
made themselves understood.'' Their stories and voices seem to echo in the
author's mind, for ''Love'' picks up strands from her first novel, ''Falling,''
which also contains a pharmacist grandfather who jealously threatens his wife
and is killed in a holdup. Curiously, there is even a repetition of a minor
street-corner incident in both novels. In ''Falling'': ''He drew back the
coverlet and looked at Sarah. 'She looks just like the pharmacist down the
street,' he said. 'I should hope so!' said Belle; 'he's my husband!''' In
''Love'': ''She kept staring at the child, and she said, you know, it's the most
amazing thing, but the child looks exactly like the pharmacist on the corner,
and she said, that's a good thing, because the pharmacist on the corner is her
father.'' While the significance of this scene is unclear to the reader, it must
be of particular weight to the author. It has the resonant quality of a screen
memory, in which action and dialogue are perfectly recalled.

Mrs. Schaeffer has constructed this novel in large sections of flashback
interspersed with narratives written in the voices of the characters, a device
she has used in previous novels. Although many of these first-person accounts
sound very much like verbatim transcripts of tape-recorded interviews, they are
quite wonderful in the way they foretell and retell the story and they save the
novel from mediocrity. Only in these sections can one hear distinctly individual
voices, a quiet chuckle, an ironic comment. For example, here is Emily's mother
Lucy looking back on her life: ''I remember all those things, but now I don't
like to save the old things. They take you over, all those books, cards,
letters, and pictures. They keep accumulating and accumulating and it becomes a
chore to sort them out and they pile up until they overwhelm you and then you
get rid of them all.'' This passage comes at the end of the novel, where the
entire dramatis personae present themselves in a series of short sketches. It is
a stunning finale to an otherwise unimaginative novel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: review

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 14, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEES AND IMMIGRANTS AID NEEDIEST IN GRATITUDE

BYLINE: By WALTER H. WAGGONER

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 445 words


Many immigrants and refugees who have found sanctuary in New York City are among
the contributors to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Hannah Herz of Kew Gardens, Queens, donated $20 to commemorate her arrival in
New York City on Dec. 20, 1937, with her parents, Alfred and Hedwig Herz. She
wrote that her parents, who died last year, had contributed annually ''in
gratitude for our safety and the freedom and good life we found in this
country.''

Felix Bing of Manhattan gave $50 ''in remembrance of the day I was liberated
from Bergen-Belsen concentration camp.'' An anonymous donor from Forest Hills,
Queens, gave $150 in memory of his mother, with whom he came to the United
States in 1940, ''refugees from Hitler and Germany.'' An anonymous gift of $40
came from a resident of Brooklyn who wrote that although he had once been an
impoverished refugee from Europe, ''through God's mercy we were never here in
need.''

Dr. and Mrs. Leon Tan of Brooklyn contributed $50 in ''appreciation for the
hospitality extended by the Americans to two strangers from the Orient.''
Recorded yesterday $ 45,922.96 Previously recorded 920,376.25 ----- Total
$966,299.21

HOW TO AID THE FUND

Checks should be made payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and sent
to P.O. Box 5193, Church Street Station, New York, N.Y. 10249, or to any of the
following organizations:

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK, 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y.
10010.

*

FEDERATION OF JEWISH PHILANTHROPIES OF NEW YORK, 130 East 59th Street, New York,
N.Y. 10022.

*

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK, 1011 First Avenue, New York,
N.Y. 10022.

*

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES, 281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y.
10010

*

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY, 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

*

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE, 285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
11217.

*

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN, 191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
11201.

*

STATEN ISLAND FAMILY SERVICE, 25 Victory Boulevard, Staten Island, N.Y. 10301.

*

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund. Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal,
state and city income taxes.  *

To delay may mean to forget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 29, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

DESIGN NOTEBOOK;
MASS-PRODUCED GOODS HELPED TO GIVE IMMIGRANTS A NEW IDENTITY;
by Paula Deitz

SECTION: Section C; Page 10, Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1299 words


--------------------------------------------------------------------
Paula Deitz, co-editor of The Hudson Review, is a guest columnist.

IHAVE a childhood memory of my grandparents' home and their dry goods store in
Leonardtown, Md. In an upstairs bedroom at nap time, I lower myself from the
iron bedstead to the wooden floor and press my face against an open wrought-iron
heating grate in the floor for a perfect view of the check-out counter below. No
old family photograph can convey the power of that remembered secret view into
the bustling store, which brought a measure of prosperity to my Russian
immigrant grandparents.

This memory was unlocked when I stood before an installation at the Smithsonian
Institution in Washington. An open section of four rooms - living room, bedroom,
bathroom and kitchen - recreate an Italian-American immigrant home as of 1926.

As soon as I observed the white iron bedstead in the bedroom, my eye jumped to
the heating grate in the floor, which, instinctively, I knew would be there.
What this indicated to me in a flash was that the home I remembered as unique
was, in fact, just like many others, and that is the point of this exhibition.
Part of a large installation called ''A Nation of Nations,'' it seeks to show
how standardized housing and mass-produced goods made new Americans more like
one another than like their relatives back home.

The successive waves of immigration brought families who had left behind not
only their houses but also their possessions. Though poor, many of the homes
they left were of an architectural significance never to be duplicated again,
like those in the clustered hillside towns of the Abruzzi in Italy. And gone
were such hand-crafted interior features as tile or brick ovens. They carried
with them only such family keepsakes and heirlooms as hand-blown glassware,
candlesticks and laces; the skilled workers brought their tools.

When they arrived here, they had to begin all over again and make new homes from
scratch. Just the idea of it is worth a moment's pause. And yet this was exactly
what the American experience was all about: an opportunity for new beginnings.
The Smithsonian's 1926 house both documents and commemorates these individual
efforts, which produced surprisingly similar results regardless of cultural
differences. Because of the widespread availability of low-cost, mass-produced
furnishings, both new and second-hand, and of uniform construction modules, each
home often ended up a mirror image of the one next door.

The interest in recent years in photographs by Jacob Riis and Lewis W. Hine has
tended to slant our view of immigrant communities by emphasizing the crowded and
unsanitary living conditions. But immigrants on the whole did succeed in being
comfortable at home and in their jobs, particularly outside the urban East where
the country's expansion depended on cheap labor.

The 1926 house belongs to this sector. It is for a construction foreman on the
railroad, and the symbol of his rising professional importance is the telephone
in the kitchen. The authenticity of this recreation derives from an unusual
loan, which the museum received from a Washington doctor, Arcangelo R. T.
D'Amore. His parents, Domenico and Maria Concetta D'Amore, from the village of
Introdacqua in the Abruzzi, set up housekeeping in 1920 in Youngstown, Ohio,
where Mr. D'Amore was a construction foreman. Although they had been married
since 1908, it was not until after World War I that Mrs.  D'Amore was persuaded
to join her husband, which she did, bringing a great trousseau of her own
handiwork, laces and embroidery, as well as other small family treasures and
religious articles.

In dismantling the house in 1973 after their deaths, Dr. D'Amore preserved these
most meaningful of their possessions. When their availability became known to
the Smithsonian, the brilliant decision was made to incorporate them into the
''home,'' thereby giving a real cultural identity to a display that might
otherwise have remained drably depersonalized.

The cohesive effect of these articles gives the rooms real memories and a sense
of history. And yet, miraculously, there is not an ounce of nostalgia, for the
cozy but slightly shabby furnishings hint at hard as well as easy times, thus
elevating the personal to the universal.

For the rest of the installation, the staff consulted period photographs and
scoured Sears, Roebuck and Montgomery Ward catalogues from 1890 onward to
establish what mass-produced furniture would have been available second-hand in
1926. Often the real estate agent who rented to immigrant families sold them
furniture, too. Along with such unfamiliar conveniences as indoor plumbing and
electricity went the gas stove, the icebox and the clothes wringer, purchased
new and perhaps the American way - on the installment plan.

Even the shapes of the rooms evoke reality; they were based on elevation
drawings that Carl H. Scheele, the curator, had made years earlier of his own
German immigrant grandfather's house in Cleveland. Such interior details as
wainscoting, painted the ubiquitous green, a slanted ceiling in the bedroom (to
indicate the underside of a staircase) or the jutting column in the kitchen (for
the flue exhaust) strengthen the exhibition's appearance.

Behind the white clapboard and green trim facade, the construction would have
been a cheap balloon-frame, a simple system of vertical studs requiring only a
minimum of skills to build. One skillful detail, however, is a small square door
for milk delivery. The glass bottles were placed on a shelf within a closet-like
space and retrieved from the other side through a similar door opening into the
kitchen.

These are rooms people came home to after a day's work. There is even an
end-of-the-day feeling about the details: an apron recently shed across a
kitchen chair; on the table, covered with oilcloth, the D'Amore's ''beretta,'' a
carafe in the shape of a beret, some liquer glasses and a plate of ''pizzelle,''
a wafer-like cookie. The newspaper laid out on the floor just inside the back
door tells about the general desire for cleanliness.

The bedroom's primary function is not disguised, as contemporary designers are
wont to do; its very plainness is enhanced by signs of use and by Mrs. D'Amore's
handiwork, a lace scarf on the bureau and a nightdress hanging on the door. Her
antimacassars are the only light touch in a living room, which has a dark
reddish-brown cast due in part to oak furniture and faded upholstery. The player
piano and the books were signs of upward mobility. In summing up the
acquisitions, I suspect that rag rugs of such perfect colors and worn condition
were the hardest items to find.

Since the 1926 house was installed four years ago (it remains on view through
1981), interest in similar articles of furniture and bric-a-brac as collectibles
has grown. What originated as a hodgepodge of made-do emerges now as a style of
its own. Although the ''Old World'' was discernible in the new American
settings, the configurations of the rooms and their furnishings summoned forth
special qualities that prevailed over the old customs.

Satisfied with her new home, one happy day Mrs. D'Amore unpacked her trousseau
and hung one of the linen towels in the bathroom (it hangs now in the
exhibition's bathroom). Embroidered across it in blue-green thread is one word:
Felicita.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of 1926 Italian-American kitchen

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 19, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Israeli Quits Over Emigration

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Feb. 18


Shmuel Lahis, director general of the Jewish Agency, which oversees immigration,
resigned today, saying that the Government was not acting on a report he wrote
cautioning against emigration. The report contended that up to 500,000 Israelis
were living in the United States alone, and he urged that financial benefits be
paid to induce Israelis to return home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Books

SECTION: Section C; Page 24, Column 5; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 520 words


Calligraphic Cries By Fred Ferretti
ISLAND: Poetry and History of Chinese Im- migrants on Angel Island, 1910-40. By
Him Mark Lai, Genny Lim, Judy Yung.  The San Francisco Study Center, Hoc Doi,
P.O. Box 5646, San Francisco. $15 (soft cover $8.95).

FOR 30 years, from 1910 to 1940, Angel Island in San Francisco Bay was the
first, often the only, toehold in America for immigrants from China. From the
Cantonese Pearl River delta district of Taishan they sailed, fleeing famine and
the foreign concessions, bound for the Land of the Flowery Flag, the Golden
Mountain.

Some were relatives of earlier Chinese immigrants who had come to America for
Sutter's gold and stayed to help lay transcontinental railroad tracks. Others,
in their anxiety to get to America at whatever cost, pretended to be relatives
and arrived with identification papers bought in Canton and, with ''coaching
papers,'' carefully constructed and memorized family backgrounds that they hoped
would pass them through immigration examiners.

The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 had been relaxed somewhat under pressure from
Chinese Government officials in Canton by 1910, when Angel Island was opened,
for Chinese immigrants only. But the immigration laws, so far as the Chinese
were concerned, seemed designed to exclude rather than to admit.

Memoirs on the Walls

It is this period of immigration to America that Him Mark Lai, Genny Lim and
Judy Yung, three young Chinese-American scholars, have drawn so well in
''Island,'' a small, sad and touching book that is yet oddly exhilarating as
well, because it is primary history of the highest order. The immigrants who
passed through the frame barracks of Angel Island on to ferries and to the
United States mainland, as well as those who failed and were deported, speak to
us directly.

During the time they spent on the island, as little as a few days, as long as
three years, they carved and ink-brushed their concerns onto the walls of their
barracks. One hundred thirty-five calligraphic poems survived, first discovered
by a Federal park ranger after Angel Island was abandoned in 1940. These tell of
voyages from China, detainment on the island, attitudes toward the first
Americans encountered - immigration officials and social workers - and finally
the disappointments and triumphs of the immigrants.

Part Oral History

To augment the translations of the poems the authors have interviewed older
Chinese who once passed through Angel Island and immigration workers as well,
and have set their recollections down verbatim as oral history.

Together with the interviews, the poems - angry, heroic, wrenchingly forlorn,
despairing, provocative, resistant - convey, as no secondhand or thirdhand
account could ever do, what is was like to be Chinese and to be on Angel Island.
Here is one poem in its entirety: The low building with three beams merely
shelters the body. It is unbearable to relate the stories accumulated on the
Island slopes. Wait till the day I become successful and fulfill my wish! I will
not speak of love when I level the immigrant station! By One From Taishan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 12, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

WHEN THE KREMLIN ALLOWS EMIGRATION

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 336 words


To the Editor:

Your otherwise excellent editorial ''What Price a Soviet Jew?'' (Feb. 22)
contains an unfortunate error.  You write that two-thirds of the 250,000 Jews
who have left the U.S.S.R. in the last decade have ended up in America. In fact,
160,000 have gone to Israel, and 90,000 have settled elsewhere - chiefly in
America. It is true that the current pattern is for twothirds and more to settle
outside Israel, but the balance is as yet in Israel's favor by nearly a 2-to-1
margin.

Incidentally, immigrants from the U.S.S.R. have made significant contributions
to science, culture, sports and many other fields in Israel - an aspect of this
migration which is unfortunately all too frequently overlooked. Their rate of
emigration from Israel is 6 to 7 percent over the whole decade, and much lower
in the last two years.  This by itself should be news at a time when emigration
from Israel has been in the headlines so often.

The main part of your editorial bears re-emphasizing. The treatment of Jews who
wish to emigrate is a good barometer of Soviet intent and perceptions regarding
relations with the U.S. The question must be probed delicately but deeply to see
how American interests can be served by reinstating some aspects of detente.

Prevention of nuclear proliferation, an increase in mutually beneficial trade,
even the preservation of Polish independence can be furthered by taking up this
signal. In advancing these American interests, and in aiding the free emigration
of Soviet Jews, the United States need not give up one iota of security, nor
need it compromise on its principles.

A firm but diplomatically sensitive policy which shows a commitment to principle
will stand the new President in good stead in America, in Europe and indeed in
the eyes of whatever Soviet leadership may emerge during the next four years.
THEODORE H. FRIEDGUT, Montreal, Feb. 23, 1981

The writer, a faculty member of Hebrew University in Jerusalem, is a visiting
scholar at Concordia Univer-sity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 18, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Refugee Linked to Nazis Loses His U.S. Citizenship

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, March 17


A Federal judge today revoked the citizenship of a 76-year-old immigrant accused
of war crimes in World War II.

The decision by Federal District Judge Louis C. Bechtle clears the way for
deportation proceedings to be brought against Wolodymir Osidach, a retired
Philadelphia slaughterhouse worker.

Mr. Osidach was accused by the Justice Department of lying when he said his
occupation was a dairy worker when he entered the United States in 1949. He
became a citizen in 1963.

At a civil trial last fall, the Government contended that Mr.  Osidach was an
officer in the German-backed Ukrainian National Police in Rawa-Ruska, which was
in Poland before the war and is now part of the Soviet Union. The Government
said that Mr. Osidach helped the Germans round up 14,000 Jews in 1942 and 1943
and send them to death camps.

Mr. Osidach admitted that he had failed to mention his membership in the
Ukrainian police when he entered the United States, but he said that he was only
a police interpreter.

By The Associated Press
Feodor Fedorenko, a former guard at a Nazi death camp, has been stripped of his
United States citizenship by a Federal district judge in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
for concealing his past in applying for a visa in 1949. Judge Norman C. Roettger
Jr. issued the order as a result of a ruling by the United States Supreme Court
last January reversing his original decision in favor of Mr. Fedorenko after a
trial in 1978.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

TAPE SHOWS WILLIAMS VOWING TO GIVE 'SHEIK' AID WITH IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 840 words


A videotape played yesterday at the bribery trial of Senator Harrison A.
Williams Jr. of New Jersey shows him giving an F.B.I.  agent posing as an Arab
sheik assurances of help in seeking permanent residency in the United States.

The Senator said on the tape that he would provide the help, in part, because he
wanted to bring to fruition a titanium-mining venture in which he had previously
agreed to accept a hidden 18 percent interest. The sheik - actually an
undercover agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation - had been described to
the Senator by other agents as ready to lend $100 million for the venture.

'Leave With My Assurance'

''You can leave with my assurance that I will do those things that will, will
bring you on for the consideration of permanency,'' Senator Williams says to the
man he knew as ''Sheik Yassir Habib.'' The ''sheik'' was Richard Farhart, an
F.B.I. agent.

The videotape, made surreptitiously by the F.B.I. at the Plaza Hotel in New York
in January 1980, was presented at the Senator's Abscam trial in Federal District
Court in Brooklyn. It was part of the prosecution's effort to prove that the
61-year-old Democrat agreed to sell his influence in behalf of the mining
enterprise and the sheik's immigration needs.

The prosecution has charged that a conspiracy by the Senator, several alleged
co-conspirators and the undercover agents offered the promise of a $12.6 million
profit for Mr. Williams.

Mr. Williams, a member of the Senate for 22 years, faces up to 15 years in
prison if convicted of bribery.  The Senator denies that he is guilty, as does
his co-defendant, Alexander Feinberg, a 72-year-old New Jersey lawyer. They
argue that they were ''fooled'' and manipulated by the undercover agents, who,
the defense attorneys say, were able to ''steer and control'' conversations with
the defendants while surreptitiously recording them. The cases of two other
alleged co-conspirators have been severed.

Rejects Money Offer

At one point on the tape, the agent -speaking English very slowly and pretending
to have great difficulty with the language - offers the Senator money for the
promised immigration aid. Mr. Williams, also speaking very slowly throughout the
meeting, rejects the money.

''No,'' he says, ''my interest is with my associates - to see this very valuable
mining area appropriately developed.'' In a second videotape played yesterday,
the Senator is seen telling undercover agents that he interceded with Joseph P.
Lordi, chairman of New Jersey's Casino Control Commission, to help gain a
commission decision that would have saved a casino-development group $30 million
had its proposed Atlantic City project been carried out.

On this same tape - made at the Plaza Hotel in 1979 - Senator Williams also
discusses an arrangement to receive a concealed $1 million finder's fee as part
of a proposed $70 million loan from the supposed sheik to the same casino
enterprise. The enterprise was the Ritz-Carlton, proposed by a subsidiary of a
company for which the Senator's wife, Jeanette, was a paid consultant.

Prosecution Objection Denied

Mr. Lordi, reached later yesterday at his Atlantic City office, said he had
''never been influenced by Harrison Williams in any matter, let alone the Ritz,
nor has he tried to influence me.''

The Senator's trial does not involve charges related to the casino matters, but
Judge George C. Pratt permitted the chief prosecutor, Thomas P. Puccio to play
the videotape in which these matters were discussed, despite defense objections.

The judge ruled that the tape was ''relevant to issues of this case'' in that it
might help the jury determine the defendants' ''predisposition'' to commit the
crimes alleged in the titanium-mine and immigration matters.

The performance by the F.B.I. agent posing as the sheik brought smiles to the
faces of Judge Pratt and the nearly 100 spectators in the crowded courtroom.
Senator Williams, sitting at the defense table, occasionally smiled, too.

Later, the defense played two of the F.B.I. videotapes in the case to illustrate
what George J. Koelzer, the Senator's attorney, has charged was the ''coaching''
of Senator Williams by undercover agents to say seemingly incriminating things
before the hidden cameras.

On one tape, of a meeting the Senator did not attend, an agent suggests to two
of Mr. Williams's alleged co-conspirators that the Senator - when he meets the
''sheik'' two days afterward at the Plaza Hotel - should assure him that
''whatever it takes to get you the citizenship, I'll get it done.''

In the second tape - made before a second meeting between the Senator and the
supposed sheik - another agent instructs the Senator to impress the sheik with
''how important you are.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Williams (page D15)

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Cubans in Miami Celebrate

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 55 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 5


About 300 Cuban immigrants, many of them recent arrivals, turned out last night
to celebrate the first anniversary of the takeover of the Peruvian Embassy in
Havana, a siege that led to the boatlift that carried 125,000 refugees to South
Florida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 18, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

The Talk of Virgin Islands;
GROWTH BRINGS PROBLEMS TO VIRGIN ISLANDS AS IMMIGRATION PUTS A STRAIN ON
SERVICES

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE AMALIE, V.I.


The water pipes, recalcitrant on the golf greens and nearly always dry in the
housing projects, had been coughing air downtown for six days. Ann Johnson,
proprietor of The Snack Box, a local lunch counter, apologized for the paper
plates and cups.

''We've had a water emergency since December 1976,'' she said. ''We got the
garbage emergency in January 1979; they cut off the downtown pickups. We have
power emergencies and the road emergency, and then we have the school emergency.
The only emergency we don't have is on sunshine.''

She stood, flushing pink in the heat, watching the hamburgers on the propane
grill. ''I've been mugged, hit over the head with a gun, and every member of my
family has been robbed. And groceries,'' she sighed. ''We used to say that no
matter what you bought, it was $10 a sack. Now it's $30. The price of food is
higher than it is in Washington, D.C.''

The Johnsons came to St. Thomas from the mainland 18 years ago, but now they are
thinking of going back. ''We have the feeling we're not wanted,'' Mrs. Johnson
said.

When the jet plane opened the Virgin Islands, a United States territory, to
large-scale tourism in the 1960's, and to large-scale industrial development,
the Johnsons were only two in a torrent of outsiders who flooded into the
islands to share in the boom. There were merchants, construction workers, hotel
workers and refinery workers. Some, like the Johnsons, black as well as white,
came from the states because they were looking for a tropical way of life.
Others, mostly black, came from the desperately poor islands of the Eastern
Caribbean, looking only for a few dollars to send home.

As the population tripled, to 95,214 from 32,000 from 1960 to 1980, the school
enrollment quadrupled. The number of telephones rose to 41,174, from 3,905, and
the number of cars grew to 37,889, from 4,264.

The electrical system, one of the costliest under the American flag, became
overburdened and produced rotating power failures. Rain used to provide the
water supply; now sources include desalination plants and water barged in from
Puerto Rico. It is not enough.

Little of this affects the tourists, who numbered about 56,000 cruise ship
passengers in 1960 but increased by 1980 to well over a million visitors
stopping to spend a few hours in the bustling dutyfree shops around the islands'
beaches.

The growth and the crowding has put severe strains on the islands' services and
on its psyche.  ''When you have Robinson Crusoe alone on an island, you have no
problem,'' said Otis L. Felix, the Police Commissioner, a veteran of 26 years on
the force.

When the population was smaller, he said, Virgin Islanders ''were neighborly
people, where I was your keeper and you were my people.'' He added, ''People had
a respect for law and order.'' Now Commissioner Felix has trouble getting
cooperation from witnesses.And last December, for the first time in history, a
policeman was attacked and killed while on a routine patrol.

After that shooting, a Federal court determined, the police beat a confession
out of a suspect, Juan Francis, a member of the Rastafarian sect, and the Rastas
taunted the funeral cortege.

The problem, Virgin Islanders say, is knowing just who the community is these
days. ''It's newcomers talking to newcomers,'' said Leslie Reovan, a sociologist
at the College of the Virgin Islands. Natives of the islands, although they are
the largest group, are outnumbered in their own land by the rich
''continentals'' from the mainland, who are driving up the price of real estate,
and the poor ''aliens'' from the Caribbean, who want jobs, homes, schools and
medical care.

Last fall, the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools notified the
territory that Charlotte Amalie High School in St.  Thomas and Central High
School in St. Croix were in danger of losing their accreditation because of
staff shortages, lack of supplies, termite damage, poor maintenance and poor
attendance.

''We really need help,'' said Mrs. Enez Harvey, an aide to the Superintendent of
Schools. ''We really need some understanding.'' So many children are flowing
into the schools from the Eastern Caribbean, including Haitians this year, that
the school system conducts registration three times a year, she said.

As outsiders migrate to the islands, many young people leave to find jobs and
opportunity. A high percentage enlists in the armed forces.

''The tragedy of the Virgin Islands is loss of its nationals, the youths who go
away and don't come back,'' said Mr. Reovan. ''It's this drifting situation that
leads to a society's having no center and no future, and we keep incorporating
more and more of the irrelevancies of continental politics into this place.''

A particularly cruel ''irrelevancy'' has been the importation of American-style
racism to islands in which native blacks tended to feel superior to the poorly
educated white French immigrants.

Racial slurs that white Americans have applied to blacks are now used by blacks
here to refer to the many American whites who have come from the Southern states
since 1960 to work in the giant Hess Oil refinery on St. Croix. It is a
self-contained community that mixes little, if at all, with the local
population, and blacks here are not at all impressed.

''They come from Texas, Mississippi, Georgia, Florida,'' said Leona Watson, a
black community activist in St. Croix who has been critical of Mr. Hess's
operations. ''They can't read or write, but they come down as bosses.''

''They can't deal with a black person who is highly educated,'' she said, ''but
the shoe's on the other foot now. They're on our ground now.

''Last week, one of them said to seven or eight of our boys, 'I feel like
getting a machine gun and mowing you all down,' and those were the most
dangerous boys he could ever mess with. I told them to mark his face well and
don't make someone else pay for his mistake.''

She is equally upset about the black aliens who now have permanent resident
status. ''They're interested only in the U.S. dollar, not the land. They have
their own homeland. They've improved their country. We have nowhere to run.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of condominiums on St. Croix photo of tourists on
St. Croix photo of fast food sign on St. Croix

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CBS Reporter Is Seized at Airport In Guatemala and Held Overnight

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: GUATEMALA, May 2


A CBS reporter, George Natanson, was detained without explanation yesterday by
airport immigration officials here, held overnight and then taken under armed
guard to a plane bound for Tegucigalpa, Honduras, the United States Embassy said
today.

The Government refused to comment.  According to the American Consul, Paul
Kline, who waited through the night at the airport with Mr. Natanson: ''It
appears his name was on a list of persons the Government does not want in the
country.''

Mr. Natanson, interviewed by telephone from Honduras, said that he had arrived
on an evening flight from Mexico City to Guatemala. ''It was never really clear
what they were doing,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 27, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

MULTIPLE CHOICE ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words


What does a good conservative think Government should do about immigration of
workers from Mexico: (a) Keep them out. America should be for Americans, or at
least immigration should be balanced among different countries. (b) Keep them
out. We don't need any more people to create social problems and soak up scarce
social welfare dollars. Even the temporarily legal have a way of becoming the
permanently illegal. (c) Letthem in, to discipline the domestic labor force and
provide workers for the stoop labor that American simply won't do. (d) Let them
in. We need to please Mexico, whose oil is all-important.

What does a good liberal think Government should do about immigration of workers
from Mexico: (a) Let them in; this land of opportunity is enriched by immigrants
spunk and vitality. (b) Let them in; we have a duty to share our riches with
people from the Western Hemisphere (if not, indeed, the world). (c) Keep them
out. Our first duty is to maintain social welfare for poor-people already here.
(d) Keep them out. They undercut American pay standards and are easily
intimidated and exploited.

The answer to both questions, obviously, is the same-all of the above. Which is
what a Cabinet committee seems ready to propose as the Reagan immigration
policy-a little of this, a little of that, pleasing everyone a little. Still, it
could have a practical effect, providing more seasonal workers, and a huamne
effect, lifting the cloud that hangs over many aliens. It could be a
considerable achievement-but only if combined with serious enforcement.

The Cabinet committee evidently has three proposals in mind. One, legalize the
status of about a million aliens. Two, crate a pilot program authorizing the
admission of legal temporary workers. Three, substantially strengthen
immigration enforcement.

Enforcement is the key to all the rest. An amnesty would be welcome, removing a
cloud of exploitation and fear tha thangs over illegal aliens for year.s But
without stronger enforcement, amnesty would only encourage more illegal
immigration.

The merits of any guest worker program are debatable. But leeting in 50,000 a
year would obviously be preferable to 500,000 or 750,000, as some Administration
officials suggest. That's 750,000 every year. When the year is up, how many will
go into hiding-and bring their families? Without strong enforcement, a guest
worker program risks becoming an invitation to illegal residence.

The immigration enforcement now in the cards seems startingly contradictory. One
kind is direct: more guards at the borders. Yet the Border Patrol is depleted
and dispirited; it cannot afford to keep all its vehicles running even now - and
the new Reagan budget cuts more.

The Cabinet committee also recognizes the need to penalize employers who hire
illegal aliens. For that to work, applicants would have to show identification,
now easily forged. The remedy, mroe secure identification, incites fears of
internal pasports and police statism. Such fears are unjustified, in
ourjudgment, and the committee seems rightly intent on developing a
forgery-resistent Social Security card.

But no such decision has yet been made, nor has the Border Patrol yet been
allocated any new funds. Only if the Administration takes such steps can it
demonstrate it is sincere in wanting a legal, practical immigration policy. If
not, people on both sides of the border will quickly get the real message, and
it won't be multiple choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 5, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
11 Haitians Are Deported As U.S. Steps Up Hearings

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 4


After a major step-up in Immigration and Naturalization Service hearings, 11 of
the Haitians who fled to this country by boat were deported today. Thirteen more
refugees are scheduled to be deported tomorrow.

This is the first time since early 1979 that groups of Haitian refugees have
been sent back to Haiti.  Until now, most refugees have been able to remain in
the United States pending resolution of their claims for political asylum.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIAN REFUGEES IN MIAMI ARE WARNED OF IMMIGRATION ARREST THREAT

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 6


Community agency workers took to the streets with bullhorns here yesterday to
warn Haitian refugees that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had begun
arresting new arrivals who apply for work authorization papers.

Fourteen Haitians were arrested Thursday and four more were arrested yesterday
and taken to the Krome Avenue refugee processing center.

The immigration service's Acting Commissioner, Dorothy Meissner, said today that
although she had not specifically called for the arrests, they were in line with
a decision made by the agency in late April to hold exclusion hearings for the
most recent Haitian arrivals first.

There is a backlog of 6,000 cases of Haitians who have arrived in the United
States since Oct. 10, when a special legal status granted the Cubans and
Haitians permitting them to remain here was revoked.

Some Exceptions to Be Made

''I am aware,'' Commissioner Meissner said, ''that work authorizations are no
longer being given for people who arrived after Oct. 10.'' She added that
exceptions would be made for those arrivals who had been processed by the
immigration service and were living with sponsors awaiting their hearings.

''People we never processed or registered are now showing up for work
authorization,'' she said.  By sending illegal Haitian refugees home to the
Caribbean island as soon as they arrived, she said, the immigration service
hoped to discourage others planning to make the same trip.

Yesterday, Attorney General William French Smith ordered the immigration
authorities to end mass hearings that began this week to exclude Haitians from
formal entry in the United States and send them back to Haiti. He also said
these hearings should be opened to the public.

Objections to Closed Hearings

Lawyers in Miami had objected to being denied access to the Haitians and their
hearings.  Representative Shirley Chisholm, Democrat of Brooklyn, asserted in a
letter to Mr. Smith yesterday that the recent arrests were ''clearly a change in
policy,'' and asked the reason for the alleged shift.

Commissioner Meissner said today that, ''The Attorney General has restated the
guidelines for generally acceptable jurisprudence,'' and added that she did not
think there was a need to continue closed proceedings.

There are about 800 Haitians in Miami now awaiting deportation proceedings.
Chief Immigration Judge Joseph Monsanto has said he expected 40 cases a day to
be processed next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 14, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation in Summary;
COURTS GROUND A FLIGHT TO HAITI

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron, Michael Wright and Don Wycliff

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 254 words


Seventy-six Haitian refugees were all ready to take a free plane trip last week
- until the courts intervened. Acting on a motion filed by attorneys from the
American Civil Liberties Union and the Haitian Refugee Center Inc., a Federal
District judge in Miami grounded the flight, which was to have returned the
refugees to Haiti as deportees.

The 76, who are among an estimated 6,000 Haitians who have arrived in south
Florida since last October, had gone through deportation hearings the previous
week, as the Immigration and Naturalization Service stepped up efforts to
dispose of refugee claims of asylum.  The service contended that all had freely
agreed to return home. But the lawyers who challenged the deportations contended
that the hearings had been irregular at best - closed to the public, including
lawyers who might have represented them.

In a hearing late in the week, Judge Alcee Hastings seemed to agree. The judge
said it was not clear to him that the Haitians, who speak Creole, understood
what had been said at their hearings.  Moreover, he noted, there had been only
one translator for 35 Haitians at one deportation hearing and none of the
translators could translate into Creole. He continued the emergency stay against
deportation of the 76 until he could hold a full-scale hearing. And, in a
suggestion the immigration service said it probably would take, he urged that it
delay any efforts to deport any other Haitians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 18, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

2 Polish Sailors Request Asylum After Leaving Ship in Oregon Port

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: ASTORIA, Ore., June 17


Two Polish navigator trainees left the ship Kapitan Ledochowski today while it
was in port for fuel and water and requested political asylum in the United
States.

Immigration and Naturalization Service agents took Rommald Polkowski, 25 years
old, of Szcerzerni, and Tomax Nawalany, 24, of Lupburan, to Portland. The
sailors had contacted the Coast Guard station at Astoria at 4:30 A.M. after
leaving their ship, the supply vessel for a Polish fishing fleet working off the
Oregon Coast. Coast Guardsmen took them into protective custody until
immigration agents arrived.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. OFICIALS INVESTIGATING POSSIBLITY OF FRAUD IN IMMIGRATION OF KHOMEIMI
IRANIANS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21


Federal officials are reviewing immigration records for hundreds of Iranians on
the suspicion that many got immigration benefits, including status as permanent
residents of the United States, through fraud or bribery.

The investigation focuses on the period after the seizure of the United States
Embassy in Teheran, which led President Carter to impose severe restrictions on
the issuance of visas and permanent resident alien identification cards,
commonly known as green cards, to Iranians.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation said last week that Federal agents were reviewing the records
and interviewing Iranians to find out how hundreds had obtained visas and green
cards despite the restrictions.

Although the United States and Iran have no formal diplomatic relations,
Iranians streaming out of the Middle East through Europe continue to seek a
haven here. They include supporters of the late Shah, opponents of Ayatollah
Ruhollah Khomeini and members of many religious and ethnic minority groups.

Grand Jury Investigation

The officials said that a grand jury, to be convened here this summer, would
focus on two tactics tried by many Iranians: the use of counterfeit documents to
show a close family relationship to citizens or permanent residents of the
United States, and the incorporation of American businesses purporting to be
subsidiaries of Iranian companies.

Both tactics enabled Iranians to get green cards, which give foreigners many of
the rights of citizens. After living in this country for five years, permanent
resident aliens are eligible to become naturalized citizens.

Federal agents have been scrutinizing the activities of Shams Javid, a
47-year-old Iranian-American whom they described as a target of the
investigation. In a two-hour interview at a restaurant near his home in Falls
Church, Va., Mr. Javid said that Federal agents ''were constantly there at my
house'' and had interrogated many Iranians whom he had advised on immigration
matters.

Mr. Javid is not a lawyer, but said he had helped Iranians fill out immigration
forms. When asked how many of his countrymen had entered the United States with
his assistance, he smiled and said, ''God knows - thousands.''

Became Citizen in 1970

Mr. Javid said that he came to the United States in 1963, became a citizen in
1970 and worked at Iran's Embassy here as a purchasing officer in 1973 and 1974.

In the last year, he said, he offered his services as an immigration consultant
from the Falls Church office of the Sunshine Company of America Inc. The
company's articles of incorporation, on file with the Virginia State Corporation
Commission, show that it was formed in December 1979 as a subsidiary of an
Iranian company to engage in the export-import business.

It became virtually impossible for such companies to trade with Iran after
President Carter, on April 7, 1980, announced a break in diplomatic relations
with Teheran and prohibited exports from the United States to Iran.

Several immigration lawyers said that their Iranian clients had been interviewed
by immigration officers who wanted to know about Mr. Javid and his activities.

With the help of a grand jury, Federal agents also plan to investigate whether
immigration service employees helped Iranians in their efforts to get benefits
for themselves and their relatives.

Indirect Payments Suspected

Sources close to the investigation said the investigators believed that some
Iranians had paid immigration service employees indirectly, through
intermediaries who ''laundered'' the money.

The investigation to date has concentrated on the Washington district office of
the immigration service, which serves the District of Columbia and Virginia, but
it may be extended to other offices.

Investigators said that to obtain green cards, some Iranians had submitted
counterfeit birth certificates and marriage certificates to establish that they
were related to citizens or permanent resident aliens. In some cases, the
officials said, the documents were not birth or marriage records, but copies of
pages from law books written in Persian.

Immigration examiners are supposed to obtain translations of documents written
in a foreign language, but even so, Government lawyers said, it might be
difficult to prove criminal intent rather than negligence by immigration service
employees in such cases.

Fraud Said to Continue

Law-enforcement officials said that the fraud was apparently continuing, but
that the immigration service had put into effect controls to prevent the
issuance of green cards to ineligible applicants. So far, no employees have been
dismissed or reassigned.

The investigation of Iranian immigration cases overlaps, but is separate from,
the work of a Federal grand jury that has been investigating charges of
immigration fraud for the last 18 months.  According to reports published in
February 1980, the charges involved Mario T. Noto, a former Deputy Commissioner
of Immigration, and Maron J. Sheehi, an immigration inspector who retired last
month.

Mr. Javid said he had known Mr. Sheehi since his younger brother Samad Javid
bought a home from Mr. Sheehi in 1978. Property records show that the house was
sold for $69,500 in what appears to be a routine transaction.

Property records also show that last month Mr. Sheehi sold an adjacent lot for
$20,000 to a Virginia company called the Firm Corporation, which was formed last
March by four Iranians who had been military officers under the Shah.

One of the four Iranians said that he and his colleagues had applied for asylum
and that Mr. Sheehi had not had anything to do with their immigration cases.

Mr. Sheehi said that he would not answer any questions on the subject because
they related to matters pending before the grand jury.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Demonstrators , carried portraits of Ayatollah
Rubollah

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 23, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

9,700 GRANTED U.S. CITIZENSHIP IN LOS ANGELES naturalization ceremony in nation

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 22


Almost 10,000 immigrants, more than half of them from Asia and the Pacific,
became American citizens today in the largest naturalization ceremony in the
nation's history.

They took the oath of citizenship in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in
ceremonies that provided vivid evidence of a surge of immigration that began in
the early 1970's and that immigration researchers say is continuing to bringing
more and more new residents each year.

Last year, according to the researchers, about 808,000 legal immigrants came to
this country - more than in any year in the nation's history. Immigration
specialists say the new wave of migration is primarily from Latin America and
Asia.

''It is great to be an American,'' said Hung Nguyen, who emigrated from Vietnam
in 1975 and now works as a data processing specialist for the General Telephone
and Electronics Corporation in a Los Angeles suburb. ''There is so much
opportunity here,'' he said.

His Country 'Too Crowded'

William Luk, who came from Hong Kong, said he, too, had come to America in
search of opportunity. ''The country I came from,'' he said, ''is too crowded.''

The Census Bureau reported recently that the number of Asians and Pacific
islanders in this country grew faster than any other ethnic category in the
1970's, to 3.5 million from 1.5 million. The number of Hispanic residents in the
United States grew by 61 percent, to about 14.6 million, the Bureau said.

The tide of Asian and Latin immigrants has been especially strong in California.
According to some estimates, for example, as many as 90,000 of the approximately
260,000 Vietnamese refugees in the country have settled in California.

Immigration officials attribute the influx to the state's location and climate.
One immigration official here said recently: ''They've been placed in other
states, Michigan, Illinois, Missouri, other places, but they come back to the
Coast because they like the weather or they have relatives here.''

Bicentennial Celebration

Immigration officials said they decided to naturalize more than 9,700 new
citizens at once in part to commemorate observance of the Los Angeles
Bicentennial, one of whose themes is celebration of the city's increasingly
ethnic diversity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Jane Feldmeier ,in Los Angeles during the
largest

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 26, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SUN MYUNG MOON FOCUS OF MOON IMMIGRATION INQUIRY

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has been conducting an investigation
to determine whether the Rev.  Sun Myung Moon and hundreds of his followers in
the Unification Church acted improperly when they entered the United States, an
official said today.

The official, Glenn A. Bertness, the assistant commissioner in charge of
investigations, said that the agency was examining how Mr.  Moon, a native of
South Korea, and his followers had acquired status as permanent resident aliens.

ABC News reported tonight that the Justice Department would seek Mr. Moon's
deportation because of ''improperly obtained residency status,'' but Mr.
Bertness said that he could not confirm this.

Mr. Bertness said that one question at issue was whether Mr. Moon's followers
were ministers of his church or workers. The concern, he said, was that they had
received temporary visas as ministers although they may have intended to stay in
the United States permanently as workers.

Comment From Church Spokesman

At the church's headquarters in Tarrytown, N.Y., in Westchester County, a
spokesman said he had no idea of the status of the case.  According to United
Press International, a church spokesman in New York, Jeremiah Schnee, said: ''We
think it is grossly unfair that the first time we learned of this matter is
through news media. We do not know what the source of the information is, but if
it is indeed the Justice Department, we feel it to be an immoral and improper
leak.''

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York said that
John Gafney, the acting district director, would have no comment on the matter
before tomorrow.

The Unification Church has been controversial both for its business dealings and
for the attraction it has had for many young people in the United States,
followers whose parents contend they have been improperly enticed into joining
the church. In many instances, the parents have resorted to snatching their
children away from the church and tried, through so-called deprogrammers to get
their children to leave the church and return home.

Litigation Over Tax Status

The church also has been a source of frequent litigation. It has resisted paying
property taxes, for example, on the ground that it deserved exemption as a
church.

Last month, the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan ruled that the ''primary purpose'' of the church was not religious and
therefore it was not entitled to the tax exemption.

The church also has been involved in suits overseas. It lost a major libel suit
against a newpaper March 31 in London after a fivemonth trial when a jury
accepted The Daily Mail's view of what the paper called brainwashing and
kidnapping techniques practiced by the church.

In addition to the properties in Manhattan and Queens that led to the New York
court case, the church also has large holdings in Westchester County. It bought
the old New Yorker Hotel at Eighth Avenue and 34th Street to use as housing for
its young followers, and it publishes a daily newspaper in New York, The
News-World.

It has expanded elsewhere in the United States, as well, sometimes meeting
protests from existing establishments when the church has entered businesses.

Fishermen in Montauk, L.I., Gloucester, Mass., and elsewhere asserted that the
church's fishing crews, made up of Mr. Moon's followers, were competing unfairly
because they gave most of their salaries back to the Unification Church. The
church denied the allegations.

In 1978, a House subcommittee investigating Korean-American relations said that
the Unification Church had systematically violated United States laws on taxes,
immigration, banking, currency and the registration of foreign agents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Rev. Sun Myung

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 21, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

THE DOORS OF ISRAEL MUST REMAIN OPEN FOR ALL JEWS

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 313 words


To the Editor:

It is difficult to imagine a more deceptive statement than the closing paragraph
of Rabbi Menachem Lubinsky's letter: ''As to the doors of immigration, they
would be as open to them (Jews whose conversions were performed by non-Orthodox
rabbis) as to anyone else.'' abbi Lubinsky knows that Israel's doors are not
open to ''anyone else'' (other than special refugee cases, such as the
Vietnamese boat people, whom Israel has welcomed warmly). They are open to Jews,
as is proper, for Israel was created as a homeland and a haven for Jews, where
they may live as Jews in a Jewish state. That is why the Law of Return was
enacted - to give Jews the automatic right to immigrate to Israel with automatic
citizenship upon their immigration.

In the case of Jews by choice, Rabbi Lubinsky's political party in Israel would
restrict that right to those whose conversions have been performed by Orthodox
rabbis. Thus, at the very gates of Jerusalem, Agudath Israel would set up a
selection process that divides Jews into two classes, those eligible to enter as
Jews and those who, as he put it, ''would have the recourse of going through a
religiously authentic procedure.''

In America and elsewhere, the Reform and Conservative movements have created a
vital framework for preserving Jews and Judaism; in many communities they
constitute the only permanent source of Jewish education, observance and
identification. The vast majority of religious functions, including marriage and
conversion, are performed by non-Orthodox rabbis.

How are the interests of Judaism and of Israel served by declaring thousands of
non-Orthodox converts and their progeny non-Jews?  This is the real issue, and
this the Orthodox movement has refused to confront and failed to answer.
ALBERT VORSPAN, Vice President, Union of American Hebrew Congregations, New
York, July 15, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 23, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NOTES ON PEOPLE;
A Brand-New 99-Year-Old Nephew for Uncle Sam

BYLINE: By Albin Krebs and Robert McG. Thomas Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 186 words


He knows only four English phrases and can name only three American Presidents,
and that, said the Immigration and Naturalization Service, meant that Gabriel
Isahar Isaharov could not become an American citizen.

But Mr. Isaharov, a 99-year-old Russian immigrant who had dreamed of coming to
the United States for 65 years and finally made it in 1975, is not one to give
up.

So yesterday, aided by an interpreter, he pleaded his case in United States
District Court in Brooklyn, arguing that he should be exempted from the literacy
requirement because of his advanced age.

Unfortunately, argued Howard Baum, a Government lawyer, the law makes no such
provision.  In this case, ruled Judge Henry Bramwell, it does.

''Thank you very much and God bless America,'' said Mr. Isaharov, who was
promptly sworn in as a citizen.

And why had Mr. Isaharov been so determined to become a citizen?  ''Because I
was born free,'' he said, ''and I want to die free as a citizen of this great
country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Gabriel Isahar Isahaov

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 11, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Judge Refuses to Block Haitian Ouster Hearings

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 96 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 10


A Federal judge today rejected an effort to block United States immigration
officials from holding deportation hearings for Haitian refugees scheduled to be
sent to a camp in Puerto Rico.

However, Judge Alcee Hastings gave Federal officials until 5 P.M.  tomorrow to
present a detailed set of guidelines for deportation hearings for Haitians.

Judge Hastings declined a motion for a temporary restraining order to bar
deportation hearings for Haitians sent to Fort Allen in Puerto Rico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 13, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FIRST HAITIANS TAKEN TO PUERTO RICO

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: JUANA DIAZ, P.R., Aug. 12


An Air Florida DC-9 brought 125 Haitian refugees from an overcrowded detention
center in Miami to a former United States Navy Base here before dawn today, the
first of several planeloads expected in the next week.

Puerto Ricans who had expressed fear that the Haitians would bring disease,
crime or more employment pressure on the island had threatened to demonstrate,
but there were no demonstrations. Paul La Tortue, a member of an organization
seeking legal aid for Haitians, said the word had got out that the refugees
needed to be pitied more than anything and that, in any event, they would be
shipped home within a year.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, apparently expecting trouble on
arrival here, announced that the first planeload would leave Miami at 4 this
morning, then quietly put the refugees aboard a plane at 4. There were no
protesters, but several Puerto Ricans presented themselves at the gate of the
new refugee center to apply for jobs.

The Carter Administration had proposed using Fort Allen here to divert 5,000
Cuban and Haitian refugees in the wave of immigration that hit the United States
last year. Washington spent $10 million preparing the fort, but the Puerto Rican
Government, unions and local residents sued to block the plan. Then, last month,
President Reagan and Gov. Carlos Romero Barcelo agreed that 800 Haitians could
be detained here, but for no more than a year and only after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service certified the illegal aliens' health and investigated
them for histories of crime or mental illness.

A Lawsuit in Florida

Meantime, Florida sued the Federal Government to relieve the congestion at the
Miami detention center, called Krome North. The center, a former missile base
designed to accommodate no more than 815 people, has at times held as many as
1,500 Haitians. This morning's lift of 125 men reduced the number at Krome to
992.

Exclusion hearings, begun at Krome North, are expected to continue at Fort
Allen. The United States contends that the Haitians, most of whom were picked up
on the water, never technically entered the country and thus can be
''excluded,'' a legal process swifter and simpler than deportation.

Tonight a local group known as the United People's Committee called a
demonstration outside Fort Allen, not to protest the Haitians' presence but what
it termed the ''inhumane'' way in which they were being treated. The hot,
treeless 10-acre plain on which they are to live, in tents surrounded by barbed
wire, makes Puerto Ricans feel as though Washington is using Puerto Rico to do
its dirty work, the committee said.

This morning, in the shade of a mimosa tree outside Fort Allen, Robert L. Bowen,
a spokesman for the immigration service, defended the new holding center and
spoke of the amenities. ''There will be TV in each compound,'' he said.
''Soccer. Basketball. Baseball. Gloves.  You name it, we've got all kinds of
recreational equipment in there.''

In the shade of another mimosa barely five feet away, Mr. La Tortue was
bellowing for all to hear: ''Conditions here are worse than Krome. The heat is
more intense. There is no ventilation. This is definitely worse.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitian refugees

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation in Summary;
No Progress for Haitian Pilgrims

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 284 words


For most of the nearly 30,000 Haitians who have fled the poorest nation in the
Western Hemisphere for the promise of America, Washington's distinction between
political and economic refugees is more than academic. The former are treated as
potential immigrants; those merely seeking to improve their living conditions
are deported. Between arrival by leaky boat and deportation by charter plane is
detention, generally under terms that underscore and prolong the absence of
welcome.

That was the case last week for the 125 Haitians transported from the former
missile base near Miami known as Krome North to the former United States Navy
Base called Fort Allen in Puerto Rico, renovated by the Carter Administration
(for $10 million) to hold 2,000 to 5,000 Haitians and Cubans. The Commonwealth
of Puerto Rican last year sued to prevent the transfer on the ground that it
would create a ''public nuisance.'' A month ago, it agreed to take 800 Haitians,
though only if certified healthy and noncriminal by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, and for no more than a year. Nearly 1,000 Haitians are
still at Krome North; it was designed to accommodate 815.

The number of Caribbean boat people is small compared to the 1.4 million
refugees of Southeast Asia, 500,000 of whom have found their way to the United
States. A State Department panel reported last week that the flow may well
increase. It considered the Vietnamese - 8,000 a month are arriving at the
shores of neighboring countries - legitimate political refugees, but suggested
that some of the Cambodians and Laotians were simply economic migrants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Senator Sam Nunn

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOLLOW UP ON THE NEWS;
Counting Iranians

BYLINE: By Richard Haitch

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 49, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 200 words


Six days after Iranian students seized the United States Embassy in Teheran and
took its occupants hostage, President Jimmy Carter ordered a crackdown on
Iranian students in this country. Four days later, Nov. 14,

1979, the Immigration and Naturalization Service began to examine the
credentials of all such students, with a view to deporting any who were here
illegally. No one knew exactly how many Iranians students were in the United
States; the Government thought perhaps 50,500.

The screening has ended, and 64,328 Iranians have been counted, says Janet
Graham, an Immigration Service public-information specialist. Of the total, she
says, 2,751 have been ejected, 6,274 have left voluntarily and 100 have not been
located.

Meanwhile 3,695 Iranian students have entered legally since Nov.  14, 1979, Miss
Graham notes. The net result, she says, is that there are ''60,000-plus''
Iranian students in the country today - or about 10,000 more than the Carter
Administration believed were here when it began the ''crackdown.'' Richard
Haitch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 17, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
A SOCIALIST FOREIGN POLICY?

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 889 words


Paris, Aug. 14 - France's Foreign Minister, Claude Cheysson, has begun a
dizzying series of trips around the world to introduce the new Government's
foreign policy. He is a sharp-tongued man, particularly bright, with convictions
as rocky as his chin, and too much concern for candor and clarity to bother with
diplomatic mumbles.

In Central America and North Africa, he explained his Government's views as a
''socialist foreign policy,'' already earning him arch criticism from French
conservatives for speaking as though he didn't represent the whole of France.

In a way, he doesn't. In Algiers last week, he came out for giving immigrant
workers the right to vote in French municipal elections.  Sweden has already
done this and some other European countries are thinking of it.

But in France, where a high proportion of immigrants are Algerians and their
shabby treatment is a contentious issue with the Algerian Government, foreign
workers are definitely steerage class. The thought of their voting, although it
was a Socialist campaign promise, raises hackles of ferocity among many voters
and the Government is unlikely to push the measure soon.

Nonetheless, it was characteristic of Mr. Cheysson to say what he thought and to
think in terms of social justice. That's the poetry in his foreign policy ideas
and it comes through as a theme of allegiance to certain principles.

From now on, French policy is likely to be easier to discern and to follow,
without the game of subtle contradiction that more traditional diplomats liked
using to insulate facts from appearances. But the facts are stubborn. There have
been some changes in emphasis and expression, and the shape and tone of France's
future relations with the rest of the world are coming into view.

The main fact is that the assessment of basic French interest hasn't changed.
The Socialist Government is a good deal more outspoken in denouncing Soviet
expansionism and judging the Soviet military threat than its predecessor, but
the policy itself is not different.  There will be no return to NATO, no retreat
from the maintenance of a fully independent nuclear force, no lack of support
for new American missiles in West Germany - but not in France.

The temptation for increased European trade protectionism, especially against
Japan, is if anything enhanced. While the need to solve the Common Market's
menacing budget and agricultural problems is appreciated, France will be as
tough a negotiator as ever.

Even Middle East policy is only shifted in the rhythms, not the basic line. The
Mitterrand Government is more openly sympathetic to Israel but no less
determined to get along as well as possible with all the Arabs, except perhaps
Libya. The decision has been made to complete delivery on all existing arms
contracts, even to Libya, although handing over heavy helicopters and well-armed
patrol boats to the rambunctious Col. Qaddafi leaves a sour taste.

The immediate change is that the new French leaders wince openly when they admit
they are sending him ''vedettes de Cherbourg.'' Those are fast gunboats of the
type de Gaulle embargoed for Israel, and which the Israelis sneaked out of the
port in a daring dash to claim what they had paid for in 1969.

In the future, there probably won't be any more contracts for Libya. But when
Iraq's number two comes to Paris later this month, he is likely to find his
hosts willing as ever to accept his multibillion dollar orders, including a new
nuclear reactor, though with stricter safeguards.

There are likely to be less elaborate shenanigans in dealing with African
leaders than on occasions in the past, but Mr. Cheysson makes clear that
France's policy of support will be ''firmer than ever'' towards African friends
and allies. That includes military intervention if requested.

Nor, to please black Africa more, has France increased pressure on the United
States to push through the United Nations-endorsed settlement for Namibia. Mr.
Cheysson came back from Ottawa pleased that Washington agreed to work out some
added joint proposals, though there was no American promise to chivy South
Africa into accepting.

The most noticeable evolution of French policy has been greatly heightened
interest in Central America. Mr. Cheysson warns that it can be the next grave
crisis area, as dangerous as the Middle East, if the United States stays on its
present course of indulging rightwing militarists. But France is unlikely to do
more than provide some economic aid for those it considers moderates, including
Nicaragua, and to urge political negotiations.

One approach to foreign affairs is being dropped. It is the somewhat pompous
habit of launching spectacular, wordy initiatives on third world problems. That
will be left to the countries involved, but they'll get the same French support
if suggestions are only whispered.

It adds up to a new, more accomodating style but it isn't another foreign
policy, socialist or no.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Judge Orders;
Cubans Freed

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 236 words


The fate of Cuban refugees last week came down to the case of a Federal district
judge vs. the Immigration and Naturalization Service. It has been holding 1,800
Cubans in Atlanta's Federal prison for more than a year, during which Carter
policy became Reagan policy and Reagan policy was delayed pending review.

Declaring the formation of a new panel to examine each case starting Sept. 1 ''a
good tune'' that's ''been played too long,'' Judge Marvin H. Shoob ordered 381
of the refugees released - the first 17 left prison yesterday - and issued a
temporary restraining order against deportation of the rest.

The 1,800 refugees are the last to be detained of the 125,000 who arrived on
successive waves of fishing boats and pleasure craft that made up the ''Freedom
Flotilla.'' According to the immigration service, they are being held because of
their criminal records.  According to a classification into 12 subgroups,
ordered last month by Judge Shoob and made public last week, 350 of the refugees
- those ordered freed as soon as sponsors pick them up - are in prison because
they lacked entry papers when they landed in Florida; a number had apparently
been encouraged to report that they had committed crimes in Cuba, to set
appropriately anti-Castro examples for other refugees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 26, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

News Summary;
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1981

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 917 words


International
A dispute over Soviet Jewish refugees erupted between Israel and the United
States. The State Department and United Hias Service, an immigrant aid group,
said they opposed Israel's new plan to curtail the flow of Soviet Jews to
countries other than Israel. In recent months, about 85 percent of the refugees
have chosen to go from Vienna, the transit stop, to places other than Israel,
with most choosing the United States. (Page A1, Columns 1-2.)
About 100,000 slaves in Mauritania probably make up the world's largest slave
population, according to a report under study by the United Nations. The
slaveholders, the study said, are predominantly Moors who are victimizing blacks
in the poor country in northwestern Africa. (A11:1.)
A South African incursion into Angola was reported by the Angolan press agency,
and analysts in South Africa said a major offensive against black guerrillas was
under way. (A12:1-3.)
Egyptian-Israeli talks began in Alexandria. President Anwar el-Sadat and Prime
Minister Menachem Begin exchanged formal but cordial greetings at the start of a
two-day conference designed to resolve snags that have marked efforts to
normalize relations and to resume the Palestinian autonomy talks. (A3:3-6.)
The leaders of Libya and Syria met in Damascus and discussed ways to increase
cooperation in the face of the renewed Egyptian-Israeli peace efforts and what
Libyan officials denounced as the ''imperialist designs'' of the United States.
(A3:1-3.)
Voyager 2 swept toward Saturn and its retinue of moons and sent back data and
pictures of dazzling and perplexing worlds. The American spacecraft photographed
four of the moons in greater detail than ever before, tried to count and measure
the thousands of strands in the Saturnian rings and then plunged within 63,000
miles of the mysterious planet's stormy yellowish-brown clouds. (A1:5-6.)
National
The Consumer Price Index spurted by 1.2 percent in July, marking the steepest
inflation rate in 16 months after three months of moderate increases, the
Government reported. The shift suggested decreased prospects for an early drop
in interest rates. Much of the increase was prompted by sharply higher mortgage
and home-buying costs, but costs for food, medical care and public transit also
surged. (A1:6.)
Anti-Reagan sentiment on Wall Street was indicated by financial analysts and
investors. They hold the Administration and continuing high interest rates
responsible for much of the recent dramatic slide in prices on the securities
markets just as they credited the President with much of the rise earlier this
year. (A1:5.)
The training of terrorists for Libya was begun four years ago by 10 men drilled
as members of the United States Army's Green Berets.  Participants and Federal
investigators said that the Americans went to Libya with the blessing of the
Army. The 10 believed that the mission was a covert C.I.A. operation designed to
infiltrate the Libyan regime. Whether it was remains uncertain. (A1:2-3.)
A meeting on the controllers' strike was held privately last week by Reagan
Administration officials and the leader of organized labor's public employee
unions. But Administration officials denied that the unannounced session
involved any attempt to open secret negotiations to settle the 23-day-old
walkout. (A14:1-2.)
Vulnerability of land-based missiles is a subject of deep controversy among
strategic experts. Some of them question whether the American warheads are
highly susceptible to a Soviet missile strike and that billions of dollars must
be spent to safeguard them, but all agree that it is either unnecessary or
unworkable to build the kind of vast shelter system that was favored by the
Carter Administration. (A1:1.)
Metropolitan
A Presidential visit to New York is set for Labor Day. Federal and local
officials said that President Reagan would bring with him a check for the first
Federal payment for the construction of the Westway. The construction trade
unions pressed hard for the Lower Manhattan highway project, which is expected
to create thousands of jobs. (A1:4.)
Consumer prices rose sharply in July in the New York-northeastern New Jersey
region, the Federal Government reported. The monthly increase of 1.7 percent was
the largest in nearly seven years. (A21:1-3.)
An audit of the Nine Mile 2 plant has concluded that previous cost projections
for the nuclear facility on Lake Ontario by the utility companies were
''unrealistically low'' and that major expenses ''are still underestimated'' in
the latest projections. As a result, some officials want the state to
re-evaluate the feasibility of continuing the construction of the multibillion
dollar project. (B2:1-2.)
The building of fewer power plants than were previously planned in New York
State was recommended in the state's new energy master plan. The reason,
according to the report, is that total energy consumption in the state has
dropped by nearly 9 percent in the last three years to the lowest level since
1967. (B2:5-6.)
Mayor Koch cited housing problems as a major concern of most New Yorkers, but in
an interview he offered little hope that the situation would improve if he is
re-elected. (B1:5-6.)

Business Digest, Page Page D1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 26, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Jail for Ex-Immigration Aide

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 66 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25


A former Immigration and Naturalization Service official was sentenced today to
at least six months in prison for tax evasion and for accepting payoffs to help
foreigners, many of them Iranians, file fraudulent immigration papers. Federal
Judge Thomas A. Flannery imposed the sentence on Maron Sheehi, 55 years old, of
Alexandria, Va.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 28, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION SERVICE REFUSES TO FREE 83 HAITIANS IN A FORMER NAVY PRISON IN
BROOKLYN

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1112 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has refused to release 83 Haitians
from a former Navy prison in Brooklyn where they have been held for more than a
month pending hearings on their requests for political asylum.

Church groups and lawyers seeking the release of the Haitians have found
sponsoring families willing to take responsibility for them, and they criticize
the Government's decision to detain them.

''I don't know of any parallel where people coming to the United States for
asylum have been treated so harshly, have been detained as a group when sponsors
are available,'' said Ira Gollobin, a lawyer representing the National Council
of Churches in behalf of the Haitians.

Goal Is to Reduce Influx

Until recently, ''boat people'' arriving without visas have been released into
the community and given work permits while waiting for action on their asylum
claims. But last month, as part of a program to reduce the influx of illegal
aliens, Attorney General William French Smith recommended that ''the
Administration detain rather than release illegals pending exclusion hearings.''

Among hundreds of boat people who fled Haiti over a period of time, and were
detained in a Federal camp near Miami, the 83 Haitians were transferred to New
York City in mid-July.

Families willing to house and care for them have been found by the National
Council of Churches, the United States Catholic Conference and the Lawyers
Committee for International Human Rights. Earlier this month, lawyers delivered
by hand to the New York District office of the Immigration Service written
requests for the Haitians' release.

Charles Sava, director of the district office, said that the requests were being
handled by his staff and that he did not know when any decisions would be made.
He said the Haitians should not be called ''refugees'' because they were illegal
aliens who had entered the United States without documentation.

1958 Supreme Court Ruling

Lawyers acting for the Haitians cite a 1958 ruling in which the United States
Supreme Court held that detention of aliens seeking asylum was ''the exception,
not the rule, and is generally employed only as to security risks or those
likely to abscond.'' Such a policy, Justice Tom C. Clark wrote in the majority
opinion, ''reflects the humane qualities of an enlightened civilization.''

Michael Posner, director of the Lawyers Committee for International Human
Rights, who is coordinating the efforts of the volunteer lawyers for the
Haitians, called the physical detention ''an example of the new get-tough policy
toward refugees, to discourage others from coming.''

Mr. Gollobin said that tens of thousands of refugees, including Colombians,
Cubans and the Nicaraguans who fled after the 1979 Sandanist victory, had
customarily been released into the community unless they had criminal records. A
spokesman for the Justice Department, Tom Stewart, said yesterday that the
detention policy was ''discretionary'' and that ''at this moment'' it was only
being applied to Haitians.

Besides the 83 Haitians in Brooklyn, 40 are being held at the Federal prison at
the former Olympic Village in Lake Placid, N.Y., and others are in Federal
correctional facilities in West Virginia and Texas.

A Broken Television Set

The 49 Haitian men and 34 women in Brooklyn sleep in bunk beds along the walls
of narrow cell blocks behind black iron bars. For each group, there is a
recreation room with a Ping-Pong table, pay telephones, vending machines behind
a metal fence and a broken television set.

''There's nothing for these people to do,'' said Leonard Gordon, the chief
detention officer at the Brooklyn center.  The primary staples are small amounts
of rice and beans, with chicken on Sunday, the Haitians said. When asked what
they were fed, one group of refugees, speaking Creole patois among themselves,
said finally through their interpreter, ''Leaves.''

It was the only word they could find to describe vegetables that are alien to
their diet. The primary problem with the meals, Mr.  Gordon said, is that the
Haitians are not accustomed to the type of food.

Many Were Farmers

For the Haitians, most of whom are in their 20's and 30's, the fact of
confinement is the main source of anguish. Many were farmers in Haiti. Now, they
are not allowed to go outdoors.

One 23-year-old former farmer, who has a relative living in Brooklyn, said that
in order to see the sun, he stretched to reach the high windows that open only
partially. After more than a month's incarceration the brightness now gives him
headaches, he said.

Last year, the New York Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit to close the
Brooklyn detention center on the grounds that it was ''too decrepit, too old and
too filthy,'' said Richard Emery, a lawyer handling the suit. Mr. Emery said
conditions at the facility had since improved, but that it was still
''uninhabitable, even by criminals, which these people are not.''

The Brooklyn facility ''meets the guidelines for short-term detention
facilities,'' said Mr. Sava, the district director.''Beyond that I have no
comment.''

Not Considered Dangerous

The Haitians being held in Brooklyn are ''not considered dangerous,'' Mr.
Gordon, the facility's chief detention officer, said at the facility this week.
''Maybe one out of a hundred'' will cause problems, he said.

Holding the Haitians in prison is an effective means of encouraging them to
return instead of pursuing their asylum claims, Mr. Posner of the lawyers'
committee said. Often in the past, even those who fled Haiti for economic
reasons were considered to be anti-Government and consequently imprisoned upon
their return. But despite fear of what would happen to them, some of the
Haitians are talking about going back to Haiti to escape their confinement in
the United States.

Church leaders and lawyers are to meet with Mr. Sava next week to discuss again
the possibilities of the Haitians being released to the community.

''Leaving aside humanitarianism, why should Government funds be spent at a time
that we're talking about budget cuts, when these people have sponsors,'' said
Mr. Gollobin, the lawyer for the National Council of Churches.

If they are unsuccessful in obtaining the Haitians' release, Mr.  Posner said,
the groups are considering filing a lawsuit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitians in Navy prison in Brooklyn

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

40 HAITIANS ARE HELD UPSTATE UNDER RIGID CONTROL

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 35, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

DATELINE: RAY BROOK, N.Y., Aug. 29


Forty Haitians, confined in the Federal prison here are subject to more
stringent controls than those imposed on the convicted inmates, according to the
prison warden. In addition, two of the Haitians have been held in solitary
confinement.

Homes for all the teen-age Haitians, as well as some of the older men, have been
found with families in Rochester but the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service has refused to release them, according to John S. Walker, a Baptist
minister and executive secretary of the Black Ministers of Rochester.

The warden of Ray Brook Prison, George Rodgers, said in an interview yesterday
that the Haitians did not have the ''freedom of movement'' of the inmates, most
of whom he said are convicted drug dealers and bank robbers.

The convicted felons are free to play softball, jog or just stroll around the 55
grassy acres when not confined to their rooms. The Haitians are restricted to
their dormitory and a fenced-in blacktop area where they play soccer, although
it is only half the size of a regular soccer field.

The Haitians at this prison in Essex County, near Lake Placid, are men between
the ages of 17 and 59. They were among several hundred transferred in mid-July
from a Federal detention camp near Miami, where they had been detained after
arriving in the country without visas. None have been charged with committing
crimes.

The policy of imprisoning aliens awaiting hearings on their asylum claims is a
discretionary one being applied so far only to Haitians, a spokesman for the
Justice Department said.

Two of the Haitians here were placed in solitary confinement - called
''adminstrative detention'' by prison officials - after one of them, Nicolas
Joseph, 44 years old, last week lay down in front of a truck bringing food. Mr.
Joseph was said to have told other Haitians that he did it to try to get
information about when he was going to be released.

Mr. Rodgers said he would not discuss the incident ''with the news media
present.'' Religious leaders and lawyers at Ray Brook said yesterday that they
had learned that Mr. Joseph had been hospitalized after fainting several times.
Mr. Rodgers would not allow anyone to talk with Mr. Joseph, who he said would be
returned to solitary after treatment.

A reporter visiting the prison yesterday was not allowed to listen as church
leaders talked to the Haitians about their legal rights and listened to their
concerns. He was allowed to talk with only one Haitian, using a government
interpreter.

John L. Niewieroski, the Immigration Service official in charge of the Haitians
at the prison, stood a few feet away during the interview with the other man who
had been placed in ''administrative detention,'' 29-year-old Bernavil Elisnord.

Mr. Elisnord was placed in solitary confinement, he said, because an interpreter
incorrectly told the prison guards that he was encouraging the Haitians to start
a hunger strike.

During his eight days in isolation, Mr. Elisnord said he was allowed outside of
his room only on two days for exercise periods of about 15 minutes, and twice to
shower.

Mr. Elisnord said that several of the Haitians here had wives, brothers and
cousins being detained in Federal facilities in West Virginia and Florida. He
added that the Haitians were upset because they have not received any mail or
visitors.

''What we all want here is to get out of here,'' Mr. Elisnord said. ''If they
could let us out temporarily or transfer us to another area so we could get a
lawyer.''

An Immigration Service lawyer has acknowledged that ''there are no attorneys in
the Buffalo District'' to provide free legal representation for the Haitians.
Because of that, immigration officials have been assisting them in filling out
their applications for asylum.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 11, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Eight More Cuban Refugees Are Freed From U.S. Prison

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 10


Eight more Cuban refugees were released yesterday from the Federal penitentiary
here, bringing to 75 the number of detainees from freed in the last three weeks.

Leland Lagow of the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service said the
eight left for Michigan and New York, where they have sponsors.

About 1,800 Cubans who came to the United States by sea in 1980 had been
detained here because of reports they had criminal records in Cuba.

Three weeks ago, Federal District Judge Marvin Shoob ordered 381 of the
detainees released, later changing the order to exclude 77 with records of
violent crime. He also ordered the Justice Department to review the cases of 226
more refugees.

In July, Judge Shoob expessed concern that many of those being held were
detained only because they lacked visas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 15, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ULSTER'S DEMOCRACY DIES HARD, TOO

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 222 words


To the Editor:

As one of many Protestant Northern Irish immigrants who are now proud and
grateful citizens of the United States, I wish to voice our silent exasperation
with the naive view of American journalists who seem to believe the ''Protestant
die-hards'' are forcing British rule upon Northern Ireland.

Your Aug. 30 editorial pontificates: ''So long as Protestant diehards in the
North feel they have an unquestioned veto on any change in the province's
status, the I.R.A. will continue to find fanatic recruits.''

Surely, surely - despite all the banshees wailing in the offices of The Times -
somebody in New York must know that the majority of voters (both Catholic and
Protestant) in Northern Ireland continue to vote firmly and repeatedly - in
democratically-run elections - for union with Britain!

If this is ''the Protestant die-hards'' exercising their ''unquestioned veto,''
then ''double-speak'' has arrived, and we should reverse what ''die-hard
Republicans'' did with their ''unquestioned veto'' in our last election.

All of us immigrants from Northern Ireland - Protestant or Catholic - detest the
bitterness, violence and prejudice in our native land, but we treasure democracy
and resent its being called ''the unquestioned veto of die-hards.''
ERNEST W. O'NEILL, Excelsior, Minn., Sept. 1, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section 10; Page 26, Column 6; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 273 words


To the Editor:

Those lines at passport control, that rush for luggage carts and subsequent
lines for customs are not a very friendly welcome to foreign tourists. Passport
control seems to be the worst bottleneck, particularly since the foreigners'
ranks have been swelled by resident aliens who used to go through with U.S.
citizens until these were freed of passport control a few years ago and resident
aliens are now being treated as foreigners. Why? Surely returning to your
country of residence, where you live and pay taxes, puts people into a different
category from visitors or new immigrants? What about siphoning them off and
giving them a booth of their own to pass by?  What about doing what banks and
post offices do and having just one line, with the first person going to the
first officer who is free; waiting time in banks and post offices has been cut
down considerably since this system was started. What about providing seats?
Without being a wheelchair case, one can be very tired after a trans-Atlantic
flight and standing there with one's hand luggage with airconditioning that is
inadequate or nonexistent for up to 40 minutes is quite a strain.

When one emerges from passport control at Copenhagen Airport into the luggage
claim area, there is an airport official at the entrance renting out luggage
carts at 65 cents, which is a vast improvement over having to run back and forth
before finding one. The International Arrivals Building at Kennedy is the worst,
of course; conditions are better in the individual airline terminals but still
far from ideal and could surely be improved.
LU FENTON, New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 1, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ENGLISH, BY LAW

BYLINE: By S.I. Hayakawa

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


One point that Americans often boast about to foreign guests is how our country
has assimilated different ethnic groups that at first glance seem
irreconcilable. Fleeing political repression and religious persecution, these
individuals have endured the most difficult of hardships to enjoy the freedom we
have to offer.

At one time, most immigrants' first task was to learn English. This is no longer
an accepted fact. Many public sc hools now use bilingual education as a method
to bring new citizens i nto the fold of Americansociety. Which is fine, provided
that the pro gram adheres to the original concept of bilingual education: the
use of the immigrant's native language as a transitory tool that wil l
accelerate the processof learning English.

However, many bilingual programs have veered from this mandate, and now use the
native language to teach subjects other than English.  This deviation from the
original concept results largely from the Carter Administration's efforts to
expand on the ''Lau'' guidelines, which came out of the 1974 Lau v. Nichols
decision by the Supreme Court. The plaintiffs argued that their Chinese-speaking
children were being denied equal access to education because they could not
understand courses taught in English. As a result of this decision, in which the
Court found for the plaintiffs, school districts were admonished to focus their
attention on the needs of non-Englishspeaking students. However, the former
Administration pushed to create a binding set of ''Lau'' regulations, which
would have resulted in school districts being forced into compliance under the
threat of withdrawal of funds. Although the regulations were not put into
effect, the problem caused by variants of bilingual education linger.

More and more young immigrants are having their entire curriculum taught to them
in their native language. The longer they are instructed in the native tongue,
the more difficult it becomes for them to learn English in their later years. By
allowing this to continue, we are delaying the immigrants' entrance into the
mainstream of society.

The use of bilingual ballots compounds this problem. Made possible by the 1975
amendments to the Voting Rights Act, bilingual ballots were intended to bring
more non-English-speaking people into our political system. Jurisdictions in 30
states are now required to provide bilingual ballots to their immigrant
citizens, and California's 39 affected counties must print ballots in Chinese,
Spanish and and American Indian.

This policy conflicts with the explicit requirements for naturalization as a
citizen, which state that an applicant must be able to ''read, write and speak
words in ordinary usage in the English language.'' Are we telling immigrants
that they must know English to become a citizen but that they don't need it once
naturalized? These crossed signals that we are sending to immigrants have made
our immigration and citizenship requirements vague and unclear.

We must make it clear to everyone that America does have an official language.
To that end, I have introduced a constitutional amendment that would make
English the official language of the country. The amendment contains provisions
that would eliminate the costly and conflicting problem of the bilingual ballot,
and return bilingual education programs to their original purpose. The amendment
would not scrap all bilingual programs, nor would it prohibit foreign-language
requirements in schools or colleges. I strongly believe in learning more than
one language, and feel our tendency toward monolingualism has put us at a
disadvantage in the international business community.

I have received an overwhelmingly favorable response to my amendment, and many
letters of approval have come from former immigrants who have told me how
important learning English was to them in settling here.

Our strength and creativity has always come from the diverse talents of ethnic
groups, and in no way does my amendment attempt to stifle these rich human
resources. What it attempts to do is prevent a growing split among ethnic groups
based on their native languages.  With each trying to become more powerful than
the other, the function of language could change from a means of communication
to a tool of cultural assertion. Such a struggle for supremacy could have
catastrophic consequences.
S.I. Hayakwa is Republican Senator from California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: drawingIllustrations: drawing

TYPE: OP-EDOP-ED

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 18, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IL PROGRESSO, 100, CHANGING FORMAT

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 52, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: EMERSON, N.J.


Il Progresso, celebrating a century as a newspaper for Italian immigrants in the
New York metropolitan area, is changing course under new publishers in an effort
to attract later generations of readers interested in a Continental heritage.

The targets are the three million Italian Americans in the area, and even some
of the tens of millions across the country who have ''a remarkable interest in
things Italian'' but no longer speak the language, according to the daily's new
managing editor, Carlo Scarsini.

Mr. Scarsini has headed bureaus in Cairo, New York and Moscow for Ansa, Italy's
largest news service.

Tabloid Format Due

Plans call for the changeover to a tabloid format on Oct. 26 and an eight-page
section in English starting Nov. 15. One model on display in the modern building
in this Bergen County community shows, with magazine-like graphics and new
typeface, a section in English called The Progresso.  It is tucked into a
16-page Il Progresso.

The newspaper will continue to present world, national and local news, with
emphasis on news of special interest to Italians. It will also continue to
feature Dear Abby. And opera - ''one of the images in New York of Italian
tradition,'' Mr. Scarsini said - will still receive the play it has enjoyed for
years.

Il Progresso's circulation was about 300,000 in the 1920's, when Italian
immigration was high, and it briefly surpassed 500,000 in 1935. Assimilation and
the decline of spoken Italian among descendants have cut its readership to
60,000 and resulted in a $200,000 yearly loss.

Pure Italian for Readers

Unlike the pure Italian in Il Progresso, the relatively little Italian that is
spoken in this region is mostly ''Ameritalian,'' a mixture of Italian and
Sicilian dialects with ''New Yorkese,'' Mr.  Scarsini said.

Last year Piero Pirri Ardizzone, publisher of Il Giornale di Sicilia, and Carlo
Caracciolo, publisher of a major Italian news magazine, L'Espresso, purchased
the paper for $1 million from Generoso Pope. Mr. Pope had paid more than twice
that for Il Progresso in 1928. The new owners are investing $250,000 in new
electronic equipment.

Over the years the newspaper and the Pope family have been honored by the City
of New York and the Italian Government. Il Progresso has covered Italian
American social activities, as well as such subjects as assimilation and social
assistance.

The newspaper began in 1879 as a flyer in the Little Italy section of Manhattan,
defending an Italian immigrant who had been convicted and sentenced to death for
the murder of his wife, according to a history of the paper that appeared in its
recent centennial edition.

Identification With Italy

The article described the paper's early support of Mussolini, the collection
with another Italian American newspaper, Corriere d'America, of more than
$700,000 for Italy during its war with Ethiopia in the 1930's and its aid of
post-World War II Italy with food and other provisions.

Il Progresso still has fund drives, Mr. Scarsini said. This year it raised more
than $29,000 to help finance open-heart surgery in Boston for a 9-year-old boy
from Aquila, Italy. It also raised money for victims of the recent earthquake in
southern Italy.

''We want to satisfy interests and curiosities and evolve with the community,''
Mr. Scarsini said. For Il Progresso, he said, the beginning of its second
century marks ''the end of an era and the opening of a new one.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Carlo Scarsini and Piero Pirri Ardizzone

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 25, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

EMIGRATION BECOMES A PROBLEM IN ARGENTINA

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Oct. 24


In an alarming reversal of tradition, Argentian, once a haven for immigrants
from depressed areas of Europe, is experiencing large-scale emigration.

For the first time since independence 150 years ago, the number of people
leaving the country far exceeds the number entering.  After the First World War,
1.5 million poor southern Europeans, most of them Spaniards and Italians, came
to Argentina. They helped turned the country into one of the world's top farming
nations and sent their children to school. Today, their university-educated
grandchildren are knocking at the doors of foreign consulates. They represent a
cross section of Argentine society and include doctors, engineers, lawyers and
architects as well as bricklayers and plumbers.

Diplomatic sources estimate that two million of Argentina's 28 million people
are visiting consulates to inquire about emigrating.  Each morning, long lines
form outside the consulates of the United States, Canada, Australia, Spain and
France, the countries most popular with Argentines who want to leave, often
because these Argentines have relatives there. The Canadian Consulate interviews
about 250 would-be emigrants every day, the sources said.

The Reasons for Leaving

These Argentines have one thing in common: they see no prospects in a country
plagued by economic stagnation, inflation that was 78 percent in the first five
months of this year and growing unemployment.

The number of jobless in greater Buenos Aires, where half the country's
population is concentrated, is 5 percent. This rate may seem tolerable by some
standards abroad, but unemployment is a new phenomenon in underpopulated
Argentina.

The fact that would-be emigrants include many people in the professions has
prompted some publications to describe the exodus as a ''brain drain.''

Argentina probably has the highest number of unemployed doctors in the world, a
young physician who has applied to work in Australia said bitterly. The same can
be said about engineers, architects and biologists.

The Rate of Increase

In the last 20 years, two million Argentines have emigrated at an average rate
of 100,000 a year. Figures made public by consular officials indicate that the
rate is rising rapidly.

Compared with the previous year, applications at the Canadian Consulate from
September 1980 until this August were up 298 percent, and from January to August
of this year the increase was 409 percent.

Earlier waves of emigrants were almost exclusively professionals.  Now
bricklayers, shopkeepers and bus drivers line up outside the consulates.

Low pay and soaring prices - Buenos Aires is one of the most expensive capitals
in the world - mean that many Argentines have to hold two or three jobs to make
ends meet.

''I have lived in Buenos Aires all my life and I never thought I would want to
live elsewhere one day and start all over again,'' a 45-year-old bricklayer said
outside the Spanish Consulate.

Unemployed for six months, he felt he had a good chance of making a livelihood
in Spain, where he has relatives and no language problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

TRIAL OF UKRAINIAN IMMIGRANT REVIVES BITTERNESS ON 2 SIDES

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 25


All last week, Jews sat on one side of a Federal courtroom here and
Ukrainian-Americans sat on the other as the second denaturalization trial in a
year involving charges of collaboration with Nazis revived ancient bitterness.

So far, testimony that a Philadelphia tailor, Serge Kowalchuk, 61 years old,
participated in the massacre of 5,000 Jews in his hometown in the Ukraine has
not spurred the open hostility and angry letters to the editor that the trial of
another Ukrainian immigrant, Wolodymyr Osidach, brought. Stripped of his
citizenship last March, Mr. Osidach died two months later, before any appeals
could be made or a deportation hearing could be held.

Both men were charged with illegally entering the United States after World War
II by not mentioning their roles in the Ukrainian national police force, which
was set up by the Nazis after Hitler's forces invaded the Soviet Union.

Among the spectators at the current trial are members of the Jewish Defense
League, who picketed with signs urging ''Deport Serge Kowalchuk Now'' when the
trial opened last Monday, and who sit in court wearing armbands with the slogan
''Jewish Justice.''

Fifth Case to Be Tried

Mr. Kowalchuk is the fifth immigrant to be tried in the past year by the Justice
Department's Office of Special Investigations. All but one of the defendants
have been Ukrainian. The other cases were in Cleveland, West Palm Beach, Fla.,
and Long Island.

Mr. Kowalchuk, who has lived in Philadelphia for 20 years, listened quietly last
week as witnesses described him as the commandant of the Ukrainian occupation
police in the town of Lyuboml, whose 5,000 Jewish residents were machine-gunned
and buried in mass graves in October 1942.

Mr. Kowalchuck says he was a civilian employee of the town government and that
witnesses have mistaken his identity in describing his role in the roundup of
Jews who were murdered.

Coming to Terms With Holocaust

''In the last half-dozen years, many Jews are coming to terms with the Holocaust
almost since the first time since World War II,'' said Murray Friedman, the
Middle Atlantic director of the American Jewish Committee.

He added that in many Jewish families, ''folk memories'' had left images of a
''hostile populace'' in the country of their origin that could be revived by
testimony on war crimes.

But the trials have stirred equally strong reactions in the Ukrainian-American
community of 40,000 here, which considers itself a powerless minority
stereotyped by unwarranted sensationalizing of a few court cases.

''Because of the way things like this are reported, the minute people see
'Ukrainian' they think we're all anti-Semitic, and that's certainly not true,''
said Alexandra Shwed, president of the Ukrainian Anti-Defamation League here.

'Community Is Intimidated'

''No one would say that among the Ukrainians there were no criminals, just as no
nation is criminal-free,'' said Dr. Peter Stercho, an economics professor at
Drexel University and president of the Philadelphia chapter of the Ukrainian
Congress Committee. ''But the Ukrainian community is intimidated. They feel
prejudged already.''

Allan A. Ryan Jr., director of the Justice Department's special unit, said he
had received protests from national Ukrainian-American organizations contending,
among other things, that videotapes of Soviet nationals used at the trial were
engineered by Moscow to stir animosity between Jews and Ukrainians.

Mr. Ryan said he believed that the tension last week was ''not nearly as high''
as at the Osidach trial, in part because of peacemaking efforts by leaders of
the two communities.

A joint statement was issued recognizing that both groups had suffered
persecution at the hands of the Nazis, and Jewish leaders, including Rabbi Mark
Tanenbaum of the American Jewish Committee, met with the new Metropolitan of the
Ukrainian Church in America, Stephan Sulyk, who is based in Philadelphia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

33 HAITIANS DROWN AS BOAT CAPSIZES OFF FLORIDA

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 26


Thirty-three Haitians drowned this morning in choppy waters just north of here
after their jerry-built 30-foot boat capsized less than a mile from shore.
Thirty-four others from the overloaded vessel swam to shore and were taken, many
of them in tears, to a Federal detention facility for illegal aliens.

Immigration authorities said it was the worst such accident recorded since waves
of immigrants from the impoverished Caribbean country began heading for the
United States 10 years ago. Gov. Bob Graham of Florida called it ''a human
tragedy which has been waiting to happen,'' and said he would press the Federal
Government to work with Haiti to stop the flight to these shores.

Two months ago the Reagan Administration ordered the Coast Guard to interdict
Haitian boats loaded with illegal aliens on the high seas and return them to
Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital. The first interdiction came last night, 123
miles northwest of Port-au-Prince, when the cutter Chase intercepted a leaky
30-foot boat filled with 57 passengers.

2d Boat Sinks After Transfer

That boat, too, sank in rough seas shortly after the Haitians were transferred
to the Chase. It was the first seizure of Haitians the Coast Guard had made
since it began patrolling the Windward Passage off Haiti's northwest coast on
Oct. 11.

In Miami, a Coast Guard spokesman said of the drownings, ''It's just such a
tragedy,'' adding, ''It's what we were hoping to avoid'' by intercepting
vessels.

The boat apparently struck a reef and split apart in a four-foot chop before
dawn today. As the lights began to go off from the expensive condominiums along
Highway A1A in Hillsboro Beach, a Broward County village 10 miles north of Fort
Lauderdale, the bodies began to wash ashore.

19 Men and 14 Women

By midday, rescue workers had recovered the bodies of 19 men and 14 women, one
of whom was pregnant. The surf had ripped the clothes off many of them.

(Autopsies indicated that the victims had been loaded into their small boat from
a mother ship about an hour before they died because they had eaten a variety of
refrigerated, ship-type meals, according to an Associate Press telephone
interview with Dr. Ronald K. Wright, the Broward County medical examiner.

(The Authorities have in the past expressed suspicion that some wooden sailboats
filled with refugees were dropped off by freighters not far from land. Police
Chief Ralph Dunn noted that refugee boats were usually waterproofed on the
inside with pitch, but said that this boat frame ws coated only with mud,
possibly indicating that it was not intended for a long journey.)

Sgt. Daniel Hynes of the Hillsboro police said that survivors had said that the
boat's captain, identified as Charles Joseph, and three mates had made it to
shore and fled.

Leonard E. Rowland, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said the survivors had told the authorities that they left Haiti Aug. 26 and
spent a month ''bouncing around'' the Bahamas. Their last landfall was an
unidentified Bahama island on Oct. 18, according to Mr. Rowland.

Residents concerned about crime and low-paid workers fearful that job-hungry
immigrants could be a threat have been stridently vocal about stopping the tide,
but this morning the word from most quarters was sympathy.

''It is a human tragedy,'' Governor Graham emphasized, adding at one point that
''probably this has already happened and went undetected.''

The bodies were taken to the Broward County morgue. A spokesman for the Medical
Examiner's Office there said that autopsies would be performed and that attempts
would be made to identify them. ''Then,'' said the spokesman, ''the bodies will
have to be disposed of in some respectable and tasteful fashion.

56 Haitians Returned Home

PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 26 (AP) - Fifty-six Haitians were returned here
today aboard the Coast Guard cutter Chase, which picked them up 75 miles
northwest of Cuba a few minutes before their boat capsized, the Coast Guard
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Coast Guard helicopter flying over bodies (page
A26) photo of Haitians who swam to shore (page A26) map of Florida (page A26)
photo of officer examining the 30-foot boat photo of officers recovering body of
one of the victims

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 30, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

BODIES OF DROWNED HAITIANS TO GO BACK TO ISLAND

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1300 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 29


The local Haitian community wants the 33 immigrants who drowned off Florida's
shore to be buried here, but the State Department and the Government of Haiti
have decided to bury them on the island they were trying to escape. The decision
has deeply upset the Haitians in Miami, and a coroner caught in the middle is
beside himself with rage.

Tonight, Anita Stockman of the State Department said that a Haitian airline is
to pick up the bodies at the morgue on Homestead Air Force Base and fly them
back to Haiti, although she was not sure when. She said that the department got
in touch with the Haitian Government after learning of the drownings and that it
was agreed that the dead would be returned to their families in Haiti for
burial.

The Broward County Medical Examiner, Ronald Wright, said in an interview today
that he was called yesterday by Howard Davis, the State Department desk officer
for Haitian affairs. ''He said to me,'' Dr. Wright said, ''that international
protocol was such that the State Department was required to notify the foreign
government when foreign nationals die within the United States.

''I said, 'Gee, that's amazing. How come I haven't heard from you guys before?'
He had no answer.''

Issue of Next of Kin Raised

Dr. Wright said that he had dealt with groups of 30 or more Haitian bodies in
the last two years, and ''nobody has ever been interested.  We haven't seen any
enthusiasm on the part of the State Department before. He said, 'We think that
they will want to take them back.' I said, 'Wait, some of them have next of kin
here.' He said, 'Well, that's just alleged.' ''

By 7:30 last night, Dr. Wright had a telegram from the State Department
directing him to surrender custody of the bodies to the Haitian consulate here.
By 8:30 P.M., word of the decision reached a poverty-ridden section of north
Miami known as Little Haiti. The area is on the southern rim of the black ghetto
known as Liberty City.

In Little Haiti, several hundred Haitians blocked a city street in protest. The
police let the demonstration proceed. There was no destruction.

Haitian Leaders Speculate

This morning in the Haitian community of about 20,000 people, leaders said that
they felt the decision to move the bodies was made to avoid calling national
attention to a funeral for illegal immigrants whom the Federal Government is at
present turning back on the high seas or holding in detention facilities around
the country.

Steve Forrester, an attorney who has been representing Haitians in deportation
hearings here, said that he thought ''the motive here is to prevent the natural
outpouring of emotion and grief and sympathy that would come from any kind of
community funeral.''

The State Department issued an announcement this morning which said, in part:
''The Haitian Government delivered a diplomatic message formally requesting
permission to repatriate the deceased Haitians at Haitian Government expense so
that the victims of this tragic event could be interred with dignity by their
next of kin at home. Under the circumstances this appears to be a generous
humanitarian request.''

Washington Officials Criticized

Dr. Wright, who said he was in touch with Mr. Davis today, said, ''As I view it,
the Federal Government engineered the removal of these bodies back to Haiti, and
when they recognized that that was sort of politically unacceptable, they
immediately began to backtrack and shirk their responsibility. They are
shouldering it back to local government.''

He added that Mr. Davis ''hung up on me the last time. At 2:55 P.M. I believe
he's sweating blood.'' Since Monday, when the Haitians' boat capsized off the
little resort village of Hillsboro Beach, Fla., the 33 bodies have been kept in
a 48-foot refrigerated truck that Dr. Wright rented. Thirty-four others
survived, including a captain and three mates who disappeared.

The other 30 in the Haitian group were taken to a Federal detention facility for
illegal aliens. They were interrogated there by representatives of several
Federal agencies trying to determine what happened or whether the group was
smuggled here aboard a freighter, then put out in dangerous waters. A Haitian
freighter was seized at Fort Pierce, Fla., last night, but law enforcement
authorities said today that the vessel appeared to have no connection with the
drownings.

Bodies to Be Flown to Haiti

Though the Broward County medical examiner said that he thought the decision to
return the bodies was about to be reversed, Haiti's Ambassador to the United
States, Georges Leger, said in an interview late in the day that he understood a
chartered Air Haiti plane would take the bodies back in 12 to 24 hours.

The Ambassador said: ''They left Haiti seeking improvements in their conditions.
They most probably were victimized by smugglers, and they died unnecessarily. So
we feel that the least our Government could do would be to return them home
where we want all our citizens to be. They are all welcome.''

He added, ''We felt we just could not morally leave them without giving them a
place where they could rest in peace.''

Refugee Center Director Objects

In Miami, where several of the dead have relatives, the mother of a pregnant
girl who drowned told representatives at the Haitian Refugee Center Inc., one of
the agencies working for Haitian rights, that she ''would prefer that they shoot
her rather than let the body go back to Haiti.'' The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, the
center director, said, ''The relatives have been here mourning, crying - shocked
that the Government is working with Haiti to steal the bodies.''

In Broward County, Dr. Wright said that with the aid of the survivors he had
identified all the bodies, but that relatives of only 20 percent had come
forward to claim them.

In Dade County, the medical examiner, Joseph H. Davis, said he could not recall
how many Haitian bodies he had examined in the last few years. He explained that
''the tragedy is that many do have relatives here.

''But the relatives themselves are illegal aliens and they are torn between the
desire to take the bodies and to protect themselves,'' he went on. ''We have a
Haitian working with us, and when we have a body come in, the word somehow gets
around and a funeral director comes and picks up the body.''

''Relatives don't have to come in,'' he added. ''So we get rid of a body and the
relative remains unidentified and the body is properly buried.''

18 Funeral Directors Volunteer

That apparently would have been the case in Saturday's scheduled mass burial.
Eighteen funeral directors had volunteered their services, and churches, refugee
agencies and Broward County officials planned to underwrite the cost of the
burials. ''You must realize we had a plan completely worked out here,'' said Dr.
Wright

The State Department, he said, ''screwed it all up.'' ''It is as far as I'm
concerned one of the biggest messes I've ever been involved in,'' he continued.
''And they want us to come back and pick up the pieces and damn it I am tired of
doing that sort of thing for the Federal Government.

''I can drive an 18-wheeler,'' he said, referring to the refrigerated truck
holding the bodies. ''If it were up to me alone, I would drive it right this
minute to Homestead Air Force Base and park it and let them for once try to
clean up one of the messes they've created.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitians in Miami

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 2, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AUSTRALIA, UNDER NEW POLICY, IS SEEKING SKILLED AMERICANS

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30


Australia, under a new immigration policy due to go into effect next April, is
actively seeking more Americans with business and technical skills.

Advertisements had already begun to appear in the American press, drawing
attention to opportunities in Australia, before the announcement in Canberra of
the new national policy. The Australian Embassy in Washington has been sending
out newsletters to prospective immigrants for the last nine months, according to
Wayne R. Slater, the embassy's Counselor for Immigration.

Australia's new policy will limit immigration to people who have at least one of
three requirements: close family ties in Australia, a skill that will benefit
the country or the experience and assests to start a ''viable business
venture.''

Problem of Unemployment

Australia has faced increasing unemployment among the unskilled, Mr. Slater
said, and the new policy in part reflects public pressure to limit the entry of
people in unskilled categories.

According to Mr. Slater, the immigration policy is in line with the Government's
plans to increase population in the country, which has 15 million people in a
territory the size of the United States.  In the last Australian fiscal year,
ending June 30, 3,236 North Americans - from Canada and the United States
-immigrated to Australia, a 29 percent increase over the previous year.

In the same year, 25,000 Asians entered Australia, most of them Indochinese
refugees. According to Mr. Slater, one in every 305 Australians is ethnically
Indochinese. Australians say that the new plan will not alter the country's
policy of helping refugees, nor will it be racially discriminatory.

''The pattern of immigration has changed over the years,'' Mr.  Slater said.
''In the 50's they came from Northern Europe. Then the source began to move
toward Southern Europe, the Middle East and, more recently, Asia.''

More Britons Immigrating

''Now we see a return to European migration,'' Mr. Slater said.  Last year
31,600 Britons, faced with a declining economy, went to Australia, an increase
of 93 percent over the previous year.

Mr. Slater said that there were about 32,000 American-born Australians, many of
them successful in business and one of them a member of the state parliament in
Tasmania.

''Americans first ask themselves, 'Is there another place to live?' '' Mr.
Slater said. ''Then they see in us a free and open society, no poverty, an easy
living style. They look at Australia as a place where they will probably get
individual rewards for their contributions. Many of them come for environmental
or social reasons.

''There is more similarity between Australians and Americans, I think,'' Mr.
Slater said, ''than between any other two groups.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 12, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ARGENTINES FLOCK ABROAD AS DREAMS OF RICHES DIE

BYLINE: By EDWARD SCHUMACHER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Nov. 11


It was the promised land in South America, and for more than a century
immigrants from Europe flowed here just as they did to the United States.

But because of economic turmoil and political uncertainty, Argentina is today
losing people, with emigration draining the country of skilled workers,
technicians and professionals.

American officials report that immigration inquiries have risen 50 percent in
recent months to more than 200 a week. Inquiries about Canada, a new mecca for
Argentines, have increased by five times in just a year to a similar level,
Canadian officials said. The Spanish, Italian, Australian and Brazilian
embassies report that immigration applications are up dramatically, too.

Many simply leave on tourist visas, hoping to find work and join - legally or
illegally - the more than two million Argentines already living abroad.

A Search for Security

Almost all those seeking to leave are of European stock, and the failed promise
for many is seen in a family like the Bossos. The father is a second-generation
Italian; the mother came from southern Italy 25 years ago to marry him.

Recently, the oldest son, 19-year old Jorge Oscar Bosso, a hair stylist in a
poular salon here, boarded a plane for Milan, Italy, hoping to find security for
his own family.

''I suffer as a young person,'' he said at a small going-away party in the
modest family home, ''because it is such a rich country going nowhere.''

Argentina's problems have been festering for 40 years. Only one elected
government has finished its term in that time and there have been more than 30
economic ministers and a continual flip-flop of policies.

Argentina Falls Behind

Argentina once surpassed Australia in income and development and until World War
II was roughly equal to Canada. Today, it is far behind both despite similar
resources and size.

The common refrain here, despite the stagnation, was ''there is food,''
especially the thick steaks, crunchy French bread and mixed salads that are a
staple in a country that is one of the world's leading exporters of meat and
grains.

The refrain has a caustic ring now. The balloon of an overheated economy burst
early this year. Inflation is running at more than 100 percent; the peso is
worth less than one-fourth what it was in dollars at the beginning of the year,
and unemployment has risen to between 600,000 and 1.5 million people, depending
on who is doing the figuring.

After almost six years of military rule, the Government of President Roberto
Eduardo Viola is shaky as rumors persist of plots within the military and
civilian politicians clamor ever more loudly for elections, raising the
likelihood of a confrontation.

Nation Called Neurotic

Argentines have emigrated before, but mostly during revolutions.  Emigration
experts here say the present exodus is different and the largest yet.

''Now they are emigrating for physical subsistence,'' said Alberto Bonis, a
sociologist. ''The country has become neurotic, frightened by reality and
fearing the ghost of unemployment.''

Colleen Cupples, the Canadian consul, said the people trying to leave
''represent the entire range of Argentine society, from the lowliest baker to
the person who owns his own business''.

They include people like Miguel Angel Barboza, a cabinetmaker who has been
trying to place ''work wanted'' advertisements in New York City newspapers so he
can take his wife and three sons there. After working all day here, he teaches
at a technical school two hours away at night, arriving home at 1 A.M.

''I have labored all my life and have not progressed,'' he said.

Technical Jobs Are Few

They also include people like Oscar Ricardo Pons, a 27-year-old unmarried
electrical engineer who last week obtained a Canadian residence visa. He works
in a management job here because there is a shortage of the sort of technical
jobs and advanced training he wants. ''All engineers want to build and
develop,'' he said.

Professionals are among the hardest hit. Ten percent of the registered doctors
are reportedly not practicing. Of 50,000 registered engineers, 10,000 are out of
the country and 8 percent of those remaining are unemployed, according to the
Center of Argentine Engineers.

The Committee to Stimulate Argentine University Graduates and Students Abroad, a
private body that works with the Government to attract its citizens back, says
almost half of the expatriates are trained technicians or university educated.

''Its a great hurt to the country,'' Moises Margulis, president of the
committee, said. ''We cannot offer the work to keep them here.'' Yet Argentina
has one-third the land mass of the United States and only a little more than
one-tenth the people. Forty percent of the population lives in metropolitan
Buenos Aires. The country's history is one of huge empty spaces going
undeveloped.

Where the Emigrants Go

Tierra del Fuego in the far south abounds with fish and offshore oil. Natural
gas underlies the vast semiarid plains of Patagonia.  The Andes mountains that
line the western border are filled with barely tapped minerals.

Where have the Argentines gone? According to the advisory committee, some
800,000, or more than one third of the those who have left. are in the United
States. Spain follows with 270,000 and Canada with 200,000.

The United States is particularly attractive to professionals, whose skills can
get them by tough United States immigration quotas.  Among the 10,000 Argentine
professionals who arrived at New York City airports from 1968 to 1978, according
to a study by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, were
almost 1,500 doctors, some 1,400 engineers, and 400 chemists, biologists,
geologists and physicists. The rest included professors, accountants, lawyers,
architects and the like.

Paris is a haven for many of the country's writers, painters, dancers and
musicians, many of whom have been very successful there.  Many of the elderly go
to Spain, where they enjoy a common language and through reciprocal agreements
can receive their government retirement benefits.

For Nina Bosso it was a sad time as she served wine and sandwiches to her son's
close friends four hours before he was to fly to Italy.  But she understood, she
said. ''He's young, and he has to go forward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Jorge Oscar Bosso

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 16, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Theater Piece Studies Children of Immigrants

SECTION: Section C; Page 19, Column 2; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 175 words


Howard Da Silva, Pearl Lang, Rita Karin, Eve Merriam, Joseph Papp, Zvee Scooler
and the Klemzer ensemble, Kapelye and others will participate in a theatrical
exploration of the lives of the children of Jewish immigrants in a bilingual
performance called ''Children in a New Land.''

Sponsored by YIVO, the Institute for Jewish Research, the theater anthology will
use literary and theatrical genres in Yiddish and English from modernist poetry
to folk and theater music of the first third of this century.

The program will be presented twice. The first performance will be today at the
Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street. The second will be tomorrow at the
Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street. Both performances will begin at 8 P.M.

A benefit for the institute, the program was assembled and staged by Isaiah
Sheffer and will come at the end of a YIVO conference on ''Children of
Immigrants: Second Generation Jews in New York.'' Tickets are $10. For
information, call 582-4240.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 27, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

A Plea to Stay in the United States

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 55 words


As a Haitian refugee struggles with immigration officials in the doorway of
plane on runway in Miami, another pleads to leave aircraft, which was carrying
125 Haitian refugees to Fort Allen, P.R. Officials reported yesterday that up to
18 Haitians had escaped from the Krome Avenue detention center in the Miami
Everglades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 4, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

VIENNA TRAIN TAKES POLES TO NEW LIFE

BYLINE: By NINA DARNTON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: WARSAW, Dec. 3


The Chopin Express leaves for Vienna every day at 5:56 P.M., and, the conductor
says, it is ''usually full in one direction - going.''

Poles do not need visas to travel to Austria and the train is the main form of
transportation there, carrying a large number of the 25,000 Poles who have
already asked for asylum in Austria this year and the other 25,000 thought to be
staying as tourists.

Since new liberal passport regulations went into effect eight months ago, many
people take the night train to Vienna, see what possibilities are available for
work and return only if they have to.

The train is particularly crowded on Mondays, the conductor said, adding,
''That's a good day to begin a new life.'' Warsaw officials, however, have
become alarmed at the growing rate of emigration as Poland's economic crisis
deepens, and the statecontrolled television ran a program here a few weeks ago
aimed at stopping the flow. It backfired.

Difficult Life Described

The program showed a refugee camp in Vienna. Although the members of the Polish
television crew were not allowed inside the camp, they stood at the entrance and
interviewed many of the residents as they went in and out.

Those interviewed spoke of how difficult life was for immigrants.  One woman
told the reporter that she had decided to return to Poland, complaining of
cramped sleeping quarters and boredom, of having nothing to do but drink beer
and eat sandwiches.

But after the program was shown, a Polish journalist said, many Polish shoppers
standing on lines for meat were talking about the report, about how people in
the Vienna camp had beer and meat and ate sandwiches and how ''life there
doesn't sound so bad.'' And Tuesday 360 Poles, a record, arrived in Vienna.

The people waiting the other day for The Chopin Express to pull into the
northern Warsaw station, however, were leaving not only because of economic
hardships. Many of the complaints were about the system itself, and most of
those interviewed said they were leaving now simply because it was the easiest
time to get a passport.

'I Don't Want Any Trouble'

The wind was chilling on the railway platform, and one 23-year-old car mechanic
stood with his back to it, hunched over for warmth. He said he was going for two
or three weeks to arrange for a good job and ''to make it and stay forever.''

''But if I don't,'' he said, ''if something goes wrong and I have to come back,
I don't want any trouble.'' He dreams of moving to Australia or New Zealand, he
said, because it is far away, ''a great democracy'' and ''a beautiful stable
country.'' He said he was ''leaving because of the political situation'' in
Poland and would come back only ''if the Government changes.''

There was no one to see him off. His mother is dead and his father works the
night shift in a factory and could not come. ''But he's glad I'm going,'' the
son said. ''He's too old to make it anywhere else. He's glad I have a chance.''

One man in his early 20's boarded the train with his wife as soon as it arrived,
and they sat in silence, holding hands in a secondclass compartment. She is 19,
and they had been married for six months.

Athlete Seeks to Leave

''I'm sorry, I don't want to talk,'' he said to a reporter. ''I am going far
away, and I hope my wife will join me later.'' In the corridor stood a man of 21
who said he was a broad jumper.  ''I want to go to the West because I am good,''
he said, ''and I want to be better.'' He said he did not want to waste his life
in Poland, where, because of ''the hard life, the politics, you can't excel in
anything.''

Noting that his parents, both 55, could not accompany him, he said, ''But when
you are young you have a chance, and now that I can get a passport I am taking
it.''

Most of the travelers held tourist visas, although dozens of those spoken to
said they were hoping to stay abroad. The Polish Government makes official
emigration difficult, so many emigrants find it easier to apply only for tourist
visas.

The West German Embassy issued 160 percent more three-month tourist visas for
the period from January to October this year than it did last year. In the
summer it issued about 2,000 visas a day.

Many Work Illegally

''We know,'' one diplomat said, ''that most of these so-called tourists work
illegally when they get there.'' Pointing out that the black market rate for the
West German mark ''is now 200 to 1,'' he said, ''If a Pole makes 2,000 marks in
one month, he can live in Poland for a year on his earnings.''

About twice as many Poles as last year have asked about emigration to the United
States, Canada and Australia or have applied for visas.  Those Poles who go to
Vienna and apply for refugee status wait to be accepted by other countries. But
many diplomats here asserted that the Austrians, out of humanitarian
considerations, were bending the definition of a refugee in order to accept the
Poles in that category.

''Strictly speaking,'' said one diplomat, ''a refugee is supposed to be someone
who has reason to believe that he will be persecuted for political or religious
reasons if he returns to his own country.  That is not the case in Poland
today.''

He said these were ''really economic refugees, and if we were to take people
because of economic reasons we would have all the starving people in Africa and
India to think of first.''

Diplomats report that many of those applying for visas are people with varying
degrees of technical expertise -auto mechanics, electronics engineers, computer
scientists, doctors.

This might represent a serious drain for Poland, and the Polish Government is
not unaware of the danger. The Government recently issued an appeal to Poles
already living abroad to return and help in the country's ''renewal.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 11, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICAN BORDER AGENTS WARNED OF ASSASSIN TEAMS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif., Dec. 10


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has told border agents to be on the
lookout for two assassination squads from Libya, including one headed by the
notorious international terrorist known as Carlos and dubbed ''the Jackal'' by
the British press.

A seven-page notice, posted in the employees' lunchroom at the nation's busiest
border-crossing point on the Mexican border south of San Diego, alerts agents to
watch for squads of terrorists reportedly dispatched by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi,
the Libyan leader, to assassinate President Reagan and other senior officials in
the Administration.

The document, dated Dec. 6, warns that two ''hit'' teams ''may attempt to enter
the United States illegally with the help of established smugglers familiar with
the U.S.-Mexican border.''

The notice says the hit squad reportedly headed by Carlos consists of three
Syrians and three Libyans. It also says a second group consists of two Iranians,
a Palestinian, a Lebanese and an East German.

The notice, issued by the Washington headquarters of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, says that Carlos, a 32-yearold Venezuelan whose real
name is Illich Ramirez Sanchez, is believed to be traveling on a Lebanese
passport under an assumed name.

Similar Notice on Clipboard

A border control agent in Nogales, Ariz., said a similar notice had been put on
a clipboard available only to employees at the crossing there. The agent, who
declined to be identified, said the notice was posted either Wednesday or today.

It could not be immediately determined if the notice was posted at other
stations on the Mexican border or at any other entry points.  James O'Keefe,
district director of Immigration in San Diego, said today that the border
crossing was ''operating normally.'' He and inspectors at the border declined
further comment, referring questions to Washington.

Reporters were refused admission to the facility today, but no extraordinary
precautions could be observed at the entry point, where about 40 million
crossings into the United States are made every year.

In Washington, Vernon Jervis, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, refused to discuss any aspect of the document.

''It's a matter that's extremely sensitive, involving national security,'' Mr.
Jervis said.  The notice includes a reproduction of a Royal Canadian Mounted
Police poster of Carlos that describes him as a heavyset man who is 5 feet 9
inches tall with thick brown, curly hair and ''skilled at changing appearance
and identity.''

Beginning in August 1970, when he underwent commando training in Jordan, Carlos
has devoted most of his energies to killing for the Palestinian cause. He is
wanted in connection with the slaying of Israeli athletes at the Olympic games
in Munich in 1972, the shooting of Edward Sieff, a British Zionist, in 1973, the
kidnapping of 11 oil ministers attending the OPEC conference in Vienna in 1975
and the assassination of Ramon Trabal, a Uruguayan military attache.

Members of Teams Named

The notice listed Hasan Al-Khayer, Ali Ahmed and Walid Abdul Rahman as Syrian
nationals who are members of the assassination team, and Omar or Umar Ayad and
Ali Saghayer as Libyan nationals. It also listed a man variously named Mohamed
or Milad Muhammad el-Hadi or Hadi, also known as Milad Muhammad Hadi or
Muhamammd Ibraham Al-Hadi on that team.

A second team included Ahmed Jooma, also known as Ahmad Juma or Abase Said or
Ahmed Husayn Juma, an Iranian, about 25; Luitz Schewesman, an East German, about
50; Ahmat Abass, or Ahmed Abbas or Mouses Abou Mahmoud, a Palestianian, about
35; Ibrahim El Haya, an Iranian, about 36 and also known as Ibrahim El-Haya,
Ibraham ElHaya, Ibrahim Al-Haya, Ibrahim Al Haya, Ali Ben Ali, Ali Ben-Ali; and
Ali Chafio, a Lebanese, about 35.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 15, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

A BIG WEEKEND FOR ANTELOPE WELLS, N.M., POP. 2

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: ANTELOPE WELLS, N.M., Dec. 13


Normally, Antelope Wells, perhaps the most remote port of entry in the United
States, has two residents. Each has a trailer behind the customs station and is
employed by the Government to enforce trade and immigration regulations. The
number of people entering here averages fewer than three a day.

For the last two days, however, Antelope Wells has been alive with ranchers,
truck drivers, ranch hands, brokers, buyers and sellers, inspectors from the
United States Department of Agriculture, vaqueros, or cowboys, and, more than
likely, a few crooks.

They came to assure safe passage of 1,221 cattle from ranches in Chihuahua,
Mexico's largest cattle-raising state, to the United States.

Before sunrise, Mexican ranch hands, who camped out in bedrolls next to
all-night fires a hundred yards south of the border, started their day with
freshly brewed coffee.

Cattle Owner Flies In

The workers arrived throughout the night after a two-hour truck ride in the
Sierra de Medio mountains. The trucks brought cattle from the ranch of Hilario
Gabilondo. Mr. Gabilondo arrived at daybreak, landing his plane in a nearby
field after the five-minute flight from his ranch.

Mr. Gabilondo's cattle, from 7 to 10 months old, were held in corrals in Mexico,
then sent single file through wooden chutes leading to a concrete shed. There,
Douglas Woody, a veterinarian of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service,
Department of Agriculture, and his crew felt each calf. They were looking for
ticks, scabs, lumpjaw, ringworm, warts or abcesses and verifying that each
animal had been neutered.

The few who failed inspection were sprayed on the forehead with red paint and
sent back to the Gabilondo ranch. A numbered metal strip was stapled onto the
right ear of those who passed.

The entire procedure was carefully watched by Mr. Gabilondo, who is an adviser
on livestock affairs to Mexico's President, Jose Lopez Portillo. This year, he
said, Mexican ranchers will ship less than half of their 400,000-head quota for
export to the United States because cattle now command a better price in Mexico.
He said that the American cattle industry ''is in a down market. It runs in
nine-year cycles and, barring a depression, it will begin its upturn in a year
or two.''

After weighing, the cattle were corraled, then placed in a narrow vat to be
submerged in a milky tick dip. When dry, they were sent to corrals on the other
side of the line.

''Well, they're United States citizens now,'' Mr. Gabilondo observed as the last
of his 757 calves crossed. The cattle, averaging 430 pounds, would probably be
slaughtered in a couple of years when they weigh 1,000 pounds.

The 100,000-acre Gabilondo spread is divided among four family members to
conform with land-ownership laws, according to Jose Luis Gabilondo, the
rancher's 26-year-old son.

Even when the land was known as New Spain, cattle drives crossed the area,
according to the elder Mr. Gabilondo.  Shortly after their cattle crossed, the
two Gabilondos flew off.  Just after that came Scott R. Dean, a cattle broker
from the Paul Dean Cattle Company in El Paso and Brad Tate, a Lakeland, Kan.,
rancher who was purchasing the Gabilondo cattle.

Mr. Dean paid from 80 to 90 cents a pound for the herd of 325,928 pounds. The
Customs Service collected duty of one and one-half cents a pound.

After nightfall, another herd arrived from the Villanueva Ranch, 17 miles to the
east. The 464 animals, weighing 193,366 pounds, went through the same procedure
as the Gabilondo cattle. By mid-afternoon, Antelope Wells settled back into the
tempo it maintains the other 363 days a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Map of New Mexico 2 photos of a cattle drive

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 29, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION SERVICE SAYS OVER 100 FLED FROM HAITIAN CAMP

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 28


The Federal authorities barred all visitors from a Miami detention facility
holding Haitian refugees today and brought in additional security guards after a
stone-@ and bottle-throwing incident yesterday in which 110 men escaped from the
compound.

There were about 660 men in the camp before the escapes. They began a hunger
strike Christmas Eve, fasting for their freedom, according to leaders of Miami's
Haitian community. The 51 women at the facility joined the fast Sunday, the
authorities said.

Doctors at the camp reported this afternoon that the Haitians were ''still
extremely healthy at this point,'' said Beverly McFarland, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. She said the medical staff was
''monitoring the situation very carefully,'' as the refugees continued to take
only water.

On Sunday afternoon, about 300 Miami-area Haitian residents stormed a gate at
the facility, called Krome North, hurling stones and bottles, according to Miss
McFarland, and immigration service guards responded with tear gas to disperse
the crowd.

First Incident With Outsiders

There have been similar incidents at Krome, Miss McFarland said, but this was
the first confrontation between guards and outsiders.  She said none of the
Haitians inside the camp took part in the disturbance, and that she knew of no
injuries. Those who escaped during the demonstration climbed over a rear fence
topped by barbed wire.

Miss McFarland said security personnel were searching the tall sawgrass in the
immediate area around the camp, which is in a remote section of Dade County
south of Miami near the Everglades. She said there were no plans to widen the
search.

The Dade County police arrived after most of the demonstrators had fled, and
they arrested one man on charges of arson and eight other persons for unlawful
assembly.

Miss McFarland said she did not know how many security guards were on duty when
the disturbance occurred or how many were added afterward, only that ''we called
in all available personnel.''

The immigration service said there was ''no identifiable leader'' of the
demonstration. The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, executive director of the Haitian
Refugee Center Inc., said the disturbance had not been planned, but that it
began after the demonstrators heard reports that some of the detainees had
fainted from hunger. The reports were denied by the immigration service.

----

Brief Disturbance at Ft. Chaffee

FORT CHAFFEE, Ark., Dec. 28 (AP) - A dispute among a small group of Cuban
refugees lead to a brief confrontation Sunday between refugees and Federal
officers at the resettlement center here, an official said today.

The disturbance ended in the arrests of three refugees, a woman, one of the men
in the dispute and another man who said he had mediated the argument.

''The heated argument, to the best of my knowledge, started over the affection
of a female refugee,'' said Gunther Wagner, deputy director of the Cuban-Haitian
Task Force at Fort Chaffee. He said no charges were filed.

Sunday night 15 to 25 refugees, protested the arrests, but the center was calm
today, the authorities said.  The 400 people held at Fort Chaffee are all that
remain to be resettled of the thousands of Cuban refugees who came to the United
States in April of last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              402 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 6, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

GRAND JURY TO REVIEW CASE OF FEDERAL AGENT KILLED WITH OWN GUN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 332 words


A 21-year-old Brooklyn man was charged yesterday with criminally negligent
homicide in the fatal shooting of an off-duty Immigration and Naturalization
Service officer. The police said they believed the shooting was a tragic
accident involving friends but that the case would be presented to a grand jury.

Investigators said the Federal officer, Joseph Aiello Jr., 26, of 1542 East 27th
Street, Brooklyn, had taken two friends from Brooklyn for a ride in his car
Wednesday night. They were identified as Charles Shand of 1110 Avenue O, who was
charged in the shooting, and Kenneth Rowletter, 17, of 1477 East 12th Street.

About 9:30 P.M., Mr. Aiello stopped the car at Ocean Avenue and Avenue P to
check a noise toward the rear of the automobile. He asked Mr. Rowletter, who was
sitting in the front, to hand him some tools from the glove compartment, the
police said. Mr. Shand saw that the compartment also contained a .38-caliber
revolver, which Mr. Aiello used on guard duty at the immigration detention
center at 136 Flushing Avenue in Brooklyn.

Gun Was Being Passed

At that point, Mr. Aiello was standing outside the car and Mr.  Shand was
sitting in the rear of the automobile. According to the police, Mr. Shand asked
Mr. Rowletter to pass him the gun. While Mr.  Shand was handling the gun, it
discharged, firing one bullet, which hit Mr. Aiello in the head, the police
said.

The Federal officer collapsed in the street, and was later pronounced dead at
Kings County Hospital. Police Officers Robert Chille and Angelo Grande, of the
Coney Island precinct, responded to an emergency call. Officer Chille said that
Mr. Shand had told them he did not realize the gun was loaded.

''My partner and I spoke to the parents of the deceased, and they don't believe
he knew it was loaded, either,'' Officer Chille said.  The charge of criminally
negligent homicide carries a maximum penalty of four years' imprisonment. A
grand jury will begin hearing evidence in the case today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              403 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PENALTY UNLIKELY IN HOAX OF ALIENS

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

SECTION: Section 11; Connecticut; Page 1, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words


A MAN indicted last year on a charge of helping Poles enter the United States
illegally and obtain work and Social Security cards is likely to escape
prosecution on the ground of mental incompetence, according to Federal
prosecutors and psychiatric reports. The officials said the possible
incompetence was demonstrated in part by his repeated assertions that he was
working for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence
Agency.

The man is Alexander Gorski, 43 years old, the proprietor of a travel agency in
Newington. He was indicted by a Federal grand jury in New Haven last August on
charges of conspiracy, making false statements to Federal agents, harboring and
shielding illegal aliens, inducing the illegal entry of aliens, and mail fraud.
Prosecutors said he had fraudulently obtained 90 Social Security cards and sold
them to aliens.

He has also been accused, in sworn depositions, of selling jobs to newly arrived
Poles, and pretending to be a lawyer and representing them before Immigration
and Naturalization Service proceedings, often inadequately, for large amounts of
money. The allegations go back to at least 1975.

Seven Federal agencies have investigated Mr. Gorski for two years, and two of
the agencies, the former Department of Health, Education and Welfare and the
immigration service, sent two investigators to Poland for three weeks last year
to seek information.

The superintendent of Fairfield Hills Hospital, a state mental institution in
Newtown, concluded after a Dec. 18 examination of Mr.  Gorski that ''there was
no impairment of intellect - when asked about the events leading to his present
plight he gave a poorly constructed story to indicate that he was acting in
behalf of the C.I.A. and F.B.I.''

The superintendent, Dr. Robert B. Miller, a psychiatrist, said Mr.  Gorski had
also asserted he was a ''double agent.'' He added that Mr. Gorski's ''insight
and judgment are within normal limits.''

But Mr. Gorski, who has been admitted to mental hospitals on several previous
occasions, was hospitalized again after that examination, following which Dr.
Miller said that ''Mr. Gorski's paranoid ideation is more florid.'' After the
later examination the doctor said: ''Mr. Gorski lacked substantial capacity by
reason of mental disease (schizophrenia, paranoid type) to advise counsel and to
participate in his own defense.''

As a result, the United States Attorney in Connecticut, Richard Blumenthal, has
recommended a ''pretrial diversion program, which would result in a status of,
in effect, conditional probation, with one of the conditions being that he cease
the practices that are the basis for the pending charges.'' Mr. Blumenthal would
not describe the other conditions.

According to court papers, Mr. Gorski is still under psychiatric care.  With two
psychiatrists finding Mr. Gorski unable to stand trial, and none dissenting, the
likely outcome, according to several sources, is that the prosecution and
defense will agree to a course of mental treatment for Mr. Gorski, and that the
court will sanction this course of action.

Investigators for several of the agencies, which include the Internal Revenue
Service, the Postal Service, the Secret Service, the F.B.I. and the Social
Security Administration, declined comment on the matter because it is still
before a Federal judge, T. F. Gilroy Daly.

The investigation has produced bitterness outside the Government.  ''This guy is
laughing at us,'' said Ryszard S. Mrotek, a Hartford lawyer of Polish origin who
has gathered evidence from aliens allegedly defrauded by Mr. Gorski and given it
to prosecutors. ''He always said he had friends in high places who would protect
him,'' Mr. Mrotek said.

He said Mr. Gorski had boasted to clients that he was immune from prosecution
because ''I have what is called in Polish, crazy papers.''

Mr. Mrotek is also angered because, although the indictment charges violations
of Federal law, it does not directly refer to charges that Mr. Gorski preyed on
aliens.

For example, the court file includes a deposition from Bronislawa M. Przewoznik,
taken from the 31-year-old woman before she returned to Poland. Mrs. Przewoznik
said that for $80 Mr. Gorski helped her get a Social Security card, and that for
$80 more he helped her get a $107-a-week job as a housemaid in an East Windsor
nursing home.

Investigators used such information to convince a grand jury it should charge
Mr. Gorski with several crimes and the owner of the nursing home, James D'Amore,
with harboring and shielding illegal aliens.

Mrs. Przewoznik, asked whether she knew that her visa did not allow her to work
in the United States, answered, typically of many aliens: ''I had a vague
understanding, but there is a general knowledge that everyone is working and
nothing actually happens to you if you happen to have employment. The general
understanding is that people are coming to United States to improve their living
conditions.''

As her visa approached expiration, however, Mrs. Przewoznik gave her passport to
Mr. Gorski, who she said offered for a fee to have the visa extended. He assured
her several times that this had been done.

Later, Mrs. Przewoznik's parents became ill, and she decided to return to see
them in Poland. She made plane reservations and asked Mr. Gorski for the
passport, according to the depositon.

She said that Mr. Gorski assured her everything would be taken care of, but in
fact he was not able to extend the visa, and Mrs.  Przewoznik, who went to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to retrieve the passport, discovered she
was in the country illegally.

In similar cases, according to Mr. Mrotek, Mr. Gorski held passports for ransom
and sometimes, without the knowledge of the alien, submitted fabricated
applications for political asylum on their behalf.

According to John Weiss, chief investigator in the Hartford office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the investigation was not a total loss
because ''it's expanded into quite a bit of other material.'' Others are under
investigation, he said.

Five Connecticut residents and a Baptist minister from Brooklyn, in New York
City, are under indictment charging peripheral involvement.  None of these,
however, could be characterized as major cases.

In addition to Mr. D'Amore, the nursing home owner, Walter Demusz, owner of an
East Hartford machine shop, was charged with offenses connected with employment
of illegal aliens, and Paul and Jack Ziskin, brothers who operate a West
Hartford drugstore, were accused of falsely notarizing documents.

Mr. Gorski's secretary, Bernice Novak Orenstein, was charged with making a false
statement concerning a translation of a document. The Baptist minister, the Rev.
Vincent Winniczeck, was indicted on a charge of allowing Mr. Gorski to meet
aliens in his church, the Polish American United Methodist Church of Greenpoint,
in New York City, and of acting as middleman in the sale of the Social Security
cards.

All these cases are moving toward trial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              404 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

60 Being Sent to Texas

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: FORT CHAFFEE, Ark., June 7


Sixty Cuban refugees suspected of instigating last weekend's rioting at Fort
Chaffee face confinement and hearings that could lead to their deportation,
Federal officials said today.

The 60 suspects, none of whom have been charged with any state or Federal
crimes, were scheduled to be taken from the Fort Chaffee stockade and flown to
an Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center at El Paso, Tex.,
between 8:30 and 9:30 P.M., central daylight time, today.

Nelia Petrick, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Administration
at Fort Chaffee, said that the suspects' cases would be decided by an
immigration service judge on a case-by-case basis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              405 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 10, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

INDIA SENDS MORE FORCES TO CONTROL VIOLENCE IN 2 NORTHEASTERN STATES

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, June 9


Additional security forces were being flown to Tripura and Assam in northeastern
India to contain the spreading violence, an official report said today.

In Tripura, bordering Bangladesh, serious clashes have occurred since last
Thursday, when the local population began a protest against immigrants, mostly
Bengalis from Bangladesh.

According to official reports from Agartala, the state capital, at least 20
people were killed in the clashes. New Delhi today declared two districts of
Tripura as ''disturbed areas'' and ordered army and paramilitary forces into the
area.

The nearly yearlong agitation in Assam, which has now spread to Manipur and
Tripura, has blocked the flow of oil from the wells in northern Assam, disrupted
normal life and led to the clashes between ethnic groups.

The Assamese are demanding that the immigrants who have entered the state since
1951 be expelled. Mrs. Gandhi has refused to order any mass eviction but has
offered to evict those immigrants who have come since 1971, the year Bangladesh
was created from what was East Pakistan.

50 Killed in Clashes in Last Month

At least 50 people have been reported killed in Assam in the lash month in
clashes between Assamese and Bengalis in the interior districts in northern
Assam. Although the Indian Army and the border forces have intervened to quell
the disturbances, sporadic violence in the villages is still being reported.

Prime Minister Indira Ghandi said today that while she had ''no direct or
conclusive evidence'' to show that a foreign power was behind the protests, she
said the ''method in which the agitation is being conducted indicated the hand
of a foreign power.'' Mrs. Gandhi did not name the foreign power but she had
earlier hinted that the United States Central Intelligence Agency was involved.

Mrs. Gandhi told some editors who met with her today that she was trying to find
a peaceful solution to the crisis but opposition parties were exploiting the
situation.

American Reportedly Expelled

She cited Indian newspaper reports on the expulsion of an American from India
for alleged espionage in the northeast. The Indian Express reported on Saturday
that James H. Goodman had been asked to leave India last week. Mr. Goodman
reportedly went to Gauhati as a tourist and met various groups involved in the
protests. A Home Ministry spokesman confirmed the expulsion but gave no details.
An American Embassy official said he had no information on the report.

A local court in Assam decreed today that the Preventive Detention Ordinance
employed by the federal Government to arrest protest leaders was illegal and
ordered the release of eight prominent leaders arrested last month under the
ordinance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: map of India

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              406 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 11, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. WILL LET SOME IRANIAN STUDENTS EXTEND STAYS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that it would permit some
Iranian students enrolled in American colleges and universities to extend their
stays in the United States.

David W. Crosland, acting commissioner of the agency, sent out instructions to
all field offices granting, in effect, a reprieve to Iranian students who had
been admitted to this country for a limited period, with a precise departure
date stamped on their travel documents.

The students had complained that there was inequity in the distinction that the
Federal Government made between them and the majority of Iranian students, who
were admitted to the United States for the duration of their studies, with no
fixed departure date.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said that the new policy
would affect ''at most a few thousand'' students. But William P. Bray, assistant
director of the National Association for Foreign Student Affairs, said that it
could benefit up to one-third of the estimated 60,000 Iranian students.

Language Students Aided

Among those who will benefit, he said, are students enrolled in one-year or
two-year intensive English language training programs.''Had this order not come
out,'' said Mr. Bray, whose association represents 1,200 foreign student
advisers, ''up to 20,000 Iranian students could have been facing deportation
hearings in the next six months.''

Mr. Crosland's order, which was apparently cleared with the White House, the
State Department and other interested agencies, said: ''Iranian students whose
authorized period of stay has expired or will expire on a specific date can be
granted extensions to complete their current course of study or degree level, at
which point they will be required to leave. Those individuals who had already
been accepted to graduate schools, law schools, medical schools as of June 9
should be permitted to continue with those studies.''

In addition, he said that immigration officers should be ''strict in identifying
students eligible for these extensions'' and should resolve any doubts by
denying Iranian students an extended stay.

Carter Order After Seizure

On Nov. 10 last year, six days after Iranian militants seized the American
Embassy in Teheran, President Carter instructed Attorney General Benjamin R.
Civiletti to review the status of Iranian students in this country and to begin
deportation proceedings against those who had violated immigration laws. On
April 12 the immigration service announced that it would force students and
other Iranians to leave the United States when their travel documents expired
unless there were ''compelling humanitarian reasons,'' for them to remain here.

David Carliner, an immigration lawyer in private practice here, praised the new
policy as a ''welcome sign.'' Mr. Carliner, the author of an American Civil
Liberties Union handbook on the rights of aliens, had described the previous
policy toward Iranian students as ''an act of blind vengeance upon hapless
Iranians.''

In a letter to President Carter on April 25, the heads of six organizations
concerned with the international exchange of scholars said that the Iranians
studying here ''constitute an important influence toward moderation in Iranian
affairs and might eventually be an important force for reconciliation between
our two nations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              407 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 13, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 83 words

DATELINE: FORT CHAFFEE, Ark., June 12


Twenty-nine refugees identified as suspected criminals or troublemakers have
been flown from the Fort Chaffee relocation center to a Federal prison in
Atlanta.

Edwin Chauvin of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said
that the refugees were suspected of having committed serious crimes in Cuba. He
said some of them were involved in the June 1 riot at Fort Chaffee.

Mr. Chauvin said that the Cubans would be held until officials in Washington
decide whether to deport them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              408 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 24, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

EXCERPTS FROM MURPHY'S DENIAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 684 words


Following are excerpts from a statement issued yesterday by Representative John
M. Murphy about charges pending against him:

Following are excerpts from a statement issued yesterday by Representative John
M. Murphy about charges pending against him: The first major charge is that I
allegedly accepted a portion of a $50,000 bribe for providing a phony Arab sheik
with immigration help. The allegation is supposedly supported by the videotape
taken of myself, Mr. Criden an F.B.I. undercover agent and an informer working
for the F.B.I. in a Kennedy Airport motel room on Oct. 20, 1979.

The truth of the matter is I never promised to help in such immigration matters
nor did I introduce and get passed any such legislation.

The videotape of the Kennedy Airport meeting were reviewed by my lawyer, Michael
Tigar and myself on two occasions and they show the following:

At no time was the prospect of legislation even discussed by me.  The agent and
the informer asked for some assistance in getting someone into the country and I
told them to get a lawyer, that all they had to do was file the proper
immigration forms if they had a problem.

I in fact advised against an attempt to get the phony sheik into the United
States in view of this Administration's treatment of high ranking foreign
leaders who sought sanctuary here.

Howard Criden carried a briefcase out of that meeting. I was never shown or told
the contents of the briefcase and I subsequently did not receive any portion of
whatever was supposed to be in that briefcase. There was no explanation at all
of the contents of the briefcase.

When these tapes are made public it will be seen and it will be made very clear
that the references from the time that briefcase appeared until all of the
parties who were talking go off camera, that the briefcase only had to do with
Mr. Criden and nothing to do with Murphy.

There was no discussion in that meeting of any money being in the briefcase. The
discussion about it was simply that it was a briefcase that Mr. Criden was to
take with him.

That was not a discussion in which I had any role. Howard Criden took it
downstairs, got in a separate automobile and left. That has been my public
position and that is what the tapes will reveal. I have so testified under oath.

The second major charge in the indictment is that Congressman Thompson and I
both conspired to have the sheik invest large amounts of money in business deals
that would ''inure directly and indirectly'' to our benefit.

Specifically I was supposed to somehow be financially involved with Mr. Lawrence
Buser, the former president of American Export Lines who discussed with the
bogus Arab representatives the possible purchase of a Puerto Rican shipping
line.

The truth of the matter is contained in the videotape recorded meeting on the
10th of January, 1980 at the W Street townhouse at which I was present and Mr.
Criden, Mr. Buser, Mr. Weinberg and agent Amoroso or Devito as he called
himself, were present.

At that meeting the tapes show that I stated in no uncertain terms in response
to leading, suggestive questions by Agent Amoroso that not only would I not
participate in any business deal of the kind that was being discussed and that I
would not accept any favors or consideration of any kind in return for any
official action on my part but that I, in no uncertain terms, said it was wrong
for the suggestion even to be made.

The tapes further show the F.B.I. agents repeatedly attempted to get me to say
that I would be involved in a shipping enterprise. I once said unequivocally ''I
am not in this'' and when Mr. Weinberg persistently tried to enveigle my name
into the conversation Mr.  Buser said on several occasions ''he is not involved
in this.'' Seeing they had thus failed to involve me, Agent Amoroso asked me
into the library to try to get me to say something that would be incriminating.
I was annoyed at what - I now find - was a pathetic display of amateur seduction
and I actually lectured Amoroso on the ethics of what it means to hold and
responsibly discharge a public trust.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              409 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 24, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 592 words


AROUND THE WORLD;
78 Indicted for Defiance Of Order Limiting Cubans

MIAMI, June 23 (AP) - Criminal indictments were filed in Federal District Court
here today against 78 persons who Federal prosecutors say brought Cuban
nationals to United States shores in defiance of a May 15 Presidential order.

Assistant United States Attorney William Norris said the indictments were ''the
first batch.'' The 78 persons are charged with knowingly bringing undocumented
aliens into the United States, conspiring to do so, or interfering with Coast
Guard vessels assigned to control the flotilla of small boats from Mariel, Cuba,
to Key West, Fla., that began in April.

If convicted, each could be fined a maximum of $2,000 and sentenced to five
years in prison.  In addition, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
served nearly 2,000 boat captains with notices of intent to fine them $1,000 for
each illegal immigrant brought into this country, and 400 captains already have
received bills.

Pryor Undergoes Skin Graft On Burned Upper Torso

SHERMAN OAKS, Calif., June 23 (AP) - Richard Pryor, the comedian, underwent
surgery today to graft healthy skin over the critically burned upper half of his
body, a hospital spokesman said.

A hospital spokesman said that the doctors were pleased with the results.  The
extensive burns on Mr. Pryor's chest have inhibited normal breathing and
coughing that rid the lungs naturally of fluid buildup, thus causing the
pneumonia, Gary Swaye, assistant executive director for the hospital, explained.

Mr. Pryor, 39 years old, had been responding well to treatment after an accident
at his Northridge home June 9.

O'Hare Airport Computer Inoperative for Fourth Day

CHICAGO, June 23 (AP) - Air traffic controllers at the nation's busiest airport
had to keep track of airplanes without their trafficmonitoring computer for the
fourth straight day today. But no serious problems or delays were reported.

The computer at O'Hare International Airport has not been functioning since
Friday and is expected to remain out of service for another day or two..

Peter Salmon, deputy chief of the control tower at O'Hare, said that fair
weather enabled the airport to operate with no disruptions of service today.

A team of specialists from the Federal Aviation Administration's experimental
center in Atlantic City has been working since Friday to correct the problem.

Meanwhile, in Fremont, Calif., an Federal aviation official said today that the
primary computer aiding air traffic controllers for Northern California and
Nevada broke down last weekend for the fourth time this month. He said that no
aircraft were in danger.

Chinese Ship Is the First To Dock at California Port

LONG BEACH, Calif., June 23 (UPI) -A ship flying the red and gold colors of
China has become the first vessel from that nation to dock at a California port.

The Mei Gui Hai, a bulk freighter, had been riding at anchor for 10 days outside
the harbor before she came in last Saturday to be loaded with 15,000 tons of
feed grain for China.

The ship tied up at the Koppel Inc. grain pier and is to return to anchorage
until next Friday when she will make her official entry into the port and
continue loading her 36,000-ton cargo.

Chinese ships have called earlier at Portland, Seattle and Vancouver, according
to the Kerr Steamship Co., Inc., the United States agent for the China Overseas
Ocean Shipping Corporation, which operates the Mei Gui Hai.
National news appears on pages A12-13 and B5; political news, page D17.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              410 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 26, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 448 words


JUDGE ORDERS RELEASE OF 31 BOATS SEIZED BY U.S. IN REFUGEE

FLOTILLAMIAMI, June 25 (UPI) - A Federal judge today ordered the Government to
release 31 shrimp boats seized for taking part in the Cuban refugee flotilla,
leaving officials in a quandary over how to proceed against the more than 900
other vessels that were seized.

Federal District Judge Sidney Aronovitz ruled that impounding of the commercial
fishing boats that ferried undocumented refugees across the Florida Straits had
caused the boat owners ''irreparable harm'' by leaving them without a means to
make a living.

United States Attorney Atlee Wampler immediately sought a suspension of the
order pending an appeal, and a hearing was set for tomorrow afternoon. The order
left officials of the Customs Service and Immigration and Naturalization Service
unsure of how to follow instructions from President Carter to punish
participants in the sealift.

More than 114,000 Cubans have been ferried to the United States.

'A Very Knotty Problem'

''It's a very knotty problem,'' said a spokesman in Mr. Wampler's office.
Meanwhile, the Immigration and Naturalization Service sent six Cuban refugees
with criminal records from El Paso, Tex., to a Federal prison in Washington
State today to await possible deportation.

A spokesman said the six would join other Cubans with criminal records who are
being held in the maximum security cells of McNeil Federal Prison Camp, on an
island near Tacoma.

The refugees had been sent to El Paso from Fort Chaffee, Ark., where they were
allegedly involved in violence.  The suit ruled on today by Judge Aronovitz was
the first filed by boat owners trying to get their vessels back. At least two
others have been filed in Federal District Court here.

Judge Aronovitz ordered the 19 owners of the 31 shrimp boats to bond their boats
out with liens to the Government, and he barred them from setting sail for
foreign countries.

While ordering the boat released, Judge Aronovitz refused to halt the
Government's efforts to fine boat owners or captains up to $1,000 for each
refugee brought in illegally.

----

18 Cubans Ordered Deported

TALLADEGA, Ala., June 25 (UPI) -Eighteen Cuban refugees held at a Federal prison
have confessed to crimes including murder, rape and child molestation and have
been served with deportation notices, officials said today.

They are among 396 Cuban men who were taken to the Federal Correctional
Institute at Talladega because they had prison records.  Myles Frechette, head
of the State Department's Cuban desk in Washington, said, ''We will turn them
back to Cuba.'' Butthe Cuban Government has indicated that it will not take
them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              411 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 1, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. IS GIVING NICARAGUAN REFUGEES A 3-MONTH EXTENSION FOR STAY HERE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 30


State Department and immigration officials said today that thousands of
Nicaraguans who sought refuge in the United States last year when President
Anastasio Somoza Debayle was ousted would be allowed to stay here until Sept.
28.

A State Department spokesman said that Warren M. Christopher, Deputy Secretary
of State, had recommended extending the deadline for the Nicaraguans' departure
by three months to give them ''an opportunity to put their affairs in order.''

The spokesman, Donald E. Mathes, said it was not expected that the Nicaraguans
would be allowed to settle here as a group the way that Cubans and Haitians have
been permitted to stay, under a policy announced by the Carter Administration 10
days ago.

The Nicaraguans, including civil servants who worked for General Somoza, will be
subject to deportation after Sept. 28, Mr. Mathes said, but they will not be
forced to leave if they have applications for asylum pending.

Applications will be reviewed individually under the Refugee Act of 1980, which
makes asylum available to foreign nationals who can demonstrate ''a well-founded
fear of persecution'' if they are forced to return to their homeland.

Finds No Legal Basis

Robert L. Boyer, a Miami lawyer who said he represented two groups of
Nicaraguans totaling 15,000 members, said the three-month extension was ''better
than nothing,'' but that there was no legal basis for treating the Nicaraguans
more harshly than the Cubans and Haitians. Accordingly, he said, he will file
suit in Federal court to prevent the immigration service from initiating
deportation proceedings against any Nicaraguans who came here since the
revolution last year.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
that 3,686 Nicaraguans had been granted ''extended voluntary departure'' status,
in effect a reprieve, expiring today.  They will be granted a further extension
to Sept. 28, as recommended by Mr. Christopher in a letter last Friday to the
Acting Commissioner of the immigration service, David W. Crosland, Mr.  Jervis
said.

Mr. Mathes said the exact number of people who had come to the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              412 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 4, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

MAN IN THE NEWS;
NEW U.S. IMMIGRATION CHIEF

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 642 words


Matias W. Garcia, the grandson of a Mexican immigrant, was nominated by
President Carter yesterday to be commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. In a career in Texas politics, he has combined advocacy
for the rights of Hispanic Americans with an uncommon talent for getting and
holding the ear of the more conservative elements of the political
establishment.

Mr. Garcia is the second Mexican-American selected for the post.  The first was
Leonel P. Castillo, a fellow Texan who resigned last fall. Mr. Garcia is
expected to preside over a reorganization of some key elements of the service's
operations. After a meeting this year with Attorney General Benjamin R.
Civiletti, Mr. Garcia said he had concluded that ''a new policy and a new
direction have to be provided.''

The 52-year-old Mr. Garcia, whose nomination is subject to confirmation by the
Senate, emerged politically in Texas in the late 1960's when, in behalf of
Mexican-Americans, he challenged the equal opportunity employment program at
Kelly Air Force Base near San Antonio.

As a Texas State Representative for eight years, he focused the attention of the
Legislature, never a stronghold of Hispanic sentiment, on such issues as
bilingual education. Last year he entered into a battle with Bill Clayton, the
Speaker of the Texas House, because Mr. Clayton was not appointing
Mexican-American representatives as chairmen of committees.

Ties With Conservatives

Though his voting record is liberal, he has close ties with the moderate and
conservative wings of the Texas Democratic Party. Two years ago he supported the
unsuccessful race of the conservative Dolph Briscoe Jr. for the party's
gubernatorial nomination against John Hill, a moderate with populist-liberal
leanings.

In the Texas House, he usually begins his remarks with, ''I'll be brief.''
Usually he is not. He has a reputation in debates as an intense, perhaps
excitable advocate, like a trial lawyer hammering away at a jury. He is a trial
lawyer.

Outside the State Capitol he is said to be essentially mildmannered. With his
modishly styled hair, neat mustache and hornrimmed glasses, he could be taken
for a professor from the nearby University of Texas.

Matias William Garcia was born Nov. 7, 1927, in San Antonio, attended its public
schools and received a law degree in 1951 from St. Mary's University there. His
wife, Minnie, served on the site selection committee for the 1980 Democratic
National Convention and, with her husband, attended last year's White House
reception for Pope John Paul II and the state dinner for President Jose Lopez
Portillo of Mexico. The Garcias have two sons and two daughters.

Seeks Appointment to Bench

He hopes for an appointment to the Federal bench, but he has set that ambition
temporarily aside, just how long depending in large part on whether President
Carter is re-elected.

Mr. Garcia is chairman of his state's Mexican-American Democratic Organization
and of the Mexican-American caucus in the Legislature, posts that have made him
a chief spokesman on Hispanic issues. In December he was elected vice chairman
of the Hispanic American Democrats, a national organization in the Democratic
Party.

Because the Legislature meets for only 140 days every two years, Mr. Garcia has
had time to develop a lucrative legal practice in San Antonio and to involve
himself in statewide and national politics.

The agency he now heads, its employee morale low, struggling under mountains of
unsorted immigration records, needs improved administration. Mr. Garcia has
never managed anything larger than his San Antonio law office. But Henry
Cicneros, a San Antonio City Councilman, says of his friend: ''There is
unanimous respect for the man's professional talent. He can focus in on the
policy issues and leave the administration to others.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Garcia

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              413 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CHINATOWN LEAPS THE WALL AND MOVES INTO LITTLE ITALY

BYLINE: By FRED FERRETTI

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1240 words


When formal funerals wind slowly through the narrow streets of Little Italy
these days, with the trumpets and drums of the Bacigalupo Funeral Home on
Mulberry Street mournfully playing ''Rock of Ages,'' more likely than not the
cars in procession are filled with Chinese. Perhaps nothing else is quite so
symbolic of what that patch of Lower Manhattan called Little Italy has become.

It may be Little Italy to city planners and to the few Italian-Americans for
whom it is still home, and the unbroken ranks of restaurants along Mulberry may
present a facade that is solidly Italian, but Little Italy is in fact rapidly
disappearing as New York's historic Italian enclave.

Many of the Italians have now moved to the suburbs or to that Italian-American
section of Brooklyn known as Bensonhurst. And the Chinese are rapidly buying the
houses that once housed German immigrants, then Irish and until recently,
Italians. With each purchase the borders of Chinatown expand.

The City Planning Commission and the Federal Bureau of the Census estimate the
population of Chinatown to be between 50,000 and 60,000, but the Planning
Commission concedes that there may be double that number, Most are immigrants;
many - it is impossible to say how many - are illegal immigrants.

The newcomers are not from Canton, the origin of the early Chinese arrivals, but
from the north, from Shanghai mostly, and from Taiwan.  It is these newcomers,
with fresh money, who have made the Chinatown-Little Italy area an investment
boomtown.

One realtor, John Zaccaro, estimated recently that within the 37 square blocks
of Little Italy - a rough square bounded by the Bowery to the east, Broadway to
the west, Bleecker Street to the north and south to Canal Street - the Chinese
own 70 percent of the buildings.

''It's a steady thing that's been going for at least 10 years,'' Mr. Zaccaro
said. ''My main business is with the Chinese. Thank God for them.'' Another real
estate man, Irving Raber, does not go so high in his estimate. He believes that
at least half of the buildings in the core of Little Italy, along Mott and
Elizabeth Streets, are owned by Chinese, but that Mulberry Street itself, the
heart of Little Italy, ''is still Italian.''

Anthony Bastiano, a member of Community Board 2 and a founder of the Little
Italy Restoration Association, says city figures that divide Little Italy's
population of 14,580 into 58 percent Italian, 40 percent Chinese (with the
remainder mostly Dominicans), are inflated ''so that the city will be able to
continue talking about Little Italy as a planning zone.'' In reality, says Mr.
Bastiano, the population is only 24 percent Italian and 72 percent Chinese, with
a small percentage of Hispanic residents.

Whatever the correct figures, the Chinese continue to move into Little Italy,
expanding north beyond Canal Street which used to be thought of as Chinatown's
northern limit. And they continue to buy buildings at a dizzying rate for
enormous prices with money that has lately come from Taiwan and Macao.

It is money in search of investments, much of it from Taiwan businessmen who are
worried that America's new and expanding business ties with the People's
Republic of China could reduce their own economic influence here. The relatively
new Golden Pacific National Bank on Canal Street is a reportedly a haven for
Taiwan funds. At least one building in Chinatown, the glass-faced square at Mott
and Chatham Square, reportedly was built with gambling proceeds from Macao's
casinos and dog tracks.

Says Mr. Bastiano, ''The attitude here was, the buyers would say, 'I'll buy
anything;' the seller would say, 'Whatever you offer, I'll take.' And it usually
was a lot more than the market value.''

The tales of prices paid for buildings that for the most part are not in prime
condition, for the few building sites that still exist, and for warehouses, can
be astounding:

* A parking lot at Hester and Mott Streets was resold with a Chinese buyer in
the middle for $1 million.

* Half-a-million dollars was paid for a Bowery and Canal Street site that is to
become a 600-seat movie theater and a restaurant.

* A building on Mulberry Street, a former pottery manufacturing plant, that was
offered for $200,000, bought in an inflated market for $300,000, sold a year ago
for $500,000 and resold a month after that for $600,000. The buyers and
speculators were all Chinese.

* Another building on Mulberry, that was bought for $480,000 was sold for
$780,000.  A common tactic has been for a Chinese buyer to purchase, say, a
factory building and then evict the tenants. The upper floors often become
garment factories with the Chinese workers becoming live-in tenants. Such
Chinese expansion has not been without friction.

Little Italy, particularly along Mulberry Street, and in private membership
clubs like the Ravenite Club and the In Crowd, and the unnamed and unmarked
store-front clubs along Hester Street, reacted strongly when the Chinese buyers
began snapping up buildings in the mid-1970's. Mr. Raber recalls, ''The Italians
were getting upset because the Chinese were buying tenements and making
warehouses out of them. Also they'd buy stores, paint the plate glass over and
deaden the block.''

He said Italian community organizers petitioned the City Planning Commission and
a neighborhood meeting was called ''about three years ago.'' Mr. Raber recalls
that the Chinese sat along one wall, the Italians along the opposite wall. He
said the Chinese were ''upset and kept asking, 'Do you want to build a Great
Wall and keep us out?' and the Italians were saying, 'No, we want to see
investment and improvement in the neighborhood.' ''

Implicit agreements were reached, Mr. Raber said, that the character of Little
Italy where possible would be maintained, particularly along Mulberry Street.
''One of the results has been,'' he says, ''that many Chinese-owned properties
along Mulberry have been sold back to Italians.'' Along Mott and Elizabeth,
however, the great majority of the buildings are owned by Chinese, according to
Mr. Raber. ''Mott Street, for example, is all Chinese except for Vincent's Clam
Bar,'' he says.

Instrumental in helping Little Italy to look much like it has looked for decades
has been the Lee Association, one of the so-called family associations of
Chinatown, whose president, Man Bun Lee, has a reputation of being a force for
moderation in his community. And so while change has come, the friction has
lessened.

A center for the elderly at 180 Mott Street now has two bottom floors devoted to
the needs of elderly Italians, while the rest of the building is tenanted by
Chinese.

Along Mott, the Chinese groceries co-exist nicely with the latticini. It is only
at the annual feast of San Gennaro that the Chinese are noticeably
uncomfortable. Mr. Zaccaro says, ''the big Italian thing here is still the
feast. For 10 days there is nothing else down here. It's something the Chinese
now realize they have to live with. And that's okay because they understand
business.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: MAP OF CHINATOWN

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              414 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 24, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Iranian May Be Ousted In Theft of One Grape

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, W.Va., July 23


Seyedashraf Mirhadi, an Iranian student, is accused of shoplifting for eating
one grape and his attorney says that he could be deported over it.

Robert A. Hallowell of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said today
that his agency would consider the case ''on its merits'' if Mr. Mirhadi was
convicted.

Mr. Mirhadi, a 20-year-old junior studying engineering at the West Virginia
Institute of Technology, was arrested June 13 at a Kroger store in Montgomery.
Yesterday in Montgomery Municipal Court, Judge Carl Harris took the case under
advisement, saying he would review a recent state Supreme Court decision
striking down part of the shoplifting statute.

The store manager, Larry Bowers, testified that he saw Mr. Mirhadi eating the
grape. James Humphrey, a police officer, said the student told him he ate a
grape to test their sweetness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              415 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 26, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

INQUIRIES INTO IMMIGRATION AIDES ROUSE ALIENS DEPORTATION FEARS

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, Calif., July 24


One morning six weeks ago, three men with pistols under their coats appeared at
the door of John Atachian's jewelry shop in this central California city. Though
the men were not robbers, Mr. Atachian might be happier now if they had been.

They were Federal agents; one agent was from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the two others were from the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Because of their visit Mr. Atachian, an Armenian who emigrated here from Lebanon
17 months ago, may lose something far more precious than his wares: his
treasured status as a resident alien.

Mr. Atachian, 34 years old, is one of 70 recent immigrants to the United States,
many of them Armenians, whose cases are being reopened by the immigration
service in an investigation of possible wrongdoing by officials in the service's
office here.

Harassment Is Charged

The Fresno investigation is being pursued with such vigor as to generate
complaints of harassment. Justice Department officials said that the immigration
service had a strengthened commitment to ferret out any wrongdoing in its ranks,
including the kind of physical brutality that Hispanic groups have charged for
years is routinely inflicted on illegal aliens by service personnel.

Earlier this year, after sharp criticism of its internal investigations unit by
the Justice Department and Congress, the immigration service began revamping the
unit, known as the Office of Professional Responsibility. It added more
investigators and brought in a new chief, Walter Connery, a former official of
the New York City Police Department.

One Justice Department lawyer said that since Mr. Connery took over the office
of responsibility had been ''quicker to respond'' to allegations of internal
wrongdoing and had kept the Justice Department, of which it is a part, better
informed about the progress of its investigations.

Inquiry 'Far From Over'

Charles Sava, the associate immigration service commissioner for enforcement,
has been temporarily reassigned from Washington to New York to assist in
investigating a burgeoning bribery case there.  Justice Department sources said
that a score or more of immigration officers had become targets of the Federal
inquiry, which one source described as ''far from over.''

Last week two immigration employees pleaded guilty to undisclosed charges -the
pleas are sealed because the two are cooperating with prosecutors, and
law-enforcement sources said that more pleas would be forthcoming soon. ''People
are being arrested and pleading guilty and cooperating,'' one source said.
''We're still gathering evidence.''

Earlier this week three Border Patrol agents stationed at San Clemente, Calif.,
were accused by a Federal grand jury in San Diego of beating illegal aliens, all
of them Mexicans, who had passed through the patrol's checkpoint on Interstate
Highway 5 there. At least four other agents of the Border Patrol, the
enforcement arm of the immigration service, have been notified that they are
targets of the grand jury's investigation.

Several other Federal investigations are under way around the country, including
one into the shooting death of a 6-year-old Mexican girl who was riding in a
truck that was being chased by the Border Patrol. A Justice Department source
said that ''a number'' of inquiries were looking into a charge that immigration
officers at San Isidro, Calif., south of San Diego, were issuing border crossing
cards to Mexican citizens ineligible to receive them.

For John Atachian and the other immigrants caught in the middle of the Fresno
investigation, however, all this means only that they may have to leave the
country and return home, in Mr. Atachian's case to Beirut, the once-lovely city
devastated by a civil war, where, he said, things are still ''very bad.''

''We were shocked,'' he said, recalling anew the surprise visit from the Federal
agents last month. ''We are aliens, and when we hear F.B.I., we panic. They
said, 'Your lawyer, did he tell you how much he is going to pay to immigration?'
I said no, he didn't tell me anything.''

Tactics Called Heavy Handed

Among those who figure in the Fresno inquiry are Charles Stephens, the chief of
the immigration office, and a number of local immigration lawyers and
''consultants,'' among them Steven Simonian, a Fresno lawyer who is of Armenian
descent. Judging by the questions investigators have been asking the aliens, the
immigration service suspects that bribes were paid to obtain residence for the
immigrants. But both Mr. Stephens and Mr. Simonian said that they were not
guilty of any wrongdoing and deplored what they described as the heavy-handed
tactics of the investigators working on the case.

The investigators, Mr. Simonian said, have been harassing his clients and
frightening them, asking such questions as how much Mr.  Simonian told them ''he
had to pay the immigration service to get your work done for you.'' Mr. Stephens
is equally angry over what he said was the unlawful attempt last month of the
investigators to enter the immigration office here after hours, presumably in
search of evidence.

In Washington, Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said:
''There is an investigation. It's not complete, and we will have no further
comment.''

Legal Fee Was $3,500

Mr. Atachian said that he had told the agents that Mr. Simonian, his attorney,
had charged him $3,500 to prepare his visa petition and that he had paid him
with a check. He said that the lawyer had mentioned nothing about using some of
the money to pay off officials to get the petition approved.

Like most of the other immigrants whose status is now in question, Mr. Atachian,
along with his wife and two young daughters, came here on a temporary visitor's
visa to see an old friend, a resident of Fresno's sizable Armenian community.

''My wife liked the country,'' Mr. Atachian said. They decided to consult a
laywer to see ''if we could stay as residents.'' He said that he had not known
Mr. Simonian but had picked his name out of the telephone book ''because he is
Armenian.'' He said that the lawyer had told him '' 'Yes, why not; we make your
application and give it to the immigration.' ''

Represented 20 Families

Mr. Simonian, a Fresno native who has been practicing immigration law here for
18 months, said that he had represented perhaps 20 Armenian families comprising
''40 or 50 people at most,'' and that all of his clients had been paid similar
visits by investigators.

He said that he suspected the investigations had focused on him primarily
because he and Mr. Stephens, the immigration chief here, were ''good friends''
who attended the same church.

He had often sought advice from Mr. Stephens on the handling of immigration
cases, he said, but had never paid him any money in return for his help. ''We
don't even exchange gifts at Christmas,'' he said. ''I don't make enough money
to bribe anybody.'' Mr. Simonian said that he had offered to submit to an
interview and a polygraph examination and to open his books to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation but that his offers had been refused.

Office Entered After Hours

Mr. Stephens said that he had not realized that the matter had reached the level
of a serious investigation until three weeks ago, when a Fresno immigration
agent working late was surprised by two Federal Bureau of Investigation agents
and an immigration investigator who had entered the office here after hours,
presumably in search of evidence.

Mr. Stephens, who has headed the immigration office here for five years, said
that he was outraged by such conduct and had filed a complaint with the United
States Attorney's office here charging unlawful entry. But, he said, he was
ordered by higher-ups to withdraw the complaint, and William Odencrantz, the
western regional counsel for the immigration service, said that the
investigators had been within their rights. ''There was no forceable entry,'' he
said.

Mr. Atachian, who operated a textile import business in Beirut, said that he was
afraid that he would be deported from the United States after investing nearly
all his money in his home and business here. ''As soon as immigration O.K.'d
petition,'' he said, ''I bought my car and house and furniture. All the money I
got I invest in this country. I have a very bad position now. All we want is to
stay in this country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              416 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 27, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

DRAFT REGISTRATION POSES PROBLEMS FOR MEXICAN YOUTHS BORN IN U.S.

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 31, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico, July 26


The decision by the United States Government to require young men to register
with the Selective Service System for possible military service is creating
problems for young men born in the United States to Mexican parents.

Many prominent people in Juarez said they were concerned about the registration
of their sons who were born in 1960 and 1961 in the relative luxury of an El
Paso hospital, said Gaston de Bayona, director of international relations for
the Mayor of Juarez.

Mr. de Bayona mentioned a ''civic leader'' whose El Paso son was attending the
University of Texas at El Paso. The Mexican leader wanted his son to attend a
better university in the United States, but because of the renewal of draft
registration earlier this month he is not sure what his son should do.

In El Paso County, the city-county health unit reported that of 11,251 births
last year, 4,354 were to Mexico-born mothers of either American or Mexican
citizenship. Parents of American citizens can apply for legal resident alien
status in the United States after the child reaches 21 years of age, without
obtaining labor certificates from the Department of Labor, according to Henry V.
McGehee, a supervisory inspector with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Some Hope to 'Lay Low'

American citizens in Juarez are reluctant to discuss the concerns they have
about registration with the Selective Service System. By ''laying low,'' some
hope to escape detection and retain their American citizenship by contending
that they were ignorant of the law, said Nelson Smith, an lawyer and president
of the El Paso Association of Immigration Practitioners.

But those who plan to register were open about it. Robert Caffery, a 19-year-old
El Paso resident whose mother is Mexican and father is American, said, ''I was
born in this country, so I'll defend this country if needed.''

Mr. Caffery said his El Paso friends with dual citizenship feel the same. ''It's
not a big deal like it was in the Vietnam crisis,'' he added.

Elea Aguirre, a 32-year-old mortgage banker who was born in El Paso to Mexican
parents, said that in Mexico ''the empathy was with the Vietnamese'' in the
Vietnam War.

Unable to Regain Citizenship

Mr. Smith said he had received a number of cases in which American citizens from
Mexico made no claim to American citizenship until after hostilities ceased in
the Vietnam War. Some who renounced their American citizenship have not been
able to regain it, he added.

Employees at El Paso's post offices have noticed a few Juarez residents who
registered with the Selective Service System this week.  Keith Powell of the
American Consulate in Juarez said 26 Americans registered for the armed forces
this week. But three 20-year-olds renounced their American citizenship this week
also, he said.

In Matamoros, the Mexican city opposite Brownsville, Tex., Wayne Griffith, a
consul, said that only two men registered this week for the draft.

Law Applies to All Aliens

''There are no group statistics on how many Americans live on the border,'' Mr.
Griffith added, ''because very few of them register with us.''

In addition to American citizens living in foreign countries, the registration
law applies to all legal and illegal aliens who live in the United States and
were born in 1960 and 1961.

Brayton Harris, assistant director of the Selective Service Service, said that,
starting next January, all men must register 30 days after their 18th birthday.

While officials do not know how many illegal residents live in El Paso, the
metropolitan area was the home of 5,214 legal resident aliens of various ages
and both sexes in 1978, according to the immigration agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              417 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 4, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. OFFERS FREE TRIPS TO IRAN FOR PRISONERS AGREEING TO GO HOME

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3


The United States Government has offered free flights home to the 192 Iranian
demonstrators imprisoned in New York State, immigration and State Department
officials said today.

The Iranians, who were transferred from the District of Columbia jail to prisons
in Manhattan and Otisville, N.Y., yesterday, face possible deportation for
refusing to identify themselves.

They were arrested here last Sunday for demonstrating without a permit. Although
those charges have been dropped, the authorities have continued to hold the
Iranians for refusing to reveal their names, a violation of regulations issued
last November shortly after the American hostages were seized in Teheran.

The group was transferred to the New York facilities after prison officials here
said they lacked sufficient space.

U.S.-Iranian Arrangements

Under arrangements worked out between immigration officials and representatives
of the Iranian interests section at the Algerian Embassy here, prisoners who
volunteer to return to Iran may do so at United States Government expense
without having to reveal their names.

The officials said, however, that those who wished to remain in the United
States must identify themselves or face deportation proceedings.

The rules issued last November require ''full and truthful disclosure of all
information requested'' by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''Willful
failure'' to comply is a ground for deportation.

A State Department spokesman said department officials had been in touch with
the Iranian interests section here on a continuing basis about a variety of
issues since the arrests. But he said he had no information on the Iranian
response to the United States proposal.

Asked about a report that Iran's United Nations Ambassador had been instructed
to visit the 20 women prisoners at the Metropolitan Correction Center in
Manhattan, the official said the department was unaware of a request for such a
visit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              418 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 7, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NEWS SUMMARY;
News Summary;
THURSDAY, AUGUST 7, 1980

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 893 words


International
Many Iranians were freed prematurely before their names and legal status could
be verified, according to several American immigration officers who had
interviewed the prisoners. Another immigration officer speculated that the
Iranians had been released summarily because Washington feared that Teheran
might retaliate against the American hostages. (Page A1, Col. 2.)
No early release of American hostages in Iran is expected to result from
Washington's freeing of the Iranians arrested in a pro-Khomeini demonstration
July 27, according to Carter Administration officials.  (A3:1.)
A Zimbabwean minister was charged with murder in the slaying of a white farm
manager. The official, Edgar Z. Tekere, who is the Minister of Manpower, has
emerged as the most radical member of the Government of Prime Minister Robert
Mugabe, which appeared to be facing a serious crisis in the politically
sensitive case. (A1:1.)
A major hurricane struck Jamaica with 100-mile-an-hour winds and torrential rain
and then roared past the Cayman Islands toward western Cuba and the Gulf of
Mexico. The storm has taken at least 66 lives. (A1:4.)
Gains by Communist rebels in Burma are occurring amid rising combat and heavy
casualties on both sides. The rebels are supported by China and the clashes are
concentrated in Shan State, which borders on China. (A2:3-6.)
National
Edward Kennedy will break tradition by making a speech as part of Tuesday's
debate on the economic planks of the platform at the Democratic convention. Not
since 1896, when William Jennings Bryan made his ''cross of gold'' speech, has a
potential Presidential candidate made a major address to a Democratic convention
before the nominating roll-call. Senator Kennedy resisted appeals that he
unequivocally pledge support for whoever is the party's nominee.  (A1:6.)
The Carter drive has scored key gains against the ''open''convention movement,
according to interviews with delegates originally committed to the President. At
issue is support of a proposed convention rule that would insure his
renomination. (B6:3-6.)
Mr. Carter assailed Ronald Reagan, terming his proposed tax cuts ''sugar-coated
poison'' and said that he would offer his own ''economic renewal program''
within a few weeks. Mr. Carter addressed the National Urban League in New York
City a week before he expects to return as the Democratic Presidential nominee.
(A1:5.)
Black leaders expressed discontent over the Presidential campaign.  After
hearing speeches by the four major candidates, many delegates to the conference
of the National Urban League expressed doubt that support for any of the
contenders presented a chance to improve the plight of blacks. (B7:3-4.)
A plethora of Democratic social events will surround the party's convention in
New York City for more than a week. It will be a social season with political
clout joining with celebrity status and money in determining the guest lists.
What's happening at the seemingly numberless parties may reflect what's really
happening behind the scenes at the convention. (A1:5-6.)
Compensation for radiation victims of the above-ground nuclear tests in Nevada
in the 1950's and 1960's should be provided by the Government, a House panel
concluded. In a 68-page report, it said that Washington should take
''compassionate'' responsibility for the injuries and deaths of people living
near the test site and it called for the passage of legislation providing for
''prompt and adequate compensation'' for them without long litigation to prove
their claims. (A14:1.)
A new device to combat heart attacks was disclosed in a medical journal. It said
that a team of doctors had successfully tested a small, battery-powered device
that, when implanted in the body, counteracts cardiac arrest in patients who
face a high risk of sudden death. (A17:1.)
Metropolitan
A denial of subway car keys to firemen was disclosed at a time when the number
of transit fires in New York City is rising substantially. Transit Authority
officials said they feared that fire crews entering the cars with the special
door keys during emergencies might damage equipment by operating controls
improperly and that a proliferation of keys would led to their possession by
vandals.  (A1:3-4.)
New York City streets are dirtier than at any time in recent memory.  New York
is believed to spend more per capita on sanitation than any other major American
city, but litter clutters nearly every major thoroughfare. The number of workers
cleaning the streets has been cut to a fifth of what it was in 1975, and many
New Yorkers have abandoned the hope of clean neighborhoods. (A1:1-3.)
Five police officers were indicted by a Queens grand jury on charges that they
had beaten a prisoner. The prisoner, a 26-year-old grocery clerk who had been
arrested after a fight with his brother, was allegedly kicked and punched in the
head and body and then hung by a chain attached to his handcuffs for more than
half an hour. (B1:6.)
The use of lie detectors is increasing in companies in New York State.
Utilization of the polygraph instruments to check the honesty of job seekers and
employees has spread from banks and jewelry concerns to a wide range of
businesses. The rising acceptance of the device has raised many ethical and
legal questions. (B1:3.)

Business Digest, Page D1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations:

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              419 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 10, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IRANIANS TESTING THE LIMITS OF U.S. JUSTICE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An international political controversy spilled into the streets of the nation's
capital last week, raising fresh questions about the rights of aliens to express
unpopular views.

Just as supporters and opponents of the Shah clashed here three years ago, when
the Iranian monarch visited the White House, friends and foes of Ayatollah
Ruhollah Khomeini have recently been confronting each other in demonstrations
here. Nearly 200 Iranian students were arrested late last month at a
demonstration in support of the Ayatollah and spent 10 days in prison.

As soon as they were released, they returned to Washington to participate in yet
another demonstration, protesting, among other things, their treatment in
prison. Angry onlookers jeered and heckled the

Iranian demonstrators, who seemed eager to provoke just such a reaction. For its
part, Teheran saw a victory for Islam in the release of the protesters from
American prisons. ''After 10 days,'' Teheran radio said, ''the savage police of
Washington and the ruthless and cruel police of the U.S. Immigration Department
at last retreated in the face of the brave struggles of our beloved sisters and
brothers.''

The Iranian demonstrations and the treatment of the protesters by Federal
authorities raised several questions to which there were no simple answers. To
what extent are aliens protected by the Constitution? To what extent do they
enjoy First Amendment rights of free speech and assembly? Can immigration laws
be used as an instrument of foreign policy? Does the Immigration and
Naturalization Service consult with the State Department in deciding how to
enforce the law?

Justice Department officials insisted that the treatment of the Iranian
protesters was strictly in accordance with immigration laws and that the
political beliefs of the protestors were not a consideration. The State
Department insisted that it had not sought lenient treatment for the Iranian
prisoners in an effort to avoid harm to the American hostages. Consultations
between the two agencies were apparently informal and the details were kept
secret.

The District of Columbia police said that the 192 Khomeini supporters were
arrested after they pushed through a police line on July 27 and tried to disrupt
an anti-Khomeini rally. The Iranians, initially held in the city jail on
disorderly conduct charges, were transferred to Federal custody and taken to New
York for possible deportation proceedings because they refused to disclose their
names.

Under rules issued last November by the Justice Department, Iranian students
must make ''full and truthful disclosure of all information requested.''
Officials said the Iranians were violating this requirement until they
identified themselves.

It was announced, after rather hurried checks of the files, that all the Iranian
prisoners were ''in status'' - in compliance with the law and with the terms of
their visas. That finding surprised Justice Department officials (who maintain
that a fair percentage of any foreign student group usually has visa problems)
and suggested that the demonstrators had been carefully selected.

On the other hand, immigration officers who interviewed the Iranians said that
many had been released prematurely, that some were indeed ''out of status.'' The
Justice Department is conducting an internal investigation to determine what
actually happened.  Preliminary evidence suggests problems, at the very least,
in the way information was transmitted and decisions made within the immigration
service, a beleaguered agency in the best of times.

A Policy of Extremes?

The Iranian demonstrators, it seemed clear, were testing the limits of the First
Amendment. The Bill of Rights applies to ''people'' in the United States, not to
citizens alone, and civil libertarians have successfully asserted many claims on
behalf of aliens. But Federal courts have also upheld the power of Congress to
enact restrictions on classes of foreigners.

''Any policy toward aliens is vitally and intricately interwoven with
contemporaneous policies in regard to the conduct of foreign relations, the war
power and the maintenance of a republican form of government,'' the Supreme
Court of the United States said in a 1951 decision upholding the deportation of
three resident aliens who had once been members of the Communist Party. ''Such
matters are so exclusively entrusted to the political branches of government as
to be largely immune from judicial inquiry or interference.''

Just as Congress has ''plenary power'' over immigration matters, the executive
branch has substantial discretion in administering the law. At one extreme is
the tough Federal policy toward Iranians: Students already here were required to
report to the nearest immigration service offices last November. Visas issued to
Iranian citizens for future entry into the United States were invalidated in
April. At the other extreme is the generous policy toward Cuban refugees, who
have been welcomed with financial assistance for two decades. Somewhere in
between are the hapless Haitian refugees, who faced expulsion from the United
States until a Federal judge ordered the immigration service to reconsider their
asylum claims last month.

Congress has not enacted special punitive measures against Iranians, but
Representative Kent R. Hance, a Texas Democrat, has asked for hearings to
investigate ''possible subversive actions'' by Iranian students in this country.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has some evidence to suggest that Iran sent
money to the United States to help Khomeini supporters foment civil
disturbances.

Harsh actions against the Iranians in this country might be politically popular,
but many diplomats, educators and specialists on Iranian affairs oppose such
measures. The American Foreign Service Association, the professional
organization of career diplomats, said the fact that aliens could express their
views here, in a nation of laws, ''stands in stark contrast to the violations of
law and of human dignity'' suffered by the hostages in Iran. Or, as a Justice
Department official said, ''We must not let the passions of the moment outweigh
good long-term practice and procedure.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Iranians

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              420 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 14, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S SPENDING $16.8 MILLIONFOR REFUGEES IN FLORIDA

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 13


Federal officials here announced plans today to spend $16.8 million for health
and educational services for Cuban and Haitian refugees in south Florida.

James J. Gigante, the new director of the Miami operations office of the State
Department's Cuban-Haitian Task Force, said today that he had arranged for
$150,000 in State Department funds to be made available immediately to the Dade
County Community Action Agency, which is trying to resettle the Haitians.

The announcements came a day after a coalition of resettlement agencies said
that it was so short of funds that it would not accept more Haitians from
Immigration and Naturalization Service holding areas until it could find homes
for 75 percent of the Haitians who are now living in a Miami Beach hotel.

Approximately 500 Haitians a week are now arriving in south Florida. The Rev.
Gerard Jean-Juste, director of the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, said that
conditions for the 950 refugees at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
Krome Avenue holding center were deplorable.

''It is overcrowded,'' the priest said. ''There is not enough shelter. There is
a sanitation problem. There is not enough fire protection. The grass is three
feet high; people dream of snakes every night. The place has 950 people. It was
made for 200.''

A second Immigration Service holding center, the Federal Correctional
Institution here, holds 150 refugees. After processing and medical examinations,
the refugees are supposed to be released by the immigration authorities to local
agencies for placement. Those who cannot be placed have been sent to the Metro
Hotel in Miami Beach, which now houses 230 Haitians.

The Dade County Community Action Agency is the lead agency of the Haitian
Coalition, a group of concerned public and private agencies.  The coalition has
been trying since April to place the refugees, using Federal and state money and
local funds from Dade County.

Yesterday, citing a desperate shortage of money for housing, food, staff
salaries and transportation, the coalition voted not to accept more Haitian
refugees from the immigration authorities until it substantially reduced the
backlog.

Isaac A. Withers, executive director of the Dade County Community Action Agency,
said that the coalition had been promised $500,000 in State Department funds in
a contract signed June 1 and had spent $132,000 in county funds in July alone.
To date, none of the State Department funds have arrived.

William G. Oliver, a Dade County Commissioner and member of the executive board
of the Haitian Coalition, said today that he felt Haitians, like Cubans, should
be resettled in other parts of the nation as well as Miami. ''Everybody can't
live in Dade County,'' he said angrily.

The State Department took over coordination of Federal efforts to coordinate
settlement of the Cubans and Haitians from the Federal Emergency Management
Agency. A State Department work group that arrived here in July departed Friday
amid complaints that it had not received enough money to carry out its work.

The funds announced today include $6.8 million to expand health and mental
health services for the refugees and $10 million for adult education programs to
teach English to an estimated 12,000 Cubans and 3,600 Haitians in an effort to
help them get jobs.

In the meantime, Father Jean-Juste has urged Federal officials to clarify the
legal status of the refugees, now designated under an executive order by
President Carter as ''entrants,'' with permission to stay for six months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              421 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 16, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IRANIAN DEMONSTRATORS AND DUE PROCESS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 262 words


To the Editor:

The recent episode involving the mass arrest of nearly 200 pro-Khomeini
demonstrators and their subsequent 10-day detention raises fundamental questions
involving our nation's commitment to the constitutional guarantees of free
speech, assembly and due process of law.

A large group of people were subjected to special immigration inquiries merely
because of their participation in a political demonstration, and were detained
without any reasonable basis to believe they were in violation of immigration
laws.

Only last year, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that an individual may not
be detained by the police merely because he refuses to provide identification.
That principle, basic to our concept of liberty, applies to I.N.S. officials as
well as to the police.

Indeed, a Federal court in New York held unconstitutional the I.N.S. practice of
mass detentions of large numbers of suspected aliens absent reasonable suspicion
that each and every person so detained is an alien illegally present in the
United States. The I.N.S. position vis-a-vis the Iranian demonstrators stands in
stark contradiction to these judicial precedents.

It is a measure of the strength of our society that we can tolerate the exercise
of free speech and assembly even by those whose motivations may be questioned
and with whom we may most vigorously disagree. Unfortunately, I.N.S. officials
who have sworn to uphold the law have instead violated it.
STEVEN R. SHAPIRO, ARTHUR N. EISENBERG, Staff Counsel, New York Civil Liberties
Union, New York, Aug. 8, 1980

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              422 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 17, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HOMOSEXUAL CUBANS GET SETTLEMENT AID

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 34, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: FORT CHAFFEE, Ark.


Homosexuals among the Cuban refugees here are being helped in gaining American
sponsors by two national homosexual organizations.

When reports indicated that a large portion of Cuban refugees were homosexuals,
the National Gay Rights Task Force began lobbying on their behalf, as did the
Metropolitan Community Church, an international homosexual church based in Los
Angeles.

''We became concerned when we got reports that the immigration people were
taking detailed sexual histories of these people,'' said Charles F. Brydon,
co-director of the National Gay Task Force. ''The immigration laws cite
homosexuality as a reason for being excluded from this country and we didn't
want that to happen to these people.''

Mr. Brydon said that his organization had been given assurances by officials of
the Carter Administration that a section of the Immigration and Naturalization
Act that permits exclusion of aliens on the basis of their sexual preference
would not be used to screen Cuban refugees.

Some Getting Priority

Because of the pressure by American homosexual groups, homosexual refugees have
frequently received American sponsorship before other refugees, Mr. Brydon said.

''While the general American public has been hesitant about the Cuban refugee,
the gay community has been very supportive,'' he said.  Some estimates on the
number of homosexuals among the Cuban refugees, both at Fort Chaffee and in
other camps around the country, have run as high as one quarter of the refugee
population.

A screening done here by the Metropolitan Community Church indicates, however,
that there are no more than 250 avowed homosexuals among the 5,000 Cuban
refugees in this Ozark camp.

'Still Hiding Our Feathers'

''There are a lot of us here, though some of us are, as we say in Spanish,
'tiene las plumas ocultas,' still hiding our feathers,'' said 24-year-hold
Wilfredo Marin Cardenas.

Mr. Marin stood behind the camp's rope barricade with another homosexual, Ramon
Alcuria, also 24, discussing what life in Cuba was like for homosexuals.
Although the official policy of the Cuban Government is that homosexuality is
not illegal, the general society frowns on it and homosexuals are regarded as
''escoria,'' or scum.  Homosexuals could lose their jobs or be excluded from
universities in Cuba.

And among the refugees here, homosexuals are often shunned or brutalized.

Declaration to Aid Escape

Ironically, in order to escape Cuba, many refugees declared themselves
homosexuals, which fueled reports in this country of large percentages in that
category. Even when the refugees reached this country, many were reluctant to
drop this ploy, according to Richard Tucker, director of Church World Services,
who is helping to find sponsors for the refugees. For this reason the
Metropolitan Community Church has been working with the camp officials to
determine just how large the homosexual community in the camps is.

''Most of the time, it was obvious,'' said one volunteer who worked for the
church at Fort Chaffee and who asked to remain anonymous.  ''The guy was
effeminate in looks and action. The strangest thing was that the straight
refugees were intimidating the gays in order to get out together because they
heard that we had had more sponsorship responses than the other church groups.''

In his three weeks of working at this camp, the volunteer said that he had
screened about 250 homosexuals and had ''20 to 40'' sponsorship offers a day. He
also said there were very few lesbians among the refugee population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Marin and Alcuria

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              423 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BRIBERY CONVICTIONS AT BROOKLYN TRIAL LEAVE SEVEN OTHERTT ABSCAM CASES

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 472 words


In addition to the trial that ended early yesterday in Federal District Court in
Brooklyn, indictments have been handed up in seven other cases as a result of
the Abscam investigation.

Some of the people accused in the other cases were among those convicted
yesterday. In that trial, the defendants were Representative Michael J. Myers,
Democrat of Pennsylvania; Mayor Angelo J. Errichetti of Camden, N.J., who is
also a New Jersey State Senator; Louis C. Johanson, a Philadelphia City
Councilman, and Howard L. Criden, a former law partner of Mr. Johanson.

Four men have been indicted in Brooklyn in an alleged conspiracy involving
immigration and other matters and payments totaling $100,000. They are
Representatives John M. Murphy, Democrat of Staten Island, and Frank Thompson
Jr., Democrat of Trenton; Mr. Criden, and Joseph R. Silvestri, a New Jersey
business consultant and real estate man.

Another indictment in Brooklyn, involving an alleged $50,000 bribe in connection
with an immigration bill, names Representative Raymond F. Lederer, Democrat of
Pennsylvania, and Mayor Errichetti, Mr.  Johanson and Mr. Criden. Mr. Johanson
and Mr. Criden have been severed from the other two defendants in this case.

Immigration Scheme Alleged

A third indictment in Brooklyn names Alexander A. Alexandro Jr., an investigator
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and Alfred Carpentier, a Long
Island businessman. They are accused of immigration bribery scheme.

In Washington, an indictment also charging an immigration bribery plot names
Representative John W. Jenrette Jr., Democrat of South Carolina, and John R.
Stowe, a former South Carolina businessman.

A second indictment in the capital involves allegations of a similar scheme. It
names Representative Richard Kelly, Republican of Florida; Stanley Weisz, an
accountant from Long Island, and Eugene R. Ciuzio, a Florida businessman.

In Philadelphia, four men have been indicted in an alleged bribery scheme to
provide favorable treatment for a spurious hotelconstruction project. They are
George X. Schwartz, president of the Philadelphia City Council; Mr. Criden, and
two City Councilmen - Mr. Johanson and Harry Jannotti. This case has been
scheduled for Sept. 8 and would be the second trial to arise from the inquiry.

Finally, in San Diego, an indictment has been brought against Joseph B. Meltzer,
a real estate man and one-time Government informer, and his wife, Hilda. They
are accused of swindling West Coast businessmen of more than $140,000 by using
inside information about the Abscam inquiry that Mr. Meltzer allegedly gained as
an informer participating in an early stage of the investigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              424 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 2, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Promises Quicker Decisions On Entry of Cubans Now in Peru

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1


The Carter Administration has agreed to expedite decisions on whether Cubans in
Peru will be allowed to immigrate to the United States.

The promise came Saturday after 168 Cuban men, women and children stormed a Los
Angeles-bound plane in Lima and held 15 hostages for 23 hours in an unsuccessful
attempt to reach the United States. The State Department said almost all the
Cubans involved in the incident had originally been declared ineligible for
admission to the United States and had been resettled in Peru.

''Those among them who consider themselves eligible to enter the United States
through normal immigration procedures are, of course, free to apply for such
visas, and the United States has agreed to review those applications on an
expedited basis,'' a department statement said.

Asked if taking part in the hostage incident would count against Cubans seeking
to enter the United States, State Department press officer, Sondra McCarty said
she doubted it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              425 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 8, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

LOS ANGELES,ALMOST 200,RANKS NO.2 AMONG CITIES

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1508 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 7


At the age of 199, it appears, Los Angeles has become No. 2.  This sprawling
city began a yearlong bicentennial celebration this weekend that will culminate
with the commemoration of the 200th anniversary of its founding by 44 immigrants
from Mexico on Sept. 4, 178l.

As the civic celebration was beginning, preliminary estimates from the 1980
Census were released indicating that Los Angeles was now the nation's second
most populous city, eclipsing Chicago, which had held that distinction since
1890 when it passed Philadelphia to become the ''Second City.''

Role of Mexican Immigrants

While few people dwelled on the matter, there was a pattern in the turn of
events: Los Angeles, a city founded by Mexicans, appeared to have become the
country's second largest city largely because of a renewed wave of immigration
from Mexico.

And as it began its bicentennial year, Los Angeles appeared to be on its way to
becoming the nation's first city where a majority of the population is made up
of immigrants from Latin America and Asia or descendants of earlier immigrants
from those regions of the world and Africa.

This city is still the Los Angeles of freeways, movie stars, earthquakes, palm
trees and smog, of experimental ways of life and unorthodox religious cults and
a seemingly omnipresent, benign sun.

Autos and Real Estate

It remains perhaps the quintessential American urban expression of the
automobile, a city that seems to have been experiencing a real estate boom
continuously since the first land developers and hucksters came from ''back
East'' a century ago and began to turn a sun-blessed semidesert into one of the
world's largest metropolitan regions by importing water from mountain ranges 300
miles away.

It is the economic center of a region containing more than 10 million people
that in the last decade has become the nation's major financial bridge to Asia,
a visibly thriving city whose downtown is currently experiencing a rejuvenation
involving more than $1 billion worth of new construction.

It is a cultural center that not only produces most of the world's movies and
prime-time television programming but, increasingly, exports original plays to
Broadway, has a world-class symphony orchestra whose musical director, Zubin
Mehta, was recruited by the New York Philharmonic, and is the setting for a
planned major museum of contemporary art that promises to be one of the most
ambitious museum projects in any American city in decades.

Annual Gathering of Migrants

Every summer, a 45-year-old southern California ritual recurs, when some of the
tens of thousands of migrants who moved west from Oklahoma, Texas, Iowa,
Nebraska and elsewhere in the 1930's gather at picnics to talk about old times.

But each year, there are fewer people at those picnics, because some of the
migrants have died and others have decided to move out of California to escape
the smog and congestion.

To fill their places, there is a new wave of migrants. Los Angeles is still
attracting people from other states, especially New York.  But more and more,
local officials say, the newcomers are from other countries.

''It's becoming a Hispanic city,'' said Charles Drescher, director of the city's
Community Analysis and Planning Division, which has estimated that the 1980
Census will show that non-Hispanic whites now make up 44 percent of the
population, as against 59 percent in 1970 and 72 percent in 1960.

But he said that the changes went beyond the tide of immigrants from Mexico and
other Latin-American countries who have been propelled northward by economic
deprivation and have changed the look and texture of life here.

He predicted that the census would also document a sizable influx of immigrants
from Taiwan, Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia and other thirdworld countries in the
1970's.  According to the local population researchers, it is this Latin and
Asian immigration, occurring in a decade when more than one million non-Hispanic
whites have left the city, that has allowed Los Angeles to challenge Chicago for
the position of the country's second largest city, after New York.

Although both cities are contesting the figures as too low, the preliminary
Census Bureau data indicate that Los Angeles now has about 152,000 more
residents than Chicago. The figures show Los Angeles with a population of
2,878,039, about 62,000 more than in 1970, and Chicago withh a population of
2,725,295, about 644,000 fewer than in 1970.

Breakdown of Population

The city's most recent estimates indicate that whites make up 44 percent of the
population; blacks, 21.5 percent; Hispanic residents 28 percent and Asians and
Pacific islanders about 7 percent.

The median age of the Hispanic residents is about 19, and the rate at which they
are increasing, through childbirth and immigration, has prompted some
researchers to predict that Latins could account for more than half of the
city's population by the end of this decade. By the year 2000, they say, the
Hispanic influx could make Los Angeles the nation's largest city. Hispanic
pupils already make up almost 40 percent of the student enrollment here.

The Spanish-speaking immigrants are becoming increasingly important economically
here, supporting not only retailing establishments but providing the labor for a
large garment industry, much of it operating in sweatshop conditions. The large
Latin population is also economically vital to the city's school system, whose
white population has plummeted in recent years.

The Latin residents have not yet translated their numbers into political
strength, but many people say they soon will.  ''It's only a matter of time -
it's already begun,'' Grace Montanez Davis, a Chicano, who is an aide to Mayor
Tom Bradley, a black, said recently in an interview.

Rivalry With New York

Although this is a city with a long history of self-promotion and civic
boosterism, the news that it appears to have passed Chicago in population is not
likely to bring much local applause. Many people here already believe that they
live in the Second City and have considered New York as their natural rival.

According to some observers, many Angelenos, as the people here call themselves,
have a kind of collective municipal inferiority complex. They say this is
especially true regarding New York City's image of supposedly superior cultural
riches and greater economic importance, in contrast with Los Angeles's
reputation as a kind of vast, shallow tinsel town - ''19 suburbs in search of a
city,'' as several generations of Eastern writers have depicted it.

The differences in reputations seems especially to trouble many of the New
Yorkers who have moved here. A study by the Security Pacific Bank last year
indicated that about 16 percent of this region's new residents in 1979 came from
New York State.

For many displaced New Yorkers, a move here results in a kind of love-hate
relationship involving the two cities, and they seem to be forever debating the
cities' relative merits. Many of them have been known to return to New York for
quick visits to confirm their decision to move here, or to import items, ranging
from Nedick's orange soda to New York pastrami, for comfort.

Neil Simon's Solution

Neil Simon, the playwright, moved here five years ago after tiring of New York's
problems but now divides his time between this city and Manhattan. Recently he
decided to try out his next play outside Los Angeles because of his
dissatisfaction with reviews in The Los Angeles Times.

Sandy Fox, a Brooklyn-born lawyer, holds a party each year at which 100 or so
former New Yorkers nostalgically play stickball and other games from their
childhood.

Reflecting on the dispute over the cities' respective cultural values, Gordon
Davidson, a former New Yorker who runs this city's respected Mark Taper Forum,
an innovative theater organization here, said:

''I'm bored with it. It's a silly argument. There's the problem of geographic
sprawl, but there is a lot of activity that's bubbling here in many areas in the
performing as well as the visual arts. The cultural situation in Los Angeles is
different than it is in the East. The East looked to, and benefited from, the
cultural heritage of Europe, but it's also been weighed down with it. Here we
can benefit from the things that occur on the Pacific rim and take advantage of
our Mexican and Hispanic influence.''

The bicentennial observance will include more than 150 community projects,
ranging from art shows to the commissioning of a ballet and plays that stress
the city's history. Angelenos are trying to use the event to enhance the city's
image. Admittedly inspired by the imagebuilding power of the ''I Love New York''
slogan, the bicentennial planners devised their own slogan: ''L.A.'s the
Place.''

Margo Albert, the wife of Eddie Albert, the actor, is co-chairman of the
celebration. ''This will be a fine opportunity to show that Los Angeles is a
great city instead of 'tinsel town,' and all that flaky stuff,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo (Page B8)

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              426 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 25, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

WEST BERLIN PREPARING TO LIMIT JEWISH IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

DATELINE: WEST BERLIN, Sept. 24


The West Berlin municipal authorities have taken steps to check the entry of
Jewish immigrants from the Soviet Union, ending a six-year period in which a
steady flow of Soviet Jews found a haven here.

The decision appears to have the support of Jewish leaders here who say their
community services are being overwhelmed by immigrants.  The new restrictions,
which are to be carried out this week, are designed to prevent Soviet Jews
allowed to emigrate to Israel from settling permanently in West Berlin. Since
1974, 2,600 Jews from the Soviet Union, many of them traveling on forged German
immigration papers and most originally bound for Israel, have found their way to
West Berlin.

Heinz Galinski, a Jewish leader in West Berlin, said he had been consulted and
was in full agreement with the administration's decision. ''We can no longer
cope with the stream of refugees,'' he said. ''We have taken more than our
share.''

Many Choose West Berlin

After Israel and the United States, he said West Berlin was the only place where
substantial numbers of Soviet Jews had found new homes.

Peter Ulrich, who is in charge of the city's department of internal affairs,
linked the restriction to the discovery some months ago of numerous cases in
which Jewish immigrants used false papers to claim refugee status or West German
nationality. ''These people had Israeli papers but they evidently found life
easier here,'' he said.

Mr. Galinski said that Soviet Jews with close family ties in the city would
still be allowed to settle here and eventually obtain full citizenship. He said
others, with Israeli nationality, would be considered aliens in the future and
would be barred from permanent settlement. He said they could apply for visas
and remain for periods of three to six months.

Some Face Deportation to Israel

Mr. Ulrich said authorities had investigated close to 1,000 recent immigrants
and had opened proceedings against 319, charging them with illegal entry. Twelve
Jews are in pretrial detention, he added, because evidence showed they had used
forged documents. Ten people were sentenced to prison terms ranging from two to
eight months.

The official said that under international law anyone found guilty of criminal
offenses could be deported, in this case to Israel, but Mr. Galinski said that
he had received assurances that all those now in West Berlin could stay in the
city.

''The authorities were generous and helpful in providing homes and jobs for the
new arrivals and in assisting us in our effort to integrate the immigrants,''
the Jewish official said, ''but the problems just tended to overwhelm a
community as small as ours.''

Berlin had a Jewish population of 175,000 before the Second World War, and the
flow of Jews from the Soviet Union was at first welcomed since it was adding to
a population made up mostly of older survivors. West Berlin's Jewish population
today is estimated at 6,000 to 7,000.

Language Is a Problem

Difficulties arose, according to Jewish residents here, because many of the new
arrivals spoke only Russian and had little or no knowledge of Jewish traditions
and religious life. ''Language classes were a predominant issue,'' he said,
''but almost as important and as difficult are our attempts to get the young
generation to take part in religious instruction, to learn Hebrew and to share
our customs and our faith.''

Jews from the Soviet Union's Baltic republics, where German language and
cultural influences prevailed before the war, had little trouble integrating,
officials said.

''I feel at home here,'' said a woman from Riga, who came to West Berlin three
years ago and is now a teacher at a municipal school.  ''My sons had some
language troubles at first, but now one studies at the city's free university
and the other one is at a teachers college,''.

But she said her situation appeared different from that of immigrants from other
parts of the Soviet Union, some of whom, as she put it, ''come only because they
want the good life and find conditions in Israel too harsh.''

Mr. Galinski acknowledged that the new restrictions appeared unpopular at first
sight. ''But to all those who shed crocodile's tears, I can only say where were
the big Jewish communities when the refugee stream began to flow? Let other
countries take their share.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              427 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 27, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

JAILING OF CUBAN REFUGEES ASSAILED AS UNJUST PROCESS

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26


Hundreds of the Cuban refugees tagged as hardened criminals by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service were locked up in Federal prisons shortly after their
arrival in this country because of such ''serious crimes'' in Cuba as killing a
cow without Government permission, according to lawyers who have examined their
cases.

And unless the cases are reviewed with greater understanding and discrimination,
the refugees now face the likelihood of being expelled or spending an indefinite
period in jail, an immigration service judge has cautioned.

In the course of expulsion hearings that the immigration service is conducting,
the judge, Theodore P. Jakaboski, and several lawyers for Cubans in the Federal
prison in Atlanta discovered that a significant number of the refugees were in
prison even though they had never committed a felony.

2,000 Cubans in U.S. Prisons

Some 2,000 Cubans in Federal prisons at Atlanta, Talladega, Ala., Leavenworth,
Kan., and McNeil Island, Wash., have been going through expulsion hearings since
President Carter's directive to the Justice Department on June 7 to move quickly
to expel refugees who had committed ''serious crimes'' in Cuba.

Immigration officials said that, of the 393 hearings completed, 388 involved
Cubans who had been officially excluded. Only five have not been ordered
expelled.

David W. Crosland, Acting Commissioner of the immigration service, said that
considerably more Cubans had initially been classified as criminals but that
reviews had diminished the number to about 2,000.  He said that he felt that due
process was being adhered to in the expulsion hearings.

The problem, according to Judge Jakaboski, is that many of the Cubans should not
be in prison in the first place.

Assessment by Judge

''A lot of these people aren't guilty of serious crimes,'' Judge Jakaboski said
in a telephone interview Wednesday. ''Some of them are petty criminals, but
there is no need to lock them up. There is no danger to society from them. I'd
say that 15 to 20 percent of the cases I dealt with have an asylum claim that
should be considered and 10 to 15 percent have valid claims to parole.''

Aliens can be excluded under immigration laws if they have ''committed a serious
nonpolitical crime prior to admission as a refugee.'' They can, however, claim
asylum in this country if return to their native land would lead to their
persecution because of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
membership in a particular social group.

Judge Jakaboski, who held hearings in Atlanta for 10 days in August, said that,
of the 15 cases he had handled, he had returned four to the State Department for
reconsideration, granted asylum in one case and reserved judgment in two other
cases. In seven instances he ruled that the Cuban should be expelled from the
United States.

Language Problems

The judge said that the written statements of the Cuban's record were all done
in English, that the immigration service agents who had dealt with them on their
arrival frequently did not speak the idiomatic Spanish that the refugees used
and therefore did not communicate well, and that the statements freely
translated into English were not translated into Spanish and read back to the
refugees before they were asked to sign the statement.

A Cuban's criminal record is based on his or her own admission, said Judge
Jakaboski, adding that sophisticated criminals would not admit crimes.

Judge Jakaboski cited one of the cases he had referred back to the State
Department's Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs Department for consideration
as an example of the kind of Cubans who have been incarcerated.

The case involved a Cuban who was sentenced to 30 years in Cuba for stealing
fabric when he was 12 years old and stealing clothes when he was 16. Juvenile
crimes and offenses committed under the age of 18 are not admissible in
immigration law if five years have elapsed since their occurrence.

Lawyer's Experiences

Deborah S. Ebel, a lawyer for several of the Cubans in the Atlanta prison, said
that the problems with the Cubans' statements admitting crime were ''translation
problems,'' adding, ''There are an awful lot of translation problems.

''I had one case where the person had admitted to rape,'' she said. ''But, on
questioning, it turned out that at 14, he ran away with a girlfriend and set up
housekeeping. The girl's parents didn't like it, but it was more like eloping
than rape.''

Miss Ebel said that she and another lawyer had developed several hundred
questionnaires on the crimes that Cuban refugees in the Atlanta prison had
admitted.

Of the 312 admissions of crimes, she said, 47 percent were crimes of theft, with
the majority of these being ''small theft for sustenance.'' Crimes against
another person accounted for 11 percent. Eighteen percent of the crimes were
listed as anti-Castro political activity.

Miss Ebel said that 8 percent of the crimes were ''regulatory crimes, things
like killing your own cow without getting Government permission, or not having
balanced accounting books.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              428 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 28, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IDEAS & TRENDS IN SUMMARY;
Havana Cuts;
Off Easy Exit;
by Margot Slade and Tom Ferrell

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8, Column 6; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 306 words


Without warning, the Cuban Government last week apparently stopped the boatlift
of refugees that has already brought 125,000 to the United States. According to
the Administration, first official word of the action came the Coast Guard,
which learned of it from boat captains forced to return from Cuba without
refugees.

There was speculation in Washington that Havana might have acted to counteract
negative feelings among Americans over the exodus.  The cutoff occurred as
United States immigration officials were involved in expulsion hearings for some
2,000 refugees, tagged as hardened criminals and awaiting disposition in Federal
prisons. Many, say lawyers examining their cases, had been imprisoned in Cuba
for inconsequential crimes.

Officials in charge of relocating the 10,000 or so Cubans still in camps may
take distant hope from two studies prepared for the Select Commission on
Immigration and Refugee Policy. These show that within 10 years, average
immigrant families start earning more than average families born in this country
and are not the burden on welfare systems they are sometimes perceived to be.
Immigrant families tend to have more working-age members, fewer children and a
heavier investment in education than native-born families.

Conducted by researchers at Yale University and the University of Illinois, the
studies may fuel the dispute as to whether immigrants are an asset to the
economy because they take unpopular jobs, or a drain because they take jobs from
those already here.

Last week, the Government began consolidating refugees from scattered camps at
Fort Chaffee, Ark. and announced it would open an old Army base in Puerto Rico
to house others.

(More Ideas & Trends, page 22.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              429 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW JERSEYANS

SECTION: Section 11; New Jersey; Page 30, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 757 words


AS Joan Morrison remembers the day in 1973, there they were - she and Charlotte
Fox Zabusky - standing outside the Morris County Courthouse. They were all
dressed up with no place to go after attending a naturalization ceremony.

So the two women retired to a nearby coffee shop and made plans then and there
to write a book about this nation of immigrants.  Called ''American Mosaic: The
Immigrant Experience in the Words of Those Who Lived It,'' the volume was
published recently by E.P.  Dutton.

In deciding to write the book, Mrs. Morrison, who lives in Morris Township, and
Mrs. Zabusky, who has since moved to Pittsburgh, started a more-difficult
journey than they had an anticipated.

''If we knew how much work it would be, I don't think we'd ever have started the
book,'' Mrs. Morrison says now.  But five years of researching and writing
produced the book, and the two women are now tasting the semi-celebrity,
semi-huckster life of authors helping to publicize their creation.

One recent Sunday, they starred in a program of drama and song in the auditorium
of the American Museum of Immigration at the Statue of Liberty. They have been
interviewed for the Voice of America and invited to speak at schools and
universities.

The book - in-their-own-words narratives by dozens of immigrants - stems from a
story that appeared in this section of The New York Times. It was about a
Christmas party held for a group of ''new Americans'' at the Neighborhood House
in Morristown. Mrs. Zabusky was in charge of the program, and Mrs. Morrison
wrote the story about it for the New Jersey Weekly.

One of the people mentioned in the story invited the two women to his
naturalization ceremony. It moved them emotionally - so much so, in fact, that
they decided to write ''American Mosaic.'' It tells the stories of some
otherwise anonymous Americans, and of some (like Alistair Cooke, for instance)
whose names are familiar.

There have been lots of books about immigrants. What is different about this
one?  ''It's probably the only one to deal with the human side,'' Mrs.  Morrison
said. ''Not statistics, not trends. People. We decided, as the title says, that
this nation is not a melting pot, but a mosaic.''

Writing is not an unfamiliar chore in the Morrison family. Mrs.  Morrison has
written for newspapers and magazines, and her husband, Robert, is an author of
science textbooks.

Another author, Leonard S. Silk, whose new book is ''The American
Establishment,'' has been appointed to the Board of Trustees at William Paterson
College in Wayne. Mr. Silk, a Montclair resident, was co-author of the book with
his son, Mark.

Father and son not only write about the Establishment, but they also work for
it. Mark Silk is a professor at Harvard, and Leonard Silk is economic columnist
for The New York Times.

Also joining the William Paterson board is Sol Hoffman of Teaneck, international
vice president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. And, finally,
James A. Ware of South Plainfield, an employment and training-center supervisor
for the United States Department of Labor, has joined the adjunct sociology
faculty as a teacher of ''Sociology of Labor.''

The new ''community shaliach'' -liaison from Israel to the Jewish community of
Bergen County - is David Ben Asher, who is a colonel on leave from the Israel
Defense Force. He will live in Teaneck and have his office at the United Jewish
Community of Bergen County center, 111 Kinderkamack Road, River Edge.

Appointed provost of the 10,000-student Teaneck-Hackensack campus of Fairleigh
Dickinson University is Dr. Allan De Giulio of Ramsey.  ''It's a thrill to be
joining such a fine university,'' said Dr. De Giulio, who previously was
president of Harriman College in Harriman, N.Y.

The 1980 award of the Governmental Research Association for ''Most Distinguished
Research'' has been conferred on the Bureau of Government Research at Rutgers
University.

The award, presented at the association's annual conference in Austin, Tex.,
honored the 114-page report on ''School Budget Caps in New Jersey 1976-1980.''
The report was prepared by the Rutgers bureau's director, Dr. Ernest C. Reock
Jr.  Maurice Carroll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Charlotte Fox Zabusky and Joan Morrison

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              430 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 16, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Oct. 15


Manuel Hernandez Garcia, the Mexican laborer who says he was chained to a tree
without food or water for 24 hours on a ranch 35 miles east of Tucson, was
released from jail yesterday afternoon.

Mr. Hernandez, 20 years old, had been held in custody since Oct. 7 by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service pending a deportation hearing for lack of
proper documentation. But that hearing has been postponed until a case is
resolved against Walter M. Burris Jr., a rancher who allegedly chained Mr.
Hernandez to a tree on his property in a dispute over the theft of some tools.

Mr. Burris has been charged with unlawful imprisonment, aggravated assault and
kidnapping, and was himself released on his own recognizance last Thursday, the
day after he was arrested.

Mr. Hernandez is expected to testify Friday at a preliminary hearing for Mr.
Burris.

'Not Likely to Abscond'

Mr. Hernandez's release was arranged between Antonio D. Bustamante of Southern
Arizona Legal Aid Inc. and James G. Martin, assistant district director for
investigations of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Phoenix.

Mr. Martin said today that he had permitted the release because Mr. Hernandez
was ''not likely to abscond.'' Max Torres, an officer with Youth Development
Inc., a crime prevention program in Tucson, has agreed to house Mr. Hernandez.
And Mr. Hernandez is expected to work at Mr. Torres's office until the Burris
case is completed.

Mr. Hernandez comes from the small village of Cuichata, Vera Cruz, 60 miles from
the Gulf of Mexico. A short man with Indian features, he first tried to enter
the United States on Aug. 20 near Nogales, Ariz., but was thwarted by the United
States Border Patrol. The next day he eluded capture and found employment doing
odd jobs at Mr.  Burris's ranch, where he says he was promised $7 a day plus
room and board.

On Oct. 6, according to the authorities, Mr. Burris accused Mr.  Hernandez of
stealing some tools, a charge that the Mexican denied.  Sheriff deputies report
that Mr. Burris then tied one end of a logging chain around a tree and locked
the other end around Mr.  Hernandez's neck. When Mr. Hernandez had not confessed
to the theft 24 hours later, the deputies said, Mr. Burris unchained him and Mr.
Hernandez hid in a closet in the bunkhouse he had been sleeping in.

A sheriff's deputy, reportedly alerted to the chaining by an anonymous phone
call to the Border Patrol office, rescued him. He had been held in the City of
South Tucson jail until his release yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              431 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEES SEIZE HOSPITAL BUILDING

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 20


Cuban refugees transferred here for psychiatric observation seized control of a
building at St.  Elizabeth's Hospital for six hours today before the authorities
quelled the disturbance.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said there were no
injuries in the incident, which came a day after a similar disturbance at the
hospital.

Twenty of the Cubans at St. Elizabeth's filed suit in Federal District Court
asking to be released. They contended that the confinement was ''dehumanizing
and stigmatizing.''

Officials said there were 92 Cubans in the building when the disturbance began
at 1:30 P.M.

I.N.S. Officers End Takeover

The Cubans remained in control until early evening, when about 100 uniformed
I.N.S. officers moved into the two-story brick building and ended the takeover.

David Crosland, the Acting Commissioner of the immigration service, said 19
inmates considered ''troublemakers'' were later taken to Andrews Air Force Base
for flights to other Federal institutions.

Seventeen men were being sent to the penitentiary in Springfield, Mo., and two
women were being flown to a prison in Lexington, Ky. The rest of the Cubans will
stay at St. Elizabeth's, Mr. Crosland said.

Don Ralbovski, a spokesman for the Public Health Service, said he did not know
what prompted the disturbance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              432 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Selection of Jury Ends In Fourth Abscam Trial

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 208 words


A jury was selected yesterday for the fourth Abscam trial, in which the
defendants are a former investigator for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and a fund-raiser for the Republican Party in Nassau County.

The defendants are Alexander A. Alexandro Jr., 30 years old, of Commack, L.I.,
who left the Immigration and Naturalization Service after his indictment, and
Alfred Carpentier, 54, a businessman from East Meadow, L.I. The trial, before
Judge Mark A. Costantino in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, is expected to
last one to two weeks.

Mr. Alexandro was the first person arrested in the Abscam inquiry.  He allegedly
received $2,000 from an undercover Government agent as part of a $15,000 deal to
secure permanent resident status in the United States for a foreigner.

Mr. Carpentier is accused along with Mr. Alexandro of conspiracy to commit
bribery, bribe-receiving and conflict of interest.  Video and audio tapes may
play a key role in the trial, and under a procedural agreement between the
television networks and the court, any tapes introduced as evidence will be
available for broadcast within an hour.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              433 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 22, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
Cash Payoff Shown On Abscam Tape

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 145 words


A videotape of an immigration investigator accepting $2,000 in cash from a
Federal undercover agent at a hotel at Kennedy International Airport in August
1979 was shown yesterday on the opening day of the fourth Abscam trial.

The tape, played back in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, shows Alexander
Alexandro Jr. of Commack, L.I., who was the investigator, accepting the money
from Anthony Amoroso Jr., an undercover agent who went by the name of Tony
DeVito during the investigation. The money was the first installment of a
$15,000 deal to obtain permanentresident status for an Irishman who wanted to
come to America.

Mr. Alexandro, 31 years old, and his co-defendant, Alfred Carpentier, 54, are
charged with conspiracy, bribe-receiving and conflict of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              434 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 22, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Haitians Win the Right To Hold Jobs in Florida

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 169 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Fla., Oct. 21


As many as 20,000 Haitian refugees in south Florida today won the right to work
until a decision is reached on their individual claims for political asylum.

Federal District Judge Alcee L. Hastings approved the settlement of a class
action suit filed against the Government in July 1979 by the National Emergency
Civil Liberties Committee and the American Civil Liberties Union of Florida on
behalf of the National Council of Churches, the Haitian Refugee Center and a
number of Haitian refugees.

The suit challenged the Immigration and Naturalization Service's decision to
revoke the work authorizations of the Haitian refugees until their asylum claims
could be resolved. The Haitians asserted that the agency used a double standard
that favored Cuban refugees.

The immigration service has agreed to give work permits to Nicaraguan and
Haitian refugees who arrived in South Florida before June 20 this year and
reported by Aug. 1, 1980.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              435 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 28, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILLS AND THE LESSON OF THE HELSTOSKI CASECASE

SECTION: Section A; Page 38, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 577 words


To the Editor:

Your editorial on private immigration bills (Oct. 16) reiterates a misconception
of the Helstoski case which has contributed to the blasting of an outstanding,
12-year Congressional career and the denial to the people of the Ninth
Congressional District of New Jersey of the services of a dedicated public
figure.

It is true that the U.S. attorney withdrew the bribery prosecution after the
Supreme Court ruled that Helstoski's legislative acts (e.g., the introduction of
bills) could not be proved in court. What is overlooked, however, is that the
Supreme Court plainly permitted the attorney to try to prove that Helstoski had
taken money and had promised to perform legislative acts (the sort of proof
which is at the heart of the Abscam cases).

The Supreme Court was indubitably correct in its decision. If legislative acts
of members of Congress become the grist of Federal prosecutors, grand juries and
criminal-trial juries, the underlying concept of a free and independent
legislative body uncoerced by the executive or judicial branches of our
Government, is gravely threatened. On the other hand, the Court in Helstoski, as
it had done previously, emphasized that non-legislative acts of members of
Congress, e.g., taking bribes, were well within the ambit of the Federal
prosecutorial process.

Since it had been familiar law that legislative acts could not be proved, it is
obvious that the reiteration of that principle in Helstoski had nothing to do
with the U.S. attorney's decision to drop the bribery charges. The reason he did
so was that he finally realized that his case, shorn of impermissible evidence,
came to rest upon the testimony of two persons who had been caught in flagrant
violation of law and who bought their way out (freedom from prosecution in one
case, and a mild sentence in the other) by satisfying the ill-concealed desire
of the U.S. attorney to add Helstoski's scalp to his prosecutorial belt.

Against those two witnesses there would have been an outpouring of testimony
from constituents who over the years had been helped by an extraordinarily
devoted Congressman with never a hint of anything expected in return. The
Supreme Court's decision became an excuse, therefore, to drop what appeared to
be a losing prosecution that at the time seemed not to matter; Mr. Helstoski's
career had already been destroyed by the indictment, which had been extant for
more than three years.

The lesson of the Helstoski case, therefore, is not that private immigration
bills are bad. They provide healthy movement of the joints in what is otherwise
a rigid, impersonal and sometimes unjust immigration-law system. The lesson of
the Helstoski case is rather that Federal prosecutors, some of whom are bent on
the use of their offices for career development, can use their inordinate power
to destroy decent people.

Perhaps it has escaped the attention of The Times, although it is a matter of
record, that it was Henry Helstoski himself who caused the initiation of the
F.B.I. investigation which the U.S. attorney turned against him. Unfortunately,
in this post-Watergate era, any politician who is so much as charged with crime
is presumed guilty.

There is no easy remedy, but at least the media ought not exacerbate the
problem, as I am afraid you have done in your interpretation of the Helstoski
case in your editorial.
MORTON STAVIS, Newark, Oct. 16, 1980

The writer is Mr. Helstoski's attorney.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              436 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 28, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

DEFENDANT ONLY 'PLAYING ALONG' IN ABSCAM CASE, HE TELLS JURORS

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 403 words


A Federal immigration investigator testified yesterday that rather than taking a
$2,000 bribe from Abscam undercover agents, he was ''playing'' along with their
immigration-fraud scheme because he thought they were organized-crime figures
and he had determined to investigate them.

''I was putting myself into a role of a rogue Federal agent to gain their
confidence and probe their organization,'' Alexander A.  Alexandro Jr., the
immigration investigator, said.

He gave this explanation in testifying in his own defense as his trial entered
its second week in Federal District Court in Brooklyn.  He and a co-defendant -
Alfred Carpentier, a Long Island businessman - face bribery and conspiracy
charges growing out of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Abscam operation to
uncover official corruption.

The trial is the fourth to result from the investigation, in which undercover
operators pretended they were wealthy Middle Easterners and their aides seeking
to buy favors in the United States. The three previous trials resulted in the
convictions of eight people, including Representatives Michael J. Myers of
Pennsylvania and John W. Jenrette Jr. of South Carolina.

Bribery Scheme Alleged

In the case of Mr. Alexandro, 31 years old, and Mr. Carpentier, 55, the Justice
Department charges that they engaged in a bribery scheme as part of an alleged
effort to obtain permanent resident status in the United States for a foreigner
''not entitled'' to it.

Mr. Alexandro is accused of having received the $2,000 as a down payment on a
$15,000 bribe. Mr. Carpentier is charged with conspiring with and ''aiding and
abetting'' him. Both have pleaded not guilty.

Under questioning yesterday by his attorney, Joel Winograd, Mr.  Alexandro
conceded having taken the $2,000 from two Abscam undercover men last year. But
he insisted, ''I was playing a role - I was trying to get on the inside of their
organization.''

Judge Mark A. Costantino dismissed an elderly juror and replaced her with an
alternate after Mr. Winograd complained that the woman had been sleeping through
much of yesterday's testimony. Before dismissing her, though, the judge
expressed sympathy for her problem of staying awake, indicating that he felt
that at least part of the trial was ''boring.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              437 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 1, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AIDE IS GUILTY IN ABSCAM CASE

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section 2; Page 28, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 774 words


A Federal immigration investigator was found guilty last night of bribery,
conspiracy and conflict of interest in the fourth trial to grow out of the
Abscam investigation into official corruption.

His codefendant, a Long Island businessman, was found guilty of conspiracy and
aiding and abetting conflict of interest. But he was acquitted of a charge of
aiding and abetting bribery.

After three hours of deliberation, following a two-week trial, a jury in Federal
District Court in Brooklyn returned the verdicts against Alexander A. Alexandro
Jr., the investigator for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and Alfred
Carpentier, the businessman.

Down Payment on a Bribe

They had been charged with engaging in a scheme to obtain permanent residence
status in the United States for a foreigner ''not entitled'' to it. Mr.
Alexandro had been accused of receiving $2,000 as a down payment on a $15,000
bribe from F.B.I. undercover operatives posing as representatives of wealthy
Middle Easterners seeking to buy favors in the United States.

Mr. Carpentier was charged with having conspired with and assisted Mr.
Alexandro.  As the verdict was announced at 10:20 P.M., Mr. Alexandro, a slender
31-year-old man in a vested brown suit, gazed at the jury without showing
emotion. So did the heavyset 55-year-old Mr.  Carpentier, who lives in East
Meadow. His family and two news reporters were the only spectators in the
downtown Brooklyn courtroom.

Mr. Alexandro, a resident of Commack, L.I., faces up to 15 years in prison and
Mr. Carpentier up to five years when they are sentenced within the next few
weeks by Judge Mark A. Costantino. Meanwhile they remain free in their own
recognizance.

Their lawyers said they would appeal.  Mr. Carpentier declined to comment after
the verdict. Mr. Alexandro said, ''Deep down inside my heart I know I'm not
guilty.'' Most of the jurors would not comment as they rushed from the
courthouse, but one said, ''The facts, we found it on the facts.''

Eight Abscam Convictions

The three previous trials based on the Federal Bureau of Investigation's
undercover investigation resulted in the convictions of eight people, including
Representatives Michael J. Myers of Pennsylvania and John W. Jenrette Jr. of
South Carolina. Among those scheduled to be tried on Abscam-related bribery
charges in the future are Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr. of New Jersey and
Representatives John M. Murphy of New York and Frank Thompson Jr. of New Jersey.

According to John H. Jacobs, the prosecutor at the Alexandro-Carpentier trial,
the foreigner to be aided in the immigration-fraud scheme was an Irishman
supposedly acquainted with one of the bogus Arab sheiks who were at the heart of
the Abscam investigation. In fact, the Irishman, Thomas Foley, was a relative of
an F.B.I. agent.

The prosecution charged that among the methods envisioned for obtaining
residence status for Mr. Foley was ''procuring a woman for a temporary marriage
of convenience'' to him to establish his ''eligibility for permanent residence
because of a marriage to a United States citizen.''

Admitted Taking Money

The defendants denied the charges against them. Mr. Alexandro - who was the
first person arrested as a result of the Abscam investigation - conceded on the
witness stand that he had taken the $2,000 cash from the undercover men at a
hotel near Kennedy International Airport in Queens in August 1979. Indeed, the
F.B.I. surreptitiously videotaped the transaction, and the tape was played at
the trial.

But under questioning by his attorney, Joel Winograd, Mr. Alexandro testified
that he was ''playing'' along with the agents' immigration-fraud scheme because
he thought they were organizedcrime figures and he had set out to investigate
them.

''I was putting myself into a role of rogue Federal agent to gain their
confidence and probe their organization,'' he said.  Mr. Carpentier did not take
the stand, but his attorney, James A.  Pascarella, said his client was involved
in legitimate business dealings with the undercover men.

One of the undercover men, a convicted swindler named Melvin Weinberg, coached
Mr. Carpentier to say incriminating things, Mr.  Pascarella told the jury.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              438 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 11, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

LAND OF IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words


To the Editor:

On Sept. 9, an event unprecedented in American legal history took place in
California. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals convened in San Francisco for
oral argument, with the judiciary headed by Herbert Y. Choy, an American of
Korean descent. Sitting alongside of him was Judge Shiro, of Japanese
extraction. The third member was Judge Tang, of Chinese origin. Thus, for the
first time in American life, a United States Circuit Court of Appeals sat with a
panel consisting of three judges of Asian descent. This speaks volumes for this
multifaceted country, in which essentially we are all immigrants.  JOSEPH
WINSTON New York, Oct. 31, 1980

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              439 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 20, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

120 CUBANS REACH U.S. AS AIRLIFT FROM HAVANA BEGINS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 19


A planeload of 120 Cuban refugees arrived here today as an airlift of refugees
from Havana began.  The new arrivals were among 600 Cubans stranded at the port
of Mariel in September when Fidel Castro, Cuba's leader, abruptly halted a
five-month boatlift that had brought more than 125,000 Cubans to the United
States.

The chartered jet arrived early in the afternoon at Miami International Airport,
and the Cubans were qu ickly taken to a race track for immigration processing
and, in most cases, family reunions.Unlike most of the refugees in the boatlift,
the Cubans who arrived today had received United States visas in Hav ana. The
airlift is expected to take two weeks.

''There were 600 people sort of left on the beach when the boatlift ended,''
Wayne Smith, the head of the United States interests section in Havana, said in
a telephone interview. ''All of them were interviewed by the consular office and
immigration officers. They needed the normal criteria to qualify.''

Most of the 600 Cubans did qualify and will be flown to the United States, the
authorities said.  Myles Frechette, head of the State Department's Cuban desk in
Washington, said: ''We did this for humanitarian reasons. Hopefully all of the
people will be here in the next two weeks.''

However, the Federal Government is not paying for the airlift. Mr.  Frechette
said that getting the Cubans to the United States was the responsibility of
Cuban Americans, who must ch arter the aircraft.

The Church World Service is organizing the airlift, but the Coordinating
Committee of the Cuban Community is paying for the first flight, Roberto Perez,
a member of Church World Service, said.  The committee has collected about
$45,000 so far, Mr. Perez said.

No estimate of the airlift's cost was immediately available.  Mr. Frechette said
that the few Cubans who did not have relatives in the United States had been
granted permission to enter the country because of ''a well-founded fear of
persecution in Cuba.''

Mr. Smith said the United States interests section had granted other visas ''on
a very limited basis.'' He said that Cubans without families in this country had
little chance of receiving a visa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Celia Vegal and Magdalia Vegal

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              440 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 24, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 163 words


AROUND THE WORLD;
Bahamas to Return 64 W ho Fled Haiti in Boat

NASSAU, the Bahamas, Nov. 23 (Reuters) - Bahamian officials said today that they
would send 64 refugees back to Haiti after the refugees recovered from a 39-day
ordeal at sea in a small boat trying to reach the United States.

The Haitians beached their crudely built 30-foot boat on Harbour Island, off
Eleuthera, on Friday night, immigration officials said today. Eleven women in
the group were suffering from exposure and severe dehydration.

The immigration officials said that because of the strain on social services,
the entire group would be returned to Haiti when the women recovered.

----

MIAMI, Nov. 23 (AP) - A 34-year-old Haitian man evaded capture 10 days ago when
106 fellow castaways were forced from the island by the police, a Bahamian
official said today. The man, who apparently escaped deportation by hiding in a
chimney, has been taken into custody and will be returned to Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              441 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 29, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

BRITISH DIRECTOR DENIED WORK PERMIT IN CANADA

BYLINE: By ANDREW H. MALCOLM, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 28


Canadian immigration officials have denied a work permit to John Dexter, the
British director recently appointed to run the famed Stratford, Ontario,
Shakespeare Festival.

The surprise move, the latest in a series of controversies involving the
27-year-old festival, appeared to further endanger the future of Stratford,
which may soon see its 1981 season canceled.  Other current problems include
fast-approachi ng planning and publication deadlines for the new season as w ell
as a boycott by the Canadian Actors Equity Association, which is angered by the
festival board's failure to name a Canadian as artisti c director.

''It is my responsibility as minister,'' Immigration Minister Lloyd Axworthy
announced last night, ''to insure that Canadians get a reasonable chance at work
opportunities, and I have regretfully concluded that the festival board of
governors did not carry out a thorough and reasonable search for a Canadian
artistic director.'' As a result, he said, he was denying Mr. Dexter's permit
''at this time.''

Decision May Be Reviewed

Aides said the decision might be reviewed later if a thorough Canadian search
proved fruitless. But Mr. Axworthy's spokesman said, ''It's his view there is
someone qualified and willing.''

Robert Hicks, president of the board of governors of the festival and the center
of much of the controversy, said he was baffled by the decision. ''We're running
out of time,'' he said.

Dan MacDonald, an Actors Equity spokesman, said that the union was pleased with
the decision, but that the boycott remained in effect.  Fears were mounting for
the artistic future of the annual summerfall festival, which annually draws more
than 600,000 patrons to Stratford, a central Ontario town about 90 miles west of
Toronto.  Cancellation would also have serious economic implications for many
businesses in Stratford, where the theaters have created a multimillion-dollar
tourism industry.

The actors' boycott was called earlier this month after the Stratford board
suddenly ousted a four-member artistic directorate it had just installed to
replace another Briton, Robin Phillips, who announced his resignation over a
year ago. Mr. Phillips had become increasingly disturbed over the board's
apparent backing down on several commitments, including one to found a winter
operation in Toronto.

Cited Reason for Dismissals

The board dismissed the four -Peter Moss, Pam Brighton, Martha Henry and Urjo
Kareda - because, it said, they had failed to produce a financially viable plan
for the 1981 season.

But the abrupt dismissals and the appointment of Mr. Dexter, another foreigner
and former production head of New York's Metropolitan Opera, aroused a furor
within and without the arts community in Canada, where fervent nationalist
feelings have been growing in recent months. Historically, Britons have played a
prominent role in the Canadian arts. Currently they include Andrew Davis,
director of the Toronto Symphony, and Alexander Grant , artistic dire ctor of
the National Ballet of Canada.

The specter of foreign control and domination is an emotional one here these
days and has been stirred by the Trudeau Government's strong moves to force
increased Canadian control of certain industries, such as petroleum. Federal and
provincial governments, through significant grants of taxpayer dollars, play an
important role in the Canadian arts. More than 10 percent of Stratford's $6
million-plus budget comes from these governments.

In September, Peter Ustinov, starring in Stratford's production of ''King
Lear,'' threatened a lawsuit after the board had suddenly canceled the British
tour of the play, which was to open next week at London's Haymarket Theater.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of John Dexter

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              442 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 3, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Report on U.S. Immigrants Met by Call for Aid to Cities

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section; Page 20, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Dec. 2


Ron Coleman, a State Department official, told mayors today that the nation
would receive more than 1.5 million immigrants this year and said that there was
little the United States could do to stop the flow of poor and unskilled
refugees.

Mayor Ernest Morial of New Orleans, saying his southern port city had been among
the towns hardest hit by the 1975 Asian refugee airlift and the Cuban influx of
the 1960's and 1970's, called for the Federal Government to absorb all costs of
caring for the newcomers.

Mr. Morial sponsored a resolution at the National League of Cities convention
urging the Federal Government to reimburse cities for costs of feeding, housing,
educating, policing and providing medical services for refugee encampments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              443 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 9, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

2 IN BORDER PATROL SENTENCED FOR BEATINGS OF MEXICANS

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8


One Border Patrol agent was sentenced to a year in prison today and another drew
three years' probation for their part in the beatings of several Mexicans and at
least one American citizen at the Border Patrol's station near San Clemente,
Calif.

The agents, J. Gillespie Wood and Jose Martin Barker, were charged by a Federal
grand jury last July with multiple counts of deprivation of civil rights and
assaulting Federal officers. Mr. Wood pleaded guilty to the charges and Mr.
Barker was convicted by a Federal court jury in October.

The charges of assaulting a Federal officer arose after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service assigned two Mexican-American investigators to look into
allegations of frequent beatings by Border Patrol agents at San Clemente, about
60 miles north of San Diego.

The agents, Juan Espinal and Javier Dibene, dressed to resemble Mexican aliens,
were taken off a bus at an unspecified time before March of this year as the bus
passed through the patrol's San Clemente checkpoint on heavily traveled
Interstate 5. According to the Government's indictment, the agents were beaten
by Mr. Barker and Mr. Wood during questioning about their citizenship.

First Action of its Kind

The investigation marked the first time that the immigration service, the Border
Patrol's parent agency, had used its own agents in an undercover capacity to
ferret out internal wrongdoing.

A third border patrolman, Lester M. Fullen, who is alleged by the Government to
have observed the beatings and then lied about them before the grand jury, was
tried separately in November. The case ended in a mistrial, but Mr. Fullen is
scheduled to be retried next month.

According to the indictment, at least six Mexicans and a 16-yearold American
citizen also were beaten by Mr. Wood and Mr.  Barker. The allegations that
prompted the investigation came from the 16-yearold boy, who to stop the
beatings ''confessed'' to being a Mexican citizen and was subsequently sent back
to Mexico, according to the Justice Department.

Patrolman Barker, charged with having beaten one of the undercover investigators
with a metal chair, was sentenced to a year in Federal prison today by United
States District Judge Leland Nielsen in San Diego. Before pronouncing sentence,
Judge Nielsen said that a factor in his decisi on had been Mr. Barker's
continuing refusal at his trialto admit his role in the beatings.

Mr. Wood, a 17-year veteran of the Border P atrol and a supervisor at the San
Clemente checkpoint, was given a o ne-year suspended sentence, placed on
probation for three years and fined $1,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              444 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 9, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
U.S. and Vietnam Agree On Immigration Program

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8


The United States and Vietnam have reached agreement on a program that will
initially permit the immigration of up to 1,500 Vietnamese and their families to
the United States, the State Department said today.

The first departures from Vietnam, totaling about 250 people, are expected to
begin Thursday aboard a weekly Air France flight from Ho Chi Minh City, formerly
Saigon, to Bangkok, Thailand.

American officials said the Carter Administration, in selecting which Vietnamese
were eligible for entry into the United States, was giving priority to those
with relatives in the United States or those who were formerly employed by the
United States Government.

The State Department spokesman, John H. Trattner, said the program was
humanitarian in nature and was unrelated to the question of normalization of
relations between Washington and Hanoi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              445 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

RUSSIAN IMMAGRANTS ESTABLISH NEW ENCLAVES IN CITY

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 56, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words


When dawn breaks over Brooklyn's beaches and train after train rumbles up to the
Brighton Beach elevated stop, the subway station is a bit like Moscow's Metro -
fur-covered heads buried in the New Yorkbased Novoye Russkoye Slovo or Sovetsky
Sport, which is published in Moscow, grandmothers knitting and bragging about
their offspring.

A little later and a few blocks away, mixed in among several thousand other
students, 175 Russian teen-agers, many of them wearing the latest designer
jeans, enter the classrooms of Abraham Lincoln High School.

There in the Brighton Beach section, as in Manhattan's Washington Heights and
Forest Hills, Queens, the morning commuters and the high school students are
part of the most recent wave of Russian immigrants, nearly all of them Jews.

More than 30,000 immigrants have arrived in New York City from the Soviet Union
in the last eight years, and while many older Russians retain their Slavic
language and customs, nearly all the younger Russian immigrants are hurrying to
adopt the manners and habits of native New Yorkers. I'll make a brand-new start
of it in old

New York. If I can make it there, I'd make it anywhere. It's up to you, New
York, New York.  The band playing ''New York, New York''* one recent evening at
the Golden Palace, across the causeway from Brighton Beach on Coney Island, was
called the Five Russkys. But only the platters of white fish and red caviar -
''rybnoye assorti'' - and the half-empty bottles of vodka on the restaurant's
tables suggested that until recently, the owners, band and patrons had been no
closer to a New York nightclub than the cafes of Leningrad, Moscow or Kiev.

''Now we're Americans,'' said Vladimir Gincherman, one of three owners of the
Golden Palace. Grinning at his partners over glasses of champagne, he added,
''And our children will be Americans.''

The Russian students at Abraham Lincoln, occasionally sneaking puffs on a
forbidden cigarette, sit together in the school's lunchroom, speaking Russian
but not fending off American culture.

Discos and Cosmetics

''We go to discos on weekends,'' said Galina Vinokurova, a junior who came from
Odessa last year. Many of the Russian girls at the school stand out by their
devotion to American cosmetics. Generally, the more recent a girl's arrival, the
more she uses.

''It's a freedom to do what you want,'' one girl explained. ''In Russia there
isn't that much makeup. It's not really considered ladylike.''

Masha Englin came to the United States with her parents in 1974, two years after
the current wave of immigration from the Soviet Union began. ''I was the only
Russian in Forest Hills High School the year I began,'' she said.

Students like the 23-year-old Miss Englin, now an undergraduate at Columbia
University, represent the future to many Russian parents.  ''My son speaks
English much better than Russian,'' said Mr.  Gincherman, who began as a truck
driver six years ago. ''My job isn't to make him Russian. I want him to have a
good life in America. If I stay in Brooklyn, I will put him in private
schools.''

''I prepared myself to work hard,'' he added. ''Immediately we started selling
things - little trinkets, things from Russia. Little by little we learned to
speak English. We worked and we saved.''

Most Russians who come to New York leave the Soviet Union because they are
Jewish and say they were subject to discrimination there.  But many say they are
not religious and that they are not regarded as Jews by many Americans.

''We were Jewish in Russia,'' said Michael Varzar, another of the Golden
Palace's owners. ''Now in America we're not Jewish, we're Russian.''

Despite Americanization, many older Russians cling to their heritage. ''Business
is very good because Russians read a great deal,'' said Janny Orlikov, who runs
the Russian-language Black Sea Bookstore on Brighton Beach Avenue.

She shuffled the piles of Russian-language newspapers, some from Moscow, others
from New York City, on the counter before her.  ''Younger people don't read
Russian books,'' she said, ''but older people, those in their 40's and 50's,
certainly do. We read what we couldn't read about in Russia - about Stalin,
about Khrushchev.''

A New Television Station

Early next year, Mrs. Orlikov's husband, Yuri, will help open New York's first
Russian-language television station. But they both concede that the station's
programming will be aimed at older Russians.

''In five or six years, Russian kids will forget Russian,'' Mrs.  Orlikov said.
''You see how even I mix English in with my Russian.'' Last year 13,000 Russians
came to New York, according to Mark Handelman, an assistant director at the New
York Association of New Americans. Because the Soviet Union had limited
emigration, only 8,000 people had arrived here this year through Nov. 1.

Not all Russians here left the Soviet Union willingly. Pavel Litvinov says he
was expelled after laboring for four years in salt mines in Siberia, the penalty
he received for having demonstrated in Red Square against the Soviet invasion of
Czechoslovakia in 1968. Now teaching physics at the Hackley School in Tarrytown,
N.Y., Mr.  Litvinov considers himself one of the few hundred exiles among the
tens of thousands of immigrants.

In a gradual process, some of those Russians are beginning to leave their ethnic
neighborhoods. Miss Englin's parents, Artiom and Marina, moved across Queens
Boulevard to Rego Park, away from many of their compatriots.

''People would knock on our door at all hours - to taste food, to borrow sugar,
to get a recipe.'' Mrs. Englin said. ''It is like that in Russia, but here we
wanted some privacy.''

Mr. Gincherman, although saying that he generalizes too much about Russians in
New York, added: ''We want to go to Manhattan, we want to go to shows. We want
to be like everyone else.'' ---- *Copyright c 1977, United Artists Corporation.
All rights administered by Unart Music Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Russian singers Photo of Russian immigrants

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              446 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 28, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW ADMINISTRATION AND CONGRESS FACE MAJOR IMMIGTRATION DECISIONS

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 4304 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After years of relative inattention to the control of immigration, there are
signs that the incoming Congress, with encouragement from the Reagan
administration, may confront a difficult question: How wide open should the door
be through which millions of immigrants have stepped?

The impending debate, certain to be spirited and divisive, follows a year in
which nearly half the country's population growth has been attributable to legal
immigration and in which, by most estimates, illegal immigration has never been
greater.

Indeed, the 1970's may be remembered as the decade of the immigrant. In the last
10 years, the United States has absorbed more than four million immigrants and
refugees and perhaps twice that number of illegal aliens, more new residents
than in any decade in its history.  If current immigration and fertility rates
remain the same, the nation's population will double in 100 years.

'Not Sure Problems Are Soluble'

The immigration control system is in such disarray, many officials acknowledge,
that practically anyone who wishes to and who can afford the passage can come to
the United States, legally or illegally, and stay for months or years, if not
for good. Until now the prevailing attitude, in Congress and elsewhere, has
appeared to be fatalistic, typified by a Democratic Congressional aide who
remarked: ''I'm not sure the problems are soluble anyway. A lot of it is beyond
our control.''

But there are growing indications, in public opinion polls and in angry letters
from constituents, that many Americans, convinced that immigrants are taking
their jobs, draining the treasury and dividing cities into isolated and
increasingly hostile ethnic communities, are demanding a solution. One recent
poll by the Roper Organization showed that nine of 10 of those surveyed
supported an ''all-out effort'' to halt illegal immigration and that eight of 10
favored reducing the number of legal immigrants.

Senator Alan K. Simpson attributes this reaction to ''compassion fatigue,'' and
there can be no disputing that America in recent years has displayed an
abundance of compassion. In 1970, some 373,000 immigrants and refugees were
legally admitted to the United States. This year, counting 160,000 Cuban and
Haitian ''boat people'' who were not invited but who are being allowed to
remain, there will be more than 763,000, more than will be taken in by all other
countries combined.

''Somewhere along the line we're going to have to learn to say 'no,''' said
Senator Simpson, a Wyoming Republican. As head of the revitalized Senate
subcommittee on immigration, he said, his task will be to take the expected
legislative reforms from the Reagan White House and ''get the stuff up for a
vote.''

''The real issue,'' said the Senator, who reflects the conservative mood of the
incoming 97th Congress, ''and the one I intend to bring the focus back on, is
what is best for the existing human beings who are U.S. citizens. I don't hear
anybody saying, 'wait a minute, what about those of us who are here?'''

The reluctance of Congress to ask that question has been a source of
exasperation among those in the executive branch aware of the burgeoning
problem. ''When I was with the I.N.S.,'' Leonel Castillo, the former
Commissioner of Immigration, said recently, referring to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, ''I realized that Congress likes what we have now.
Clearly, some people derive great benefit from the present situation.''

Though Mr. Castillo did not name them, the main beneficiaries appear to be
business interests that employ illegal aliens at low wages. Twice in recent
years business lobbyists have helped defeat in the Senate legislation forbidding
the employment of illegal aliens after it had been passed by the House of
Representatives.

And though there is a growing belief around the nation that, in a time of
continuing high unemployment, immigrants are taking jobs from American workers,
the real impetus for change, if it comes, will more likely be the long-awaited
final report of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, set up
last year to chart immigration policies for the rest of the century and beyond.

Among the 16 commissioners are four Cabinet members, four Senators, including
Mr. Simpson, four Representatives and four members at large, including the Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, the panel's chairman, who is president of the University
of Notre Dame.

Earlier this month, the commission voted to recommend an amnesty for illegal
aliens in this country and passage of a Federal law prohibiting the employment
of workers without proper papers. The commission's logic appeared to be that the
situation was so hopeless that the practical solution was to start over by
making the illegal aliens now here citizens and removing incentives for others
to follow in their footsteps.

But sorting out citizens from uninvited visitors is difficult in a country whose
population is made up of so many ethnic strains, and the commission left what
some see as a crucial gap by failing to endorse a national ''work permit'' that
would help employers tell whom they could hire.

Stronger Enforcement Favored

The commission, now divided between conservatives and liberals on the work
permit question and other issues, will grow more conservative next month when it
is joined by a new Republican Attorney General and new Secretaries of State,
Health and Human Services, and Labor. Members say that votes on some key
recommendations may be reconsidered before being sent to Congress.

The Reagan administration, still in its transition phase, has not formulated a
detailed list of immigration reforms. But aides say that President-elect Ronald
Reagan has indicated his support for strengthened enforcement of the immigration
laws, combined with a program to permit more foreign workers into this country
on a temporary basis. The idea of temporary workers was rejected by the
commission but it is appealing to Mr. Simpson and other key Senators.

Though an amnesty proposal died in Congress after it was submitted by President
Carter more than three years ago, Congressional aides say the legislation was
badly managed by the White House and that there may be enough support for such a
plan in both the incoming Republican-controlled Senate and the House of
Representatives, which will have a Democratic majority but be more conservative.

As distasteful as the idea of an amnesty may be to Americans - a recent Gallup
Poll found that only 37 percent of those questioned supported such a plan - most
students of the problem are convinced that there is no practical alternative.

A mass roundup and deportation might be impracticable if not unconstitutional.
Senator Simpson, who said there ''may be close to 12 million'' illegal aliens
living in this country, double the highest estimate of the Carter
Administration, terms such a dragnet ''the greatest waste of effort and
resources'' imaginable.

Most authorities feel that to allow the aliens to retain their illegal status,
on the other hand, would be to perpetuate a permanent underclass subject to
abuse and exploitation from a host of sources, including alien smugglers who
force them into peonage, unscrupulous immigration officers who solicit bribes,
employers who demand kickbacks in return for jobs and landlords who gouge them
on rents.

And while illegal aliens pay the same Federal and state taxes as citizens,
numerous studies have shown that they are reluctant to take full advantage of
social services financed with their taxes.

Though the aliens may be willing to put up with hardships in return for economic
survival, Ray Marshall, the outgoing Secretary of Labor, has suggested that
their children will not have the same attitude and that ignoring the problem
''may result in another civil rights struggle in our nation in 10 or 15 years.''


Support for Amnesty Assessed

All these problems, and others, would be resolved by a general amnesty, and
Senator Simpson said he believed that ''the American people may buy it if they
see that we have an appropriate enforcement mechanism in place so that it isn't
going to happen again.'' But such a mechanism would depend largely on new
legislation prohibiting the employment of illegal aliens, and the debate over
the passage of such a law is certain to turn on the thorny question of whether
illegal aliens are displacing American workers.

No economist doubts that many illegal aliens perform unattractive, low-paying
jobs that would otherwise go begging, or that some laborintensive industries,
such as garment manufacturing, are now virtually dependent on them for survival.
But there are also those who argue that the presence of illegal workers keeps
wages and working conditions from improving to the point where they would be
attractive to Americans, and Secretary Marshall has asserted that without the
millions of ''undocumented workers'' now in this country the nation's
unemployment rate might be reduced to less than 4 percent.

Mr. Reagan's views on this question remain to be seen. But Henry Zuniga, a
campaign aide, said the President-elect had expressed the feeling ''that the
folks coming from Mexico for the most part are doing work that's necessary, that
they're not replacing U.S. citizens and that Mexico needs this kind of
assistance.''

Though a law forbidding the employment of illegal aliens is increasingly
attractive to many, critics argue that the United States is very nearly unable
to enforce existing immigration laws and that searching every place of business
in the country would require an army of police officers. Proponents reply that
while such a law might not stop all illegal immigrants and might not be
rigorously enforced with regard to restaurants and other small businesses, it
would enable the Justice Department to accuse large employers of a pattern of
employing illegals.

Whatever its ultimate intent, talk of an employment law inspires anger among
many Hispanic Americans, who fear that it would subject citizens with Spanish
surnames to inordinate and perhaps unconstitutional scrutiny by employers. ''If
they do have sanctions they better do it in a way that certain groups don't bear
the brunt of it,'' said Lupe Salinas, until recently a special assistant to
Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti. ''If they don't, they'll have every
Hispanic in the country up in arms.''

A crucial element in enforcing a Federal statute would be the sort of
Government-issued ''counterfeit-resistant'' work permit opposed by the select
commission. Senator Simpson dismissed fears of civil libertarians on the
commission that such a permit might become a ''national identity card,'' and
said he hoped the Congress would approve one. ''Enforcement can't work without
some kind of identification,'' he said.

Though the idea of temporary alien workers was also rejected by the select
commission, some of those who favor employer sanctions, among them many
rank-and-file immigration officers, argue that some provision ought to be made
for allowing such workers into the country on a controlled basis if a need
arose.

Mr. Reagan endorsed such an approach in a campaign speech last September in
which he suggested that aliens be given visas enabling them to work in this
country ''for whatever length of time they want to stay.'' According to Mr.
Zuniga, Mr. Reagan explained more recently ''that he's in favor of doing away
with the abuses of the undocumented worker, where people don't pay their wages
and these kinds of things.''

Resentment Over Bilingualism

The temporary-worker concept is strongly opposed, however, by much of organized
labor and by Hispanic rights groups. Other critics point to the experiences of
West Germany and France, which imported millions of ''guest workers'' from
southern Europe and then found it difficult to persuade them to leave.

Besides the question of competition for jobs, there is also growing grass-roots
concern that, unlike immigrants of the 19th and early 20th centuries, many of
the newest arrivals, particularly those who speak Spanish, are less inclined to
trade their primary cultures and languages for those of their adopted country.

The resentment that this occasions is most evident in the heated debate over
bilingualism in the schools and at the polling place, and over bilingual or, as
is true in Los Angeles, multilingual (English, Spanish and Japanese) signs and
notices in public places.

But the dismay is also more fundamental, as with the growing annoyance among
non-Spanish-speaking residents of Miami who find it difficult to communicate
with the Cubans who are rapidly supplanting blacks in service jobs there. The
same linguistic frustrations can be found to a lesser extent in New York City,
with its large Puerto Rican population, in Chicago, where half a million
Mexicans and Mexican-Americans now reside, and in polyglot Los Angeles, amid the
clamor of more than 80 languages and dialects.

Incidents of Violence

In some places, cultural disparities are giving rise to racial and ethnic
tensions that have occasionally erupted in violence. Last year, boats were set
afire and a man murdered after Texas shrimpers tangled with Vietnamese
fishermen. In the suburbs of Chicago, as in cities across the Southwest, gunfire
has erupted between Mexican-Americans and illegal Mexican aliens with whom they
compete for jobs and housing.

Several of those slain by blacks in last summer's rioting in Miami were Cubans,
and in Los Angeles, where aliens from Mexico and the Far East have taken over
formerly all-black neighborhoods, gangs of black, Hispanic and Asian youths
frequently battle each other. Most disturbing of all are the recent reports from
Texas that paramilitary units of the Ku Klux Klan are training their members to
hunt illegal aliens along the border.

A central element in the select commission's proposals, and one for which there
appears to be substantial support in Congress, is the appropriation of more
money, manpower and materiel for the immigration service, whose officials feel
their mounting problems have been largely ignored by successive administrations.

Keeping unwanted aliens from its shores has never been among the highest
priorities in a nation that thinks of itself as a land of immigrants, and
because citizens and lawmakers have instinctively recoiled from adopting such
measures as border fortifications and national identity cards the immigration
enforcement system that exists today was never intended to deal with anything
like the influx that confronts it.

8 Million Arrests Since '60

In 1960, only 70,000 illegal aliens were arrested in this country.  But there
have been eight million such arrests since then, including nearly a million this
year. Because the nation's defenses have not increased at an equal pace, the
United States now finds itself largely unable to insure the security of its
borders.

There are only about 350 Border Patrol agents on duty at any one time, most of
them concentrated across from the Mexican border cities of Tijuana and Juarez.
Only five agents are assigned to patrol 3,300 square miles of heavily traversed
southern Arizona desert. The Canadian border, fast becoming a favorite crossing
point for illegal aliens, is even more sparsely guarded.

In Los Angeles, where officials estimate that one resident in 10 is an illegal
alien, the immigration service is nearing total collapse and nowhere is the
situation much better. In a report issued last month, the General Accounting
Office declared that, once inside this country, an illegal alien ''has little
chance of being located and deported.'' In an increasingly troubled world the
United States is a most attractive sanctuary for those seeking political or
economic refuge, and as the overworked, underpaid employees of the immigration
service slowly sink beneath a sea of forms, permits, petitions, applications,
visas and other documents, the aliens continue to arrive in ever-larger numbers.

It is not altogether clear how a request for more funds will be received by a
Reagan administration committed to reducing the size of the Federal Government.
But with or without more money, reforming the immigration service, Mr. Civiletti
said, promises to be ''one of the most difficult issues that the new management
of the Department of Justice will have to deal with.''

Though there have been improvements in the agency's operations, the immigration
service continues to embrace what Representative Richardson Preyer of North
Carolina recently termed ''a woeful litany of problems.''

The problems are not all of the agency's own making. A large part of the
service's inability to stem the flow of illegal aliens has arisen from
restrictions, instituted this year to facilitate the counting of illegal aliens
during the census, that prevent officers from entering a residence or workplace
to look for aliens without a hard-to-obtain court order.

The restrictions have capped what has easily been the most trying year in the
agency's history. Besides the loss of personnel siphoned off to handle the
influx of Cuban refugees to Florida and the deportations of Iranian students
ordered by President Carter in retaliation for the seizure of the American
hostages in Teheran, the service has been hampered by gasoline shortages, by the
absence, for more than 15 months, of a permanent Immigration Commissioner and by
the refusal of the Carter Administration to budget more funds for enforcement.

Most immigration officials share the view of Joseph Howerton, director of the
agency's Los Angeles office, that ''there's nothing that couldn't be
accomplished with a blank check, except perhaps sealing the border.'' But Mr.
Civiletti has insisted that until the course of the nation's immigration policy
is decided, ''large budget increases for border enforcement personnel would be
premature.''

Shortcomings of 'Body Sensors'

No one knowledgeable about the problem, including David Crosland, the Acting
Commissioner of Immigration, favors an effort to seal the Mexican border. ''Law
enforcement alone is not the answer to the problem of illegal entry,'' Mr.
Crosland said the other day. ''You don't have to have an open border or a police
state. It's a question of how much control we need to have.''

Judging from past experience, however, it is far from clear that more personnel
and hardware represent a solution. A few years ago, at great cost, the
immigration agency salted parts of the border with a network of electronic
''body sensors,'' like those implanted by the Army along the demilitarized zone
in Vietnam, in hopes that they would detect the footsteps of illegal
border-crossers. When the sensors work at all, however, they are frequently
triggered by dogs and jackrabbits.

Nor are more personnel necessarily the answer. The real expense, some officials
say, is not in catching illegal aliens but in sending them home. The Government
is spending about $13 million a year to ''repatriate'' aliens from such distant
countries as Argentina and Hong Kong, but at a time when a one-way ticket abroad
can run to $1,000 or more there are far more aliens than funds to return them.
As a result, aliens under deportation orders are often simply given a letter
directing them to leave the country on their own.

Then, too, the agency is more than an innocent victim of bureaucratic
indifference. Among other things, the agency for years has limped along with
archaic handwritten record-keeping practices that afforded it virtually no idea
how many aliens, visitors, students, immigrants, businessmen or refugees were in
the country.

For years such shortcomings made little difference to anyone but those whose
files were routinely lost or destroyed. Then, in November 1979, President
Carter, reacting to the seizure of the American hostages in Teheran, ordered the
immigration service to deport Iranians who had entered this country to study and
then had dropped out of school.

The agency was forced to admit that it had no idea how many Iranian students
were in the country or who or where they were, provoking what Justice Department
aides said was an angry outburst from Griffin B. Bell, then Attorney General,
whom they described as ''stunned'' and ''shocked'' at what he subsequently
learned about the agency's jumbled operations.

Mr. Crosland, the agency's former general counsel and its acting commissioner
for over a year, said in an interview that he had ''tried to bring some sense of
professionalism'' to the agency, and perhaps his most important undertaking has
been bringing in management experts from the Interstate Commerce Commission to
reorganize the agency's operations.

In addition to working on the critical problems of computers for record keeping,
the study team has corrected problems with finances and purchasing practices and
strengthened internal audit procedures.  But officials now say it will be six or
seven years before the agency is fully computerized.

Tainted by Corruption

As if its other problems were not enough, the growing realization among many of
the immigration agency's 10,000 employees that their task is both impossible and
thankless has bred frustration that has resulted in a degree of brutality and
corruption unmatched by any other Federal law-enforcement agency.

Four Border Patrol agents, the first ever to face such charges, were convicted
this year of having physically abused illegal aliens, and more such trials are
pending. Mr. Crosland, a former civil rights lawyer, said that while efforts by
the agency to clean its own house had resulted in ''predictable kinds of morale
problems,'' he welcomed such prosecutions in hopes that ''people will think
twice before they push people around.''

Instances of corruption have also surfaced. In October, Representative Preyer, a
Democrat who heads the House Government Operations Committee, disclosed that a
number of immigration employees were ''under investigation for selling or
altering immigration documents.'' A few weeks later, an El Paso Border Patrol
agent was arrested after offering to sell a border-crossing card for $2,000, and
three weeks ago the immigration service announced that six employees of its New
York City office had been convicted of taking bribes to ''tamper'' with
immigration records.

There has been no permanent commissioner since Mr. Castillo resigned in October
1979, with the result that at a crucial time in its history the agency has been
somewhat adrift. A high-ranking Republican Congressional aide said that ''the
first order of business'' for the new administration would be ''to get somebody
in there that can turn that place around.''

That may not prove easy. A Justice Department aide acknowledged that ''the
position is a difficult one, very unattractive,'' and Mr.  Civiletti agreed that
there had not been ''hundreds of people seeking to become I.N.S. Commissioner.''

Whatever the quality of the new commissioner, and whatever new laws are enacted,
one thing remains certain: the aliens, especially those from Mexico and the
Caribbean, where the pressure to migrate increases by the day, will continue to
try to slip into the United States.

The reasons go well beyond the reach of Congress. More than half the work force
in Mexico is unemployed or underemployed, and demographers say that the
country's population of 68 million will nearly double by the year 2000. Though
the Mexican economy is growing by 8 percent a year, the benefits of growth are
more evident in the cities than in the impoverished countryside from which most
illegal aliens come.

The waiting list of Mexican citizens wishing to legally emigrate to the United
States contains about one million names, and it can take as long as 10 years to
get a visa. On the other hand, for a few hundred dollars a potential emigre can
arrange to be smuggled into the United States in a matter of days.

There are a few arguments for keeping things as they are, among them the
suggestion that the continuing northward flow of Mexico's poorest people
provides a ''safety valve'' against the possibility of a leftist revolution
there of the sort that recently occurred in Nicaragua.

Another theory holds that, to the extent that world resources are unevenly
distributed, exporting labor from a nation rich in human capital to a neighbor
blessed with natural and industrial wealth maximizes the benefits for both in
the long run. The debate in Congress may turn on whether, in the short run, the
United States owes more to the disadvantaged peoples of the world than to its
own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Alan K. Simpson (Page 20)

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              447 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1980, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CURB URGED FOR ALIENS IN U.S. SEEKING CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28


David W. Crosland, Acting Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, says that aliens in the United States who wish to become permanent
residents should be required to return to their home countries and apply from
those countries unless the aliens are closely related to American citizens.

Mr. Crosland said in an interview that such a requirement would not only reduce
the backlog of petitions pending before the immigration service but also would
discourage illegal aliens from working in this country while they applied for
permanent resident status.

Many aliens, he said, manipulate the immigration laws by entering the United
States as visitors or students, getting jobs and then staying here indefinitely.
In this way, he said, the aliens already here gain an unfair advantage over
their countrymen waiting in line at home for immigrant visas.

Permanent resident status is the first step toward citizenship.  Permanent
residents have most of the legal rights of citizens, but may not vote.  103,638
Aliens Applied

In 1978, the last year for which data are available, Mr. Crosland said, there
were 103,638 applications for permanent resident status from aliens, not
counting refugees. If, as Mr. Crosland proposed, only close relatives of United
States citizens were allowed to adjust their status, that would eliminate 53
percent of the applications. If close relatives of citizens and permanent
residents were eligible, Mr. Crosland said, the workload would be eased by 35
percent.

Mr. Crosland acknowledged in the interview Friday that his proposal would shift
a substantial burden from the immigration service to the State Department's
consular officers, who would presumably get more applications for immigrant
visas.

The immigration service handles applications from aliens in the United States,
who have extensive rights of appeal before immigration judges and in the Federal
courts. State Department employees review similar requests made through American
embassies and consulates abroad, and the decision of a consular officer, to
grant or refuse a visa, is usually final.

An alien who enters the United States with an immigrant visa has permanent
resident status and is eligible to become a citizen after five years of
continuous residence here.

Criticism of Proposal

Elizabeth J. Harper, a State Department official, said that Mr.  Crosland's
proposal would ''create unnecessary work for consular posts overseas'' and
''genuine hardship'' for the aliens involved.  Cornelius D. Scully, another
State Department official, said that the proposal would require ''bureaucratic
nonsense'' and would lead to ''great pressures from members of Congress to make
exceptions'' for particular aliens who were present in the United States.
Similar restrictions have not worked well in the past, he said.

In theory, aliens are subject to the same substantive requirements, whether they
apply for an immigrant visa from abroad or from within the United States.

But Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said that an alien
already here ''very definitely has an advantage'' because he can more easily
obtain a job, buy property, make investments and establish other interests in
this country that weigh in his favor.

Mr. Jervis said there were cases in which aliens used their presences here to
find American spouses, promptly obtained permanent resident status and then
dissolved the marriages. There is no quota limiting the number of aliens who can
become permanent residents through marriage to American citizens. But
immigration officials said that they would not grant permanent resident status
if they suspected that the marriage had been arranged for a fraudulent purpose.

The Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, a 16-member panel
created by Congress, may recommend some restriction such as that favored by Mr.
Crosland. The commission's staff suggested such a change, but at its last
meeting, the commission rejected the proposal by a vote of 6 to 5. Votes yet to
be cast by other commission members could change the result.

Before 1952, aliens generally had to leave the United States before they could
apply for permanent resident status. A 1952 law established a procedure under
which citizens of Eastern Hemisphere countries and some natives of the Western
Hemisphere could become permanent residents without first returning home.
Congress in 1965 prohibited Western Hemisphere natives from adjusting their
status and then removed the prohibition in 1976.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              448 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 7, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Israel Immigration Unit Curtails Vienna Efforts

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Jan. 6


The official Israeli agency that handles the immigration of Soviet Jews to
Israel said today that it was curtailing its activities in Vienna because of a
dispute with the Austrian authorities.

The organization, the Jewish Agency, accused the Austrian Government of
violating a longstanding agreement giving the agency exclusive access to Soviet
Jews arriving in Vienna. It said that because the Austrians allowed other
organizations to get in touch with the Soviet emigrants, who had been traveling
with visas to Israel, many had been persuaded to go to countries other than
Israel.

The Jewish Agency said it was dropping its use of hostels in Vienna provided by
the Austrian authorities and moving the occupants to hotels. The agency's
representative in Vienna, Baruch Minkowitz, said the Ministry of Interior hung
signs in the hostel Tuesday referring Soviet emigrants wishing to go to
countries other than Israel to a room in the hostel to meet a representative of
the Austrian Red Cross.

The signs, in Russian, gave the addresses and telephone numbers of six
organizations that might help them. The groups included Rav Tov, a Hasidic
anti-Zionist organization in the United States; the World Council of Churches,
and the Tolstoy Foundation of anti-C@ommunist Russians.

In a statement issued in Jerusalem this afternoon, Aryeh Dulzin, chairman of the
Jewish Agency and the World Zionist Organization, said the Austrians had leased
the premises exclusively to the Jewish Agency.

The Austrian move appeared to be a response to Israeli actions to reduce the
rate, estimated to be as high as 85 percent, of emigrants who go to countries
other than Israel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              449 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 10, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AUSTRIA FINDS POLISH INFLOW A BURDEN

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, Jan. 9


Austria, a country of 7 million people, prides itself as a haven for East
Europeans fleeing Communist rule.  In 1981, 34,457 East Europeans -29,059 of
them Poles - applied for political asylum in Austria. That was three and a half
times the number of refugees who came here in 1980.

In addition, Gabrielle Neugebauer, the press representative of the Interior
Ministry said, there are as many as 30,000 Poles in Austria on tourist visas.

Refugees cost the Government $53 million in 1981, $33 million more than
expected. The money provided food and housing for refugees who crowd Austria's
five transit camps.

But the biggest problem for Austrian officials appears to be the fear that
refugees will stay here permanently because they cannot get permission to
emigrate to Australia, the United States or Canada.  This attitude was reflected
in Chancellor Bruno Kreisky's criticism of President Reagan's pre-Christmas
offer of food for Polish refugees in Austria.

U.S. Is Urged to Take Refugees

''We have enough flour, sugar and rice,'' Mr. Kreisky said. ''The Americans
should take mo re refugees instead.'' Austria has asked other countries to
increase immigration quotas.  Last year Can ada raised its quota for East
Europeans from 1,100 to 2,100. The Un ited States doubled its quota for the
current fiscal year to 9,000 .

Australia was considering increasing its total quota by 1,000 to accommodate
more Poles, Austrian officials say. But Austrians say those efforts are not
enough.

Before martial law was declared in Poland on Dec. 13 and the borders were
sealed, as many as 150 new refugees arrived in Austria every day. Austrian
authorities had to rent rooms in more than 600 inns and guesthouses to
accommodate the Poles.

Innkeepers receive $11 a day per refugee for food. The Poles themselves get $8
spending money every two weeks.  But animosity toward the Poles detracts from
Austria's carefully cultivated image as a neutral haven presented in Government
brochures.
Contrast in Ways of Life

According to Karl Radek, the director of the main transit center at
Traiskirchen, outside Vienna, the problems that have arisen stem from the
difference between the refugees' old life in the East and their new life in the
West.

''They must get used to the rules of the game in democracy,'' he said, adding
that neither jobs nor housing are guaranteed in the West.

''Bear in mind,'' he went on, ''that they lived 20 or 30 years in an
authoritarian system. They come somewhere where it is free, and they must get
used to it.''

Describing how a refugee's mood tends to change after arrival, Mr.  Radek said:
''After an initial euphoria, there is a phase of reflec tion. He then realizes
he has left his life behind, that his life is interrupted.''

Men who seemingly have no future may turn to drink, Mr. Radek said. But when the
refugee hears that he can leave, the camp director added, ''then he sees a
future and all the problems get smaller.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              450 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 15, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN'S SWIFT AND UNFAIR REFUGEE SOLUTION

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 369 words


To the Editor:

Your editorial of Jan. 5 condemning the inh umane delay in resolvingthe plight
of Haitians in detention camps and calling for a ''streamlined'' procedure to
determine refuge e claims should have stopped short of endorsing the Reagan
Adminis tration's asylum bill.

he Reagan bill is heavily weighted in favor of efficiency, at the expense of
fairness and fundamental protection of due process. It would remove judicial
protection of refugees without insuring the integrity and independence of the
process of determining politicalasylum claims. It would guarantee a process of
refugee exclusion that would be swift, certain, arbitrary and unfair.

There is no doubt that the legal process of determining asylum claims needs
clarification and reform. The Justice Department's abominable handling of cases
involving Haitian, Cuban and Salvadoran asylum applicants strongly suggests that
decision-making in asylum cases is based on political considerations. For this
reason, an independent immigration judiciary should be created outside the
Department of Justice and its Immigration and Naturalization Services.

An administrative procedure should be established that assures expedited
consideration of asylum applications and provides applicants with adequate legal
representation. There should also be an effective right of appeal, with an
independent review board composed of members from the U.S. Government, the
United Nations High Commission for Refugees and nongovernmental agencies
concerned with refugee issues.

If implemented, these recommendations would promote fairer and more efficient
consideration of asylum cases than does the present system, or the one proposed
by the Reagan Administration.  JOHN SHATTUCK WADE J. HENDERSON Washington, Jan.
8, 1982

The writers are, respectively, director and legislative counsel of the American
Civil Liberties Union's Legislative Office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              451 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 17, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Stowaway's Deportation Is Protested in Miami

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 16


The police broke up a rowdy demonstration at the federal immigration offices
today as about 1,000 chanting Cuban exiles protested the deportation of a
20-year-old Cuban stowaway. At least six people were arrested.

The demonstrators left after 90 minutes of shouting. About 60 officers cordoned
off a one-block area surrounding the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service building when demonstrators began running through the streets at 3:30
P.M. Beverly McFarland, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the
demonstrators apparently began running when a woman fell and hurt herself. Some
demonstrators said she had been pushed by the police.

Andres Rodriguez Hernandez was sent back to Cuba Friday, two days after he
arrived in Miami as a stowaway aboard a Panamanianregistered freighter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              452 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 11, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

FLORIDA TO SUE U.S. IN REFUGEE DISPUTE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 10


Florida is preparing a lawsuit against the Federal Government over its handling
of Haitian and Cuban refugees in the Miami area, Gov. Bob Graham announced here
today.

Mr. Graham said that the state had retained a Washington law firm and had
instructed it ''to file the lawsuit as soon as possible.'' While Mr. Graham has
not disclosed details of a possible legal basis for his action, he indicated at
a news conference that it would concentrate on the handling of Haitians who
arrive in south Florida by boat illegally almost every day.

In a typical case, Haitians who come here by boat are detained by the local
authorities and are handed over to officers of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, who take them to Krome North Detention Center in Miami.
There are reports that a number of Haitians evade arrest and detention.

According to Mr. Graham, by placing about 1,500 Haitians at Krome North, the
Federal Government has violated laws under which the camp can hold only about
500 persons. The number at the center yesterday was 1,483, and a new boatload
was reported today.

'Dumping' Without Sponsors

Another violation of state laws, Mr. Graham said, was the release from the
detention center of Haitians who did not have sponsors, ''in effect dumping them
on the citizens of Greater Miami.''

Mr. Graham, a Democrat, said that his action against the Reagan Administration
was not politically motivated. ''We have been demanding solutions to the refugee
problem for more than a year and all we have have had have been glaring examples
of broken promises by Washington,'' he said.

The Governor also said that the state had paid over $30 million in medical and
other expenses for some 15,000 Cuban refugee children who came here by sea last
year. He said the payments had been made ''without Washingon recognizing that
this is a national problem and not that of this area or of the State of
Florida.''

''The people of Florida cannot be asked to bear this onerous burden while
Federal officials continue to postpone difficult decisions,'' he continued.
''If the national Administration will not act on its own we will take legal
recourse to protect the rights of the citizens.''

Immigration Report Awaited

Last March, President Reagan appointed a panel to review United States
immigration laws and to recommend changes, especially regarding policy toward
illegal immigrants. According to White House officials, the panel's
recommendations might be made public next week.

In Florida, above all in the Miami area, illegal migration has become one of the
most acute social and political problems. While no more new Cuban refugees have
been arriving since last October, there has been no letup in the arrival of
Haitians.

Under the current regulations, most of the undocumented Cubans and Haitians are
subject to exclusion proceedings and can be deported to the country of origin.
But last month a Federal judge in Miami halted exclusion proceedings of
undocumented Haitians and ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
hear their cases individually rather than in groups and to allow them access to
attorneys and competent translators.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              453 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

4th Cuban Refugee Is Freed From Center by Court Order

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 38, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Aug. 8


A fourth Cuban refugee has been released from a detention center under a Federal
court order. Pedro Rodriguez Fernandez was freed today from the Atlanta Federal
Penitentiary, where he had been held for more than a year with 1,800 other
Cubans who arrived in a boatlift last year.

Mr. Rodriguez, 48 years old, was taken to the Atlanta airport to be flown to
Kansas City where a sponsor was waiting for him.  The United States Court of
Appeals for the 10th Circuit ordered his release in a July 9 ruling upholding a
lower court decision that for the first time legally recognized the basic human
rights of aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              454 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 29, 1981, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AIDING FLEEING HAITIANS

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 863 words


A newspaper photograph recently gave me a disquieting feeling of ''deja vu.'' It
showed two helmeted riot policemen dragging off a Haitian at the Krome North
detention center in Miami after ''disturbances in the camp.''

Suddenly memory swept over me. The policemen, grim-lipped, were pulling the
terrified prisoner. I looked at the prisoner's face. His expression - his
stance. It is I, years ago, being dragged off by ''Papa Doc'' Duvalier's thugs
to the beginning of a bitter 10-year prison term.

In Miami, how could this happen? In Port-au-Prince, after all, I was guilty of
something - I was in opposition to cruelty and tyranny, and I suspected that I
would have to pay the price. But what terrible crime had the man in the
photograph committed? He had turned against his keepers. The truth is sad. The
fact is that it was not a riot but a stampede that developed as a result of a
rumor that the United States Government would send him to another camp, in
northern Montana. To somebody from a tropical climate, already closeted in
gloom, clad in rags, and starved for his own foods, this meant being sent to a
frozen wasteland, like Siberia. The comparison itself should give us pause. And
what was worse, the rumor was accurate!

The man in the photograph had gone through terrible hardships - the real threat
of death at sea, to reach the land of the free.  However, those Haitians who
risked their lives to fight injustice, and who fled so as to fight another day,
are being treated by the Government more harshly than any refugees in recent
United States history.

To find that they are incarcerated and treated worse than convicted felons - to
find that Haitians are in overcrowded cells in Brooklyn, in three places in
Upstate New York, Kentucky, West Virginia, Texas, and in the camp at Fort Allen,
Puerto Rico, defies all understanding.

It is unbelievable to me that the stated purpose of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service is the return of the refugees to Haiti,
which means certain imprisonment and death.

The Service says that the Haitians were ''picked up on the water'' and therefore
''illegal aliens'' who never technically entered the United States and who
therefore could be ''excluded,'' a legal process swifter than deportation. To
me, this is an argument that would do credit to a Nazi SS officer - not to a
United States official.

Certain Cuban ''boat people'' are considered criminals and undesirables, and yet
they have been given asylum. The Haitians are not criminals but genuine refugees
from tyranny, oppression, and poverty, and they are getting the shortest shrift
of all.

There are some 1.5 million Haitian expatriates all over the world.  There are
perhaps 300,000 Haitians in the United States, including the more than 2,200 n
ow in jail, many of whom want to rejoin the fivemillion on the island who have
been suffering under ''Baby Doc'' Duvalier's rule.

Wouldn't it be much better - more humane - for the United States Government to
give these unfortunate Haitians asylum, particularly now that the Duvalier
regime is shakier than ever? Americans should examine their consciences.

We are but a small, battered, lonely group. We are separated from the United
States by language and culture. But we are human beings and an injustice to even
the least of us reflects on all humans.

Haitians are a proud people. We do not wish to remain in the United States. We
wish to return to a Haiti that is free of the Duvalier regime and of
totalitarianism of both the right and the left. We are not waiting for others to
carry out a revolution for us. We are organizing and fighting for our own
freedom.

But listen carefully. The ''Haitian troubles'' are no longer merely Haitian
troubles. They have become United States troubles. The United States' tradition
of generosity and haven for the oppressed is endangered. The concept of freedom
and democracy for which Americans have fought for more than 200 years and
Haitians have fought for 177 years is endangered.

We will fight the Ton Ton Macoute -the regime's ''hit men'' - and the corrupt
and venal Duvaliers. We are not asking for American blood. We have been shedding
our own, and the time is very fast approaching when the hated dictator
inevitably will go.

Americans will never regret it when we retake our homeland. We will not be a
second Cuba; we will not be another Angola. We will do our job and it is clearly
evident that Washington must do its. We cannot fight the United States'
monstrous bureaucracy. We cannot change the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's policy. We cannot establish United States national policy.

We can only hope for help.
----------------------------------- ----------------------------------
Clemard Joseph Charles, a banker, is chairman of the Federation for the
Liberation of Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              455 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 4, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

America's Prisoners of Paralysis

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 467 words


Winter's coming in the Caribbean: the flow of little boats from Haiti is slowing
almost to a halt. The currents and high seas make the 800-mile voyage too
dangerous even for desperate people. In other words, some breathing space.

Instead of squeezing still more Haitians into detention camps, or opening new
ones at startling locations like the Canadian border, there is now a little time
to try solving the problem. A solution is at hand. Will Washington seize the
moment?

So far the Reagan Administration has tried scaring off migrants from Haiti with
two harsh practices, interdiction and detention. A Coast Guard cutter is
supposed to intercept the little boats at sea and take illegals back. Those who
nonetheless make it to this country are supposed to be locked up in detention
camps pending hearings.  Unless entitled to ''asylum'' because of a well-founded
fear of persecution, they must go back.

These practices are costly; there are already nine detention camps and more will
be necessary. They are an embarrassment to the United States; kangaroo courts,
critics say, concentration camps. They imply racism; why are black Haitians
locked up while white and brown Mexicans are allowed to pour in? The N.A.A.C.P.
has just pledged to support a Dec. 12 march in Washington protesting treatment
of the Haitians.

And these practices are probably not very effec-tive deterrents.  The only
half-sensible reason for interdiction is to show refugeeweary Florida that the
Reagan Administration is tough. A stronger case can be made for detention, but
only if those who are supposed to return to Haiti do so. Not many do. Some 2,800
cases are backed up in a legal logjam; some 2,800 Haitians spend month after
month in limbo, staring at wire fences and the certain prospect of Christmas in
captivity.
There is an obvious solution: break the logjam. That could be done by creating a
simple administrative process, staffed by independent hearing officers able to
decide asylum cases quickly. Migrants would stay in camps for days or weeks, not
months. Bona fide refugees could quickly start new lives. Rejected migrants
would quickly depart - conveying the clearest possible deterrent.

Key members of Congress favor the idea and the Administration has proposed
something like it, as part of an immigration reform package. But then why wait?
The breathing space is now. An asylum hearing proposal could be a separate bill
and be enacted promptly. The larger package contains important, experimental and
overdue ideas, but none with the same urgency.

There are already 2,800 prisoners of paralysis. When the currents change, there
will be more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              456 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 7, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Improvements Pledged For Haitian Refugee Site

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6


The Justice Depa rtment told Miami community representatives today that
conditions would be improved at the Krome detention center, the scene of recent
disturbances by Haitian refugees.

Top department officials met for nearly three hours with the community leaders,
including clergy and representatives of Haitian groups who have protested
conditions at the center, to discuss the problems at the detention camp in south
Florida, where 600 refugees, most of them Haitians, are being held.

After the meeting, Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani told reporters
that the Government would improve or add to recreational and educational
programs and would remodel the facility.

In addition, he said, a committee of Justice Department and community
representatives will meet regularly to discuss conditions at the facility.

Haitian refugees went on a five-day hunger strike and 101 refugees fled from the
facility in a disturbance involving outside demonstrators last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              457 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 19, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

86 Haitians Are Transferred To Brooklyn Detention Center

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 21, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 106 words


Eighty-six Haitians were transferred yesterday from Florida to a detention
center in Brooklyn. They are among 286 illegal aliens being transferred from the
Krome North Detention Facility near Miami to relieve overcrowding.  The 86 who
arrived last night by plane were transported on three chartered buses to the
Brooklyn Immigration and Naturalization Service Detention Center at 136 Flushing
Avenue near the Navy Yard.  Besides the 86 Haitians who arrived in New York, 58
others were flown to a center in Midland, Tex., yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              458 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Haitians Protest Near Camp

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 53 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 6


About 500 protesters, including natives of Haiti, gathered today outside a
refugee detention camp here. They chanted in Creole, ''Let my people go,'' but
there was no repetition of the disorder on Thursday that led to mobilization of
Border Patrol guards at the Krome North center on the edge of the Everglades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              459 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 26, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Several Haitians Escape From Refugee Center

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 25


As many as 20 Haitians bolted from a detention center west of Miami tonight.
The officials said that between 15 and 20 Haitians scaled three barbed wire
fences about 6:30 P.M. and ran into an area of marsh and sawgrass surrounding
the Krome North camp west of Miami. Two men were recaptured and as many as 18
more were being sought.

For the first time, officials revealed that 45 other Haitians escaped from Krome
North on Saturday, and An Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman,
Beverly McFarland. said, ''We can document that at least 60 have escaped in the
past several weeks.''

She said that the escape apparently was sparked by two things: the Haitians'
anger at being detained with the holiday season coming up, and an earlier
incident at Miami International Airport in which three Haitian men jumped from a
moving airplane that was to transfer them to a similar detention facility at
Fort Allen, Puerto Rico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              460 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 5, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

EVENTS SURROUNDING THE PRISONERS;
Events Surrounding the Prisoners

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 292 words


Following is a brief chronology of the events concerning the pro-Iranian
demonstrators who are awaiting deportation proceedings: July 27 - Planned pro-
and anti-Khomeini demonstrations are held in Washington on the day that the
deposed Shah dies in Egypt. Between 160 and 170 persons are arrested. July 28 -
Processing of those arrested on Sunday, the number having risen to more than
200, is complicated when the prisoners refuse to give their names. The
authorities do not know if the prisoners are Iranian nationals, and thus subject
to deportation, or Iranian-Americans. Many of the prisoners vow to go on a
hunger strike. The prisoners are moved to Federal jails.  Aug. 2 - The
prisoners, still refusing to identify themselves or take nourishment other than
sugar and water, are transferred to Federal detention centers in New York State.
Aug. 3 - The male prisoners are transferred to a Federal prison in Otisville,
N.Y., and the 20 women to the Federal detention center in Manhattan. Ayatollah
Khomeini says the prisoners are being tortured.  Aug. 4 - The Speaker of the
Iranian Parliament says that debate on the 52 American hostages in Iran is being
postponed because of the mistreatment of the prisoners in the United States.
Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh asks that the United Nations investigate the
alleged American violations of the human rights of the demonstrators. The State
Department says it would welcome such an inquiry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: chronology

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              461 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 5, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

WARDEN IN UPSTATE PRISON DENIES IRANIAN PRISONERS ARE MISTREATED

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: OTISVILLE, N.Y., Aug. 4


The warden of a Federal prison here denied today that 172 Iranian men arrested
in a Washington demonstration nine days ago were being mistreated.

Speaking with reporters outside the prison in thick woodland 70 miles northwest
of New York City, the warden, J. Michael Quinlan, said he and his staff had
''bent over backwards'' to insure that the men were being protected from
outsiders and were being given medical attention.

The prisoners have been on a hunger strike since they were arrested in
Washington on July 27 in a demonstration in favor of Ayatollah Ruhollah
Khomeini, the revolutionary leader. They have continued to be detained under
immigration regulations because they have refused to identify themselves.

46 Have Identified Themselves

In Washington, the Justice Department announced that 46 of the Iranians had
given their names and would be freed.  Iran, which has been charging that the
prisoners in the United States are being mistreated, called on the United
Nations today to investigate the conditions underwhich the men here and 20 women
at the Metropolitan Detention Center in New York City were being held.The State
Department said the United States would welcome a United Nations inquiry.

The women being held in the Detention Center were visited yesterday for an hour
by Jamal Shemirani, charge d'affaires at the Iranian mission to the United
Nations.

Mr. Quinlan, the prison warden here, said the detainees were being permitted to
pray as they wished and to speak with lawyers, doctors and, at least one Iranian
student leader, ''of their choosing.''

''If we're abusing them, let them tell you that,'' Mr. Quinlan said. ''I
challenge that.'' Reporters here have not been permitted to enter the prison to
observe the detainees or to speak with them because, Mr. Quinlan says, he
believes that would be disruptive. So far, none of the lawyers or others who
have visited the young men have complained about their treatment.

Mr. Quinlan said that by midafternoon 32 of the young men had been given a
liquid nutritional supplement because they had become so dehydrated and
malnourished that doctors believed their lives were in danger. Eighteen were
given the supplement forcibly, he said.

The warden said one man who had resisted was held down while a tube was pushed
through his nose and into his stomach so the liquid could be poured in. Two
others who had been threatened with this procedure agreed to drink the liquid
''with assistance'' after medical technicians had begun inserting the tube, Mr.
Quinlan said.

The others, all of whom were taken to the prison medical center on stretchers,
were propped up and their noses were held so they could not reject the
supplement, the warden said.

Mr. Quinlan said the atmosphere in the wings where the men are being kept, one
man to a cell, was ''calm, peaceful,'' He said lawyers who had visited the
prison at the behest of Iranian student groups and the Iranian Government were
being permitted to move freely through the wings with the detainees.

In New York City, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Detention Center said that
the meeting between the detained women and Mr. Shemirani, the Iranian official,
had been ''very orderly.'' It took place, he said, on the floor of the unit
where the women were housed, two to a room. ''They are not locked up,''
according to the spokesman. ''They spend their time watching TV and fasting.''

The spokesman said that prison officials had been able to watch the meeting from
behind a glass barrier, but had not understood the conversation, most of which
was conducted in Iranian.

----

U.S. Welcomes U.N. Inquiry

Special to the New York Times

WASHINGTON, Aug. 4 - A State Department spokesman said today that the United
States would welcome a United Nations investigation of the conditions in which
nearly 200 people believed to be Iranians were being detained in New York State
for refusing to give their names to immigration authorities.

The spokesman, John H. Trattner, said, ''We would welcome that, as we would
welcome a similar investigation by U.N. personnel into the situation of our
people in Iran.''

David W. Crosland, acting commissioner of the immigration service, said that the
detainees faced possible deportation because they refused to identify
themselves. Under rules issued last November, Iranians in the United States must
make ''full and truthful disclosure of all information requested by the
service.''

Janet R. Graham, a spokesman for the immigration service, said those under
arrest had identified themselves as Iranians, but refused to give their names.

Deportation hearings for some of the women being held in New York City have been
scheduled for Aug. 11, Miss Graham said. Dates for the men have not yet been
set, she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              462 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 22, 1980, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SUIT CHALLENGES JAILING OF ALIENS OVER SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By JOHN M. CREWDSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Aug. 21


The American Civil Liberties Union today accused the Justice Department of
''unlawfully and unnecessarily'' jailing hundreds of foreign nationals seized in
alien-smuggling cases and of confining children and their parents in separate
facilities for weeks to months without charging them with any crime.

The accusations were contained in a class-action lawsuit, filed in Federal court
in Brownsville, Tex., on behalf of Silvia Alvarado, a 10-year-old Salvadoran
girl apprehended with her grandmother by immigration officers last month. Though
the two are the only plaintiffs named in the action, the lawsuit challenges the
department's practice generally as being ''more restrictive of plaintiffs'
liberty and right to family integrity than is necessary to accomplish any
legitimate government purpose.''

Girl Is Not a Witness

For 25 days, Silvia Alvarado has been locked up in the county juvenile detention
center in Brownsville where her grandmother, Maria Gonzalez-Mejia, is being held
by the Government in the event she is needed to testify against the man accused
of having smuggled them, along with other Salvadorans, into the United States
last July 27.

Although Silvia is not being held as a witness, she has been confined at the
juvenile center, next door to the adult jail where her grandmother is confined,
because there is nowhere else for her to go. The lawsuit maintains that Silvia
has been ''in close contact with hardened juvenile offenders'' there.

Complaint 12 Pages Long

The 12-page civil complaint, drawn up by attorneys for the civil liberty union's
children's rights project in New York City and joined by the Texas Rural Legal
Aid Society, was filed on behalf of hundreds of other illegal aliens the lawyers
believe are being subjected to similar incarceration around the country.

These include parents and guardians held as material witnesses, children also
held as prospective witnesses and other children who are jailed ''merely because
their adult family members have been detained as material witnesses.''

In an interview three weeks ago, Silvia Alvarado said that she and her
grandmother had journeyed from El Salvador to the Mexican border and paid a
smuggler to help them enter the United States illegally in hopes of making their
way to Virginia, where she believed her mother was now living. It was that
interview, the lawyers said, that led to the filing of today's complaint.

'Subjected to Abuse'

The United States Marshals Service has estimated that, in the fiscal year ending
Sept. 30, 15,000 adult aliens and 900 children will have been held as witnesses
in local and Federal jails for up to three months. There are no reliable
estimates of how many children will have been incarcerated while waiting for
their parents or guardians to testify. The children in both categories, the
lawsuit alleges, are almost always locked up in separate juvenile jails where
they are sometimes ''subjected to abuse'' by delinquent American offenders.

Today's lawsuit notes that although Federal law provides for taking depositions
from witnesses, the Justice Department for the most part continues to insist on
having live witnesses available.

David Hashmall, a lawyer for the civil liberties union In New York, said that
his organization was asking that the Government be ordered to employ the
deposition procedure far more broadly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              463 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 7, 1980, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS SMUGGLER IS FOUND GUILTY BY ARIZONA JURY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Oct. 6


A native of El Salvador who was accused in connection with a smuggling trip that
led to the deaths of 13 Salvadorans in the Arizona desert was convicted today in
Federal District Court.

A jury of seven women and five men deliberated for less than two hours before
convicting Santos Flores Elias, 22 years old, of one count of conspiracy to
smuggle aliens and seven counts of smuggling aliens.

Mr. Flores faces a maximum penalty of 40 years in prison and a fine of $29,000.
Federal District Judge James A. Walsh scheduled sentencing for Nov. 3.

The defendant was among a group of about 40 aliens who tried to enter the United
States illegally from Mexico last July, United States officials said. One poorly
equipped group of about 30 tried to cross the desert near Ajo, Ariz., but the
aliens became lost and ran out of water. Thirteen in the group, including Carlos
Rivera, the reputed leader of the smugglers, died of dehydration in Arizona's
Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument.

With Separate Group

Mr. Flores was with a separate group of about 12 aliens who crossed the border
south of Yuma, Ariz., and were arrested. The prosecutor, United States Attorney
John G. Hawkins, contended that Mr. Flores had assisted Mr. Rivera in the
smuggling attempt.

Testifying in his own defense, Mr. Flores maintained that he was simply one of
those who had paid to be taken into the United States.  A number of those who
survived the trip were among the 19 witnesses at the four-day trial. Most said
they did not believe that Mr. Flores had helped Mr. Rivera, but three said they
thought he was a helper.

Arthur J. Hutton, the defense attorney, said he would appeal the verdict on the
ground that the trial should have been moved to another city because of
prejudicial publicity in Tucson.

The deaths of the 13 Salvadorans were mentioned only twice in the proceedings,
both times in passing by Government witnesses. Neither local nor Federal
officials plan to file homicide charges.

Survivors Want to Stay

The survivors, who have been living in the Tucson area pending the resolution of
the trial, have petitioned President Carter to grant them either United States
citizenship or permanent resident alien status, citing ''compelling humanitarian
reasons.'' They say they fear they will be penalized by the Salvadoran
Government if they are forced to return to their homeland.

Two other persons pleaded guilty to one count each of alien smuggling last week.
The two, Elias Nunez Guardado, 26, of El Salvador, and Mateo Preciado Navarro,
54, of Sonoita, Mexico, will be sentenced Oct. 20. They each face a maximum
penalty of five years in prison and a fine of $2,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              464 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW PLAN, OLD FLAWS

BYLINE: By Steven Greenhouse

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 864 words


4,2,358.8,0,3100,2For those who remember unpleasant things, President Reagan's
call for a two-year experimental guest worker program, which would bring in
50,000 Mexicans a year, triggered memories of the infamous bracero program.

Washington started that program in 1942 because of the wartime labor shortage.
Under it, an average of 200,000 Mexican braceros crossed the border each year to
do low-wage agricultural work. Mr.  Reagan's proposal may end up dwarfing it,
however, for if the 50,000-worker-a-year experiment succeeds, he is expected to
expand it to between 500,000 and 1,000,000 guest workers a year.

The old bracero program outlasted the war by two decades thanks to pressures
from agricultural interests. They liked having captive laborers who worked hard
to please them in order to be invited back the following year. The program
finally ended in 1964 when Americans discovered how much the braceros were being
exploited in the nation's harvest of shame.

Many guest workers received less than the minimum wage, were housed in
dilapidated shacks and were dismissed and shipped home if they spoke up for
their rights. After employers deducted for food, housing and transportation,
some braceros netted less than $100 for a season's work.

President Reagan's proposed bracero program is likely to be little different
from its precursor. The new braceros would also be relegated to back-breaking
labor in the Southwest sun, and in this age of anti-, de-, and nonregulation,
they should expect little Government protection.

The President must have proposed the program to please his agricultural buddies
because they alone would benefit. When he called for a ban on employing illegal
aliens, the President knew he had to give his friends a new source of cheap
labor.

To understand how much growers would gain from such a program, it is instructive
to compare it with an existing, small-scale program for temporary foreign
agricultural workers. Each year, about 20,000 foreigners are allowed in to pick
apples in New York, tobacco in Virginia, sugar cane in Florida and onions in
Texas.

Growers who hire the temporary foreigners need not make Social Security payments
for them, or, in most states, unemployment insurance contributions. Disability
contributions for the foreign workers are far smaller than for domestic workers.
These factors combine for a 12-to-30-percent payroll savings. Growers often
violate fair labor laws because they realize that foreign workers, who must
return home right after the harvest, have difficulty suing them to enforce their
rights. Nor can temporary workers fight improper conditions because if they
complain, they are discharged, sent home and blacklisted from American jobs.

While growers would reap much from a guest worker program, everyone else would
lose. American workers would suffer because guest workers depress wages -
temporary foreign workers average about $3.40 an hour. Unemployed Americans
would lose because guest workers take jobs from them. Mexican Americans would be
hurt because they compete most directly for jobs with their bracero brethren.
Unions would lose because the braceros would divide workers and be used to break
strikes.

The proposed program would encourage rather than discourage illegal immigration
because once braceros work here, they will want to return, legally or not.
Although growers may assert that the program would help keep produce prices
down, they will probably pocket any savings in labor costs, rather than pass
them on to consumers.

Switzerland, West Germany and France began guest worker programs during labor
shortages, but when their jobless rates soared, they soured on such programs.
Now these nations are struggling to deal with the economic and social underclass
of foreigners that these programs created.

Mexico's foremost migration expert, Jorge Bustamante, condemned Mr. Reagan's
plan for this very reason. He said it would create a subclass of highly
exploited laborers and would stigmatize all Mexicans.

An arguable case could be made for a guest worker program if the United States
had a labor shortage. It does not, however. Indeed, the most surprising thing
about the proposal is that Mr. Reagan made it when more than seven million
Americans are out of work. This bespeaks his concern for his farmer friends and
his lack of concern for the nation's unemployed.

A guest worker program is not the answer to any alleged labor shortage on the
farm. There is a simple answer, however. If growers bring their wages and
working conditions up to 20th century standards, if they bring pay into line
with pay in other equally hard and unpleasant industries, hundreds of thousands
of jobless Americans will line up to do agricultural work.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Steven Greenhouse, a law student at New York University, writes about economic
and social issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: op-ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              465 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 21, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FLAWED OPPOSITION TO A FOREIGN-WORKER PLAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 663 words


To the Editor:

Your May 11 news story ''Plan Would Let Mexicans Work as U.S.  Guests'' tried
for balanced treatment of the White House proposal for a temporary foreign
worker (T.F.W.) program by citing some opinions from outside the Administration.
Unfortunately, those opinions, which were almost all in opposition to such a
program, were neither well-informed nor fully representative.

o begin with, the ''bracero'' program, which operated from 1942 to 1964, was far
from having ''stimulated illegal immigration.'' Official records show that
illegal entrants fell well below 100,000 a year from 1956 to 1964 but after the
end of the bracero program rose continuously, to reach over one million by 1977.

It is true that many braceros were abused, and sometimes cheated, by their farm
employers, and that they were not adequately defended by Federal and local
authorities. Yet they kept coming because their earnings far outran the jobs and
pay rates available in Mexico. As for the alleged adverse effect on the wages
and working conditions of American agricultural workers, the records of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture show a markedly rising trend of their wages right
through the bracero period and beyond.

The interpretation of the Western European experience, as cited in your
dispatch, is similarly incomplete. It is true that when recession set in after
1973 repatriation was slow - but it was not zero. Furthermore, it was largely
the presence of wives, children and other dependents that intensified the
reluctance to leave.

However, a U.S. program for temporary workers only, excluding their dependents,
should induce homeward flows. Conversely, the European programs entailed few
complaints about abuse of guest workers, except for poor housing and cultural
isolation in some countries. Our own small H-2 visa program works with few
abuses or overstays.

The assertion that temporary foreign workers in the U.S. would become a
''sub-class'' and ''subject to exploitation'' ignores the realities of both the
present illegal aliens and the alternatives they have left in their homelands.

Exploitation in fact takes advantage of the undocumented status and furtive life
of illegals here; legal foreign worker status would rescue them from abuse.
Furthermore, the foreign workers do not see ''exploitation'' in wages that are
at the U.S. legal minimum, or even illegally below it, when their earnings
generally amount to as much in an hour here as in a whole day back home - if
they could only find a job there.

The most confused opposition to a temporary foreign worker program is the
assertion that ''it makes no sense to bring additional workers to the U.S. when
there are 8 million unemployed already.'' This argument ignores the structural
segmentation of the U.S. labor market. In particular, the low-level jobs - low
in skills, in pay, in status, in interest and in working conditions but mostly
urban jobs nowadays, rather than farming - are hard to fill with Americans.
U.S. workers are variously able to withhold their labor from such work, and in
effect are leaving vacancies which foreign workers fill.

This adjustment in the labor market does not undermine prevailing labor
standards or American employment - although it may prevent wage increases and
might therefore be said to help fight inflation and imports.

A temporary foreign worker program carefully designed to meet the indicated
realities deserves a judicious hearing in this country.  EDWIN P. REUBENS
Professor of Economics The City College New York, May 13, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              466 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FLORIDA'S REFUGEES CHALLENGING PLAN TO USE WEST INDIANS IN CANE HARVEST

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1402 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE, Fla., Oct. 8


The great green sea of sugar cane that covers 359,000 acres of Florida farmland
southeast of Lake Okeechobee is almost ready for harvest, and once again West
Indian workers are expected to spend six months bringing it in, as they have for
37 years.

This year, however, there are challenges in court, on the streets and in the
files of the United States Labor Department to bringing in 9,000 West Indians,
mostly Jamaicans, while thousands of refugees now living in Florida remain
unemployed.

Growers say they cannot find domestic workers, either citizens or refugees,
willing to cut cane by hand for an entire season. Those seeking to organize the
farm workers say the use of foreign workers, who fear deportation and
blacklisting, keeps the unions out and wages and working conditions too bad for
domestic workers.

Burden on Government

What gives this latest flareup of the controversy a special urgencyis that
Florida is now awash with refugees, a n estimated 112,000 who have come since
January 1980, many of them un employed. The burden on state, local and Federal
governments has been estimated at $210 million, including $80 million paid by
state and local governments.

In farming communities such as Belle Glade, where refugees have flocked looking
for work in cane or vegetables, the figures translate into six or seven people
in a hot, filthy room, sharing a bathroom with dozens of others, surviving on
food stamps and wondering how they will pay the weekly rent of $35, $65 or $100.

Last week, in the first work stoppage at the company in 20 years, 38 Haitian
refugees who said they were represented by the Farmworkers Rights Organization
walked off their jobs at the United States Sugar Corporation in nearby
Clewiston. They say they are striking for better wages and working conditions,
contending that Americans, Mexicans and Haitians are being discriminated against
in favor of hiring offshore workers ''who are captives and badly exploited.''

Company off icials, refusing to recognize the existence of a strike,said that
the 192 remaining Haitians and Jamaicans now working on preharvest pl anting
would stay on the job and offered to hold jobs open for the 38. The additional
Jamaican workers are scheduled to arrive at the end of this month.

Jesus Romo came to Florida this year as executive director of the Farmworkers
Rights Organization, which is affiliated with a group of civil rights groups and
unions in the United States and Mexico but not with the United Farm Workers. He
said his group had asked the Labor Department to acknowledge that a labor
dispute existed at United States Sugar. Under Federal law, the existence of such
a dispute could delay the entry of additional foreign workers.

Last year, members of the Florida Sugar Cane League used 8,500 offshore workers
as part of the 14,000-member work force that brought in a record crop of 1.1
million tons of raw sugar. Florida's soft muddy soil makes it necessary to cut
by hand rather than machine.

Before last year's harvest began, industry representatives recruited at refugee
camps, interviewing 4,313 applicants. According to Lester H. Dean Jr., senior
field representative for the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, which
represented the growers, 1,744 of the applicants came to work. Of these, only 98
finished the season, he said.

This year's recruitment by the association, conducted at the offices of the
Florida State Employment Service, netted only 498 applicants, according to Mr.
Dean. Of these, 72 were rejected for failing to finish the season last year.

Company Explains Hiring Policy

''We need workers,'' said James E. Terrill, vice president for personnel of
United States Sugar, which produces about 30 percent of the state's sugar and
will hire 2,500 seasonal cane cutters this year. ''We don't care where they come
from. The Jamaicans and other West Indians have been reliable. We would prefer a
U.S. work force, but it has not been reliable.''

''They quit because of the conditions, not because they didn't want to work,''
Mr. Romo said of the refugees. Besides facing poor pay and working conditions,
he said, some were told by drivers who came to take workers to the job: ''No
Haitians.''

Sugar cane cutters are guaranteed $4.69 an hour, well above the $3.35 Federal
minimum wage, and are paid on a piecework system that the growers contend yields
more than the guaranteed minimum for a worker who can cut more than the average
eight tons a day. Last year, the growers say, when the guarantee was $4.09 an
hour, the average worker earned $5.10 an hour.

''I don't believe that if you put it at $15 an hour you could get a comparable
domestic work force,'' said Mr. Dean, who contends that neither the Americans
nor the refugees can keep pace with the West Indian workers.

Mr. Romo says that the growers' figures are misleading and that the maximum a
cutter can earn is $4.69 an hour for a full day, no matter how much he can cut.
If the worker finishes his assigned task before his shift has ended, his hourly
pay will be above the minimum because his full day's pay will be divided only by
the hours he actually worked, Mr. Romo said.

In Jamaica, according to Oswald A. Simpson, executive director of the Sugar
Producers' Federation of Jamaica, a worker is expected to cut six tons a day.
His average pay is the equivalent of $16.51, or 40 percent of what he would earn
in the United States.

''Our people need the opportunity to work in the United States,'' Prime Minister
Edward P.G. Seaga of Jamaica Jamaican, said in an interview last month. ''Many
of them are able to get a real start in life: the money to buy a farm or a
shop.''

Under a contract negotiated by the growers and the British West Indies Central
Labor Organization, wh ich has offices in Washington and which represents the
Caribbean island Gov ernments of Jamaica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Dominica and
Barbados , 23 percent of a worker's pay is withheld for savings, to be s ent
home at the end of the season and paid in local currency; 3 perc ent is deducted
for health insurance. Deductions are also made fo r transportation costs, which
are reimbursed if the worker finishes h alf the season. All deductions are
mandatory.

Attorneys for Florida Rural Legal Services Inc., representing the farmworkers'
organization, complained about these deductions to the Department of Labor, but
Labor Department officials said last month that the cash wage after deductions
still seemed to meet the minimum wage requirement. No investigation is planned.
Governor's Suit on Refugees

The Farmworkers Rights Organization also filed a motion to intervene in the suit
by Gov. Bob Graham of Florida against Attorney General William French Smith and
other Federal officials, asking that no more re fug ees be released directly
into South Florida. The farmworkers w ant the Federal Government to stop the
entry of all foreign worke rs while there were Haitian refugees available to do
farm jobs.

Joseph Taylor, the former office manager for the Department of Labor and
Employment Security for the Florida State Employment Service in Belle Glade, was
responsible for certifying that no domestic workers were available for the
cutting jobs last year. He transferred from that job last July 15.

''Your head starts hurting from beating your head against a wall,'' he said,
explaining that he had become personally involved in the problems of the Haitian
workers. Haitians who come on their own, he said, have to rent from private
landlords, while the West Indians get company barracks.

''I'd be visiting camps and see Jamaians eating big plates of food, with beds
and showers,'' he said. ''The Haitians had nothing. They lived eight or nine in
a room, eating bananas and bread, working in the fields. If you dig ditches and
work, you use up your body resources. The Haitians were dropping out like flies.
There was no way they could stay in the program.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitians in Belle Glade map of southern Florida

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              467 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 19, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

MIGRANT SLAVERY PERSISTS ON SOUTHEAST'S FARMS

BYLINE: By WENDELL RAWLS Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2019 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 17


The recent Federal indictment of four men on charges of enslaving eight migrant
farm workers in North Carolina has drawn attention to what appears to be a
broader problem of involuntary servitude in the fields of the Southeast.

The two brothers and two other members of a black clan of migrant labor
contractors were accused of enticing the workers with drink and marijuana and
then holding them against their will.

Lawyers for the four men deny the charges. But regardless of the outcome of the
case the Justice Department official who monitors such situations, as well as
advocates for farm workers, contend this type of incident is a serious and
continuing problem in the region.

Federal Efforts Stepped Up

The plight of the domestic laborers is gaining attention as the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the Justice Department are stepping up efforts to
halt the smuggling into the United States of illegal aliens, who are also often
forced to work for little or no money. Like the aliens, the domestic workers are
trucked to fields by labor contractors and crew leaders who recruit, deliver and
supervise them.

Daniel F. Rinzel, chief of the civil rights division's criminal section, and
Richard Roberts, the Involuntary Servitude Coordinator, both said it was unclear
whether the incidence of enslavement and peonage was on the increase or whether
more active social and legal services were producing more complaints.

Steven Edelstein, a lawyer for Farmworkers Migrant Services, in Newton Grove,
N.C., said that involuntary servitude and peonage were an expanding phenomenon
in the Florida-to-New York migrant stream, affecting ''certainly hundreds,
perhaps in the low thousands'' of itinerant workers and involving at least 15
labor contractors and possibly as many as 25 who take workers into North
Carolina.

A Problem of Disbelief

''People don't like to believe that slave camps exist in North Carolina,'' Mr.
Edlestein said. ''They don't want to believe that they are operating 45 miles
from the state capital in Raleigh, but they do.''

Lamar Armstrong, a lawyer for the two brothers in the North Carolina case,
Dennis and Richard Warren, who work with their father, Willie Warren Sr., out of
Orlando, Fla., said his clients had been falsely accused. ''They do not kidnap
people or shanghai them, nor do they abuse them or cheat them or steal from
them,'' Mr. Armstrong said. ''And if the worker wants to walk away from the
camp, nobody stops him.''

Forty-six complaints of worker abuse have been investigated by the Justice
Department nationwide since Jan. 1, 1980, under the Farm Labor Contractors
Registration Act. Passed in 1964, the law requires that migrant crew leaders
meet certain standards to obtain approval from the Labor Department and receive
Federal registration cards authorizing them to provide labor to farmers and
others.

Complaints in Southern States

The Justice Department received nine complaints from North Carolina, six from
South Carolina, four from Florida and two from New York, Those complaints are in
addition to those received by the Department of Labor for such violations as
improper recruitment of workers and failure to pay them the minimum wage.

Under the Federal antislavery statutes, involuntary servitude occurs when a
worker is compelled, by whatever means, to keep a job he does not want. If the
worker is prevented from leaving a job because a debt to his employer had not
been repaid, the offense is peonage.

In the case of peonage, it does not matter whether the debt is real or
imaginary, whether it is large or small. Nor does it matter whether the peon
initially agreed voluntarily to work or whether he was paid for his work.

Historically, criminal convictions were rarely obtained by the Justice
Department for violations of involuntary servitude laws. Two years ago the civil
rights division found that the problems of kidnapping and enslavement of migrant
workers were severe enough to warrant the appointment of an Involuntary
Servitude Coordinator.

Convictions in 10 Cases

Still, as an example of the scarcity of convictions, even with added emphasis on
prosecution of peonage and enslavement violations, the department has won
convictions in 10 cases involving six separate incidents across the nation in
the past two years. In 1979, the year before the department appointed an
Involuntary Servitude Coordinator, there was only one conviction. And not all
cases involved migrants.

One incident involved two crew leaders who removed a migrant worker from another
crew leader's bus at gunpoint in South Carolina and forced him to return to work
for them because he was unable to pay off a debt. Another involved a minister of
the Church of God and True Holiness and three others in North Carolina who
forced nine teenagers to work against their will but kept their money.

Although some migrant workers' advocates, such as Sister Catherine Flynn, of
West Hartford, Conn., who works in health services along the East Coast migrant
stream, complain that the Justice Department is insufficiently concerned about
the crimes against the workers, Mr. Rinzel of the Justice Department said, ''We
will prosecute any cases which meet the standard of guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt.''

The cases are ''difficult to prove,'' he said, because of several factors. Often
the migrant worker witnesses ''disappear,'' they are sometimes ''not effective''
on the stand, their testimony is often ''contradictory and unreliable,'' and
corroboration of their assertions is ''sometimes lacking.''

Inquiries in Six States

The kidnapping, slavery and peonage cases along the migrant stream involve more
blacks and whites than Hispanic people, and more often than not involve black
crew leaders persecuting black farm workers in more than one place. For example,
the four men charged in North Carolina also are under investigation by state and
Federal officials in at least six Eastern states.

And when a crew leader is indicted or convicted, signs civil consent decrees and
pays fines, or loses his Federal crew leader card, his relatives may quickly
take over for him in the field while he directs the business operations at home,
officials say.

In North Carolina, the migrant season generally begins in April with the cabbage
crop, which is followed by cucumbers, peppers, tobacco, apples and sweet
potatoes. The season ends about the first week of November, usually after the
first frost.

According to those familiar with the procurement of workers, crew leaders begin
recruiting laborers in Florida after the citrus season ends, telling them there
is plenty of work available in the Carolinas.

Recruiting in Many Areas

But the recruiting is not limited to Florida, and the workers, according to
Federal court affidavits, are not always accurately told where they will be
working.

Mr. Armstrong, the Warrens' lawyer, said the recruiting forays typically involve
a swing through such major cities as Atlanta and New York, with the labor
contractor making certain to visit halfway houses and mission shelters, seeking
men who are down and out.

''They usually go to the homes for feeding the poor and offer the people jobs,''
Mr. Armstrong said in a telephone interview. ''They tell the workers where
they're going, how much they will be paid and what's involved.''

However, Mr. Edelstein and Justice Department prosecutors provide conflicting
reports of what victims tell them takes place in the usual recruiting operation.


Conversations and Wine

''The crew leaders drive up to a mission for derelicts and alcoholics,'' Mr.
Edelstein said, ''and they get out among the men, engaging them in conversation,
sharing some wine or cigarettes. They tell them about work that's available for
the minimum wage of $3.35 an hour at some vague place. Often the place is said
to be just out of town. Whe the worker gets in the truck, often already drunk,
he is offered a bottle of wine and he wakes up in a sweet potato patch in North
Carolina.''

James W. Sosebee, executive director of Atlanta's privately financed Union
Mission, said the labor contractors rarely entered the building but conducted
their business on public property.

Of the 300 residents at his mission, Mr. Sosebee said, about 80 percent are
alcoholics and 20 percent have a history of mental problems. The vast majority
of them also are either physically or mentally handicapped, he added.

Once at the labor camp, Mr. Edelstein said, the recruit is ordered into the
fields and is threatened with bodily harm if he resists or tries to run away.

Meals Deducted from Pay

While at the camp, Mr. Edelstein said, the worker is provided minimum-standard
shelter, usually in a bunk house of an abandoned, ranshackle farm house. He is
provided meals, the costs of which are deducted from his pay.

''For $35 a week, or more likely $45 or $50,'' he said, ''the worker gets eggs
and grits for breakfast; sometimes a lunchmeat or peanut butter sandwich and a
cold drink at midday, and a dinner of rice and turkey necks or ox tails and
greens. Coffee costs extra. Our study shows that such food would cost the crew
leader between $14 and $21 a week.

''The cheap wine is provided at $6 or more a bottle, cigarettes at a dollar a
pack, soap chips at a dollar apiece, shaving cream for $5 a can. At the end of a
week's work, the worker probably will owe the crew leader money or he may come
out with $5 or $10 cash.''

Violence in Many Camps

According to a 1981 report prepared by two lawyers for the North Carolina
chapter of the National Lawyers Guild, violence by crew leaders against farm
workers ''occurs at from one-third to almost all of the labor camps in the
survey area'' of eastern North Carolina.  Yet less than one-third of the cases
of violence are reported, the report said, because of the workers' fear of
retaliation.

''Crew leaders have associates who typically drive the trucks, which haul the
workers to the fields, and monitor their performance on the job and perform a
double function as guards and thugs,'' the report said. Because of an
''invisible yet effective threat,'' the report went on, ''workers, when asked
about their condition stare at their feet and say everything is all right.''

Farmers who have perishable crops in the fields and large loans at the banks
often are desperate for workers to harvest their produce, quickly and
inexpensively, at a specific time. The farmers also insist that they depend on
the labor contractors to provide dependable hands and to supervise the workers.

Cecil Williams, for whose Nash County, N.C., farm operation the Warren brothers
had supplied the workers who alleged slavery, said he never saw a worker
mistreated and that he had never had a Warren worker come to him with a
complaint.

Farmer Is 'The Man'

''I suppose not,'' was Mr. Edelstein's retort. ''The farmer is The Man. All of
them are scared to complain to The Man.'' Cecil Williams Jr., who helps his
father run Rainbow Farms, said the workers ''tear up'' the decent showers and
toilets, mattresses, furniture and hot-water heaters provided for a decent
living standard; a visual inspection of the migrant living quarters bore him
out.

According to Joan Papert Preiss, a member of the National Farm Workers Ministry,
''despite all that has been written and shown about the migrant workers, all the
TV documentaries, the books, the investigative reports, photographic essays and
hearings, and despite all the concern that has been expressed, very little has
changed for them over the years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Richard and Dennis Warren (page A29)

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              468 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 25, 1981, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Tax Relief Asked For Work Abroad

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 146 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24


Reagan Administration officials called today for more tax relief for Americans
working abroad, but warned that exempting all taxes would give a windfall to
motionpicture actors, authors and people living in tax-haven countries.

Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige; the special trade representative, Bill
Brock, and John Chapoton, Assistant Treasury Secretary, said at a Senate finance
subcommittee hearing on bills to liberalize tax policy for Americans living
overseas that the Administration would not recommend specific legislation until
Congress finished work on the Reagan economic package.

They said, however, that a 1978 law liberalizing expatriate taxes had not
worked, and that a greater tax break was needed to encourage workers to accept
jobs overseas and to spur American exports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              469 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. EXPECTING TALKS TO STRENGTHEN TIES WITH MEXICO

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7


The Reagan Administration hopes that the two days of talks with President Jose
Lopez Portillo of Mexico will strengthen communications between the United
States and Mexico at a time when several issues have been causing strains
between the two countries.

On his arrival at Andrews Air Force Base this evening, Mr. Lopez Portillo was
greeted by Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. and then traveled to Blair
House in downtown Washington. He was scheduled to arrive at the White House
tomorrow morning for a brief greeting ceremony and then leave for the
Presidential retreat at Camp David.

Administration officials said that among the principal items on the agenda of
Mr. Reagan and Mr. Lopez Portillo would be trade, immigration and differing
views of security problems in Central America.

'Guest Workers' Proposed

To deal with the problems posed by the illegal entry of Mexicans into the United
States, the Reagan Administration has been shaping a policy to double the annual
limit on legal immigration from Mexico and to establish an experimental ''guest
worker'' program that would permit 50,000 Mexicans a year to enter the United
States to seek employment.

Mexico has long pressed the United States to be more open to Mexicans seeking
job opportunities. In addition, Mexican officials are known to feel that any
''guest worker'' program should probably permit more than 50,000 Mexicans to
enter each year.

On trade, the United States has been eager to discuss its concerns about the
array of Mexican tax measures and other supports aimed at increasing Mexican
exports, particularly farm products that compete with American products.

Perhaps the greatest point of contention between the two Presidents is expected
to center on the Reagan Administration's new policies in Central America and the
Caribbean. President Reagan has approved, but not announced, a sweeping new
policy of economic and military assistance to ease poverty and counter what the
Administration maintains is Soviet and Cuban intervention in the area. The
President has already authorized limited military assistance to El Salvador to
help the Government there oppose leftist insurgents.

President Lopez Portillo opposes the Salvadoran Government and has had friendly
relations with both Cuba and the revolutionary Government of Nicaragua, a regime
the Reagan Administration has criticized.

Joint Statement Not Planned

In a briefing for reporters, a senior Administration official said there would
not be a joint statement at the end of the talks or any effort to ''align'' or
''adjust'' differing views, as there have been in some of Mr. Reagan's previous
talks with world leaders.

''It is not our position to have President Lopez Portillo leave this meeting
with a clear-cut understanding on every issue that has arisen, or will arise
between the United States and Mexico,'' the official said.

The two men first met in 1979 while Mr. Reagan was on a visit Mexico City. Last
Jan. 5, two weeks before his inauguration, Mr.  Reagan met the Mexican leader in
Ciudad Juarez, a border community across the Bridge of Friendship from El Paso,
Tex. They then pledged to establish a ''personal relationship'' to help ease
tensions between Mexico and the United States.

The schedule calls for senior aides to both leaders to travel to Camp David
tomorrow morning, remain there for the evening and return to the White House
Tuesday for a state luncheon. Despite the presence of the aides, the two leaders
are expected to spend at least some of the time alone.

The plan, for example, calls for them to take a long stroll in the woods
tomorrow afternoon, and an official said ''some form of recreation,'' possibly
including horseback riding, is in store.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of President Jose Lopez Portillo of Mexico , with
Ambassador John Gavin

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              470 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 10, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICO'S LEADER ENDS VISIT ON BRIGHT NOTE

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9


Reagan Administration officials said today that talks between President Reagan
and President Jose Lopez Portillo of Mexico had produced ''a great deal of
progress'' on the Administration's ''guest worker'' plan for Mexicans to work
legally in the United States.

Under a proposal outlined today by Attorney General William French Smith to
Mexican officials, 50,000 Mexicans would be permitted to enter the United States
to seek employment. The proposal is one of several prepared by a group of
specialists under Mr. Smith with the goal of curbing illegal immigration from
Mexico.

Mr. Smith also outlined proposals to grant amnesty to the 2.7 million Mexicans
who are thought to be living in the United States illegally and to permit them
to receive temporary worker status or become permanent resident aliens.

American officials, emphasizing that no final decisions had been made on these
proposals, would give no details of them today. The specifics were disclosed by
Mexican officials.

Talks End in Friendly Atmosphere

One indication of the continuing controversial nature of the proposals came when
eight labor, Hispanic, religious and civil rights groups held a news conference
this morning to say they opposed the idea of a guest worker program.

According to Mexican and American officials, Mr. Lopez Portillo and his aides
gave no reaction to the proposals. An Administration aide said the proposals
would be submitted to Congress soon.

The proposals were discussed as the two leaders ended a day and a half of talks
in a friendly, almost festive atmosphere. Mr. Lopez Portillo alluded to a tense
relationship between himself and President Carter, although he did not mention
Mr. Carter by name.  Relations in the Carter years were strained by disputes on
Mexican oil and natural gas exports, a subject that reportedly did not come up
this week.

''I confess for the first time now, I have felt totally relaxed,'' Mr. Lopez
Portillo said as Mr. Reagan looked on with a broad smile.  It had been Mr.
Reagan's intention to foster a personal friendship with Mr. Lopez Portillo to
ease Mexican-American strains.

Reagan Accepts Invitation

After spending the night at Camp David and having a state luncheon at the White
House today, Mr. Lopez Portillo met with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the
Massachusetts Democrat, then left for Mexico City.

At the end of their talks, Mr. Reagan announced that, as expected, he had
accepted Mr. Lopez Portillo's invitation to attend the northsouth conference of
world leaders in Cancun, Mexico on Oct. 22 and 23. Cuba was not invited to the
conference and the Soviet Union decided not to attend, clearing the way for Mr.
Reagan's acceptance of the invitation.

The two Presidents also announced an agreement to set up joint panels to discuss
trade and political matters and disputes on fishing rights.

The Mexican Foreign Minister, Jorge Castaneda, told reporters this afternoon
that most of the discussions today and yesterday related to trade and the
problems of the Caribbean and Central America.  Yesterday, a senior Reagan aide
said that Mr. Lopez Portillo had agreed in principle to participate in a
proposed economic development plan for the area. Mr. Reagan's goal is to ease
poverty and counter what he sees as a threat of Communist-bloc influence.

Today Mr. Castaneda said that Mr. Lopez Portillo had imposed three conditions on
Mexican participation in such a plan and said the United States had accepted
them. He said the plan ''should not contain any military facet,'' it should not
be ''conceived of as a plan to fight the Soviet Union or Communism in the
region'' and no country should be excluded ''in principle'' from receiving help.

Mr. Castaneda's comments were a reiteration of a longstanding Mexican view that
the United States is overly concerned about Communist influence in the region
and not concerned enough about poverty and other conditions deemed to be the
main causes of revolution.

In a gesture to Mr. Lopez Portillo's position, Mr. Reagan said today that
economic development was ''the best way to assure the region's future
stability.'' But aides to the President maintained again that no details on the
economic plans had been worked out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Pres. and Mrs. Reagan with Pres. and Mrs. Lopez
Portillo

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              471 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FOR CHILDREN OF MIGRANTS, A HARVEST OF LANGUAGE

BYLINE: By SAM FREEDMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 2; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

DATELINE: WEST CHICAGO, Ill.


Each morning of midsummer, as Antonio Aguilar kneels in trays of manure to pick
mushrooms, his 8-year-old daughter, Mayre, boards the bus for Pioneer School
here.

For seven weeks, she attends a publicly financed summer school for the children
of migrant workers, where she learns the English her parents never mastered and
the arithmetic they forgot long ago.

At Mayre's age, Mr. Aguilar and his wife, Marth, were picking corn and beans in
central Mexico. They left school in the second grade, but they never left the
fields, following the growing season north to Texas and -for this summer, at
least - to the farms on the fringe of metropolitan Chicago.

When visitors come to the Aguilars' $22-a-week apartment, the couple dispatch
Mayre to answer the door. When they see the dentist, she interprets; when they
shop, she counts the change.

A Young Adult

The only problem, Mrs. Aguilar says, is the scoldings; Mayre does not receive
them well. ''Once she has been an adult,'' Mrs. Aguilar sighs, ''it is hard to
make her a child again.''

The Aguilars inherited a fundamental dream of immigrants: a better life for the
next generation. If they must surrender some parental authority, if they must
rely on their nina, their little one, they make the sacrifice willingly.

'It's not bitter; it's a sweet affair,'' says Peter Alvino, director of the
Pioneer School summer program for migrants, which is four years old. ''It's part
of the Hispanic culture to live on this earth to have your children do better.
They have to; if they don't, you haven't succeeded. When the child surpasses the
parent the parent thinks, 'Now, I've finally made it.' '' During the school year
Mr.  Alvino is a guidance counselor for Hispanic students at a high school.

For migrant children, the passage from youth to adulthood proceeds with an
urgency, and their education - although they are legally required, like any
other child, to go to school - must compete against the financial necessity of
traveling with the harvest.

With 550,000 migrant children registered for school throughout the country
during 1980-81, only 396,000 attended full-time classes, according to the
Migrant Student Records Transfer System. Seventeen percent of migrant students
graduate from high school, less than a fourth the national average.

The children are captives of what social workers call the ''migrant cycle,'' a
calendar of seasons to which the schools must bend in hopes of reaching the
youngsters. Seasonal schools for migrant children operate throughout the nation,
with especially large enrollments in Texas and California.

During the regular academic year, Pioneer School is a neighborhood school for
the middle-class community. Every summer, with financing from the Illinois
Migrant Council and the Illinois State Board of Education, it becomes a way
station for teaching the transient pupils.

''The seven weeks go by awfully fast,'' says Robert Vergara, assistant director
of the summer program. ''But we are so busy, we don't have time to get
discouraged. We've never come to the point of despair.''

Both he and Mr. Alvino attach almost a sense of mission to their work. Mr.
Vergara, who speaks Spanish, is pastor of a West Chicago church and holds a
master's degree in bilingual education. He teaches at a local elementary school
during the school year. Mr.  Alvino equates the entry into American life of the
migrant students to his own rise from a childhood of drug use in East Harlem to
a doctorate degree in counseling.

A Search for Students

The men began their search for this summer's students in April, when planting
time arrived in Illinois. They visited the drab garden apartments known as
''Little Mexico'' in West Chicago and they walked the sidelines of weekend
soccer games at a nearby mushroom farm.

One weekend in May, the men opened Pioneer School to the migrant parents so the
parents could see it was nothing to fear; many local migrants grew wary of
schools and other Anglo institutions after a 1979 raid against illegal aliens
here by the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

It was not uncommon for parents to tell Mr. Alvino, ''no alcanzo,'' literally
meaning, ''I can't reach,'' and colloquially that they cannot afford to send
their child to school. But most parents, in time, responded to the appeal.
Before spring ended, Mr. Alvino had dined many nights as a guest of the migrant
families he wooed.

By June, 200 children, between 4 1/2 and 19 years old, registered for school.
Others continued to appear at the school door every few days, and parents still
call, asking for a place for their child.

About 70 percent of the pupils come from families who have shifted to industrial
from farm labor and settled in West Chicago. The rest continue to move. One boy,
at 19, had never spoken English. Another pupil had divided several school years
among West Chicago, Laredo, Tex., and Mexico. For many migrant children, the
seven-week summer session will be their year's schooling.

When the buses arrive each day, the children run into the school, which is
accredited. Between classes they line up in silence.  Disciplinary problems, Mr.
Alvino says, ''do not exist.''

Teachers Speak Spanish

The school's 24 teachers, drawn from schools throughout the Chicago area, all
speak Spanish and received special training from the Illinois Migrant Council in
June. They feed the children breakfast and lunch at the school, teach them
mathematics, social studies and science, and take them swimming. But all else
remains peripheral to the study of English, with which each day begins. It is
the survival skill.

A walk through the school finds fluency by degrees. In a firstgrade class, a
teacher helps a girl form the letter ''s'' on a lined table. The sixth grade
practices for a spelling test, while the seventh learns proper nouns from
sentences like, ''The Los Angeles Rams is a California football team.''

Not everyone will succeed. One day not long ago, Mr. Alvino noticed a migrant
youngster playing kickball in a park. He stopped to ask the child why he wasn't
going to summer school, and the boy replied: ''I'm always being bothered about
being Mexican, not American. And here I can just play.''

Luis Cortez would not agree. The eldest child in a family of seven, he left
school in the sixth grade, first for the fields, then a bakery, and finally a
factory near West Chicago.

This year, Mr. Cortez saw his own eldest boy, Guillermo, turn 10, the age at
which his unbroken labor began. But Guillermo and his brother, Ricardo, 6, spend
their days in Pioneer School, and Mr.  Cortez imagines the day they will have a
diploma and a career. (The summer program does not issue a diploma.)

''If I can give them that education,'' he says, ''it will be great for me. Then
I would know at least I gave them something.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: 2 photos of children of migrants

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              472 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 28, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

GAINS FOR AMERICANS WHO WORK ABROAD

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1894 words


If there was ever a time to live and work abroad, it is now - at least the tax
experts say so. The new tax law will usher into effect on Jan. 1 some of the
most favorable provisions for taxing expatriates in 20 years.

Because the new law is expected to result in lower costs to companies with
employees working abroad, it is expected to lead to a spurt in overseas job
opportunities for Americans, in a dramatic reversal of the shrinkage of the last
few years.

''I have no doubt that there will be more hiring of Americans to work abroad,
both by American companies and by foreign employers,'' said Gilbert Dwyer, a
partner at Ward Howell International, an executive recruiting firm.

Beginning next year, Americans will be allowed to exclude from American income
taxes up to $75,000 of income earned abroad. That exclusion will rise by $5,000
a year until it reaches $95,000 in 1986. Expatriates may also be able to exclude
some of their foreign housing costs from American taxes, provided they meet
certain qualifications.

Varied Effects

How these changes will affect people now working overseas depends largely on
their individual circumstances, particularly on how their employers treat tax
payments now and on the taxes in the countries in which they work.

''As a general rule, the new law should offer a significant reduction in United
States taxes for many Americans overseas,'' said Robert H. Castles, director of
expatriate services at Arthur Young & Company, the accounting firm.

But, he and others noted, the many individuals whose employers already pay for
their higher tax costs will probably see little change. It has become the norm
among most major companies with employees abroad to pay not only the extra costs
of living abroad - such as housing and schooling and foreign taxes - but also
the taxes on the extra income these sums represent. In these cases, the
companies will benefit.

''From our employees' point of view, this bill is neither here nor there,'' said
George J. Clark, executive vice president at Citibank.  ''We have picked up the
tax burden, and will also pick up the benefit. The individual will not really be
affected.''

Even in such companies, however, individuals may find it worthwhile to examine
the new tax rules. For while the new provisions deal directly with foreign
earned income, they will indirectly affect other portions of people's tax bills.


Lower Investment Income Tax

For example, expatriates are likely to find their investment income taxed at
lower rates under the new law, but they may also find that they are barred from
putting money into tax-free Individual Retirement Accounts or from taking the
new marriage deduction, if they no longer have any earned income taxed in the
United States.  These are areas that tax experts hope will be clarified further
through regulations.

In any case, the lower cost of supporting an American abroad is expected to
translate into more jobs overseas being filled by Americans.

One tax executive at a major New York corporation who asked not to be identified
estimated that the current cost of supporting an American with a salary of
$30,000 a year in a foreign country was about $120,000, including salary,
housing, education, home leave and taxes. Taxes would amount to about $45,000,
he said.

''We anticipate that there will be a real increase in the number of United
States workers abroad,'' said Miles Bresee, manager of taxes at the Bechtel
Group, a San Francisco-based engineering and construction company with a sizable
overseas business.

''Not only will we be able to afford to put more American workers on our present
jobs, but we can be more competitive, and that should generate more new jobs.''

Some companies have already expressed an interest in sending more Americans
abroad, although such plans are not universal.

Whittaker Plans Increase

Joseph F. Alibrandi, president of the Whittaker Corporation of Los Angeles, for
example, has said that he plans to increase substantially the proportion of
Americans in his company's foreign work force under the more favorable tax
provisions. Currently, Americans constitute only about 10 or 15 percent of the
3,000 people Whittaker uses abroad in managing hospitals. The company hopes to
raise that figure to approximately half.

Citibank, too, expects to send more Americans abroad. ''Before, if we had a
Frenchman and an American who were equal in every way, we had to choose the
Frenchman for tax reasons,'' Mr. Clark said. ''Now that bias is removed. Over
time, we will have more Americans working abroad than we would have otherwise.''

But at the Chase Manhattan Bank, Walter Lamp, a vice president in the tax
department, cautioned, ''Taxes are only one of our costs of doing business. We
could now have room to put more people overseas, or we could make other
adjustments, such as becoming more competitive.''

American companies are not the only ones viewing American workers with new
interest. Mr. Dwyer, who specializes in recruiting for positions in the Middle
East, said that foreign employers - both business and government - were also
looking at the American labor market from a new perspective. One of his Saudi
Arabian clients has already expressed possible interest in hiring more
Americans, he said, as a result of the tax changes.

Complex List of Variables

For individuals who are working abroad or considering the possibility, the new
rules, which permit broad exclusions of income and housing costs from American
taxes, are in many ways easier than the provisions they are replacing. The old
law, effective since 1978, determined expatriate taxes by considering a long and
complex list of variables, including the country of residence, the size of
housing and schooling expenses, and the costs incurred in home leave.

To be eligible for the new foreign income exclusions, an individual must meet
one of two tests. The first calls for residence in a foreign country for one
full taxable year - a test that has not changed under the new law. (A person who
moves in the middle of a calendar year may - with permission - extend his tax
filing for the year until the residence test is met. The foreign income rules,
however, would apply only to the portion of the year spent abroad.)

The second test calls for being physically present in a country for 11 months
out of any 12-month period. The test in the old law required physical presence
in a foreign country for 17 out of 18 months.

People who meet the requirements of one of these tests may choose to protect
some of their foreign income from American taxes. Tax advisers caution, however,
that, while such exclusions are usually helpful, they are not best for everyone.

Each individual with income earned abroad may exclude up to $75,000 of that
income from American taxes next year. That figure will rise by $5,000 a year
until it reaches $95,000 in 1986. Income earned on investments, even foreign
investments, may not be excluded. However, because of the exclusion, many
expatriates will find their investment income being taxed at lower tax brackets.


Housing Cost Level Set

Expatriates may also be able to exclude or deduct housing costs over and above a
certain level, which Congress set equal to 16 percent of the salary of a United
States Government employee at the GS-14 Step 1 level. That means that next year,
individuals working abroad may shelter housing costs above $6,059. That figure
will rise as Government salaries increase.

However, tax experts say that the housing exclusion combined with the income
exclusion may not exceed an expatriate's foreign earned income. There is a fair
amount of confusion among tax experts on the circumstances when an employee
could or would take the housing benefit. Treasury Department regulations are
expected to clear up this area.

Despite the more favorable American tax policy, expatriates in certain countries
will still face foreign taxes. Those who are able to shelter all of their earned
income from American taxes may not credit any of their foreign taxes against
their American taxes. Those with earned incomes larger than the earned income
exclusion - $75,000 next year - will be allowed to credit some, but not all, of
that foreign tax against their American tax bill.

Regulations are still being written on exactly how that deduction will work. It
is expected, however, that it will be handled on some kind of proportionate
basis. An individual who earned $100,000 abroad, and excluded $75,000, would
still be required to pay American taxes on $25,000. Therefore, he would probably
be allowed to credit against his American taxes the portion of his foreign tax
bill attributable to that $25,000.

''The idea is to eliminate double taxation, not to create double benefits,''
said John R. Raedel, a partner at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. ''In cases where
a person is faced with foreign taxes higher than his American tax liability
would be, the expatriate is really in no better position tomorrow than
yesterday,'' Mr. Raedel said.

But, he cautioned people in countries where tax rates are higher than in the
United States: ''There is a limit on the amount of foreign taxes that you can
credit to your American taxes in any one year. It may not exceeed the American
tax you would owe on your income earned abroad. But you can carry the credit
back two years and forward five years to be used as a credit.''

So, for example, an employee who found his foreign salary subject to $50,000 in
taxes in the United States and $65,000 in his host country could take a $50,000
credit against his American taxes but could not take all $65,000, which would
have left the Treasury owing him $15,000. He could possibly take the remaining
$15,000 as a credit in the future.

Because of these rules on foreign taxes, it may sometimes pay for expatriates
not to use the exclusions that are available. Tax experts say some Americans
abroad may be better off being allowed to subtract all of their foreign taxes
from their American taxes and to carry the credits back and forward at will.
Once employees use the exclusions, if they then opt out, they may not use the
exclusions again for five years without special permission from the Treasury
Department.

''The decision not to elect the exclusions is probably atypical, but not so rare
that you should automatically ignore it,'' Mr. Raedel said.

And, Mr. Castles added: ''If you have to transfer from country to country,
particularly countries with different tax structures, you are going to find it
more difficult to plan the best tax results.  Under the new law, the emphasis
for expatriates has changed from dual country tax planning to foreign country
tax planning. Now it will pay for expatriates to concentrate on reducing their
foreign taxes.''
The New Tax Law: Eighth article of a series appearing periodically.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: cartoon

TYPE: series

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              473 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE DOMESTIC POLICY STAFF IS DIFFERENT UNDER REAGAN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1132 words


WASHINGTON IF President Reagan has adhered more closely to his campaign promises
than other chief executives, the credit goes at least in part to the White
House's intellectual-in-residence, Martin C.  Anderson. As chief domestic policy
adviser, Mr. Anderson keeps an eye on emerging policies to insure that they
conform with Mr. Reagan's views.

Curiously, the conservative, 45-year-old economist is less visible now than he
was as issues adviser in the 1980 Presidential campaign.  Whenever possible, Mr.
Anderson seeks to orchestrate agreement among departments and agencies. As he
put it last week, he would prefer to present the President with a full list of
options, honestly stated, than to impose his own views on the final decisions.
Perhaps in consequence, he has not emerged as a leading public spokesman for the
Administration.

Mr. Ande rso n brings to his job a passionately held libertarian, free-market,
free-trade philosophy. He resisted efforts to protect the American auto industry
by setting quotas for imported Japanese cars. On immi gration issues, he tended
to oppose criminal penalties for employers hiring illegal aliens, on the ground
that they were an undesirable f orm of Government intervention in the
marketplace. He strongly supp orted the admission of guest workers from Mexico.
''If there is a Me xican citizen who wants to come to work in the United States
for a temporary period of time, pay taxes and stay out of trouble, I do n't see
anything wrong with that, especially if he learns the En glish language,'' Mr.
Anderson said.
An Understated Influence

Colleagues say that Mr. Anderson's self-effacing description of his current role
probably understates his influence. But it does reflect a reality. Mr. Reagan
has expressed himself so forcefully on so many issues for so long that his
policy analysts have less latitude for adventurous, creative thinking than did
President Carter's.

''We know where Reagan has been, what he's said, what the history is,'' Mr.
Anderson said. ''As long as the departments and agencies are moving in that
direction, excellent. We do not want to fight with them. It is very easy for the
White House staff to get into a position where you begin to compete with the
departments and agencies and you look at them as adversaries. That is the
dumbest thing in the world.'' He favors, he said, a kind of political
''jujitsu,'' using the staff of various agencies to do the work and analysis
necessary to achieve the President's policy objectives. His ''ideal form of
government,'' he added, ''is one that functions so efficiently and effortlessly
that you don't even know it exists.''

Mr. Anderson reports to Mr. Reagan through Edwin Meese 3d, the President's
counsellor, while his counterpart in the Carter Administration, Stuart E.
Eizenstat, reported to the President directly, and some members of Congress and
interest groups that put pressure on Mr. Eizenstat now focus their attention on
Mr. Meese.

But Mr. Anderson seems to feel comfortable with his role as intellectual
gatekeeper. A man who set out to be an engineer and never intended to be in
politics, he has had political experience, as research director for Richard
Nixon's Pres idential campaign in 1968, then became deputy to Arthur F. Burns w
hen Mr. Burns was counsellor to the President for domestic affa irs. In 1971, he
joined the Hoover Institution at Stanford University , the think tank from which
Mr. Reagan drew many aides and advisers . Mr. Anderson has been associated with
Mr. Reagan since 1975, has an easy relationship with him and sees the President
four or five times a week on business.

In his economic views, Mr. Anderson is neither a monetarist nor a doctrinaire
supply-sider. ''I don't consider myself to be in any of those schools,'' he
said, though he finds much to agree with in both.

Mr. Anderson presides over the formulation of policy on all domestic issues,
ranging from agriculture to the military draft to the Voting Rights Act to the
economy. But his specialty is welfare.  In a book so titled three years ago, he
drew a blueprint of Reagan Administration policy, saying that welfare payments
should go only to ''needy'' people, those who, through no fault of their own,
are unable to care for themselves or their families. The work, studded with
quotations from Voltaire, Machiavelli and John Stuart Mill, started with this
thesis: ''The 'war on poverty' that began in 1964 has been won. The growth of
jobs and income in the private economy, combined with an explosive increase in
Government spending for welfare and income transfer programs, has virtually
eliminated poverty in the United States.''

The budget for the fiscal year that began last week reflected that philosophy,
reducing Government benefits for millions of poor people who receive welfare,
food stamps, Medicaid and other social services.

The mechanism for setting such policies in the Reagan Administration consists of
five Cabinet councils in which selected Cabinet officers debate issues of common
concern - economic affairs, human services, food and agriculture, commerce and
trade, natural resources and the environment. Each council is staffed by
representatives of Mr. Anderson's office and the Office of Management and
Budget, of which his wife, Annelise Anderson, is an associate director. On a few
issues such as immigration, Mr. and Mrs. Anderson have pressed similar points of
view, reinforcing each other's arguments with a persistence that others find
difficult to resist.

The councils reflect Mr. Reagan's desire for Cabinet government and represent a
departure from Carter Administration practice. ''We tended to have inter-agency
groups only on an ad hoc basis, as necessary,'' Mr. Eizenstat has said. ''It was
not a permanent feature of our organizational structure.''

In the end, Mr. Anderson is not a political tactician or legislative strategist.
He is rather a theoretician who provides intellectual underpinnings for Mr.
Reaga n's positions, and one who isaware that so me members of his staff would
prefer to see the office take a more a ggressive role in developing and
promoting new programs.But that, he says, is not the mission the President wants
them to perform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              474 of 474 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MORE GREEKS RETURN THAN EMIGRATE NOW

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: ATHENS, July 5


Since Odysseus roamed the world, Greeks have been reputed to be international
wanderers seeking better fortunes abroad than their poor homeland could offer.
For the last few years, however, they have been reversing the pattern and coming
home.

Statistics from the Ministry of Economic Coordination show not only that Greece
is no longer exporting its labor to the industrial centers of the West but also
that it is having to import migrant workers from third-world countries. The
exception is the United States, where Greeks have gone to stay.

''Since 1974 the rate of return has been larger than that of departure, a rare
development in terms of Greek social history,'' says Michael Papadakis of the
Ministry of Economic Coordination.  ''This is due as much to the slowdown in the
development pace and increased unemployment in the advanced Western countries
that received most of the Greek workers as to the growing needs of the Greek
employment market, which has needed more qualified workers.''

Quarter of Migrants Return

Greece has a population of nine million, and Foreign Ministry statistics show an
additional four million abroad, nearly three million of them in the United
States. More than three million of the total are classified as permanent
citizens of their host countries.  Of the 800,000 Greeks counted as migrant
workers, nearly a quarter have returned in the last six years.

The turning point was 1974, when for the first time since statistics began to be
compiled in 1850 more Greeks came home than emigrated - 24,476 compared with
24,448. While emigration reached a peak of 117,167 in 1965, with 12,000 to the
United States, it dropped to fewer than 20,000 in 1978.

As a consequence emigrants' remittances to their families here, which as of 1955
constituted the largest source of income, have since 1974 been exceeded by
shipping and then by tourism. In 1979 such remittances totaled $1.2 billion,
compared with $1.7 billion received from tourism and $1.5 billion from shipping.

Official statistics from the United States Embassy show that the number of Greek
emigrants to the United States has also dropped steadily, from a peak of 14,800
in 1969 to 3,500 in 1979. At the same time the repatriation rate from the United
States has remained low - 1,500 in 1969 and fewer than 1,000 in 1979, compared
with a high of 1,928 in 1976.

They Went to U.S. to Stay

''When Greeks migrated to Western Europe they went largely with the purpose of
working, making some money and then returning home,'' said Prof. Marios Raphel,
a Greek delegate at the Inter-European Migration Committee of the Council of
Europe. ''But when they went to the United States, they went to stay.''

American Embassy officials say migration to the United States is much greater
than statistics here show, since many migrate from intermediate countries or
originally go as students. They stay because their earnings are higher than in
Greece and because managerial and technological skills cannot be absorbed by the
Greek market.

Government officials say Greece is benefiting from the return of workers from
abroad, both from the availability of more skilled personnel for a developing
economy and from the transfer of savings, estimated to total several billion
dollars.

In the case of West Germany, where the number of migrant Greek workers and
family members has dropped from 400,000 to 280,000 in the last decade, the
desire to return has coincided with rising unemployment.

Greek Unemployment Low

Two factors in Greece facilitating the repatriation, which is taking place
without any visible reintegration problems, have been high growth rates and low
unemployment. Though both these healthy trends are yielding to the oil crisis,
the last decade saw average growth rates of 5 to 6 percent, double Western
Europe's, and only 2 percent unemployment.

Economic development and expectations have risen so fast that people no longer
want to do the menial and unskilled jobs they once would even emigrate to get.
Consequently, unskilled workers from third-world countries have been brought in,
especially for lowranking positions in the giant merchant fleet.

While three years ago such unskilled foreign migrants permanently resident in
Greece reached 40,000, the slowdown in development has led Greece to expel many,
so the total stands at 22,000. But the Greek fleet, which employs 168,000, still
has 15,000 places to fill, according to Anthony Chandris, president of the Greek
Shipowners Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company
